DOCTOR AND PATIENT.

  BY

  S. WEIR MITCHELL, M.D., LL.D. HARV.
  MEMBER OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, PRESIDENT
  OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF PHILADELPHIA, PHYSICIAN
  TO THE ORTHOPÆDIC HOSPITAL AND INFIRMARY
  FOR NERVOUS DISEASES.

  Introductory.
  The Physician.
  Convalescence.
  Pain and its Consequences.
  The Moral Management of Sick or Invalid Children.
  Nervousness and its Influence on Character.
  Out-Door and Camp-Life for Women.

  THIRD EDITION.

  PHILADELPHIA:
  J.B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY.
  LONDON: 36 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, COVENT GARDEN.
  1901.

CONTENTS.

The essays which compose this volume deal chiefly with a variety of subjects to which every
physician must have given more or less thought. Some of them touch on matters concerning the
mutual relation of physician and patient, but are meant to interest and instruct the laity
rather than the medical attendant. The larger number have from their nature a closer relation
to the needs of women than of men.

It has been my fate of late years to have in my medical care very many women who, from one
or another cause, were what is called nervous. Few of them were so happily constituted as to
need from me neither counsel nor warnings. Very often such were desired, more commonly they
were given unsought, as but a part of that duty which the physician feels, a duty which is
but half fulfilled when we think of the body as our only province.

Many times I have been asked if there were no book that helpfully dealt with some of the questions
which a weak or nervous woman, or a woman who has been these, would wish to have answered.
I knew of none, nor can I flatter myself that the parts of this present little volume, in which
I have sought to aid this class of patients, are fully adequate to the purpose.

I was tempted when I wrote these essays to call them lay sermons, so serious did some of their
subjects seem to me. They touch, indeed, on matters involving certain of the most difficult
problems in human life, and involve so much that goes to mar or make character, that no man
could too gravely approach such a task. Not all, however, of these chapters are of this nature,
and I have, therefore, contented myself with a title which does not so clearly suggest the
preacher.

It would be scarcely correct to state that their substance or advice was personally addressed
to those still actually nervous. To them a word or two of sustaining approval, a smiling remonstrance,
or a few phrases of definite explanation, are all that the wise and patient doctor should then
wish to use. Constant inquiries and a too great appearance of what must be at times merely
acted interest, are harmful.

When I was a small boy, my father watched me one day hoeing in my little garden. In reply to
a question, I said I was digging up my potatoes to see if they were growing. He laughed, and
returned, "When you are a man, you will find it unwise to dig up your potatoes every day to
see if they are growing." Nor has the moral of his remark been lost on me. It is as useless
to be constantly digging up a person's symptoms to see if they are better, and still greater
folly to preach long sermons of advice to such as are under the despotism of ungoverned emotion,
or whirled on the wayward currents of hysteria. To read the riot act to a mob of emotions is
valueless, and he who is wise will choose a more wholesome hour for his exhortations. Before
and after are the preacher's hopeful occasions, not the moment when excitement is at its highest,
and the self-control we seek to get help from at its lowest ebb.

There are, as I have said, two periods when such an effort is wise,--the days of health, or
of the small beginnings of nervousness, and of the uncontrol which is born of it, and the time
when, after months or years of sickness, you have given back to the patient physical vigor,
and with it a growing capacity to cultivate anew those lesser morals which fatally wither before
the weariness of pain and bodily weakness.

When you sit beside a woman you have saved from mournful years of feebleness, and set afoot
to taste anew the joy of wholesome life, nothing seems easier than with hope at your side,
and a chorus of gratitude in the woman's soul, to show her how she has failed, and to make
clear to her how she is to regain and preserve domination over her emotions; nor is it then
less easy to point out how the moral failures, which were the outcome of sickness, may be atoned
for in the future, now that she has been taught to see their meaning, their evils for herself,
and their sad influence on the lives of others.

To preach to a mass of unseen people is quite another and a less easy matter. I approach it
with a strong sense that it may have far less certain utility than the advice and exhortation
addressed to the individual with such force as personal presence, backed by a knowledge of
their peculiar needs, may give. I am now, then, for the first time, in the position of the
higher class of teachers, who lay before a multitude what will be usefully assimilated by the few.

If my power to say what is best fitted to help my readers were as large as the experience that
guides my speech, I should feel more assured of its value. But sometimes the very excess of
the material from which one is to deduce formulas and to draw remembrances is an embarrassment,
for I think I may say without lack of modesty in statement, that perhaps scarce any one can
have seen more of women who have been made by disease, disorder, outward circumstance, temperament,
or some combination of these, morbid in mind, or been tormented out of just relation to the
world about them.

The position of the physician who deals with this class of ailments, with the nervous and feeble,
the painworn, the hysterical, is one of the utmost gravity. It demands the kindliest charity.
It exacts the most temperate judgments. It requires active, good temper. Patience, firmness,
and discretion are among its necessities. Above all, the man who is to deal with such cases
must carry with him that earnestness which wins confidence. None other can learn all that should
be learned by a physician of the lives, habits, and symptoms of the different people whose
cases he has to treat. From the rack of sickness sad confessions come to him, more, indeed,
than he may care to hear. To confess is, for mysterious reasons, most profoundly human, and
in weak and nervous women this tendency is sometimes exaggerated to the actual distortion of
facts. The priest hears the crime or folly of the hour, but to the physician are oftener told
the long, sad tales of a whole life, its far-away mistakes, its failures, and its faults. None
may be quite foreign to his purpose or needs. The causes of breakdowns and nervous disaster,
and consequent emotional disturbances and their bitter fruit, are often to be sought in the
remote past. He may dislike the quest, but he cannot avoid it. If he be a student of character,
it will have for him a personal interest as well as the relative value of its applicative side.
The moral world of the sick-bed explains in a measure some of the things that are strange in
daily life, and the man who does not know sick women does not know women.

I have been often asked by ill women if my contact with the nervous weaknesses, the petty moral
deformities of nervous feminine natures, had not lessened my esteem for woman. I say, surely,
no! So much of these is due to educational errors, so much to false relationships with husbands,
so much is born out of that which healthfully dealt with, or fortunately surrounded, goes to
make all that is sincerely charming in the best of women. The largest knowledge finds the largest
excuses, and therefore no group of men so truly interprets, comprehends, and sympathizes with
woman as do physicians, who know how near to disorder and how close to misfortune she is brought
by the very peculiarities of her nature, which evolve in health the flower and fruitage of
her perfect life.

With all her weakness, her unstable emotionality, her tendency to morally warp when long nervously
ill, she is then far easier to deal with, far more amenable to reason, far more sure to be
comfortable as a patient, than the man who is relatively in a like position. The reasons for
this are too obvious to delay me here, and physicians accustomed to deal with both sexes as
sick people will be apt to justify my position.

It would be easy, and in some sense valuable, could a man of large experience and intelligent
sympathies write a book for women, in which he would treat plainly of the normal circle of
their physiological lives; but this would be a method of dealing with the whole matter which
would be open to criticism, and for me, at least, a task difficult to the verge of the impossible.
I propose a more superficial plan as on the whole the most useful. The man who desires to write
in a popular way of nervous women and of her who is to be taught how not to become that sorrowful
thing, a nervous woman, must acknowledge, like the Anglo-Saxon novelist, certain reputable
limitations. The best readers are, however, in a measure co-operative authors, and may be left
to interpolate the unsaid. A true book is the author, the book and the reader. And this is
so not only as to what is left for the reader to fill in, but also has larger applications.
All this may be commonplace enough, but naturally comes back to one who is making personal
appeals without the aid of personal presence.

Because what I shall write is meant for popular use rather than for my own profession, I have
made my statements as simple as possible. Scarcely a fact I state, or a piece of advice I give,
might not be explained or justified by physiological reasoning which would carry me far beyond
the depth of those for whom I wrote. All this I have sedulously avoided.

What I shall have to say in these pages will trench but little on the mooted ground of the
differences between men and women. I take women as they are to my experience. For me the grave
significance of sexual difference controls the whole question, and, if I say little of it in
words, I cannot exclude it from my thought of them and their difficulties. The woman's desire
to be on a level of competition with man and to assume his duties is, I am sure, making mischief,
for it is my belief that no length of generations of change in her education and modes of activity
will ever really alter her characteristics. She is physiologically other than the man. I am
concerned with her now as she is, only desiring to help her in my small way to be in wiser
and more healthful fashion what I believe her Maker meant her to be, and to teach her how not
to be that with which her physiological construction and the strong ordeals of her sexual life
threaten her as no contingencies of man's career threaten in like measure or like number the
feeblest of the masculine sex.

THE PHYSICIAN.

I have long had in mind to write from a physician's point of view something in regard to the
way in which the well-trained man of my profession does his work. My inclination to justify
the labors and sentiments of an often misunderstood body of men was lately reinforced by remarks
made to me by a very intelligent patient. I found him, when I entered my room, standing before
an admirable copy of the famous portrait of the great William Harvey, the original of which
is in the Royal College of Physicians. After asking of whom it was a likeness, he said, "I
should be a little curious to know how he would have treated my case."

I had to confess that of Harvey's modes of practice we know little, but I took down from a
shelf those odd and most interesting letters of Howell's, clerk of council to James I., and
turned to his account of having consulted Harvey on returning home from Spain. Only too briefly
he tells what was done for him, but was naturally most concerned about himself and thus missed
a chance for us, because it so happens that we know little of Harvey. At this page of Howelliana
was a yellow paper-marker. Once the book was Walpole's, and after him was Thackeray's, and
I like to fancy that Walpole left the marker, and that Thackeray saw it and left it, too, as I did.

My patient, who liked books, was interested, and went on to say that he had seen several physicians
in Europe and America. That in France they always advised spas and water-cure, and that at
least three physicians in America and one in London had told him there was nothing the matter
with him, and that finally a shrewd country doctor had remarked bluntly that he would not give
him any medicine, because he was overdosed already with work and worries, which was true.

At last he came back to Harvey. "He looks ill," he said, which is true. His honestly-painted
knuckles make diagnosis easy. My friend thought that this great man would probably have dosed
him well, and, as he added, would not have bothered him about too much sugar, nor forbidden
champágne. I had to reply that whatever ills were in the England of that day,--and there was
much dyspepsia and much gout,--sugar was the luxury of the rich, and anything but as abundant
as it is to-day, when we consume annually fifty-six pounds per head or per stomach. I told
him that in all ages the best of us would have dwelt most on diet and habits of living, and
that Harvey was little likely to have been less wise than his peers, and he has had but few.
Then he said it would be curious to put on paper a case, and to add just what a doctor in each
century would have ordered. The idea struck me as ingenious and fertile. I could wish that
some one would do this thing. It would, I think, be found that the best men of every time were
most apt to consider with care the general habits of their patients as to exercise and diet,
and to rely less than others on mere use of drugs. As to this matter, one learns more from
men's lives than from their books, but nowadays care as to matters of hygiene has become in
a valuable degree the common wisdom of a large part of my profession. Surveying our vast gains,
we are a little apt to undervalue the men of older days, and no lesson is wiser than sometimes
to go back and see how the best of them thought and acted amidst the embarrassments of imperfect
knowledge.

There is a charming life by Henry Morley, of Cardan, the great Italian physician and algebraist,
which gives us in accurate detail the daily routine of a doctor's days in the sixteenth century.
In it is an account of Cardan's professional visit in 1551 to John Hamilton, archbishop of
St. Andrew's, Scotland, and practically the ruler of that turbulent realm. Cardan's scientific
opinion as to his patient is queer enough, but, as Morley remarks, it is probably not more
amusing to us than will be our opinion in a like case to the smiling brother of our guild who
may chance to read it at some remote future day. The physician of whom I now write was one
who already dreaded bleeding, thought less of medicines than his fellows, and was, in fact,
exceptionally acute. He did some droll things for the sick prelate, and had reasons yet more
droll for what he did, but his practice was, as may happen on the whole, wiser than his reasons
for its use. His patient was a man once bulky, but now thin, overworked, worried, subject to
asthma, troubled with a bad stomach, prone to eat largely of coarse food, but indisposed to
physical exercise. Cardan advised that the full, heated head, of which his patient much complained,
should be washed night and morning with hot water in a warm room, and then subjected to a cold
shower-bath. Next was to come a thorough dry rubbing, and rest for two hours. As to his asthma,
he forbade him to subject himself to night air or rainy weather. He must sleep on silk, not
feathers, and use a dry pillow of chopped straw or sea-weed, but by no means of feathers. He
forbade suppers if too late, and asked the reverend lord to sleep ten hours, and even to take
time from study or business and give it to bed. He was to avoid purgatives, to breakfast lightly,
and to drink slowly at intervals four pints a day of new asses' milk. As to other matters,
he was to walk some time in the shade at an early hour, and, discussing the time for the fullest
meal, Cardan remarks that established habits as to this point are not to be lightly considered.
His directions as to diet are many, reasonable, and careful. His patient, once stout, had become
perilously thin. Turtle-soup and snail-broth would help him. Cardan insisted also on the sternest
rules as to hours of work, need for complete rest, daily exercise, and was lucky enough to
restore his patient to health and vigor. The great churchman was grateful, and seems to have
well understood the unusual mental qualities of his physician. Nothing on the whole could be
better than the advice Cardan gave, and the story is well worth reading as an illustration
of the way in which a man of genius rises above the level of the routine of his day.

I might go farther back in time, and show by examples that the great fathers of medicine have
usually possessed a like capacity, and learned much from experience of that which, emphasized
by larger use and explained by scientific knowledge, has found its way into the text-books
of our own day and become common property.

It appears to me from a large mental survey of the gains of my profession, that the English
have above all other races contributed the most towards enforcing the fact that on the whole
dietetics, what a man shall eat and drink, and also how he shall live as to rest, exercise,
and work, are more valuable than drugs, and do not exclude their use.[1]

[Footnote 1: By this I mean that the physician, if forced to choose between absolute control
of the air, diet, exercise, work, and general habits of a patient, and use of drugs without
these, would choose the former, and yet there are cases where this decision would be a death-warrant
to the patient.]

The active physician has usually little time nowadays to give to the older books, but it is
still a valuable lesson in common sense to read, not so much the generalizations as the cases
of Whytt, Willis, Sydenham, and others. Nearer our own day, Sir John Forbes, Bigelow, and Flint
taught us the great lesson that many diseases are self-limited, and need only the great physician,
Time, and reasonable dietetic care to get well without other aid.

There is a popular belief that we have learned this from homoeopathy, for the homoeopath, without
knowing it, made for us on this matter ample experiments, and was as confident he was giving
powerful medicines as we are that he was giving practically none. "He builded better than he
knew," and certainly his results aided our ablest thinkers to reach the truth.

I have named one of the most illustrious of physicians, Sydenham, as among the great Englishmen
who brought to their work the clearest perception of how nature was to be best aided. He will
answer admirably to exemplify my meaning.

Sydenham was born in 1624, and lived in and through the wild periods of Charles I. and Cromwell,
and was himself a stanch republican. He more than any other in his century decisively taught
caution as to mere medication, and sedulously brought the clear light of common sense to bear
upon the practice of his time. It is interesting to note, as his biographer remarks, that his
theories were often as worthless as his practice was good. Experience taught him to do that
for which he felt forced to find a reason, and the reason was often enough absurd. "The contrast
gives a fine light and shadow effect in his biography."[2]

[Footnote 2: R.G. Latham, p. xxxvi.]

His systematic beliefs were ofttimes worthless, but great acuteness in observation was apt
to lead him to do wisely in individual cases what was at variance with his creed. Speaking
of Hippocrates, he says, "His system led him to assist nature, to support her when enfeebled
and to the coercion of her when she was outrageous."

As to mere drugs, Sydenham used them in what was for his day an extremely moderate fashion,
and sagaciously limited in the old and young his practice as to bleeding, which was then immensely
in vogue. The courage required to treat smallpox, measles, and even other fevered states by
cooling methods, must have been of the highest, as it was boldly in opposition to the public
and private sentiment of his day. He had, too, the intelligence to learn and teach that the
Jesuit bark, cinchona, was a tonic as well as the master of the agues, so common in the England
of his time.

He is at his best, however, in his statement of how he treated individual cases, for then his
written theories are given to the winds, or the practice is far beyond the creed in its clear
common-sense value.

Thus, horseback exercise he constantly speaks of. He tells you of a friend who had been much
dosed by many for dyspepsia, and how he bade him ride, and abandon drugs, and how, after a
thousand miles of such riding, he regained health and vigor. See how this wise man touches
the matter of gout: "For years a man has feasted; has omitted his usual exercises; has grown
slow and sluggish; has been overstudious or overanxious, etc." Then he reasons about "smothering
the animal spirits, which are the primary instruments of concoction," and so on, but at last
he says, "We must look beyond medicines. Wise men do this in gout and in all other chronic
diseases." And what does he advise? Here is the substance of what he says. A gouty man must
be moderate, not too abstinent, so as to get weak. One meat is best; mixtures are bad. A milk
diet "has prevailed," only bread being added, but it must be rigid and has its risks. He seems
to have kept a nobleman on milk a year. Also there must be total abstinence from wine and all
fermented liquors. Early bed hours and early rising are for the gouty. Then there come wise
words as to worry and overwork. But, above all, the gouty must ride on horseback and exercise
afoot. As to the wilder passions of men, he makes this strangely interesting remark, "All such
the old man should avoid, for," he says, "by their indulgence he thus denies himself the privilege
of enjoying that jubilee which by the special and kind gift of nature is conceded to old men:
of whom it is the natural and happy lot to be emancipated from the control of those lusts which
during youth attacked them."

This is a fair specimen of a master at his best. I would rather have trusted Sydenham, with
all his queer theories, than many a man with the ampler resources of to-day; for his century
may aid but does not make the true physician, who is not the slave, but the master, of opinions.

To enforce again the fact that the greater men of my art, even in days of the most extreme
theories, were more sensible in their daily practice than in their dogmatic statements, I would
like to quote a letter of Rush, which for several reasons is interesting and valuable. No man
was more positive in his beliefs and in the assertion of them than he. His name is still associated
with bleeding and purging, and if we considered only some of his written assertions, made with
the violence which opposition always aroused in his positive nature, we should pause in wonder
at his great reputation. But what a man says or writes, and what he does, are often far apart.
We are apt to take his most decisive statements as representative, and thus may seriously err.
I have known a number of men who were really trustworthy physicians, and who yet were credited
by us with a fondness for absurd ideas, which, in fact, influenced their writings far more
than their practice. Rush was to some extent one of this class. His book on insanity is far
in advance of his time, and his descriptions of disease one of our best tests, most admirable.
Let us see how this physician who bled and dosed heavily could think and act when face to face
with a hopeless case. The letter to which I have referred was given to the College of Physicians
of Philadelphia at my request by one of its associate fellows, Dr. Hunter Maguire, of Richmond,
Virginia. It is written to Rush's cousin, Dr. Thornton, in 1789, and has an added interest
from the fact that it is a letter of advice in the case of the aged mother of Washington, who
had a cancer of the breast.

                                            "PHILADELPHIA, July 6, 1789.

MY DEAR KINSMAN:

The respectable age and character of your venerable patient leads me to regret that it is not
in my power to suggest a remedy for the cure of the disorder you have described in her breast.
I know nothing of the root that you mention as found in Carolina and Georgia, but, from a variety
of inquiries and experiments, I am disposed to believe that there does not exist in the vegetable
kingdom an antidote to cancers. All the vegetable remedies I have heard of are composed of
some mineral caustics. The arsenic is the most powerful of any of them. It is the basis of
Dr. Martin's powder. I have used it in many cases with some success, but have failed in some.
From your account of Mrs. Washington's breast, I am afraid no great good can be expected from
the use of it. Perhaps it may cleanse it, and thereby retard its spreading. You may try it
diluted in water. Continue the application of opium and camphor, and wash it frequently with
a decoction of red clover. Give anodynes when necessary, and support the system with bark and
wine. Under this treatment she may live comfortably many years, and finally die of old age."

He had here to deal with cancer, a disease which he knew to be incurable. His experience taught
him, however, that in the very old this malady is slow and measured in its march, and that
he could only aid and not cure. What he says might with slight change have been penned to-day.
We have gone no further in helpfulness as regards this sad disease.

If what I write now is to have for the laity any value, it will be in correcting certain of
their judgments as to physicians, and in suggesting to them some of the tests which will enable
them to exercise a reasonable judgment as to those in whose hands they place so often without
a thought the issues of life and death and the earthly fates of their dearest.

I began, somewhat discursively, by showing how much care the masters of my art gave even in
past days to matters of diet and modes of life. This is still to-day a test of larger applicability.
There are those of my profession who have a credulity about the action of drugs, a belief in
their supreme control and exactness of effect which amounts to superstition, and fills many
of us with amazement. This form of idolatry is at times the dull-witted child of laziness,
or it is a queer form of self-esteem, which sets the idol of self-made opinion on too firm
a base to be easily shaken by the rudeness of facts. But, if you watched these men, you would
find them changing their idols. Such too profound belief in mere drugs is apt, especially in
the lazy thinker, to give rise to neglect of more natural aids, and these tendencies are strengthened
and helped by the dislike of most patients to follow a schedule of life, and by the comfort
they seem to find in substituting three pills a day for a troublesome obedience to strict rules
of diet, of exercise, and of work.

The doctor who gives much medicine and many medicines, who is continually changing them, and
who does not insist with care on knowing all about your habits as to diet, mealtimes, sleep,
modes of work, and hours of recreation, is, on the whole, one to avoid. The family doctor is
most of all apt to fail as to these details, especially if he be an overworked victim of routine,
and have not that habitual vigilance of duty which should be an essential part of his value.
He is supposed to have some mysterious knowledge of your constitution, and yet may not have
asked you a medical question in months or years. Too much is taken for granted, and inefficient
opinions are the outcome of carelessness. Every new case in a household should be dealt with
as if it were a stranger's, and outside familiarity should not be allowed to breed contempt
of caution in study or lead to half measures. Every consultant will agree with me that this
kind of social nearness of the doctor to his patient is a common cause of inert advice, and
nowhere more distinctly so than when unwise physicians attempt to practise in their own households
on those they love.

There are very few instances of chronic ailments, however slight, which should not be met by
advice as to modes of living, in the full breadth of this term; and only by a competent union
of such, with reasonable use of drugs, can all be done most speedily that should be done. I
have said "with use of drugs," for I am far from wishing to make any one believe that medicines
are valueless. Nor do I think that the most extreme dosing employed nowadays by any one is
as really hurtful as the neglect to urge efficiently the value of definite hygienic means.
There are, indeed, diseases which can only be helped by heroic measures; but, in this case,
were I the patient, I should like to be pretty certain as to the qualifications of my hero.

The popular view of the great hurtfulness of drugs is curiously fallacious. I have spoken above
more of their relative usefulness, as compared to other means of relief, than with any desire
to convince my readers that they are such terrible things as some kinds of practitioners would
have us to believe. The dread of their employment is a relic of the time of reaction against
the senseless and excessive dosing with calomel and strong purges, and nowadays, even as regards
bleeding, once wholly abandoned, it is clear that it still has at times its uses, and valuable
ones, too. As medicines are now employed, even by the thoughtless, it must be rarely that they
give rise to permanent injury. Let any physician who reads these lines pause and reflect how
many times in his life he has seen lasting or serious evil results from drugs.

Accidents happen, but they are the offspring of carelessness. Sometimes, also, unexpected and
temporary extreme results surprise us, as when an opiate purges, or five grains of an iodide
prove to be gravely poisonous. These occurrences are due to individual peculiarities, which
we can as yet neither explain nor anticipate. One man can take opium with almost the impunity
which belongs naturally to birds. Another is put to sleep by the dose you give a baby. All
this teaches caution, but it is not a matter for blame when it gives rise to alarming consequences,
and happily these cases of what we call idiosyncrasies are exceptionally uncommon.

Physicians are often enough tempted to give a simple placebo to patients who are impatient,
and ask instant treatment when we know that time is what we want, either for study of present
symptoms or to enable the growing disorder to spell itself out for us, as it were, letter by
letter, until its nature becomes clear. The practice is harmless, but there is, of course,
a better way, if we possess the entire confidence of the patient or his friends. But sometimes
it is undesirable to give explanations until they can be securely correct, or haply the sick
man is too ill to receive them. Then we are apt, and wisely, to treat some dominant symptom,
and to wait until the disease assumes definite shape. So it is that much of what we thus give
is mild enough. The restless mother is the cause with some doctors of much of this use of mere
harmless medicines. I once expressed surprise in a consultation that an aged physician, who
had called me in, should be so desirous of doing something, when I as earnestly wished to wait.
At last he said, "Doctor, it is not the child I want to dose; it is the mother's mind." Perhaps
the anecdote may not be lost on some too solicitous woman, who naturally desires that the doctor
should be doing something just when he is most anxious to be doing nothing.

Men yet live who can remember when all of our knowledge of disease was acquired by the unaided
use of the eye, the ear, and the touch. The physician felt the pulse, and judged of fever by
the sense of warmth. He looked at the skin and tongue and the secretions, and formed conclusions,
more or less just in proportion to the educated acuteness of his senses and the use he made
of these accumulations of experience. The shrewdness of the judgments thus formed shows us,
to our wonder, how sharply he must have trained his senses, and has led some to suspect that
our easier and more exact methods and means may have led us to bestow less care in observation
than did these less aided and less fortunate students. The conclusion is, I am sure, erroneous,
and I am confident that the more refined the means the more do they train us to exactness in
all directions, so that even what we now do with the eye, ear, or hand alone is better and
more carefully done than when the senses had none of the training due to the use of instruments
of precision. I may add that the results of their employment have also made it easy in many
cases to dispense with them, and to interpret readily what has been won by the unassisted sense.

The history of precision in medicine is worth the telling, if only to teach the lay reader
something of that vast struggle to know the truths of disease, which is little understood beyond
the ranks of the most scholarly of my profession. The first step was due to Galileo. In 1585
he used his pendulum to record the pulse, in a fashion at which we smile to-day, and yet what
he tried to do was the birth of precision in medicine. Keeping a finger on the pulse, he set
a pendulum in motion. If it went faster than the pulse, he put the weight a little lower, or
as I may state it to make it clearer, he lengthened the pendulum. At last when it moved so
as to beat equal time with the pulse, he measured the length of the swinging bar, and set down
the pulse as, say ten inches; next day it might be set at six, and so a record was made. He
was soon lost to medicine, but in 1625, Santorini, known to science as Sanctorius, published
a curious book, called "Commentaries on Avicenna," in which he figured a variety of similar
instruments, called "pulsilograms." We owe to him some of the first accurate studies of diet,
and also the discovery of the insensible perspiration, but his pulsilogram was soon forgotten.

I think that Harvey but once or twice mentions the number of the pulse even in his physiological
books. In the case descriptions of his time and of Sydenham's it is rare to find it noted,
and this is true as a rule all through the next century. The exceptions are interesting. In
Whytte's works, circa 1745, he not rarely mentions the pulse number in connection with his
primary delineation of a case, but after that does not often speak of its subsequent changes
in number. The force and other characters of the pulse receive, however, immense attention,
and are on the whole more valuable aids than mere numeration; but that cannot nowadays be left
out of our calculations, yet as early as the reign of Anne, about 1710, an English physician,
Sir John Floyer, wrote an able and now half-forgotten book, quaintly called the "Pulse Watch."
I am pretty sure that he was the first to put a minute-hand on a watch to enable him to time
the pulse-beat, but nowhere in any English collection have I been able to find one of his watches.
Thus aided, he was the first to count the minute's pulse, which is now a sort of recognized
and accepted matter as standard of comparison, so that we say merely, the pulse was 60 or 90,
as may chance, and do not even speak of the minute. It is as true as strange that this convenient
method was practically lost to habitual use in medicine for quite a hundred years. It reappeared
in the writings of the time of the great teachers who arose in France and Germany about 1825.
To-day, in case of need, we have instruments which write in instructive curves the form of
the pulse-wave, and enable us to settle questions which sometimes could not be settled without
this delicate means.

The study of the temperature of the body was, as I have said, a mere matter of the touch until
our same Galileo applied a thermometer to learn more accurately its changes. Sanctorius again
followed in his steps, and has left us in his works curious drawings of forms of thermometer
applicable to medical uses. Our profession is, however, inapt to hold on to useless things,
and our knowledge of fever, its risks and its remedies, was for many a day far behind any need
for the delicate appreciations of the thermometer.

Hence it is that very few physicians did more in the last three centuries as regards the temperature
of the body than speak of it as high or low. Sanctorius was too far ahead of his time to teach
us the true value of medical thermometry. It was forgotten for many a day. In the last century,
in Dehaen and Hunter, it again receives some notice, and again drops out of use. At last we
are ripe for it, and Wunderlich, in a classical book, about twenty-five years ago, puts it
in a position of permanent utility. The physician of to-day knows more both of fever and of
its consequences, and finds in his thermometer an indispensable ally.

Within but a few years the instruments of precision have so multiplied that a well-trained
consultant may be called on to know and handle as many tools as a mechanic. Their use, the
exactness they teach and demand, the increasing refinement in drugs, and our ability to give
them in condensed forms, all tend towards making the physician more accurate, and by overtaxing
him, owing to the time all such methodical studies require, have made his work such that only
the patient and the dutiful can do it justice.

Primary examinations of chest, heart, and other viscera are long and troublesome, and the first
study of a case which is at all difficult, demands such time as it is increasingly hard for
the busy to find. A good test for laymen in acute cases is the methodical manner in which a
physician of modern training goes over the case, nor is his preciseness as to doses and medicines
less worthy of note. I used to watch with interest the late Professor P. at a sick-bed. The
grave and tranquil interest, the pauses for thought, the swift thoroughness of examination,
and then the delay, with, "Please, nurse, let me taste that last medicine," were full of good
lessons. Any consultant could tell you what a rare quality is this union of precision and thoroughness.

Our profession has in its work enough of true difficulties, but we still owe many of our worst
errors to want of absolutely complete study of our cases, and with the careless these slips
are obvious enough to enable any one who is watchful to sit in judgment on the failures. The
more delicate illustrations of the fine union of qualities which attain the highest triumphs
are, of course, only seen and comprehended by physicians, whose general opinion on their fellows
is in the end almost always a just one. There is a potent combination of alertness in observation,
with a never-satisfied desire to know even the trifles of a case, which, with sagacity, gives
a medical mental character as rare as it is valuable.

For such men there are no trifles, and, on entering a sick-room, they seem to absorb at a glance
matters which escape others, and yet to the end are still so quietly observant and searching
that they seem never to be quite content with what they have learned. Not to know surely is
to them a form of unhappiness.

I remember well a consultation in a case of great obscurity, into which, many years ago, the
late Dr. G. was called, after three of his colleagues had failed to reach a conclusion. It
was suspected that poisoning by lead was the cause of a singular and unusual train of symptoms.
Now, in such cases, a blue line around the junction of the teeth and gums is a certain sign
of the presence of that poisonous metal. The patient, a man of seventy-five years, was known
by his own physician to wear full sets of artificial teeth, and he so said. This having been
stated no one looked at the gums. At the close of the second meeting Dr. G. turned back unsatisfied.
"Let me see your gums. Ah!" he said. There was the stump of one incisor left, and around it
the blue line told a tale which ended all doubt.

On another occasion, a young physician well known to me, fell by a chance into a consultation
with Dr. P., the physician I have mentioned, and the late Professor P. The case was one of
a young man who several times had been found at morning in a stupor. The attacks were rare,
and what caused them was unknown. The young physician, much embarrassed, was civilly asked
to examine the case, and did so with a thoroughness which rather wearied the two older men.
When they retired to an adjoining room, he was asked, as our custom is, to give, as the youngest,
the first opinion. He said, "It is a case of epilepsy. He has bitten his cheek in the fit."
Dr. P. rose without a word and went out. Returning in a few moments, he said, "You are right.
I did not look far enough back. You will reach, sir, a high rank in our profession." The case
was thenceforward plain enough. These are rare illustrations of my meaning, and may suffice,
with one which has a more humorous aspect. Meeting the late Professor C. D. M. on the steps
of a house where, the day before, we had seen together a woman critically ill, he said to me,
"Mrs. B. is better, doctor, much better." "And how do you know that?" I returned. "Her windows
are open, my dear doctor. She wants more light. She must be better, much better." And so she
was, as it proved.

A final result of the multiplication of the means of research, and the increasing difficulty
in becoming expert in the use of the many and delicate instruments they require, is the growth
of what we call specialties in medicine. The best of us learn to use the ophthalmoscope to
look into the eye, to use the laryngoscope for the larynx, and can at need examine the urine
and the blood, but the men must be rare who are as competent to use each and all of these means
as persons who devote themselves to single branches of our work. Moreover, the element of time
comes in, as well as the element of such constant familiar practice as makes for one man commonplace
and easy what for another, who is more generally occupied, is uncommon and unfamiliar. The
specialist profits by the fact that his experience becomes enormous and his work advantaged
by its definite limitations. On the other hand, and nowadays especially, he is too apt to be
one who, after brief hospital work of general character, or without this, takes up, as we say,
the eye, ear, throat, or uterine organs. Unless he has had at some time a larger and more varied
experience, or unless he is a most unusual man, he is prone at last to lose sight in his practice
of the fact that eye, ear, and womb are parts of a complicated mechanism, and suffer through
its general or local disorders. Hence the too common neglect of constitutional conditions,
to which are often due the apparent maladies of the organs to which he devotes himself. Moreover,
in certain of the organs of sense, as the eye, are frequently seen the very first signals of
spinal or other maladies, and if, as too often happens, he sees in some such sign or symptom
only the evidence of a local trouble, and neglects to look or reason beyond it, he may inflict
on his patient the gravest penalties, by depriving him of the chance of early treatment of
some serious disease, involving lifelong, or even fatal, consequences. This is a criticism
on the man and his training, not on the system of specialties which has become invaluable.

A reasonable desire to seek aid from physicians of usefully limited values is another test
of the good family physician. I know of men who are in the habit of saying that they dislike
consultations and get little good from them. As compared to those who too commonly subject
people to the expense of fresh advisers, they are the more dangerous class. Apt enough in cases
of acute disease to bring into the case some one to share responsibilities which seem grave
because near at hand, they continue to treat chronic cases they do not understand, because
there is no crisis of pain, disability, or danger to bring them to reason. And thus, all together, seeing the big market to give them to land that
he knows to perpetually to each of them, together and with one voice gave him great thanks,
and entitled Intipchuri calling, saying "Son of the Sun."

And then there Inca Yupanqui ordered that everyone be some room to do such lands were painted, where,
as there were, gave and gave to the said lands, giving to each paresció land that it was enough.
And this fact, he charged that those three gentlemen his friends were to distribute to the all
of the city, or ANSI as he had given the and marked, and this fact, Volvo in front of them
all. And thus, the lords were and gave and gave out the land, and they cast them to the possessions
of those who craves them the said grant was made by the Inca Yupanqui. [Did you send?] Messrs.
caciques there were, to fetch him some account each Indian had him there, and cacique then
they brought him by Quip, says account, the sum of the Indians had, and known by the Inca Indians
had Yupanqui, ordered [38] Messrs. then distributing them houses, and so he was done. And then
one day he ordered that each of Cuzco, as he had fitted the fate of the land to the dressing
saliesen and repair and make their taps and showers, all of which were repaired and made of
hewn stone, because was the building in fact so, that would last perpetually, and bid them verifications
their boundaries and landmarks high, so made, never be lost, under which markers and each of them
was put certain amount of carbon, saying that if at any fall time is the landmark, which for the
carbon held on it would know the boundaries of such soils. And it provided, Inca Yupanqui was
a few days, while in the dressing land order was given, rejoiced and feasting seeing everyone
worked and dressed the part that he had fitted, and which via that with some work I did, gave
him help.

And as he saw that the building and repair of such land was long and went according to the objected
that such were doing, and that it was building that he could not finish without [39] aid sent
The lords and chieftains who were there came together in his house some day, and were then
ANSI well together as he commanded, and being there in his house, told them that there was great
need in the city of Cuzco had deposits of all meals, yearning for maize and chili and frijoles é chochos,
and chicha and quinoa, and dried meats, é proveimientos and all other cured foods they have, and
that what had need of their lands, sent for. And then the lords chiefs said they were pleased
to send you all will bring that commanded that the city of Cuzco were some dried apricots in
the company of the Indians who craves they invest, so that they know their land to those who
were there that was his will that such proveimiento hiciesen to the city of Cuzco, because it
was the first they were doing, and they very much desired to make such a service to the city
of Cuzco and his Lord Inca Yupanqui. All of which I was grateful for Inca Yupanqui and then
sent to those Lords of Cuzco that would provide further in their lodges, together with those chiefs
and gentlemen, craves the apricots had to go through the towns and provinces to collect and bring
such meals and maintenance. And thus, were the lords and their captains and his board were
beyond them and the chiefs, and handed out what each province had to bring and contribute. And
thus they were distributed to the chiefs who were there had deposits to ANSI, and commanded
them and said so many time to so many years might make him in perpetuum, if the Inca were not
sent them anything, all of which make such Acetate caciques because they understood that Inca
Yupanqui was the Lord who knew well that meet all service was made.

And then there are on its board said the apricots lords who had to
go, and so he himself the chiefs, with their major winter; and so
he was left these apricots and to bring such major food and proveimientos.

And the chiefs left their lords meeting and were do Inca Yupanqui was, which told him what
had made and ordered ANSI, as [to] they had orders and notices, and that pointing out the sites
and places do had deposits to be made because each of them had to do, and among them the spread
had. And then they said some Inca Yupanqui sheet [40] and mountain slopes that around the city
of Cuzco are and the sight of him, and there were then ordered them built of such deposits,
so that, when this was brought proveimiento, found what you get. And then there were the gentlemen
to the sites by the Inca were identified and put to work and building of such deposits. And tardóse
to make and distribute these deposits land five years, because they were so many shells they
did, which sent to Inca Yupanqui, having plenty of food and so they do not need. And by it
craves food had, wanted to build the city of Cuzco in stone and repair streams the hedge, and
had in itself, rather than having supplies in such quantity that you are missing, I could take the
people he wanted [to] make and construct the buildings and houses ANSI wanted to rebuild.

And the deposits made and provided, and now the land spread and finished sharing, Inca Yupanqui ordered
together the chiefs and gentlemen, in what has been said, he had made service, and thinking
that was just off making some grants and some contentment dalles, ANSI and being together, and
gave them repartióles many gold and silver jewelry that by the time
in the play were the styling had commanded, and gave each ansímismo
two dresses the clothes of their garments, and to each of them a woman
gave them natives of Cuzco, his lineage, so that each one of these
women were principal chief whom he had ANSI given that the children
é in such had, were heirs of such states and chiefdoms that their
parents had, on the basis Inca Yupanqui by the debtor that had them
in this way, none of them ever in your days you rebel, you would have
between them é é of Cuzco perpetual friendship and confederacy.

All of which ANSI done and seen major injuries chiefs [41] that made them, all bowed to kiss her
feet and he will give great graces. Á which Inca Yupanqui ordered that they should go to rest
their lands, and from then to one year returned to the city of Cuzco, é that at this time, each
of them in their land hiciesen planting many crops of all meals, because I had to would need, in
time: and commended them on their land no idleness hobiese in the young men and women, because
they were not such idleness causes have the remnants of his bad example attempting to execute
[exercise] every time they did not understand to make crops, in matters of war, that [and in]
such exercises as was to know wielding slingshots, throwing arrows, axes to play with how to fight
in battle brandishing spears with shields in their hands, all of which had to do on their land the
young men making a rope to put as many as another. All of which is heard by the chiefs, said
would do so and that was saying it was good. And thus the Inca them away, and them, making
their compliance, they came and went.

Gone were the chiefs to their land, that year that these chiefs had tare on their land and Inca
Yupanqui, by this time, not having to do he took to exercise going to hunt, which made the most
of the day, and other days they walked through the city looking and the site of it, imagining him
in the order itself was to give him and the building and rebuilding that she intended to do,
as he saw that these two streams that the city took in the middle they were great harm in it, for,
as the rains should come every year, they came from Avenue, é should come as Ansi always ate
the earth and were expanding and getting by the city, and via that it was detrimental to the
city and to the inhabitants of it, and to make their buildings and houses that she thought building,
which needed repair first the fervor of those two streams, and they repaired everything could
build any building without fear that such avenues they are dull.

And the year to compliment Inca Yupanqui seemed that it was time that these gentlemen neighboring
towns should come, inviolate his messengers, for which they shipped to say that it was time for should
come to the city, as he had told them when there were, and that a favorable answer "Likewise all the
more cattle they could, é é meals maintenance, it was now the time come Dell and dello TERNIA need.
All of which is heard by the chiefs, as they had ansímismo in care as well send them when from
is left, then went their way; because they already had with all those necessary to bring it,
and so they were already under way; with all parties and which came into the city of Cuzco and
they brought him all the more people who could.

É arrivals were to the city of Cuzco, the Inca made their compliance in this way, because this was
the style that I had when I was in front of Vian, that like in front
of were, raised their hands and faces to the sun, making your mochas
é compliance, then "Likewise é made them no less to the Inca, and
the words ANSI ANSI told when they greeted him, that told him: "Ah,
son of the sun loving and friendly to the poor!"

That said, brought them before his mind craves brought him, then he sacrificed certain é é sheep
lambs before é Dél compliance with all respect, as a son of the sun, and this ANSI fact, the
Inca used to say hello telling them they were welcome, and asked if we were good and that if they
were "Likewise their land. All of which you have heard these guys did with Inca Yupanqui caciques,
when they were in front of him, and he said ansímismo what you heard. É told them that should
give wore those eager lords of Cuzco to those who were there, and so he was left do the Inca was,
and they and those lords of Cuzco were do the deposits were placed é wore all maintenance to
be collected.

And after having loose with the Inca and the lords of Cuzco five days, at their parties é rejoicing,
Inca Yupanqui told them what he planned to do, and wanted to repair é é fortalescer indeed those
of these two streams that passed through the city, telling them the damage rescebia the city, and
they said orchestra ready to do everything that he they were commanded to tell them how quen
It had to have, because it would provide what to do if necessary. And ANSI, Inca Yupanqui pointed
out to them the sources of the streams, and from him to where he paresció who were to begin
such fortifications and repairs, to the junction of the two streams, which is the pinnacle of the
city do they call Pumachupa [Pumapchupan], which says "cola de leon" [42]: and from there sent to
the strengthening and repair Muyna came up [43], four leagues from this city parks. Messrs.
chiefs and ANSI medieron cords with space had since the beginning of where Inca Yupanqui [said]
they started, to the junction of the streams, and so he measured, and divided the party to each
ANSI Cabia the building had to do, and this fact, he commanded them to do Inca Yupanqui bring a
lot of rough stone, because of rough stone was to be the repairs,
and the mixture had to get between the stones, who would look that
was to be a sticky mud, which and that water will get wet, do not
remove it, and before the stones were grasped a other and the water
not just eat the mix.

And thus, the chiefs gave the order to seek é é mud mixture may bring rough stone was sent craves
them all, which brought ANSI, began their building. É é ordered that this building came to Muyna
strengthening [44]; because, as was repaired this stream of the city below, where the lands
and cultivated fields were, and the rains should come to the these avenues, the stream does
not break down the canyons é be entered by land and me a bad and damage to such crops.

And this fact é provided, sent to the lords of Cuzco that some day they wanted to communicate
a certain thing was proper long for the good of the city and the republic, to whom said, as
ANSI and were together, he had great need of clothes made deposits quantity, and for that I wanted
to make a big feast to the chiefs, in which party they were happy when he saw that it wanted to
say and they did send you crave it é proveyesen of their land. É lords said it was something very convenient
and well agreed, they wanted to give orders and command that they should do a lot of chicha,
and this fact é dressed, hiciéronselo know the Inca, who, as he knew that every fact was, said
another day I wanted to start the party, and so he summoned all those chiefs Lord, and being
front of him, told how he wanted idling é rejoice with them, and they received great favor.

É
next morning brought a lot of rushes and was thrown across the square and brought many branches
that rammed into it, in which branches were hung many flowers and many birds live; and so he,
the lords of Cuzco went very well dressed in the clothes that they cherished had, and the Inca
together with them: and they came ansímismo chiefs, who wore dresses the dresses that the Inca
would give them.

É then were taken to the place where a lot of very large number of
jugs of chicha, and then ladies came, longing for women and other
major Inca, which took many different dishes: and then sat down to
eat all, and after eating, they began to drink, and after drinking,
the Inca sent out four drums with gold, and still there in place,
to put mandáronlos stretch in it and then grabbed the hands of all
of them as both a part to another, and playing the drums, for so in
the middle were, began to sing together, starting the ladies sing
and behind them were women; singing in which they said and declared
that the coming Uscovilca had come upon them, and the Viracocha output,
[t how] Inca Yupanqui had him prisoner and killed, saying that the
sun had given favor for it, as his son: and how after he had defeated
and imprisoned ansímismo and dead to the captains who had made the
joint ANSI season.

É Then I began singing, giving praise and thanks to the sun and ansímismo to Inca Yupanqui,
greeting him like a son of the sun, became to sit. É ansímismo began to drink the chicha that
there had, which they say had very much, and in very large numbers. É I was brought there
after a lot of coca é divided between all of them, and this well done, he turned and made up,
as you heard ansímismo, a song and dance.

Which party lasted six [days], in order of which the Inca chiefs told those Gentlemen, that
being the agreement that it Cuzco hobiese clothing stores, wool ANSI and cotton: and that
ansímismo agreement that had deposits of a coarse sisal rugs é thick, with cords to two feet
at the ends of them, with which the tie to their throats as they see the Indians Paresce that
anxiously would give, which had to divide the workers and workers
in the repairs of the work of the streams they went, é them that "Likewise
in the other buildings had to walk, so that in such blankets cabuya
favorable answer would cause the earth é é ANSI stone was needed for
such work, é that as they had these blankets and such, do not spend
their own, which were made of wool é cotton, and the layers with which
they are covered.

All of which is heard by the lords caciques there were Inca Yupanqui said unto them, loose than
happy to do it as ANSI The Inca had commanded him.

É coming out of there, then sent to their lands, villages and provinces: and to have effect this
benefit, then sent on their land were together many women, and placed
in houses and yards, they were spread very thin, wool of different
colors, and that "Likewise were made and assembled many looms, é craves
men and women, with all the more promptly where possible, hiciesen
had clothes that fit them, each by himself, according to the extent
largor and anchor of them was given.

And these clothes made ANSI and finishes, was brought to the city Cuzco: and as there was, the
Inca sent to the chief of which was sent to Cuzco in deposits for such clothing had sent to ANSI.

And
this ANSI fact, the Inca lords é é the other chiefs, went strengthening and repairing these two streams
desto really the city of Cuzco, which already have heard, walking long The agreement was like
them on such workers in the work that went, giving them more quickly they could with all speed
to hiciesen and ends on such repairs and fortifications, in which work spent four years, with
as soon as they could do and finish his work.

Where, as it was finished, the Inca ordered and commanded that they should do another party,
according to the already we have told you, in which party might enjoy della participate and craves
the Lords as the other his subjects, in which party they were thirty days, in which he commanded
to the Inca who later out of the city of Cuzco certain amount of dried apricots, which were the lands
of those gentlemen who were there knew é é fetch him some account what amount had in these lands
and peoples of unmarried girls unmarried and young men, sending the caciques and principal
winters let their butlers, they llactacamayos call that this was his will and command, and that
he then should tell them with all speed should give é account of
such apricots to what is sent to wit, which came back with all speed;
all of which was eagerly dispatched fact é.

É given by the apricots in such towns and provinces account and reason for your request, returned
to the city of Cuzco, where, being before the Inca gave the reason that ANSI had known.

Understood by the Inca and the number of unmarried girls é youths in these villages had é provinces,
sent to these gentlemen, three good friends, who then left for of such towns and provinces, and
to take with all the caciques and gentlemen present there were with him in the presence of which
in each town and province arrived, marry young men from one province to the unmarried girls
of the other, and the unmarried girls the other with the young men of the other, and so he
were doing it for the land and subjective those men with him were chiefs, to grow and multiply
and they had perpetual friends, relatives and fellowship with one another.


You selfishly enjoy his visit, not suspecting that you, too, are ignorantly helpful. He has
been in sadder homes to-day, has been sorely tried, has had to tell grim truths, is tired,
mind and body. The visit he makes you is for him a pleasant oasis: not all convalescents are
agreeable. He goes away refreshed.

Most doctors have their share, and more, of illness, and are not, as I have seen stated, exempt
from falling a prey to contagious maladies. Indeed, our records sadly show that this is not
the case. Perhaps there is value for them and their future patients in the fact that they have
been in turn patient and doctor and have served in both camps. Like other sick folks, the physician,
as I know, looks forward, when ill, to the "morning visits" quite as anxiously as do any of
those who have at times awaited his own coming.

That medical poet who has the joyous art of sending a ripple of mirth across the faces of the
Anglo-Saxon world recognizes this fact in a cheerful poem, called "The Morning Visit," and
to which I gladly refer any of my readers who would like to know from the lips of Oliver Wendell
Holmes what manner of delightful patient he must have been. I can fancy that he lost for his
doctor many a pleasant hour.

It has seemed to me as if this wonderful remaking and regrowing of the tissues might be likened
to a swift change from the weak childhood of disease to a sudden manhood of mind and body,
in which is something of mysterious development elsewhere unmatched in life. Death has been
minutely busy with your tissues, and millions of dead molecules are being restored in such
better condition that not only are you become new in the best sense,--renewed, as we say,--but
have gotten power to grow again, and, after your terrible typhoid or yellow fever, may win
a half-inch or so in the next six months,--a doubtful advantage for some of us, but a curious
and sure sign of great integral change.

The Greeks had a notion that once in seven years we are totally changed, the man of seven years
back having in this time undergone an entire reconstruction. We know now that life is a constant
death and a renewing,--that our every-day nutrition involves millions of molecular deaths and
as many millions of births,--although to liken that which is so exquisitely managed, so undisturbingly
done, to the coarser phenomena of death and birth is in a measure misleading.

Diseases such as typhoid fever, or a sharp local lung-trouble like pneumonia, really do make
these minute changes approximate in abruptness to death. You weigh, let us say, one hundred
and eighty pounds, and you drop in three weeks of a fever to one hundred and thirty pounds.
The rest of you is dead. You have lost, as men say, fifty pounds, but your debt to disease,
or to the blunders of civilization, for it is a case of creditor behind creditor, is paid.
Your capital is much diminished, but you have come out of the trial with an amazing renovation
of energy. This is the happy convalescence of the wholesome man. The other, the unlucky, fellow,
does not get as safely through the cleansing bankruptcy of disease. The vicious, unlucky, or
gouty grandfather appears on the books of that court in mysterious ways; his sins are pathologically
visited on his child's child in this time of testing strain.

In the happy rush towards useful health, of a convalescence undisturbed by drawbacks, it is
pleasant to think, as one lies mending, of the good day to come when my friend, recovering
from typhoid or smallpox, shall send for his legal adviser and desire him as usual to bring
suit against the city for damages and loss of time.

A little girl coughed in my face a hideous breath of membraneous decay. I felt at once a conviction
of having been hit. Two days later I was down with her malady. She herself and two more of
her family owed their disease to the overflow of a neighbor's cesspool, and to them--poor,
careless folk--Death dealt out a yet sterner retribution. There was a semi-civilized community
beyond both. Should one go to law about it and test the matter of ultimate responsibility?

The amiability of convalescence is against it. One feels at peace with all the world, and so
lies still, and reflects, "like souls that balance joy and pain," as to whether, on the whole,
the matter has not had its valuable side. Certainly it has brought experiences not otherwise
attainable.

Of the deeper and more serious insights a man gathers in the close approach of death and the
swift, delicious return to safety and enlarging powers I hardly care to speak. To a physician,
it is simply invaluable to have known in his own person pain, and to have been at close quarters
with his constant enemy, and come off only wounded from the contest. In the anxiety about you
is read anew what you look upon in other households every day, and perhaps with a too accustomed
eye. And as to pain, I am almost ready to say that the physician who has not felt it is imperfectly
educated. It were easy to dwell on this aspect of convalescence, but the mental state of one
on the way to health is not favorable to connected thought. It is more grateful to lie in the
sun, at the window, and watch the snow-birds on the ice-clad maples across the way, and now
and then, day after day, to jot down the thoughts that hop about one's brain like the friendly
birds on the mail-clad twigs.

I make no apology for the disconnectedness of my reflections, but turn gladly to my records
of the joyous and less grave observations which the passing hours brought me. Much as I have
seen of disease and recoveries in all manner of men and women, the chance to observe them in
my own person presented me with many little novel facts of interest. I find in my brief notes
of this well-remembered time many records of the extraordinary acuteness won for a while by
the senses.

Not dubious, but, alas! brief, is the gain which the sensorium acquires in this delightfully
instructive passage out of death's shadow into certain sunshine. In my own case there was a
rapid exfoliation, as we call it, of the skin, a loss and renewal of the outer layer of the
cuticle. As a result of this, the sense of touch became for a while more acute, and was at
times unpleasantly delicate. This seemed to me, as I first thought of its cause, a mere mechanical
result, but I incline to suspect now that it was in a measure due to a true increase in capacity
to feel, because I found also that the sister sense of pain was heightened. Slight things hurt
me, and a rather gentle pinch gave undue discomfort. No doubt a part of this was owing to my
having taken a good deal of opium, and then abruptly laid it aside. As I have elsewhere stated,
this is apt to leave the nerves oversensitive for a season. The sense of hearing seemed to
me to be less wide awake. I did not hear better, but high notes were for a while most unpleasant.
The sense of taste grew singularly appreciative for a time, and made every meal a joyful occasion.
The simplest food had distinct flavors. As for a glass of old Madeira,--a demijohned veteran
of many ripening summers,--I recall to this day with astonishment the wonderful thing it was,
and how it went over the tongue in a sort of procession of tastes, and what changeful bouquets
it left in my mouth,--a strange variety of varying impressions, like the play of colors. In
these days of more unspiritual health and coarser sense I am almost ashamed to say what pleasure
I found in a dish of terrapin.

The function of smell became for me a source both of annoyance and, later on, of pleasure.
I smelt things no one else could, and more things than I now can. The spring came early, and
once out of doors the swiftly-flitting hours of sensory acuteness brought to me on every breeze
nameless odors which have no being to the common sense,--a sweet, faint confusion of scents,
some slight, some too intense,--a gamut of odors. Usually I have an imperfect capacity to apprehend
smells, unless they are very positive, and it was a curious lesson to learn how intense for
the time a not perfect function may become. Recent researches have shown that a drug like mercaptan
may be used to test the limit of olfactory appreciation. We have thus come to know that the
capacity to perceive an odor is more delicate than our ability to recognize light. Probably
it is an inconceivable delicacy of the sense of smell more than anything else which enables
animals to find their way in the manner which seems to us so utterly mysterious. Yet, even
in human beings, and not alone in a fortunate convalescence, do we see startling illustrations
of the possibilities of this form of sensorial acuteness. I know of a woman who can by the
smell at once tell the worn gloves of the several people with whom she is most familiar, and
I also recall a clever choreic lad of fourteen who could distinguish when blindfold the handkerchiefs
of his mother, his father, or himself, just after they have been washed and ironed. This test
has been made over and over, to my satisfaction and surprise.

If a man could possess in the highest degree and in combination all of the possible extremes
of sensory appreciativeness seen in disease, in hysteria, and in the hypnotic state, we should
have a being of extraordinary capacities for observation. Taylor, in his "Physical Theory of
Another World," a singular and half-forgotten book, has set this forth as conceivable of the
beings of a world to come, and dwelt upon it in an ingenious and interesting way. For a long
time even the inhalation of tobacco-smoke from a friend's cigar disturbed my heart, but one
day, and it was, I fear, long before my physician, and he was wise, thought it prudent, I suddenly
fell a prey to our lady Nicotia. I had been reading listlessly a cruel essay in the Atlantic
on the wickedness of smoking, and was presently seized with a desire to look at King James's
famous "counterblast" against the weed. One is like a spoiled child at these times, and I sent
off at once for the royal fulmination, which I found dull enough. It led to results the monarch
could not have dreamed of. I got a full-flavored cigar, and had a half-hour of worshipful incense-product
at the shrine of the brown-cheeked lady,--a thing to remember,--and which I had leisure enough
to repent of in the sleepless night it cost me.

This new keenness of perception, of taste and touch, of smell and sound, belongs also, in the
splendid rally which the body makes toward health, to the intellectual and imaginative sphere
of activities. Something of the lost gifts of the fairy-land of childhood returns to us in
fresh aptitude for strange, sweet castle-building, as we lie open-eyed, or in power to see,
as the child sees, what we will when the eyes are closed,--

  Pictures of love and hate,
  Grim battles where no death is. Tournaments,
  Tall castles fair and garden terraces,
  Where the stiff peacock mocks the sunset light,
  And man and maiden whisper tenderly
  A shadowy love where no heart ever breaks,--
  Love whose to-morrow shall be as to-day.

With the increase of intellectual clearness, within a certain range, come, as with the brightened
senses, certain drawbacks, arising out of the fastidiousness which belongs to the changing
man just at this time. Let him, therefore, be careful what novels he chooses, for of all times
this is the one for fiction, when we are away from the contradictions of the fierce outer world,
and are in an atmosphere all sun and flowers, and pleasant with generous service and thankful
joy. Be careful what Scheherezade you invite to your couch. By an awful rule of this world's
life, in all its phases, the sharper the zest of enjoyment, the keener the possible disgusts
may be. I recommend Dumas's books at this crisis, but they should be read with acceptance;
as stories, their value lying largely in this, that no matter who is murdered or what horror
occurs, you somehow feel no more particular call upon your compassion than is made when you
read afresh the terrible catastrophes of Jack the Giant-Killer.

A delightful master of style, Robert Louis Stevenson, in a recent enumeration of the books
which have influenced him in life, mentions, as among the most charming of characterizations,
the older Artagnan of the Vicomte de Bragelonne. I feel sure that on the sick-bed, of which
he does not hesitate to speak, he must have learned, as I did, to appreciate this charming
book. I made acquaintance then, also, with what seems to me, however, the most artistic of
Dumas's works, and one so little known that to name it is a benefit, or may be, the Chevalier
d'Harmenthal.

In the long road towards working health, I must have found, as my note-books show, immense
leisure, and equal capacity to absorb a quantity of fiction, good and bad, and to find in some
of it things about my own art which excited amused comment, and but for that would long ago
have been forgotten. Among the stuff which I more or less listlessly read was an astonishing
book called "Norwood." It set me to thinking, because in this book are recounted many things
concerning sick or wounded folk, and those astonishing surgeons and nurses who are supposed
to have helped them on to their feet again.

The ghastly amusement which came to me out of the young lady in this volume, who amputates
a man's leg, made me reflect a little about the mode in which writers of fiction have dealt
with sick people and doctors. I lay half awake, and thought over this in no unkindly critical mood,

  "With now and then a merry thought,
  And now and then a sad one,"

until I built myself a great literary hospital, such as would delight Miss Nightingale. For
in it I had a Scott ward, and a Dickens ward, and a Bulwer ward, and a Thackeray ward, with
a very jolly lot of doctors, such as Drs. Goodenough and Firmin, with the Little Sister (out
of Philip) and Miss Evangeline to take care of the patients, besides cells for Charles Reade's
heroes and heroines, and the apothecary (out of Romeo and Juliet) to mix more honest doses
than he gave to luckless Romeo.

Should you wander with a critical doctor through those ghostly wards, you would see some queerer
results of battle and fray than ever the doctors observe nowadays,--cases I should like to
report, it might be: poisonings that would have bewildered Orfila, heart-diseases that would
have astounded Corvisart, and those wonderful instances of consumption which render that most
painful of diseases so delightful to die of--in novels. I have no present intention to weary
my readers with a clinic in those crowded wards, but it will ease my soul a little if I may
say my say in a general fashion about the utter absurdities of most of these pictures of disease
and death-beds. In older times the sickness of a novel was merely a feint to gain time in the
story or account for a non-appearance, and the doctor made very brief show upon the stage.
Since, however, the growth of realism in literary art, the temptation to delineate exactly
the absolute facts of disease has led authors to dwell too freely on the details of sickness.
So long as they dealt in generalities their way was clear enough. Of old a man was poisoned
and done for. Today we deal in symptoms, and follow science closely in our use of poisons.
Mr. Trollope's "Gemma" is an instance in point, where every one will feel that the spectacle
of the heroine going seasick to death, owing to the administration of tartar emetic, is as
disgusting and inartistic a method as fiction presents. Why not have made it croton oil? More
and worse of this hideous realism is to be found in About's books, such, for instance, as "Germaine";
but from which censure I like to exclude the rollicking fun of "Le Nez d'un Notaire." As to
the recent realistic atrocities of Zola, and even of Tolstoi, a more rare sinner, if we exclude
his disgusting drama of peasant life, I prefer to say little.

As to blunders in the science of poisons I say little. The novelist is a free lance, and chooses
his own weapons; but I cannot help remarking that, if recent investigators are to be trusted,
one unlucky female, at least, must be still alive, for a novelist relates that she was done
to death by the internal taking of a dose of rattlesnake venom. I hope when I am to be poisoned
this mode may be employed. She might as well have drunk a glass of milk. That book was a queer
one to me after this catastrophe: the woman ought to be dead and could not be.

The difficulty of the modern novelist in giving symptoms and preserving the entire decorum
of his pages has amused me a little. Depend upon it, he had best fight shy of these chronic
illnesses: they make queer reading to a doctor who knows what sick people are; and above all
does this advice apply to death-beds. As a rule, folks get very horrible at such times, and
are a long while in dying, with few of their wits about them at the last. But in novels people
die marvellously possessed of their faculties; or, if they are shot, always jump into the air
exactly as men never do in fact.

Just here, concerning wounds, a question occurs to me: The heroes who have to lose a limb--a
common thing in novels since the war--always come back with one arm, and never with a lost
leg. Is it more romantic to get rid of one than of the other?--considering also that a one-armed
embrace of the weeping waiting lady-love must be so utterly unsatisfactory.

But enough of the patients. Among them I think I like Pendennis the best, and consider little
Dombey and Nell the most delightfully absurd. And as to the doctors. Some of them have absolutely
had the high promotion to be the heroes of a whole book. Had not one, nay, two, a novel to
themselves? There is delightful Dr. Antonio, not enough of a doctor to call down on him my
professional wrath. As to Dr. Goodenough, he has been in our family a long while,--on the shelf
(God bless him!),--and attended, we remember, our friend Colonel Newcome in that death-bed
matchless in art since Falstaff babbled life away. Yet, after all, he is not a doctor so much
as a man charmingly drawn.

There are in novels many good portraits of lawyers, from Pleydell to Tulkinghorn. Whether fair
or unjust as pictures, I am scarce able to judge, although I believe that some of them have
been recognized by our legal brethren as sufficiently exact. While, however, we have plenty
of characters which for his purpose the novelist labels M.D., there seems to have been some
insuperable difficulty in evolving for artistic use a doctor who shall seem at home, as such,
among the other characters of the novel,--one, at least, who shall appear to any reasonable
degree like a doctor to those who really know the genus doctor thoroughly. Save Lydgate, no
doctor in fiction answers this critical demand, or seems anything to me but a very stiff lay
figure from the moment he is called upon to bring his art into the story, or to figure, except
as an unprofessional personage.

Nor does this arise from poverty of types in the tribe of physicians. The training of a doctor's
life produces the most varied effects for good or evil, as may chance, upon the human natures
submitted to its discipline, so that I think any thoughtful medical man will tell you that
there is a more notable individuality among his brethren in middle life than among most of
the people he encounters. As for the novelist's effort--an inartistic one, it seems to me--to
bring on his stage representations of some especial kind of doctor, I have only a grim smile
to give, remembering Mr. Reade's grewsome medico in "Hard Cash,"--a personation meant, I suppose,
to present to the public a certain irregular London doctor, but which, to the minds of most
physicians, reads like an elaborate advertisement of the man in question.

Sir Bulwer Lytton's renderings of a homoeopath and a water-cure specialist are open to the
same charge, and could only have been successful in the hands of a master.

There are at least two doctors in Balzac's novels. Rastignac, man of fashion and science, is
drawn with the master's usual skill, but he is not a doctor. His art has no prominence. It
is not shown how his peculiarities influenced his work, nor how his art, and its use, altered
or modified the man. "The Country Doctor," by the same strong hand, is far more near my ideal
of what this portraiture should be than any other known to me in French literature. The humorous
aspects of a medical life in the provinces of France are nicely handled in Jules Sandeau's
"Doctor Herbeau," but the study, however neat and pleasing, is slight.

Wander where you may, in the drama or the novel, you will still find, I think, that the character
of the physician awaits in its interesting varieties competent portrayal.

Shakespeare has left us no finished portrait of a doctor. Molière caricatured him. Thackeray
failed to draw him, and generally in novels he is merely a man who is labelled "Doctor." The
sole exception known to me is the marvellous delineation of Lydgate in "Middlemarch." He is
all over the physician, his manner, his sentiments, his modes of thought, but he stands alone
in fiction. How did that great mistress of her art learn all of physicians which enabled her
to leave us this amazingly truthful picture? Her life gives us no clue, and when I asked her
husband, George Lewes, to explain the matter, he said that he did not know, and that she knew
no more of this than of how she had acquired her strangely complete knowledge of the low turf
people she has drawn in the same book, and with an almost equal skill and truth to nature.

It were easy, I fancy, to point out how the doctor's life and training differ from those of
all the other professions, and how this must act on peculiar individualities for the deepening
of some lines and the erasure of others; but this were too elaborate a study for my present
gossiping essay, and may await another day and a less lazy mood.

If any one should be curious to see what are the modifying circumstances in a physician's life
which strongly tend to weaken or to reinforce character, I recommend a delightful little address,
quite too brief, by Dr. Emerson, the son of the great essayist. It is unluckily out of print
and difficult to obtain. If you would see in real lives what sturdy forms of personal distinctness
the doctor may assume, there is no better way than to glance over some half-dozen medical biographies.
Read, for instance, delightful John Brown's sketch of Sydenham and of his own father, or George
Wilson's life of John Reid, the physiologist, whom community of suffering must have made dear
to that gentle intelligence, and whose days ended in tragic horror such as sensational fiction
may scarcely match; or, for an individuality as well defined and more pleasing, read Pichot's
life of Sir Charles Bell, or one of the most remarkable of biographies, Mr. Morley's life of
Jerome Cardan.

I am reminded as I write how rare are the really good medical biographies. The autobiographies
are better. Ambrose Paré's sketches of his own life, which was both eventful and varied, are
scattered through his treatise on surgery, and he does not gain added interest in the hands
of Malgaigne. Our own Sims's book about himself is worth reading, but is too realistic for
the library table, yet what a strangely valuable story it is of the struggle of genius up to
eminent success. But these are the heroes of a not unheroic profession, and I had almost forgotten
to set among them, as a study of character, the life of the tranquil, high-minded Jenner, the
country doctor who swept the scars of smallpox from the faces of the world of men, and beside
him John Hunter, his friend, impulsive, quick of temper, enthusiastic, an intensely practical
man of science. These are illustrations of men of the most varied types, whose works show their
characteristics, and who would, in the end, I fancy, have been very different had fate set
them other tasks in life, for if the sculptor makes the statue, we may rest quite sure that
the statue he makes influences the man who made it.

These, I have said, are our heroes, but I still think there remains to be written the simple,
honest, dutiful story of an intelligent, thoughtful, every-day doctor, such as will pleasantly
and fitly open to laymen some true conception of the life he leads, its cares, its trials,
its influences on himself and others and its varied rewards. John Brown got closest to it in
that sketch of his father, and in her delicately-drawn "Country Doctor" Miss Jewett has done
us gentle service. But my doctor would differ somewhat in all lands, because nationality and
social conventions have their influence on us as on other men, as any one may observe who compares
the clergymen of the Episcopal Church in America with those of England.

The man who deals with the physician in fiction would have to consider this class of facts,
for social conventions have assigned to the physician in England, at least, a very different
position from that which he holds with us, where he has no social superior, and is usually
in all small communities, and in some larger ones, the most eminent personage and the man of
largest influence.

In the rage for novel characters the lady doctor has of late assumed her place in fiction.
Lots of wives have been picked up among hospital nurses, especially since the Crimean war,
and since other women than Sisters of Charity got into the business, and so made to seem probable
this pleasing termination of an illness. There was a case well known to me where a young officer
simulated delirium tremens in order to get near to a Sister of Charity. If ever you had seen
the lady, you would not have wondered at his madness; and should any author desire to utilize
this incident, let him comprehend that the order of Sisters of Charity admits of its members
leaving the ranks by marriage, theirs being a secular order; so that here are the chances for
a story of the freshest kind. As for the lady doctor in fiction, her advantages would be awful
to contemplate in sickness, when we are weak and fevered, and absurdly grateful for a newly-beaten
pillow or a morsel of ice. But imagine the awful temptation of having your heart auscultated.
Let us dismiss the subject while the vision of Béranger's Ange Gardienne flits before us as
De Grandville drew her.

I have not now beside me Howells's "Doctor Breen's Practice." It is a remarkable attempt to
do justice to a very difficult subject, for there are two physicians to handle, male and female,
not, I think, after their kind. "Doctor Zay," by Miss Phelps, makes absurd a book which is
otherwise very attractive. This young woman doctor, a homoeopath, sets a young man's leg, and
falls in love with him after a therapeutic courtship, in which he wooes and she prescribes.

The woman doctor is, I suspect, still available as material for the ambitious novelist, but
let him beware how he deals with her.

PAIN AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

As I look from my window, on the lawn below are girls at play,--gay, vigorous, wholesome; they
laugh, they run, and are never weary. How far from them and their abounding health seem the
possibilities of such torment as nature somewhere in life reserves for most of us. As women,
their lives are likely, nay, certain, to bring them a variety of physical discomforts, and
perhaps pain in its gravest forms. For man, pain is accidental, and depends much on the chances
of life. Certainly, many men go through existence here with but little pain. With women it
is incidental, and a far more probable possibility. The most healthy will have least of it.
Vigor of body is its foe. Thin blood is its ally. Speaking now, not of the physiological pain,
which few escape, but of the torments of neuralgia and the like, Romberg says, "Pain is the
prayer of the nerves for healthy blood." As the woman is normally less full-blooded than the
man, she is relatively in more danger of becoming thin-blooded than he.

Moreover, the disturbances which come from the nature of her physiological processes subject
her to larger risks of lessened blood than man, and hence, for all reasons, she is more likely
than he to become anæmic, and out of this to evolve pain in some shape.

If we see that our girls are not overtasked at the age of sexual evolution, that the brain
is not overtrained at bitter cost of other developments as essential, we escape a part of this
peril. To discuss the question here is not my intention. To secure in our artificial life what
is desirable is difficult. It involves matters of dress, exercise, proportion of lessons, diet,
and other matters, of which I shall yet say something, and as to which I have elsewhere said
a good deal.

But no matter how careful we may be, how thoughtful as to the true needs of these young lives,
we may be sure that our daughters will be more likely to have to face at some time the grim
question of pain than the lads who grow up beside them.

For both there are always the little ailments of childhood,--the hurts, the accidents, and
the disorders or the diseases of youthful years. All come in for a share. Let us be careful
how we deal with them. I have often watched with interest a mother beside the girl or boy in
temporary pain. As a rule, she assumes from the beginning that the hurt boy is to be taught
silent, patient endurance. What! you, a boy, to cry! Be a man! Among his comrades he is a "cry-baby"
if he whimpers, "a regular girl," "a girl-boy." He is taught early that from him endurance
is expected; the self-conquest of restrained emotion is his constant lesson.

If it be a girl who suffers, she is assumed to be weak, and it is felt that for her tears are
natural and not to be sternly repressed; nor are her little aches and complaints dismissed
as lightly as are her brother's. She is trained to expect sympathy, and learns that to weep
is her prerogative. The first gush of tears after a hurt of body or mind is in some mysterious
way a relief, and not rudely to be chidden; but, on the whole, it is wise and right to teach
patience and unemotional endurance to the sex which in life is sure to have the larger share
of suffering. To be of use, this education must begin reasonably early, and we may leave to
the mother to make sure that it is not too severe.

As a girl grows older, we ask and expect some measure of restraint in emotional expression
as regards any of the physical or moral troubles which call out tears in the child; for the
woman who is wise understands that unrestrained emotion and outward expressions of pain or
distress are the beginnings of that loss of self-rule which leads to habitual unrestraint,
and this to more and more enfeeblement of endurance, and this, again, to worse things, of which
more in the future.

We are dealing now with pain. My simple practical thesis is that pain comes to all soon or
late, that the indirect consequences are most to be feared, and that endurance in the adult,
rational endurance, must be won by a gradual education, which can hardly begin too early. But
of what use are these stern lessonings in the bearing of what none can quite escape? Do they
enable us to diminish pain or to feel it less? Indirectly, yes. One woman cries out for instant
easement if in pain or distress, unschooled to endure. She claims immediate relief. Another,
more resolute, submits with patience, does not give way, as we put it, tries to distract her
attention, knowing that even as distinct suffering as toothache may be less felt in the presence
of something which interests the mind and secures the attention. Nothing, indeed, is more instructive
than to watch how women bear pain,--the tremendous calamity it is to one, the far slighter
thing in life it is to another. I speak now of transient torments. When we come to consider
those years of torture which cruel nature holds in store for some, no one blames the sight
of the moral wreck it is apt to make of the sufferer. On the other hand, there is nothing I
ever see in my profession so splendid as the way in which a few, a rare few, triumph over pain,
which we know must often rise to the grade of anguish, and from which scarce a day is ever free.

I recall well one woman who for years, under my eyes, was the subject of what, with due sense
of the force of the word, I call torture. At times she shut herself up in her room, and, as
she said, "wrestled with it." This happened every day or two for an hour or more. The rest
of the time she was out, or busy with her duties, but always in some pain. Meanwhile, although
failing slowly, she was the life and joy of many, the true and gentle counsellor, the sure
support of all who leaned on her for aid. At her dinner-table, in chat with friends, or over
a book, no one who did not know her well could have dreamed that she was in such pain as consigns
lower natures to disability. Her safeguard from utter wreck was a clear and resolute faith,
a profound and unfailing interest in men and things and books, which gave strange vigor to
her whole range of intellectual activities. But above all she possessed that happiest of gifts,
the keen, undying sense of the humorous, the absurd, the witty. As she once said, "All life
laughs for me." It followed her to death, as it has certain others as noble. When dying, she
said some gay thing which disturbed a dear friend. The sufferer, well knowing her own state,
looked up. "I must laugh, dear," she said; "I would not feel that the other world was the good
place I think it if I did not believe I could laugh there too." She once said to me, in the
midst of a storm of acute suffering, that pain seemed to her a strange sort of a joke. I hardly
knew what she meant, but it shows the reigning mood of one who used to better ends a life half
pain than most of us use the untroubled health of existence. Very irritable in youth, her clear
brain and strong sense of duty overcame it in proportion to the growth of what in others creates
it. All opiates she disliked, and could rarely be induced to take them. "If my mind gets weaker,
I shall go to pieces----;" and, laughing always, "the bits would be worthless as the scattered
bricks of a sound house." Surely such a life is a fruitful lesson in the uses of endurance,
for be sure that both she and all around her were the better and happier, yes, and she the
less a sufferer, for her mode of dealing with a life of pain.

The illustration I have given saves me from dwelling at great length on the values of all the
means within a woman's control for lessening the evil consequences of suffering, and if to
few is given the largest moral and mental outfit for such a struggle, none are without the
power to cultivate what they have, and, in the lesser ills of life, to make use of the lesson
we may hope and know few will be called on to apply to an existence such as hers.

Pain of body, hurt of mind, all the sad gamut from discomfort to anguish, depend for their
influence on her life upon how nature and training enable the woman to meet them.

To endure without excess of emotion saves her from consequent nervousness, and from that feebleness
of mind and body which craves at all cost instant relief. It is the spoiled child, untaught
to endure, who becomes the self-pampered woman. Endurance of pain has also its side-values,
and is the handmaid of courage and of a large range of duties. Tranquil endurance enables the
sufferer to seek and to use all the means of distraction which this woman I have described
did use. It leaves the mind free, as it never can be otherwise in the storm of unrestraint,
to reason on her troubles, and to decide whether or not her pain justifies the use of drugs,
for on her the physician must measurably rely for this knowledge, and as she is morally strong
or weak the decision will be.

There are those, indeed, who suffer and grow strong; there are those who suffer and grow weak.

This mystery of pain is still for me the saddest of earth's disabilities. After all is said
that can be said on its values as a safeguard, an indicator of the locality of disease, after
the moralist has considered it from the disciplinary view, and the theologian cracked his teeth
on this bitter nut, and the evolutionist accounted for its existence, it comes at last to the
doctor to say what shall be done with it. I wish it came to him alone. Civilized man has ceased
to torture, but nature, relentless still, has in store possibilities of utmost anguish, which
seem to fall alike on the guilty and the innocent, the poor and the rich, and in largest proportion
on the gentler sex. But while pain is still here with its ever-ready presence, the direct means
of lessening it have multiplied so that hardly a month goes by without some new method being
added of destroying for a time the power to suffer. For, bear in mind that it is not usually
the cause which can be at once destroyed by drugs, but only the bodily capacity to react to
it in the fashion we call pain. Ether, chloroform, cocaine, and many other drugs enable us
to-day to feel sure that the mass of real pain in the world is vastly less than it was. It
is, indeed, possible to prevent all pain, and pain has no real value which we need respect
and desire to preserve; at least this is so from the physician's stand-point.

The temptation which comes to us out of the accumulation of anæsthetic agents is one which
every tender-hearted man can understand. The temptations which it presents to the suffering
they only know who have suffered. To this all that I have said leads up. To most women, even
to strong women, there comes a time when pain is a grim presence in their lives. If brief,
the wise physician calls upon them for that endurance, of the value of which I have spoken.
On some he calls in vain. Even if it recur at intervals, as in the shape of neuralgic headaches,
in the name of reason let him be the sole judge of your need to be relieved by drugs. He well
knows, as you cannot know, that the frequent use of morphia seems in the end to increase, not
to lessen, the whole amount of probable future pain, and that what eases for a time is a devil
in angelic disguise. If you are urgent, weak of will, unable through unrestraint to comprehend
him, the fault will be only half his, if you plead too eagerly for help and too constantly
claim the relief he holds.

But suppose that the woman I address is a long and true sufferer, and that the physician desires
to use such help often, then comes her time of peril and his day of largest responsibility.
If he be weak, or too tender, or too prone to escape trouble by the easy help of some pain-lulling
agent, she is soon on the evil path of the opium, chloral, or chloroform habit. Nor is prevention
easy. With constant or inconstant suffering comes weakness of mind as well as body, and none
but the strongest natures pass through this ordeal of character unhurt. If the woman be unenduring
and unthoughtful, if the doctor fail to command her faith, and be too sympathetic, at last
she gets possession herself of the drug, or the drug and the hypodermatic needle. Then there
is before her one of the saddest of the many downward paths which lead to destruction of body
and soul.

More often, in my experience, the opium habit is learned during an illness of limited duration,
and for the consequences of which there is always some one to be blamed.

As I remember these patients, and I have seen them by the score, far on in their evil ways,
such women are most often those who lack the power, even in health, to endure pain. Some defect
of training or of nature has made pain, or even distress or insomnia, ills to be relieved at
once regardless of cost. Let them but feel that relief for the time is possible, and self-restraint
is over. They will have the thing they crave. You cure them of the vile opium habit at awful
cost of suffering, and they relapse on the first new trial of endurance, and men of their type
more surely than women.

I see a good many cases of opium, morphia, or chloral habit, and I am sure that these forms
of intoxication are becoming more prevalent than they were a generation ago. Is this due to
an increase in the disorders which are eased by such drugs? Is it not rather due to the softening
influence of luxury, and the fact that we are all being constantly trained to feel that it
is both easy and our right to escape pain, however brief?

I am sure, too, that a part of it lies in the readiness with which many physicians give sedatives,
and their failure to feel the vast moral responsibilities of their position. But, whatever
be the cause or causes, it is well in the hour of ease to learn beforehand the risks which
come of too easy and too frequent appeals to agents which benumb the nerves.

When people are first given opium, it is apt to be the friend of the night and the foe of the
morrow. Repeated often enough, it loses power to constipate and distress. It still soothes
pain. It still gives sleep. At last it seems to be in a measure a tonic for those who take
it. But after a while it does some other things less agreeable. The mind and memory suffer,
but far more surely the moral nature is altered. The woman becomes indifferent, her affections
dull, her sense of duty hopelessly weakened. Watchful, cunning, suspicious, deceitful,--a thief,
if need be, to get the valued opiate,--she stops at nothing. It would seem as if it were a
drug which directly affected the conscience. At last, before this one craving, all ties in
life are slight and bind her not. Insensible to shame and dead to affection, she is happy if
the alcohol habit be not added to her disorder, for if she cannot get the one drug she longs
for, the other will serve her at need.

There is a popular idea that opium gives pleasant dreams, and that it takes us away into the
land of poetry, to which it is supposed to have conducted Coleridge and De Quincey. As a matter
of fact, there are but few persons who get more out of opium than relief of pain, sense of
comfort, and next day's remorses. The opium dream is not for all. I have known only four or
five cases of habitual and distinct opium dreamers. There was more of Coleridge than of opium
in "Kubla Khan," and more of De Quincey than of the juice of poppies in the "Vision of Sudden
Death." When it came to the telling of these immortal dreams, we may well suspect that the
narrative gained in the literary appeal from the poet opium-drunk to the poet sober.

It is, I fancy, well known to physicians that opium may act on an individual differently at
different times. In the case of one well known to me it usually causes sleep, and no longer
gives rise to nausea the next day, as it once did. Although it leaves him sufficiently wretched,
and he has taken it but rarely, the drug occasionally keeps him wide awake and delightfully
indifferent to the passage of time. The striking hours are heard, and that is all. There is
none of the ennui of insomnia. This effect of morphia is rare with him. He may have taken morphia
a dozen times in his life to ease acute pain, but only twice has it made him thus wakeful.
On these nights he saw an endless succession of visions, which he did not forget, as one does
common dreams. Nearly all of the hallucinations were of the most amusing character, and were
often long and connected series of ludicrous situations, over which he wondered, as he lay
next day, a victim to the secondary miseries due to the soothing dose of the night before.
This is one of the tricks which drugs play, and is not a thing to be anticipated. The drug
is the same; the man varies, and with his variations arise peculiarities in the effects of
remedies.

The excess sometimes attained in the use of opiates is almost past belief. I have seen a mere
girl of seventeen years take at one dose thirty grains of morphia, and I know of a woman who
took for years ninety grains a day, and ruined a weak husband, a man of small means, by the
costliness of her habit.

The causes of the torment, which the cessation of the use of morphia brings about, are interesting.
Agonizing pains show that the nerves, long muffled, have become more acutely sensitive than
they were before the fatal drug was first employed. A host of lesser troubles--insomnia, pain,
and indigestion--attend the cure. I know nothing more pitiful than such an ordeal, and, despite
the most watchful care, I have seen it end more than once in suicide. When one has watched
a woman from whom opium has been taken away, even with skilful tenderness, roll in agony on
the floor, rend her garments, tear out her hair, or pass into a state of hysterical mania,
the physician is made to feel that no suffering for which she took the drug can have been as
bad as the results to which it leads. The capacity to suffer, which comes on as we remove the
poison, is almost inconceivable. It lasts long, and is the true difficulty in the way of forming
anew habits of wholesome endurance. The physician who imagines that his case is well, because
he has enabled an opium-taker to eat, sleep, and be comfortable without use of the sedative,
can have seen little of the future of such people. The oversensitiveness to pain persists for
months, and is a constant temptation. The moral and mental habits formed under opium--the irresolution,
the recklessness, the want of shame, in a word, the general failure of all that is womanly--need
something more than time to cure. But I am not preaching to the woman just set free from this
bondage to sin, and speak of her only to emphasize the horror with which I would wish to inspire
the well, who yet may come some day to be the suffering.

If there be one set of women more liable than another to become victims of morphia or chloral,
it is the wives of physicians. Every winter I see four or five, and always it is true that
the habit has arisen out of the effort of the husband to attend medically on his wife. Physicians
make good husbands, and this is in part due to the fact that their knowledge of the difficulties
of feminine life causes them to be more thoughtfully tender, and more charitable as concerns
the effects upon women of certain inevitable conditions as to which the layman is ignorant
or indifferent. But the very fulness of the husband's appreciation of a woman's drawbacks and
little moral ailments, the outcome of her womanhood, becomes dangerous when he ventures to
be her medical caretaker. What he coolly decides in another's case, he cannot in hers. How
can he see her suffer and not give her of the abundance of relief in his hands? She is quick
to know and to profit by this, and so the worst comes of it.

"It is easy for you to sit by in your strength and see me suffer," said a woman once to me.
She was on the verge of the morphia habit, and I was trying to break it off abruptly. I felt,
as any gentle-hearted man must feel, the sting and hurt of her words. Next day she said to
me, "Of course you were right. I used to talk that way to B----, and he never could stand it."
He was her husband and a physician. She got well easily.

I do not believe that most women who sin in this way slip into it either quite so ignorantly
and so unwarned as they would have you to suppose. Nearly always there is a time when some
one--the physician, a friend, or their own reason--bids them pause, reflect, and choose.

  "Alas I for thee, if thou from thine own soul dost turn and flee.
  Better the house and company of pain;
  Better distress;
  Better the stones of strife, the bread with tears;
  Humiliation and despair and fears;
  All, all the heart can suffer, the soul know,
  Rather than with the bestial train to go,
  With base rejoicings, ignorant of woe."[3]

[Footnote 3: "Sylvian, and Other Poems," by Philip Varley.]

THE MORAL MANAGEMENT OF SICK OR INVALID CHILDREN.

Not long ago a pretty little girl of ten was brought to me from a long distance to get my advice
as to a slight paralysis of one leg. The trouble had existed for several years. I soon saw
that the child was irritable, sensitive, and positive, and I was, therefore, careful to approach
her gently. The moment it was proposed to show me the leg, she broke into a fury of rage, and
no inducement I could offer enabled me to effect my purpose. An appeal to the parents, and
from them to force, ended in a distressing battle. She bit, scratched, kicked, and at last
won a victory, and was left sullen and sobbing on the floor. Next day the same scene was repeated.
It is true that at length they were able to undress her, but neither threats nor persuasion
would keep her quiet long enough to enable me to apply the simplest tests. The case was obscure,
and demanded the most careful study. Their time was limited, so that at length they were obliged
to take her home in despair, without any guiding opinion from me, and with no advice, except
as to her moral education, concerning which I was sufficiently explicit. I have seen many such
illustrations of a common evil, and have watched the growth to adult life of some of these
cases of wrecked character, and observed the unpleasant results which came as they grew older.
I have used an extreme case as a text, because I desire to fix attention on the error which
parents and some doctors are apt to commit in cases of chronic ailments in children.

As to the miserable sufferers who pass through long illness to death I have little to say.
We naturally yield to their whims, pet and indulge them, moved by pitiful desire to give them
all they want of the little which life affords them. In acute illness, with long convalescence,
I am pretty sure that the tender mother does no real good by over-indulgence; but the subject
is difficult, and hard to handle with justice and charity without calling down upon me the
indignation of the unthoughtful. It is so easy and pleasant to yield to the caprices of those
we love, when they are in pain or helpless from illness,--so doubly hard at such times to say
no. Yet, if in the case of a long convalescence, such as follows, perhaps, a typhoid or scarlet
fever, we balance for the little one the too-easily yielded joy of to-day against the inevitable
stringency of discipline, which, with recovered health, must teach the then doubly difficult
lesson of self-restraint, we shall see, I think, that, on the whole, we do not add to the sum
of happiness to which the child is entitled.

The mother at the sick-bed of her young child is, however, a being quite often as difficult
to manage as her child. All her instinctive maternity is up in arms. Deep in the heart of many
mothers there is an unconfessed and half-smothered sense of wrath at the attack which sickness
has made on her dear one. Then nothing is too much to give; no sacrifice of herself or others
too great to grant or demand. The irritability and feebleness of convalescence makes claims
upon her love of self-sacrifice, and her prodigality of tenderness as positive and yet more
baneful. That in most cases she may and does go too far, and loses for her child what it is
hard to recover in health, is a thing likely enough, yet to talk to her at such times of the
wrong she does the child is almost to insult her. Nevertheless the unwisdom of a course of
reckless yielding to all a child's whims is plain enough, for if the little one be long ill
or weak, it learns with sad swiftness to exact more and more, and to yield less and less, so
that it becomes increasingly hard to do for it the many little unpleasant things which sickness
demands. Character comes strongly out in the maladies of the child, as it does even less distinctly
in the sickness of the adult. The spoiled, over-indulged child is a doubly unmanageable invalid,
and when in illness the foolish petting of the mother continues, the doctor, at least, is to
be pitied.

The ductility of childhood has its dangerous side. This is seen very well in cases which, fortunately,
are rather rare, and, for some reason, are less frequent in girls than in boys. These little
ones observe sharply the faces and obvious motives of those about their sick-beds, and more
readily than adults are led to humor the doubts they hear expressed by the doctor or their
elders as to their capacity to do this or that. Too frequent queries as to their feelings are
perilously suggestive, and out of it all arises, in children of nervous or imaginative temperaments,
an inexplicable tendency to fulfil the predictions they have heard, or actively to humor the
ideas they acquire as to their own ailments and disabilities.

There is something profoundly human in this. With careless, unthoughtful people, who have trained
a child to know that illness means absolute indulgence, and who pour out unguardedly their
own fears and expectations at the bedside, the result for the child is in some cases past belief.
The little one gets worse and worse. It accepts automatically the situation, with all the bribes
to do so made larger by feebleness, and at last gains that extreme belief in its own inability
to rise or move about which absolute convictions of this nature impose on child or man.

There is a further and worse stage possible. The child's claims increase. Its complaints gather
force, and alarm those about it. Gratified in all its whims, it develops perverted tastes,
or refuses all food but what it fancies. At last it becomes violent if opposed, and rules at
will a scared circle of over-affectionate relatives. When all else fails, it exaggerates or
invents symptoms, and so goes on, until some resolute physician sees the truth and opens the
eyes of an amazed family.

Certain physicians explain these cases as due to hysteria, and in a small number of instances
there are signs which justify such an explanation. But in the larger proportion the mode of
origin is complex, and depends on the coincidence of a variety of evils, none of which are
of hysterical character. I am not here concerned so much with the exact nature of these troubles
as I am with the avoidable errors in the management of sick childhood. If I can make the mother
more thoughtfully alert, less disposed to terror and exaggeration, less liable to be led by
her emotions, I shall have fulfilled my purpose without such discussion as is out of place
in essays like these.

To make clear, however, the possibility of the disasters I have briefly described, an illustration
may answer better than any length of generalized statements. A little fellow of nine once came
under my care, and was said to have inflammation of the coverings of the brain. There was a
long story, which I may sum up in a few sentences. An only child; feeble in youth; indulgence
to almost any degree; at the age of eight, a fall, not at all grave, but followed by some days
of headache; long rest in bed, by order of a physician; much pity; many questions; half-whispered,
anxious discussions at the bedside; yet more excessive indulgence, because every denial seemed
to increase or cause headache. At last the slightest annoyance became cause for tears, and
finally for blame, all of which a gentle, fearful mother bore as if it were part of the natural
trials of disease. It took but a few months of complete non-restraint to make of a shrewd,
bright, half-educated, spoiled boy a little brute, as to whose sanity there seemed to be some
doubt. He was easily made well, and has lived to thank the sternness which won back the health
of mind and body his parents had so foolishly helped to lose for him.

A single example may suffice, nor have I any fear that it may lead any one, least of all nature's
gentlest creation, a mother, to be more severe than is reasonable. She it is who is really
most responsible. She is ever beside the child when the little actor is off guard. She may
have the cleverness to see through the deceit or she may not. The physician comes and goes,
and must take for granted much that he has no chance to see, and for which he has to trust
the more constant attendant. Moreover, the rarity of these cases is apt to help to deceive
him quite as much as does the mother's affectionate trust. Nevertheless, it is his fault if
soon or late he fail to see the truth; but he may well be careful how he states his doubt.
The mother at the sick-bed but too often resents as a wrong any hint at the true state of the case.

Children are singularly imitative, and more or less prone to suffer from this tendency. Hence
the curious cases in which a child simulates, I do not say dissimulates, the malady it sees
constantly before it, as when one child has attacks of false epilepsy, owing to having seen
the real attack in a sister or brother, or when St. Vitus's dance runs through a school or
an asylum.

To sum up, we credit these little ones with a simplicity of moral organization which forbids
us to believe that the causes which are active for mischief in their elders are not as potent
for evil in them. The popular and reasonable creed of moral education, which teaches us to
ask from a well child self-control, self-restraint, truth of statement, reasonable endurance
of the unavoidable, good temper, is not too lightly or too entirely to be laid aside when sickness
softens the rule of health and all our hearts go out in pity to the little sufferer.

Certain of the nervous and other maladies of children sometimes keep them a long while under
treatments which are annoying, painful, or disabling. They often end by leaving them as strong
as their fellows, but crippled, lame, disfigured, or with troubles that attract remark, or,
at least, notice. Thus, a child may have hip-disease, and, after years of treatment, get well,
and although vigorous enough to do all that is required in life, be more or less lame. In another
case, there is disease of the bones of the spine. After a wearying treatment, it is well, but
the little one has a distorted spine,--is humpbacked. Again, we have the common malady, palsy
of childhood, and here, too, most probably, there is left a residue of disability, or, at all
events, some loss of power.

In each case there are years of troublesome treatment, all sorts of unpleasant limitations,
pain it may be, and certainly, at the best, a variety of discomforts. The joy and little pleasures
of youth are gone. It makes one sorrowful to think of such cases, even when all that competent
means can do to help them is at their disposal, and still more to reflect on those who have
to battle for health with no more resource than is left to the needy. What shall we not do
for them! The woman's whole tendency is to give them all of herself and all else that she can
control. Indulgence becomes inevitable, or seems to become so, and the mother is rare who does
not insist that they shall have what they desire, and that her other children shall yield to
them in all things. Her answer to herself and others is, "They have so little; let them at
least have what they can." As rare as the reasonable mother is the sick child who can stand
this treatment and survive with those traits of character which it above all others requires
to make its crippled life happy, not to say useful. The child thus unrestrained and foolishly
indulged must needs become ill-tempered. It loses self-control, and yet no one will need it
more. It learns to expect no disappointments, and life is to hold for it less than for others.
Disease has crippled its body and the mother has crippled its character.

I have no belief that long illness is good for the mass of people, but the character of the
adult sufferer is in his or her own hands to make, mar, or mend. In childhood the mother is
in large measure responsible for the ductile being in her care. If she believes that unrestraint
is her duty, she is laying up for the invalid a retribution which soon or late will bitterly
visit on the child the sin or, if you like, the mistakes of the parent. It is her business
and duty, no matter how hard may be to her the trial, to see that this child, above all others,
shall be taught patience, gentleness, good temper, and self-control in all its varieties, nor
should she fail to point out, as health returns and years go by, that it is not all of life
to be straight and uncrippled. I need not dwell on this. Every wise woman will understand me,
and be able to put in practice better than I can here state what I might more fully say.

I do not wish, however, to be understood as urging that all children long ill or crippled grow
to be unamiable and spoiled. I do not quite know why it is, but, after all, children are less
apt to suffer morally from long illness than adults, and very often, despite careless or thoughtless
usage, these young sufferers come out as wholesome in mind and heart as if they had known no
trial, or, perhaps, because of it. It is in a measure a matter of original temperament. In
other words, what the sick child was as to character modified results, and this is especially
true as concerns the peculiarities which attract unpleasant notice. One person who has twitching
of the muscles of the face is made miserable by the attention it invites; another is indifferent.

The cases of Lord Byron and Walter Scott are to the point. The former was sensitive and morbid
about his deformity. I cannot help thinking that had his mother been other than she was, he
would have been brought up to more wholesome views as to what was after all no very great calamity.
Walter Scott suffered from a like trouble, but healthy moral surroundings and a cheerful nature
saved him from the consequences which fell so heavily upon his brother poet.

Epilepsy is a malady but too common in childhood, and as to which a few words apart are needed.
Usually a child epileptic for some years will carry the disease with it for a time, the length
of which no man can set. The disease may be such as to ruin mind and body, or the attacks may
be rare, and not prevent courageous and resolute natures from leading useful lives. All intermediate
degrees are possible. As a rule, no children need so inflexible a discipline as epileptics.
Indulgence as regards them is only another name for ruin. Do as we may, they are apt to become
morally perverted, and require the utmost firmness, and the most matured and educated intelligence,
to train them wisely. Difficult epileptics and most idiots are best looked after, and certainly
happiest, in some one of the competent training-schools for feeble-minded children.

Even the milder epileptic cases are hard to manage. I rarely see one which has been intelligently
dealt with. Few mothers are able or willing to use a rule as stern, as enduring, as unyielding
as they require.

As to education, I am satisfied that these children are the better for it, and yet almost invariably
I find that in the cases referred to me some physician has, with too little thought, recommended
entire abandonment or avoidance of mental training. I have neither space nor desire to go into
my reasons for a different belief. I am, however, sure that education limited as to time, education
of mind, and especially of the hands, has for these cases distinct utility, while to them also,
as to the other children crippled in mind or body, all that I have already urged applies with
equal force.

As to the management of sick or crippled childhood, I have said far more than I had at first
meant to say, and chiefly because I have been made to feel, as I thought the matter over, how
far more difficult it is in practice than in theory. But this applies to all moral lessons,
and the moralist must be credited by the thoughtful mother with a full perception of the embarrassments
which lie in her path.

NERVOUSNESS AND ITS INFLUENCE ON CHARACTER.

There are two questions often put to me which I desire to use as texts for the brief essay
or advice of which nervousness[4] is the heading. As concerns this matter, I shall here deal
with women alone, and with women as I see and know them. I have elsewhere written at some length
as to nervousness in the male, for he, too, in a minor degree, and less frequently, may become
the victim of this form of disability.

[Footnote 4: Neither nerves nor nervousness are words to be found in the Bible or Shakespeare.
The latter uses the word nerve at least seven times in the sense of sinewy. Nervy, which is
obsolete, he employs as full of nerves, sinewy, strong. It is still heard in America, but I
am sure would be classed as slang. Writers, of course, still employ nerve and nervous in the
old sense, as a nervous style. Bailey's dictionary, 1734, has nervous,--sinewy, strongly made.
Robt. Whytte, Edin., in the preface to his work on certain maladies, 1765, says, "Of late these
have also got the name of nervous," and this is the earliest use of the word in the modern
meaning I have found. Richardson has it in both its modern meanings, "vigorous," or "sensitive
in nerves, and consequently weak, diseased." Hysteria is not in the Bible, and is found once
in Shakespeare; as, "Hysterica passio, down," Lear ii. 4. It was common in Sydenham's day,--i.e.,
Charles II. and Cromwell's time,--but he classified under hysteria many disorders no longer
considered as of this nature.]

So much has been written on this subject by myself and others, that I should hesitate to treat
it anew from a mere didactic point of view. But, perhaps, if I can bring home to the sufferer
some more individualized advice, if I can speak here in a friendly and familiar way, I may
be of more service than if I were to repeat, even in the fullest manner, all that is to be
said or has been said of nervousness from a scientific point of view.

The two questions referred to above are these: The woman who consults you says, "I am nervous.
I did not use to be. What can I do to overcome it?" Once well again, she asks you,--and the
query is common enough from the thoughtful,--"What can I do to keep my girls from being nervous?"

Observe, now, that this woman has other distresses, in the way of aches and feebleness. The
prominent thing in her mind, nervousness, is but one of the symptomatic results of her condition.
She feels that to be the greatest evil, and that it is which she puts forward. What does she
mean by nervousness, and what does it do with her which makes it so unpleasant? Remark also
that this is not one of the feebler sisters who accept this ill as a natural result, and who
condone for themselves the moral and social consequences as things over which they have little
or no reasonable control. The person who asks this fertile question has once been well, and
resents as unnatural the weaknesses and incapacities which now she feels. She wants to be helped,
and will help you to help her. You have an active ally, not a passive fool who, too, desires
to be made well, but can give you no potent aid. There are many kinds of fool, from the mindless
fool to the fiend-fool, but for the most entire capacity to make a household wretched there
is no more complete human receipt than a silly woman who is to a high degree nervous and feeble,
and who craves pity and likes power. But to go back to the more helpful case. If you are wise,
you ask what she means by nervousness. You soon learn that she suffers in one of two, or probably
in both of two, ways. The parentage is always mental in a large sense, the results either mental
or physical or both. She has become doubtful and fearful, where formerly she was ready-minded
and courageous. Once decisive, she is now indecisive. When well, unemotional, she is now too
readily disturbed by a sad tale or a startling newspaper-paragraph. A telegram alarms her;
even an unopened letter makes her hesitate and conjure up dreams of disaster. Very likely she
is irritable and recognizes the unreasonableness of her temper. Her daily tasks distress her
sorely. She can no longer sit still and sew or read. Conversation no longer interests, or it
even troubles her. Noises, especially sudden noises, startle her, and the cries and laughter
of children have become distresses of which she is ashamed, and of which she complains or not,
as her nature is weak or enduring. Perhaps, too, she is so restless as to want to be in constant
motion, but that seems to tire her as it once did not. Her sense of moral proportion becomes
impaired. Trifles grow large to her; the grasshopper is a burden. With all this, and in a measure
out of all this, come certain bodily disabilities. The telegram or any cause of emotion sets
her to shaking. She cries for no cause; the least alarm makes her hand shake, and even her
writing, if she should chance to become the subject of observation when at the desk, betrays
her state of tremor. What caused all this trouble? What made her, as she says, good for nothing?
I have, of course, put an extreme case. We may, as a rule, be pretty sure, as to this condition,
that the woman has had some sudden shock, some severe domestic trial, some long strain, or
that it is the outcome of acute illness or of one of the forms of chronic disturbance of nutrition
which result in what we now call general neurasthenia or nervous weakness,--a condition which
has a most varied parentage. With the ultimate medical causation of these disorderly states
of body I do not mean to concern myself here, except to add also that the great physiological
revolutions of a woman's life are often responsible for the physical failures which create
nervousness.

If she is at the worst she becomes a ready victim of hysteria. The emotions so easily called
into activity give rise to tears. Too weak for wholesome restraint, she yields. The little
convulsive act we call crying brings uncontrollable, or what seems to her to be uncontrollable,
twitching of the face. The jaw and hands get rigid, and she has a hysterical convulsion, and
is on the way to worse perils. The intelligent despotism of self-control is at an end, and
every new attack upon its normal prerogatives leaves her less and less able to resist.

Let us return to the causes of this sad condition. It is a common mistake to suppose that the
well and strong are not liable to onsets which cause nervousness. As a rule, they rarely suffer;
but we are neatly ballasted, and some well people are nearer to the chance of being so overturned
than it is pleasant to believe. Thus it is that what for lack of a better name we call "shock"
is at times and in some people capable of inflicting very lasting evil in the way of nervousness.

We see this illustrated in war in the effects of even slight injuries on certain people. I
have known a trivial wound to make a brave man suddenly timid and tremulous for months, or
to disorder remote organs and functions in a fashion hard to understand. In the same way, a
moral wound for which we are not prepared may bring about abrupt and prolonged consequences,
from which the most robust health does not always protect us; and which is in proportion disastrous
if the person on whom it falls is by temperament excitable or nervous. I have over and over
seen such shocks cause lasting nervousness. I knew a stout young clerk who was made tremulous,
cowardly, sleepless, and, in the end, feeble, from having at a funeral fallen by mishap into
an open grave. I have seen a strong woman made exquisitely nervous owing to the fall of a wall
which did her no material damage. Earthquakes cause many such cases, and bad ones, as we have
had of late sad occasion to know. The sudden news of calamity, as of a death or financial disaster,
has in my experience made vigorous people nervous for months. A friend of mine once received
a telegram which rather brutally announced the disgrace of one dear to him. He had a sense
of explosion in his head, and for weeks was in a state of nervousness from which he but slowly
recovered. There is something in cases like his to think about. The least preparation would
have saved him, and we may be sure that there is wisdom in the popular idea that ill news should
be gently and guardedly broken to such as must bear it. To be forewarned is to be forearmed
we say with true wisdom.

Prolonged strain of mind and body, or of both, is another cause apt to result in health failures
and in nervousness as one attendant evil. The worst one I know is to nurse some person through
a long disease. Women are apt to think that no one can so well care for their sick as they.
Intrusion on this duty is resented as a wrong done to their sense of right. The friend who
would help is thrust aside. The trained nurse excites jealous indignation. The volunteer gives
herself soul and body to the hardest of tasks, and is rather proud of the folly of self-sacrifice.
How often do we hear a woman say with pride, "I have not slept nor had my clothes off for a
week." She does not see that her very affection unfits her for the calm control of the sick-room,
and that her inevitable anxiety is incompatible with tranquil judgment. If you tell her that
nursing is a profession, and that the amateur can never truly fill the place of the regular,
she smiles proudly, and thinks that affection is capable of all things, and that what may be
lost in skill will be made up in thoroughness and compensated by watchfulness, such as she
believes fondly only love can command. It is hard to convince such a woman.

It rarely chances that women are called upon to suffer in their common lives emotional strains
through very long periods, and at the same time to sustain an excess of mental and physical
labor. In days of financial trouble this combination is sometimes fatal to the health of the
strongest men. When a loving relative undertakes to nurse one dear to her through a protracted
illness, she subjects herself to just such conditions of peril as fall upon the man staggering
under financial adversity.

The analogy to which I have referred is curiously complete. In both there is the combination
of anxiety with physical and mental overwork, and in both alike the hurtfulness of the trial
is masked by the excitement which furnishes for a while the means of waging unequal battle,
and prevents the sufferer from knowing or feeling the extent of the too constant effort he
or she is making. This is one of the evils of all work done under excessive moral stimulus,
and when the excitation comes from the emotions the expenditure of nerve-force becomes doubly
dangerous, because in this case not only is the governing power taken away from the group of
faculties which make up what we call common sense, but also because in women overtaxing the
emotional centres is apt to result in the development of some form of breakdown, and in the
secondary production of nervousness or hysteria.

If she cannot afford a nurse, or will not, let her at least share her duties with some one.
Above all, let her know that every competent doctor watches even the best of his trained nurses,
and insists that they shall be in the open air daily. Your good wife or mother thinks in her
heart that when she has sickness at home she should not be seen out of doors, and that to eat,
sleep, or care for herself is then wicked or something like that.

If you can make a woman change her dress, eat often, bathe as usual, and take the air, even
if it must be so at night, she can stand a great deal, especially if you insist that she shall
sleep her usual length of time. If she will not listen or obey, she runs a large risk, and
is very apt to collapse as the patient recovers, and to furnish her family with a new case
of illness, and the doctor and herself with some variety of disorder of mind or body arising
out of this terrible strain on both.

If physical tire, without chance for rest, with anxiety and incessant vigilance, is thus apt
to cause wrecks in the nurse of ordinary illness, far more apt is it to involve breakdowns
when a loving mother or sister endeavors to care for a protracted case of insanity. Unless
the man of the house interferes, this effort is sure to bring disaster. And the more sensitive,
imaginative, and loving is the self-appointed nurse, the more certain is she to suffer. There
are no cases in which it is so hard to advise, none in which it is so difficult to get people
to follow your advice. The morbid view of insanity, the vague sense of its being a stain, the
horror of the hospital, all combine to perplex and trouble us. Yet here, if at any time, it
is wise to cast the whole weight on the physician and to abide by his decision.

Families see this peril, and can be often made to understand the unwisdom of this sacrifice;
but, in cases of prolonged disease, such as hysteria in a bedridden sister or mother, it is
hard to make them hear reason, and still more hard to make the nursing relation understand
that she is of necessity the worst of nurses, and may share the wreck she helps to make.

These old and happily rare cases of chronic nervous invalids are simply fatal to loving nurses.
I have said, perhaps too often, that invalidism is for most of us a moral poison. Given a nervous,
hysterical, feeble woman, shut out from the world, and if she does not in time become irritable,
exacting, hungry for sympathy and petty power, she is one of nature's noblest. A mother or
sister gives herself up to caring for her. She is in the grip of an octopus. Every fine quality
of her nature helps to hurt her, and at last she breaks down utterly and can do no more. She,
too, is become nervous, unhappy, and feeble. Then every one wonders that nobody had the sense
to see what was going on. I can count many examples of nervousness which have arisen in this
fashion. Perhaps my warning may not be without good results. Over and over I have made like
statements in one or another form, and the increasing experience of added years only contributes
force to my belief that, in still urging the matter, I am doing a serious duty. I ought to
say also that the care of these invalids is, even to the well-trained and thoughtful nurse,
one of the most severe of moral and physical trials, and that, in the effort to satisfy the
cravings of these sick people, I have seen the best nurses crumble as it were in health, and
at last give up, worn out and disheartened. A part of the responsibility of such disasters
falls on the physician who forgets that it should be a portion of his duty to look sharply
after the health of too devoted nurses as well as that of selfish patients.

I have now said all that I need to say of the causes which, directly or indirectly, evoke the
condition we call nervousness. Many of these are insidious in their growth. Too often the husband,
if she be married, is immersed in his own cares, and fails to see what is going on. "I am not
ill enough to see a doctor," she says, and waits until she has needlessly increased the difficulties
of his task. Let us suppose, however, that, soon or late, she is doing, in a merely medical
way, all that he insists upon, what more can she do for herself? She has before her very likely
a long trial, severe in its exactions in proportion to her previous activity of mind and body.
She most probably needs rest, and now that physicians have learned its value, and that not
all ills are curable by exertion, she is told to lie down some hours each day. If she cannot
get rid of her home duties, let her try at least to secure to herself despotically her times
of real and true rest. To lie down is not enough. What she needs is undisturbed repose, and
not to have to expect every few minutes to hear at her door the knocks and voices of servants
or children. It is difficult to secure these most needful times of silent security even in
health, as most women too well know. Very often the after-meal hours are the most available
and the more desirable as times of repose, because in the weak digestion goes on better when
they are at rest. She will find, too, that some light food between meals and at bedtime is
useful, but this is within the doctor's province, and I am either desirous to avoid that or
to merely help him. Air, too, she wants rather than any such great exertion as wearies; and,
as regards this latter, let her understand that letter-writing, of which many women are fond,
must be altogether set aside.

It is, however, the moral aspects of life which will trouble her most. The cares which once
were easily shaken off stick to her like burrs, and she carries them to bed with her. I have
heard women say that men little know the moral value to women of sewing. It becomes difficult
when people are nervous, but this or some other light handiwork is then invaluable.

By this time she has learned that her minor, every-day duties trouble her, and when about to
meet them, if wise, she will put herself, as we all can do, in an attitude of calmness. This
applies still more forcibly to the larger decisions she must so often have to make as to children,
house, and servants. Worry, as I have elsewhere said, is as sand in the mental and moral machinery,
and easily becomes a mischievous habit. We can stand an immense deal of work, and can, even
if weak, bear much, if only we learn to dismiss small questions without worry or unreasonable
reconsiderations. As concerns temper, we constantly prepare ourselves to meet even just causes
of anger, and thus by degrees learn more and more easily, and with less and less preparation,
to encounter tranquilly even the most serious vexations. In health, when not nervous, a woman
well knows that there are seasons when she must predetermine not to be nervous; and when ill-health
has made her emotional, she must learn to be still, more constantly on guard. Above all, it
is the small beginnings of nervousness which she has to fear.

Tears are, for the nervous woman, the seed of trouble. Let her resolutely shun this commencement
of disaster. The presence of others is apt to insure failure of self-control. A word of pity,
the touch of affection, the face of sympathy, double her danger. When at her worst, let her
seek to be alone and in silence and solitude to fight her battle. Fresh air, a bath (if she
can bear that), even the act of undressing, will often help her. I once quoted a valued friend
as saying that "we never take out of a cold bath the thoughts we take into it," and the phrase
is useful and true.

Above all, let such a woman avoid all forms of emotion. Her former standards of resistance
apply no longer, and what once did not disturb will now shake her to the centre. A time comes,
however, when she will do well to meet and relearn to bear calmly all the little emotional
trials of life. I know a nervous woman--and no coward, either--who for months, and wisely,
read no newspapers, and who asked another to open and read all her letters and telegrams. The
day came when she was able to resume the habits of health, but for a long time the telegram
at least was a sore distress, and she could only meet it by a resolute putting of herself in
the attitude of tranquillity of which I have spoken. To say more should be needless. For the
nervous strong emotions are bad or risky, and from violent mirth to anger all are to be sedulously
set aside. Calm of mind and quiet of body are what she most needs to aid the more potent measures
of the physician.

The woman in the situation I have described has probably a variety of symptoms on which her
condition causes her to dwell. A great many of them are of little practical moment. If she
is irresolute and weak, she yields where she should not, and finds for inactivity or for fears
ample excuses in the state of her own feelings. An unwholesome crop of disabilities grows out
of these conditions. It then becomes the business of her physician to tell her what is real,
what is unreal, what must be respected, what must be overcome or fought. She has acquired within
herself a host of enemies. Some are strong, some are feeble. The hour for absolute trust has
arrived, and she must now believe in her adviser, or, if she cannot, she must acquire one in
whom her belief will be entire and unquestioning.

Let us take an illustration. Such a woman is apt enough to suffer from vertigo or giddiness.
"If I walk out," she says, "I become giddy. I am rarely free from this unless I am in bed,
and it terrifies me." You know in this case that she is still strong enough to exercise in
moderation. You say, "Walk so much daily. When you fall we will think about stopping. Talk
to some one when you go out; have a friend with you, but walk." She must believe you to succeed.
This is a form of faith-cure which has other illustrations. You tell her that she must disregard
her own feelings. She credits you with knowing, and so wins her fight. The poor and not good for caregiving, and the maid is not so. What I miss Angelina!
If he were here would not be so great my concern. Why not come, Sarmiento said that so good,
that the danger is past, and, God willing, there to fear a misfortune, for now. But I see things
differently: Carmen will not last much, that is not live, and I see every day weaker and fall.
Before eating very well, but now takes a long time I take one thing, a triumph cost to accept
medicines. Consider me: I'm very heartbroken, just sleep, and live in constant anxiety. Don Roman
came to me, and also your friend Don came Quentin. It's a really good guy. I asked if anything
could be useful to me and if I needed anything. I said no and thanked him.

"We also came Pérez Castro girls, I asked for you and give you charge me memories of you of your
dad. I sympathize these girls, I told you. Murmuring and what indiscreet! You say! Carmen asked, regardless
of the state keeping, if it was true that you were boyfriend of Ms. Fernandez and you were
going to marry her. A gave me so much anger, I realized that only by knowing the truth out
and had come. It stayed here more than three quarters of an hour, talking like a parrot. If
they return, that they will not, will stay in the room, and nothing in this life I'll leave to enter
the chamber.

"Do not worry or fret, if you write something serious to come. Shoot me has offered me the
truth. Yesterday I wrote to Linilla some musicians who went to San Sebastian playing in the
offices of Holy Week. What I will spend Easter, my son! And I wanted to go to everything.
Going to preach a new parent. They say it very well. "The seven words "are going to be magnificent.
In the house of Castro Pérez are testing the 'Stabat Mater.

"But none of that I'll go. Poor Andrew comes every night, then you close your tent, and twice
he was here to accompany me.

I like that because then I'm not so alone, and if it offers something some people go to the pharmacy
or call the doctor, but I fear that one night while he is here to
pass something in the store.

"I have hope that Angelina comes to the Father, then to spend the
holy days.

God do it! "

I did not show this letter to Mr. Fernandez, and spoke of it, but I saw Gabriela pensive and
sad, asked the cause of my depression, and I told him everything.

- Well, you tell Dad!

I refused to do so. It was not necessary. He would later need to go, when things were truly serious.

So
things went on Holy Wednesday. The family went to Villaverde, and only stayed the foreman on
the ranch, I, and Mauritius, the groom, a very nice guy and very helpful. Went to the city every
day, early morning, to bring me news of the sick. The danger was over, Aunt Carmen improved, and the
letters I received were satisfactory.

Gabriela again on Easter Monday. Happy the moment I saw it! Those five days absence were ever
to me.

How I missed the girl!

I ran home for it, I would I wander through the garden, figuring
he would find there, and I took turns to my room disconsolate and
afflicted.

The piano, the drawing board, newspapers Gabriela read and plants
that she cultivated me talking about the young, and alone in the room,
I was pleased I remember his words, close your eyes to set in my mind
the image of the girl.

And yet make sure my heart was Angelina because the voices in my dreams, Gabriela did not see
me, but Linilla; to Linilla watching me sadly, as if to say:

Ungrateful! Why did you forget me?

That was madness, a delusion, something like a spell that dominated me and I had.

I said to myself:

Gabriela Are you in love? ...

And my heart answered no, no! I never would have dared to whisper in their ears loving phrase, never
have been able to say :--«¡ Gabriela ... I live for you! "No, because I loved to Linilla, for she
dreamed I said and fortune, when I thought it in the silence of the night, leaning on the
balcony, I pondered the future. I even happened if my wishes were realized, if one day I was
given Linilla carry the foot of the altar, Gabrielle and Carlos apadrinarían our wedding.

To be loved by Gabriela? I thought not, and if you ever came to such an idea occurred to the
I took it from my mind as a thought criminal.

But I can not hide his joy that fills my mind to see Gabriela, to be by her side, talking with
her on the table or in the room, and sadness that gripped my mind when I looked away from
the charming Miss was evidence that was lit in my heart love irresistible.

"No, - I said - no, must stifle this passion was born and it just
burns me.

Gabriela flee; I will be with her dismissive, indifferent, cold, will try to make me hateful,
I want to hate me .... Vanos purposes!

Determination useless!

I I took refuge in the memory of Angelina, as in a port Savior, I repeated a thousand times as she
had told me, his words more tender his most painful, the expressions that had penetrated more
deeply in my heart and when I felt victorious and boasted of having
triumphed in myself, the voice of Gabriela, the echo of his piano,
the sound of her skirt, the smell of his clothes, anything I own did
shake, and I felt weak as a child, powerless to resist a glance, the
most indifferent, his blue eyes.

I decided to entrust my affair with Angelina Gabriela. So - I thought - I'll save, not I can
never tell that I love. "You, my dear, loving friend - I would say - you know, before anyone else, that
the happiness of this young man who is and has been very unfortunate, encrypts all my dreams, my hopes!
I'm far from it, far away, long ago I do not see, and I need to hear his name, that one need
know that I love, the love !...»

But reaching the desired time, and my lips remained mute, and the heart wanted to jump out chest.

LVII

From
time to time, after office, we went for a walk along the river to the fields sugar cane, to the
picturesque foothills of nearby hill, sometimes acaballo, the most on foot.

Mauricio Pepillo pushed the stroller, and Don Carlos and Doña Gabriela followed him a short
distance. The girl and I would stop here and there in search of flowers or ferns.

Once, seeing a great distance from the gentlemen, we sit at the foot
of a tree, a of the most beautiful of the bank, near where the river
plunges through dense reed beds.

Before we had beautiful scenery, long meadow, green Gramal, smiling
hills secular trees covered by flowering vines, orchids old trunks
villages and a thousand vines.

A remote village left the factory, the 'real', stables, which returned
to the cattle, the chapel with its tower wrapped in a blanket of ivy;
the plain right villaverdina lit for the last reflections of the sun,
and deep the high mountains of the Sierra, shady, wooded, and crowned
with fir and pitch pine.

Gabriela carefully watched the magnificent spectacle of the setting
sun, paying rapt attention the noises of the camp, the rumors of the
river, the strange humming with the insects greet the advent of night,
and I, lying in the trunk of this giant tree, not take his eyes from
the lovely lady.

Gabriela suddenly turned round and said to me simple frankness:

-
What can guess what you think?

- What?

- Can I offer you tell me
the truth?

- Yes.

- Think you .... Linilla!

- In Angelina?

- Yes,
since we left eye does not distract you from those mountains.

Love can not be hidden .... When I talk about this girl will not
you answer me .... Are you inspired little confidence?

- No, Gabriela:
Who better than you could I trust one of those secrets that are not
can save much time?

- Speak, Rodolfo, you speak.

A friend and I often give great advice .... Is there anger the girl? Well, to tell a friend.
"The girl is happy? Well said! ... Do you have ...? Ask consolation
... Are you happy?

Happiness is expansive and open. Only the pain is be reserved and quiet. Evil is for you my
friend.

"I did not do the first tell the sad story of an unhappy love affair?

- Yes, Gabriela.

- Well then, tell me who loves Linilla, and Linilla loves you ....

-
No, Gabriela, - I said, trembling and blushing, - I think your confidence,
thanks infinity the kindness with which you treat me, the kindness
with which distinguishes me ... but what about Linilla?

What I love her with brotherly affection?

- Fraternal only?

How me?

I felt choked with emotion. Gabriela wrote in the sand with the tip of the parasol a letter,
a letter, that my eyes shone like fire.

It hurt the heart I like a snake bit him.

I was jealous, jealous horrible! Who do you think Miss? That letter was the first by a man she
loved, and that name ... Was not mine!

- How to me? - Repeated the girl.

- How you, Gabriela!

- You are mistaken, Rodolfo. Angelina is the owner of that heart. I know, I have no doubt ...
my discover insights of women has long known. Angelina's name ringing in the ears you as a celestial
melody. As you see! I'm becoming a poet .... You love. "Nothing has told you? Some day you will
confess that he loves. And then she, who remains silent and her secret hidden in the depths of
the heart, speak well, and quietly, very quietly, so they say those
things! answer: - I love you!

"How do you speak of you or you?

- From you, Gabriela!

The lady laughed, and said:

- Lips say so ... But the hearts!

At that time we hear voices that call us.

The lords had stopped at a bridge where the car could not pass corcovadito.

-
Miss, call us!

- Come on.

Gabriel stood up, and before taking a step looked sad figure written
in the sand.

I, in passing, the erased with his feet.

- What have you done?

- No, Miss!

- Well done! ... Best! My crazy .... Who could forget!

LVIII

I heard you ask for me, I dropped the pen, I rubbed my eyes and went
into the corridor.

Mauritius was Villaverde returning from the correspondence.

- Have you, - said the youth, respectfully removing the Jarano - there are two letters for
you. I got one at home, the other in the mail. I spoke with Mrs. ... and I saw the sick, I
think it is very relieved because I was in the room, sit-in an armchair. I seemed very happy.
Did not offer anything? Tell him that since I came to love .... I made a duck! I took the rain
to pass through the checkpoint. What a downpour! What God commanded! The first of the year!
Go! And they needed the land, the dry was good, pastures were yellow, yellow! More livestock
is dead! I go, Don Rodolfo, I'm dripping water, and I have to unsaddle ....

I put on the table of Don Carlos the bundle of newspapers, I returned to my seat, I ended up
notes started, and then I read my letters. One was a classmate of mine who used to write from
time to time, the other of Aunt Pepa saying to me

"Carmen is going well. Sarmiento comes every day, and is thrilled, because the poor thing eats
and sleeps like a charm. Now I don Crisanto has confessed that the last attack your godmother
was very bad, so bad that came near to have ordered it.

The Virgin I have made the miracle I asked him wholeheartedly, and offered some bouquets. I
received money. Thanks, son.

God bless you. You are very good to us. Why send all salary, and nothing saved for you? Andrew
says that you owe nothing, and nothing wanted to receive. God I will always help because it is
very good and very grateful. I have taken money to tackle the clusters
of the Virgin.

You put the money and I needed the job because I made a promise by the two, for you and me. Angelina
has not written. The waiter has not come all week, and here we are with great care, fearing that
the Father continues bad. The Easter work is very heavy. Imagine that the Father has to do everything.
I I'm afraid to continue bad, but I am reassured by the idea that to be so have already been Sarmiento,
who is the doctor there, but who knows whether, to be closer, call one of Pluviosilla. There
is there one you just received and priests say they have made very good. What I dislike is that
Angelina did not write, or even to know about health your godmother. On Sunday I got four letters,
but nothing I said to you. If you letter send her to the boy. I know you're very impatient.

'Say
hello from us to Dona Gabriela, to Gabrielita and Don Carlos, and
say we want mejorcito child is.

"

It gave me heart skip a beat I did not think in the P. Herrera, or that he was ill. Struck me
Linilla hunch that not writing for any other cause, and, indeed,
I thought I guilty, and I thought that Angelina guessed that Miss
Gabriela stole my love.

Linilla not like me, loves me not Linilla; Linilla want to forget, - I thought. And then oh misery
of the human heart! the poor girl took my thinking, and when I met Gabriela the entrance to
the room I thought it was another woman, another young woman or anyone who caused me interest
or was sympathetic to me. During dinner I talked about Angelina, her beauty, sweetness of his
character, his discretion, your skills and how much everyone loved her in home. Gabriela welcomed
the praise very happy, and repeated as I said enthusiastically.

It treated P. Herrera, and Carlos said he was very worthy of occupying the highest positions in
the diocese, he deserved to be bishop, and his extreme modesty, he was relegated to the Sierra,
in a remote village that was like a Thebaid.

Then we went to the room.

- Gabriela, - said Don Carlos - sit at the piano and play something!

Miss obeyed, and for an hour, until eleven o'clock, he knew he was playing was please his father.

I
read the newspapers, but I heard no music or me I learned the news.
My thoughts and my heart were elsewhere. I felt pleased with me. The
conversation about Linilla had been, in my view, as a test of loyalty,
as a manifestation I love public. Linilla would be happy, his heart
would say its not love Rodolfo another, that his Rodolfo lived only
for her, that his Rodolfo is unable to forget. The idea Linilla ceases
to love me filled me with dread and I promised to be faithful to me
even more beyond the grave. The idea that I could lose Linilla so
haunted me, and such I had so besieged that I wanted to fly in search
of the girl and said:

- Linilla, forgive me, forgive me! I missed
my promises! I've forgotten a moment, but just a moment! For pity's
sake! Do not deny me your love! ... Watch live only for you, for you,
Linilla mine!

I kept lying in music. When the piano calls stopped
I noticed that Gabriela was near me.

- What to bring interesting
news papers, Rodolfo, when absorbed in reading you have not heard
the sonata that ...!

Did not know how to apologize, I mumbled awkward
excuses, I praised a piece that I had not heard and I got to say goodbye.

Don
Carlos de Villaverde spoke on the day of the Cross, the ride in Alameda
and on the hill the brush, and Cinco de Mayo. The boy is taught self-control, repression of emotion, not to cry when hurt. Teach
your girls these things, and you will in the end assure to them that habitual capacity to suffer
moral and physical ill without exterior show of emotion, which is so true an aid to the deeper
interior control which subdues emotion at its sources, or robs it of its power to harm. Physical
strength and an out-door life will make this lesson easy and natural. Be certain that weakness
of body fosters and excuses emotional non-restraint, and that under long illness the most hardy
man may become as nervously foolish as a spoiled child. Crave, then, for your girls strength
and bodily power of endurance, and with this insist that the boy's code of emotional control
shall be also theirs. But to do all this you must begin with them young, and not have to make
each year undo the failure of the last. A dog-trainer once told me that it was a good thing
to whip the smallest pups with a straw, and to teach them good habits, or try to do so, from
birth. He put it strongly; but be sure that if we wish to build habits thoroughly into the
mental and physical structure of childhood, we shall do well to begin early. As regards the
out-door life, I shall have something more to say in another place, for much is within the
reach of the thoughtful, which, with reasonable means, they can get for girls and women, and
which yet they do not get; and there are many ways in which also we can so train our girls
as to create for them constant and lasting bribes to be in the air.

The question of education is a more difficult one to handle. In childhood I do not see that
our wise mother need be anxious; but there comes a day when her girl is entering womanhood,
when she will have to think of it. I have dealt with this question so fully of late that I
have little here to add.[9] Our public schools are so organized that there is small place or
excuse for indulgence, although, under wise management, this has been shown to be possible.[10]
But there is a vast and growing class which is so situated that the mother can more largely
control the studies and hours of her girls than can the parents of those who frequent our municipal
schools.

[Footnote 9: "Wear and Tear," 6th ed., 1887.]

[Footnote 10: Ibid., p. 54.]

A great change is on her child. Let her watch its evolution, and not with such apparent watchfulness
as shall suggest the perils she is to look out for. We are all organized with a certain capital
of nerve-force, and we cannot spend it with equal recklessness in all directions. If the girl
bears well her gathering work,--that is, as one could wish,--we may let her alone, except that
the wise mother will insist on lighter tasks and some rest of body at the time when nature
is making her largest claim upon the vital powers. The least sign of physical failure should
ring a graver alarm, and make the mother insist, at every cost, upon absence of lessons and
reasonable repose. The matter is simple, and I have no more to say.

I am dealing now so entirely with the moral and physical aspects of a woman's life, and so
distinctly from the medical point of view, that I do not feel called upon to discuss, in all
its aspects, the mooted question of the values and the perils of the higher education. At one
time it was not open to women at all. Now it is within her reach. Our girl is well, and has
passed, happily, over her time of development. Will the larger education which she so often
craves subject her to risks such as are not present to the man,--risks of broken health and
of its consequences? I wish to speak with care to the mother called upon to decide this grave
question. I most honestly believe that the woman is the better in mind and morals for the larger
training, better if she marries, and far better and happier if it chances that she does not.
If we take the mass of girls, even of mature age, and give them the training commonly given
to men, they run, I think, grave risks of being injured by it, and in larger proportion than
do their brothers. Where it seems for other reasons desirable, it should be, I think, a question
of individual selection. The majority of healthy young women ought to be able to bear the strain.
Once in a female college, the woman goes on, and it is my own experience that, on the whole,
she exhibits a far larger list of disastrous results from such work than do young men. If she
be in the least degree nervous or not well, I, for one, should resolutely say no to all such
claims; for let us bear in mind that the higher education is rarely to be used as men use it,
to some definite end, and is therefore not, on the whole, so essential to her as to him. Few
women mean it as a way towards medicine, or even the upper ranks of teaching; and if they do,
the least doubt as to health ought to make us especially unwilling to start an unseaworthy
or uninsurable vessel upon an ocean of perilous possibilities. I wish that every woman could
attain to the best that men have. I wish for her whatever in the loftiest training helps to
make her as mother more capable, as wife more helpful; but I would on no account let the healthiest
woman thus task her brain until she is at least nineteen. If she is to marry, and this puts
it off until twenty-three, I consider that a gain not counted by the advocates of the higher
education. I leave to others to survey the broad question of whether or not it will be well
for the community that the mass of women should have a collegiate training. It is a wide and
wrathful question, and has of late been very well discussed in Romanes's paper, and by Mrs.
Lynn Linton. I think the conclusions of the former, on the whole, are just; but now, whatever
be my views as to the larger interests of the commonwealth and the future mothers of our race,
I must not forget that I am giving, or trying to give, what I may call individualized advice,
from the physician's view, as to what is wisest.

Let us suppose that circumstances make it seem proper to consider an ambitious young woman's
wish, and to let her go to a college for women. We presume that she has average health. But
let no prudent mother suppose that in these collections of persons of one sex her child will
be watched as she has been at home. At no time will she more need the vigilant insight of a
mother, and yet this can only be had through letters and in the holiday seasons. Nor can the
mother always rely upon the girl to put forward what may cause doubt as to her power to go
on with her work. I utterly distrust the statistics of these schools and their graduates as
to health, and my want of reliance arises out of the fact that this whole question is in a
condition which makes the teachers, scholars, and graduates of such colleges antagonistic to
masculine disbelievers in a way and to a degree fatal to truth. I trust far more what I hear
from the women who have broken down under the effort to do more than they were fit to do, for
always, say what you may, it is the man's standard of endurance which is set before them, and
up to which they try to live with all the energy which a woman's higher sense of duty imposes
upon the ambitious ones of her sex. I have often asked myself what should be done to make sure
that these schools shall produce the minimum amount of evil; what can be done to avoid the
penalties inflicted by over-study and class competitions, and by the emotional stimulus which
women carry into all forms of work. Even if the doctor says this girl is sound and strong,
her early months of college labor should be carefully watched. Above all, her eyes should be
seen to, because in my experience some unsuspected disorder of vision has been fruitful of
headaches and overstrain of brain, nor is it enough to know that at the beginning her eyes
are good. Extreme use often evolves practical evils from visual difficulties at first so slight
as to need or seem to need no correction.

The period of examinations is, too, of all others, the time of danger, and I know of many sad
breakdowns due to the exaction and emotional anxieties of these days of competition and excitement.

Let me once for all admit that many girls improve in health at these colleges, and that in
some of them the machinery of organization for care of the mental and physical health of their
students seems to be all that is desirable. That it does not work satisfactorily I am sure,
from the many cases I have seen of women who have told me their histories of defeat and broken
health. The reason is clear. The general feeling (shall I say prejudices?) of such groups of
women is bitterly opposed to conceding the belief held by physicians, that there are in the
woman's physiological life disqualifications for such continuous labor of mind as is easy and
natural to man. The public sentiment of these great schools is against any such creed, and
every girl feels called upon to sustain the general view, so that this acts as a constant goad
for such as are at times unfit to use their fullest possibility of energy. Modest girls, caught
in the stern mechanism of a system, hesitate to admit reasons for lessened work or to exhibit
signals of failure, and this I know to be the case. The practical outcome of it all is that
the eyes of home can never be too thoughtfully busy with those of their girls who have won
consent to pursue, away from maternal care, the higher education of female colleges. I must
have wearied that wise mother by this time, but, perhaps, I have given her more than enough
to make her dread these trials.

I should say something as to the home-life of girls who go through the ordinary curriculum
of city day schools were it not that I have of late so very fully reconsidered and rewritten
my views as to this interesting question. I beg to refer my unsatisfied reader to a little
book which, I am glad to know, has been helpful to many people in the last few years.[11]

[Footnote 11: "Wear and Tear," pp. 30 to 60. J.B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia, 1887.]

OUT-DOOR AND CAMP-LIFE FOR WOMEN.

A good many years ago I wrote a short paper, meant to capture popular attention, under the
title of "Camp Cure." I have reason to think that it was of use, but I have been led to regret
that I did not see when it was written that what I therein urged as desirable for men was not
also in a measure attainable by many women. I wish now to correct my error of omission, and
to show not only that in our climate camp-life in some shape can be readily had, but also what
are its joys and what its peculiar advantages.[12] My inclination to write anew on this subject
is made stronger by two illustrations which recur to my mind, and which show how valuable may
be an entire out-door life, and how free from risks even for the invalid. The lessons of the
great war were not lost upon some of us, who remember the ease with which recoveries were made
in tents, but single cases convince more than any statement of these large and generalized
remembrances.

[Footnote 12: "Nurse and Patient," and "Camp Cure," by S. Weir Mitchell. J.B. Lippincott Company
Philadelphia.]

I knew a sick and very nervous woman who had failed in many hands to regain health of mind.
I had been able to restore to her all she needed in the way of blood and tissue, but she remained,
as before, almost helplessly nervous. Wealth made all resources easy, and yet I had been unable
to help her. At last I said to her, "If you were a man I think I could cure you." I then told
her how in that case I would ask a man to live. "I will do anything you desire," she said,
and this was what she did. With an intelligent companion, she secured two well-known, trusty
guides, and pitched her camp by the lonely waters of a Western lake in May, as soon as the
weather allowed of the venture. With two good wall-tents for sleeping-and sitting-rooms, with
a log hut for her men a hundred yards away and connected by a wire telephone, she began to
make her experiment.

A little stove warmed her sitting-room at need, and once a fortnight a man went to the nearest
town and brought her books. Letters she avoided, and her family agreed to notify her at once
of any real occasion for her presence. Even newspapers were shut out, and thus she began her
new life. Her men shot birds and deer, and the lake gave her black bass, and with these and
well-chosen canned vegetables and other stores she did well enough as to food. The changing
seasons brought her strange varieties of flowers, and she and her friend took industriously
to botany, and puzzled out their problems unaided save by books. Very soon rowing, fishing,
and, at last, shooting were added to her resources. Before August came she could walk for miles
with a light gun, and could stand for hours in wait for a deer. Then she learned to swim, and
found also refined pleasure in what I call word-sketching, as to which I shall by and by speak.
Photography was a further gain, taken up at my suggestion. In a word, she led a man's life
until the snow fell in the fall and she came back to report, a thoroughly well woman.

A more notable case was that of a New England lady, who was sentenced to die of consumption
by at least two competent physicians. Her husband, himself a doctor, made for her exactly the
same effort at relief which was made in the case I have detailed, except that when snow fell
he had built a warm log cabin, and actually spent the winter in the woods, teaching her to
live out in the air and to walk on snow-shoes. She has survived at least one of her doctors,
and is, I believe, to this day a wholesome and vigorous wife and mother.

What large wealth did to help in these two cases may be managed with much smaller means. All
through the White Mountains, in summer, you may see people, a whole family often, with a wagon,
going from place to place, pitching their tents, eating at farm-houses or hotels, or managing
to cook at less cost the food they buy. Our sea-coast presents like chances. With a good tent
or two, which costs little, you may go to unoccupied beaches, or by inlet or creek, and live
for little. I very often counsel young people to hire a safe open or decked boat, and, with
a good tent, to live in the sounds along the Jersey coast, going hither and thither, and camping
where it is pleasant, for, with our easy freedom as to land, none object. When once a woman--and
I speak now of the healthy--has faced and overcome her dread of sun and mosquitoes, the life
becomes delightful. The Adirondacks, the Alleghanies, and the Virginia mountains afford like
chances, for which, as these are in a measure remote, there must be a somewhat more costly
organization. I knew well a physician who every summer deserted his house and pitched tents
on an island not over three miles from home, and there spent the summer with his family, so
that there are many ways of doing the same thing.

As to the question of expense, there is no need to say much. All over our sparsely-inhabited
land places wild enough are within easy reach, and the journey to reach them need not be long.
Beyond this, tent-life is, of course, less costly than the hotel or boarding-house, in which
such numbers of people swelter through their summers. As to food, it is often needful to be
within reach of farm-houses or hotels, and all kind of modifications of the life I advise are
possible.

As to inconveniences, they are, of course, many, but, with a little ingenuity, it is easy to
make tent-life comfortable, and none need dread them. Any book on camp-life will tell how to
meet or avoid them, and to such treatises I beg to refer the reader who wishes to experiment
on this delightful mode of gypsying.

The class of persons who find it easy to reach the most charming sites and to secure the help
of competent guides is, as I have said in another place, increasing rapidly. The desire also
for such a life is also healthfully growing, so that this peculiarly American mode of getting
an outing is becoming more and more familiar. It leads to our young folks indulging in all
sorts of strengthening pursuits. It takes them away from less profitable places, and the good
it does need not be confined to the boys. Young women may swim, fish, and row like their brothers,
but the life has gains and possibilities, as to which I would like to say something more. In
a well-ordered camp you may be sure of good food and fair cooking. To sleep and live in the
air is an insurance against what we call taking cold. Where nature makes the atmospheric changes,
they are always more gradual and kindly than those we make at any season when we go from street
to house or house to street.

My brothers during the war always got colds when at home on leave, and those who sleep in a
chinky cabin or tent soon find that they do not suffer and that they have an increasing desire
for air and openness.

To live out of doors seems to be a little matter in the way of change, and that it should have
remarkable moral and intellectual values does not appear credible to such as have not had this
experience.

Yet, in fact, nothing so dismisses the host of little nervousnesses with which house-caged
women suffer as this free life. Cares, frets, worries, and social annoyances disappear, and
in the woods and by the waters we lose, as if they were charmed away, our dislikes or jealousies,
all the base, little results of the struggle for bread or place. At home, in cities, they seem
so large; here, in the gentle company of constant sky and lake and stream, they seem trivial,
and we cast them away as easily as we throw aside some piece of worn-out and useless raiment.

The man who lives out of doors awhile acquires better sense of moral proportions, and thinks
patiently and not under stress, making tranquil companions of his worthy thoughts. This is
a great thing, not to be hurried. There seems to me always more time out of doors than in houses,
and if you have intellectual problems to settle, the cool quiet of the woods or the lounging
comfort of the canoe, or to be out under "the huge and thoughtful night," has many times seemed
to me helpful. One gets near realities out of doors. Thought is more sober; one becomes a better
friend to one's self.

As to the effect of out-door life on the imaginative side of us, much may be said. Certainly
some books get fresh flavors out of doors, and you see men or women greedily turn to reading
and talking over verse who never dream of it when at home. I am tempted to mention the poets,
and even the other authors who gain a kindly rubric for their work from the gentle company
of lake and wood and stream. I should frankly name Walt Whitman and Thoreau, and pause pretty
soon in wonder at the small number of poets who suggest out-door life as their source of inspiration.
A good many of them--read as you lie in a birch canoe or seated on a stump in the woods--shrink
to well-bred, comfortable parlor bards, who seem to you to have gotten their nature-lessons
through plate-glass windows. The test is a sharp one, and will leave out some great names and
let in some hardly known, or almost forgotten. Books to be read out of doors would make a curious
catalogue, and would vary, as such lists must, with every thoughtful reader, while some would
smile, perhaps with reason, at the idea of any such classification. 

D. Juan, by dint of walking her stern look and majestic on the sea of ​​heads that stretched from
the fence to the gate of the temple, met with the shiny bald head of the pygmy brother. Seeing
the anguish painted on his face, he hastened to signal nobly to advance, giving the bank site
occupied. But D. Peregrin, perchance noting the impossibility of taking a step, or flushed with
anger, which had been increasing little by little, he replied with a grimace of anger and contempt
that overtook his unfortunate brother completely took away the desire to insist.

- What is that? - Asked D. Martín de las Casas, who was sitting next to him .-- Do not you
want D. come Peregrin?

- Is that it is impossible.

Who breaks the wall of flesh?

- For anyone.

You see how I go there and bring it at once - said D. Martin, Male
vigorous and expeditious nature, ready to rise.

D. John is retained by the sleeve of his coat.

- No, let you ...
Did not want to come ... You know his character.

- For man is not
like dish could you be there sweating latte! - Answered sharply, while
raising the shoulders.

The church is among the most spacious villa can be rendered. Truth Peñascosa with have seven to
eight thousand souls, no church has more than this. Perhaps to be too spacious, the sexton and
his assistants do not want to take care of cleaning often. Its appearance is murky and dirty.
On the walls, not many years ago whitewashed, hanging chains, dark, blurry pictures, a crowd of
legs, arms, heads and yellow wax still greater ones of boats and barges that the faith of the
sailors or their families have been there in memory of danger miraculously avoided. But for the function
to be held habíanla adorned as they could. Flower garlands surrounded the main altar covered
with white cloths pressed from fresh. They had hung some curtains in wall paintings near the altar
and some soil upholstered with carpet, dirty and and torn in several places, which came to light
forty years, in the solemn days. Ms Eloise, the godmother of the new priest, and the ladies
who had assisted in the noble endeavor to give race, have added some details to trim crude and sensitive
routine the sexton. Big pots of flowers placed in vases art drawn from the best town houses, some
damask curtains forming canopy over the altar, candlesticks, spiders. Where, of course, had fallen
to their particular attention and care was in rounding up young priest. Alba fine cambric embroidered
with neatness, stole, chasuble richest cloth of gold that could be found in the capital, cup,
gold too, with some stones precious. The kind lady had spared no money to give top or crown the
charity for some years to accomplish.
 Take any
nice young girl, who is reasonably educated, afloat in your canoe with you, and ask her what
she sees. As a rule she has a general sense that yonder yellow bank, tree-crowned above the
rippled water, is pleasant. The sky is blue, the sun falling behind you. She says it is beautiful
and has a vague sense of enjoyment, and will carry away with her little more than this. Point
out to her that the trees above are some of them deciduous poplars, or maples, and others sombre
groups of pines and silky tamarack with a wonder of delicate tracery. Show her that the sun
against the sloped yellow bank has covered the water with a shining changeful orange light,
through which gleam the mottled stones below, and that the concave curve of every wave which
faces us concentrates for the eye an unearthly sapphire the reflex of the darkening blue above
us. Or a storm is on us at the same place. She is fearless as to the ducking from which even
her waterproof will hardly protect. The clouds gather, the mists trail on the hills, ragged
mosses on the trees hang in wet festoons of gray, and look in the misty distance like numberless
cascades. It rains at last, a solid down-pour; certain tree-trunks grow black, and the shining
beech and birch and poplar get a more vivid silver on their wet boles. The water is black like
ink. It is no longer even translucent, and overhead the red scourges of the lightning fly,
and the great thunder-roar of smitten clouds rolls over us from hill to hill.

All these details you teach her and more, and paddle home with a mental cargo of fresh joys
and delicious memories. My young friend is intelligent and clever, but she has never learned
to observe. If she wants to know how, there is a book will help her. Let her take with her
Ruskin's "Modern Painters." It will teach her much, not all. Nor do I know of any other volume
which will tell her more.[13] Despite its faults, it has so many lessons in the modes of minute
study of outside nature that it becomes a valuable friend. Although ostensibly written to aid
artistic criticism, it does far more than this and yet not all. Other books which might seem
desirable are less so because they are still more distinctly meant to teach or assist artists
or amateurs. What is yet wanted is a little treatise on the methods of observing exterior nature.
Above all it should be adapted to our own woods, skies, and waters. What to look for as a matter
of pleasure, and how to see and record it, is a thing apart from such observation as leads
to classification, and is scientific in its aims. It is somewhat remote also from the artist's
study, which is a more complex business, and tends to learn what can be rendered by pencil
or brush and what cannot. Its object at first is merely to give intelligent joy to the senses,
to cultivate them into acuteness, and to impress on the mind such records as they ought to
give us at their best.

[Footnote 13: "Frondes Agrestes," Ruskin, is a more handy book than "Modern Painters," but
is only selections from the greater volumes recommended. "Deucalion" is yet harder reading,
but will repay the careful reader.]

Presuming the pupil to be like myself, powerless to use the pencil, she is to learn how to
put on paper in words what she sees. The result will be what I may call word-sketches. Observe
these are not to be for other eyes. They make her diary of things seen and worthy of note.
Neither are they to be efforts to give elaborate descriptions. In the hands of a master, such
use of words makes a picture in which often he sacrifices something, as the artist does, to
get something else, and strives chiefly to leave on the mind one dominant emotion just as did
the scene thus portrayed. A few words may do this or it may be an elaborate work. The gift
is a rare and great one. The word-paintings of Ruskin hang forever in one's mental gallery,
strong, true, poetical, and capable of stirring you as the scenes described would have done,
nay, even more, for a great word-master has stood interpretative between you and nature.

Miss Brontë was mistress of this art. Blackmore has it also. In some writers it is so lightly
managed as to approach the sketch, and is more suggestive than fully descriptive. To see what
I mean read the first few chapters of "Miss Angel," by Anna Thackeray. But a sketch by a trained
and poetical observer is one thing; a sketch by a less gifted person is quite another. My pupil
must be content with the simplest, most honest, unadorned record of things seen. Her training
must look to this only.

What she should first seek to do is to be methodical and accurate and by and by fuller. If
wise she will first limit herself to small scenes, and try to get notes of them somewhat in
this fashion. She is, we suppose, on the bank of a stream. Her notes run as follows:

Date, time of day, place. Hills to either side and their character; a guess at their height;
a river below, swift, broken, or placid; the place of the sun, behind, in front, or overhead.
Then the nature of the trees and how the light falls on them or in them, according to their
kind. Next come color of wave and bank and sky, with questions as to water-tints and their
causes. Last of all, and here she must be simple and natural, what mood of mind does it all
bring to her, for every landscape has its capacity to leave you with some general sense of
its awe, its beauty, its sadness, or its joyfulness.

Try this place again at some other hour, or in a storm, or under early morning light, and make
like notes. If she should go on at this pleasant work, and one day return to the same spot,
she will wonder how much more she has now learned to see.

Trees she will find an enchanting study. Let her take a group of them and endeavor to say on
paper what makes each species so peculiar. The form, color, and expression of the boles are
to be noted. A reader may smile at the phrase "expression," but look at a tattered old birch,
or a silvery young beech-hole, "modest and maidenly, clean of limb," or a lightning-scarred
pine. Tree-study has advantages because it is always within reach. The axe has been so ruthlessly
wielded that you must go far into the woods to get the best specimens of the pine, and the
forests about our Maine lakes and in the Adirondacks have been sadly despoiled of their aristocrats.
To see trees at their savage best one must go South, and seek the white-oaks of Carolina, the
cypress of Florida, but the parks of Philadelphia and Baltimore afford splendid studies, and
so also do the mountains of Virginia. Private taste and enterprise is saving already much that
will be a joy to our children. A noble instance is the great wild park with which Colonel Parsons
has protected the Natural Bridge in Virginia. I saw there an arbor-vitæ said by botanists to
be not less than nine hundred years old, a chestnut twenty-six feet in girth at the height
of my shoulders, and oaks past praise. But trees are everywhere, and if my observant pupil
likes them, let her next note the mode in which the branches spread and their proportion to
the trunk. State it all in the fewest words. It is to be only a help to memory. Then she comes
to the leaf forms and the mode in which they are massed, their dulness or translucency, how
sunshine affects their brilliancy, as it is above or falls laterally at morn or eve. Perhaps
she will note, too, on which the gray moss grows, and just in what forms, and how the mosses
or lichens gather on the north side of trees and on what trees.

I may help my pupil if, like an artist teacher, I give one or two illustrations, copied verbatim
from my note-books. The first was written next morning, as it is a brief record of a night scene.

Time, July 21, 1887, 9 P.M. Ristigouche River, New Brunswick, Canada. Black darkness. Hill
outlines nearly lost in sky. River black, with flashing bits of white rapid; banks have grayish
rocks, and so seem to be nearer than the dark stream limits. Sky looks level with hill-tops.
Water seems to come up close. Effect of being in a concave valley of water, and all things
draw in on me. Sense of awe. Camp-fire's red glare on water. Sudden opening lift of sky. Hills
recede. Water-level falls. This is a barren, unadorned sketch, but it seems to tell the thing.

Or this, for a change. Newport. A beach. Time, August 1, 1887; 4 P.M. About me cleft rocks,
cleavage straight through the embedded pebbles. Tones ruddy browns and grays. Gray beach. Sea-weed
in heaps, deep pinks and purples. Boisterous waves, loaded with reddish seaweed, blue, with
white crests, torn off in long ribbons by wind. Curious reds and blues as waves break, carrying
sea-weed. Fierce gale off land. Dense fog, sun above it and to right. Everywhere yellow light.
Sea strange dingy yellow. Leaves an unnatural green. Effect weird. Sense of unusualness.

Of course, such study of nature leads the intelligent to desire to know why the cleaved rock
shows its sharp divisions as if cut by a knife, why yellow light gives such strangeness of
tints, and thus draws on my pupil to larger explanatory studies. So much the better.

If when she bends over a foot-square area of mouldered tree-trunk, deep in the silence of a
Maine wood, she has a craving to know the names and ways of the dozen mosses she notes, of
the minute palm-like growths, of the odd toadstools, it will not lessen the joy this liliputian
representation of a tropical jungle gives to her. Nor will she like less the splendor of sunset
tints on water to know the secrets of the pleasant tricks of refraction and reflection.

I do not want to make too much of a small matter. And thus, he sent them to bring before him, and that the site
would do the battle, and for hobiese della memory, in the presence of all its field should command
drive many clubs which were hanged, and after seasoned [hanged] their heads were cut and placed on
top of the sticks, and their bodies were burned there and made powders, and from the highest
hills were dispersed through the air, desto hobiesen that memory. And thus it was ordered that
none dared to bury any body of the enemy that longs had died in battle, because they were eaten
by foxes and birds and worms [bones] of such views were there all the time. All this was done
usually in the way that you heard.
 The buds in spring-time, especially the horse-chestnuts,
were the subject of quite curious notes, and cloud-forms an endless source of joy and puzzle
to describe. One summer a great effort was made, and she was taken to the country, and a day
or two later carried down near a brook, where they swung her hammock. I found her quite busy
a week later, and happy in having discovered that the wave-curves over a rock were like the
curves of some shells. My pupil will soon learn, as she did, that a good opera-glass is indispensable.
Let any one who has not tried it look with such a glass at sunset-decked water in motion. I
am sure they will be startled by its beauty, and this especially if the surface be seen from
a boat, because merely to look down on water is to make no acquaintance with its loveliness.
A scroll of paper to limit the view and cut out side-lights also intensifies color. The materials
my pupil is to use are words, and words only. Constant dissatisfaction with the little they
can tell us is the fate of all who use them. The sketcher, the great word-painter, and even
the poet feels this when, like Browning, he seems so to suffer from their weakness as to be
troubled into audacious employment of the words that will not obey his will, torment them as
he may. Yet, as my pupil goes on, she will find her vocabulary growing, and will become more
and more accurate in her use and more ingenious in her combination of words to give her meaning. 

The old woman laughed and laughed to his heart and answered my compliments in broken sentences,
as dam if deep emotion. Upon entering the room, exclaimed, stopping and spreading Me:

- Enough! Basta! You're horrible! Or girl, I did it .... Go! Go!

As I sat at the table heard the voice of Andrew who was talking to
the patient.

He spoke of my and my separation. Soon to come to chat with me.

-
Are you going, right? "Cosa decided? - Taking his seat he said .--
Are you going? Yet the simplest expression of facts is
then and for such rare occasions the best, and often by far the most forceful.

I venture, yet again, to give from a note-book of last year a few lines as to a sunset. I was
on a steam-yacht awaiting the yachts which were racing for the Newport cup.

August 6, time, sunset; level sea; light breeze; fire-red sun on horizon; vast masses of intensely-lighted
scarlet clouds; a broad track of fiery red on water; three yachts, with all sail set, coming
over this sea of red towards us. Their sails are a vivid green. The vast mass of reds and scarlets
give one a strange sense of terror as if something would happen. I could go on to expand upon
"this color such as shall be in heaven," and on the sails which seemed to be green, but for
the purpose of a sketch and to refresh the traitor memory in the future, the lines I wrote
are enough and are yet baldly simple.

Out of this practice grow, as I have said, love of accuracy, larger insights, careful valuation
of words, and also an increasing and more intelligent love of art in all its forms; nor will
all these gains in the power to observe be without practical value in life.

I trust that I have said enough to tempt others to try each in their way to do what has been
for me since boyhood a constant summer amusement.

THE END.

