The

    PRINTER BOY.

    OR

    HOW

    BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
    MADE HIS MARK.

    AN EXAMPLE FOR YOUTH.

    BY

    WILLIAM. M. THAYER

    AUTHOR OF "THE BOBBIN BOY", "TALES FROM THE BIBLE", ETC.

    ILLUSTRATIONS BY
    JULIAN PORTCH

    ENGRAVED BY
    BALE & HOLMAN.

    LONDON
    JAMES HOGG & SONS

PREFACE.

This book is designed to illustrate the familiar maxim, that "THE BOY IS FATHER TO THE MAN."
The early life of Franklin is sketched from his childhood to the time he was established in
business, thus showing what he was in boyhood and youth; and the achievements of his manhood
are summed up in a closing chapter, to substantiate the truth of the above proverb.

The author believes that the lives of distinguished men may be incorporated into a story, uniting
narrative and dialogue so as to be more attractive to the young. John Bunyan was the first
to adopt this style, and his inimitable Pilgrim's Progress charms the young reader, not only
by its graphic imagery, but also by its alternation of narrative and dialogue. Since his day,
others have adopted a similar style, particularly in works of fiction, with success. Why may
not truth appear in such a dress as successfully as fiction? Why may not actual lives be presented
in this manner as vividly as imaginary ones? The young mind will seize upon a truth or fact
that is conveyed in a story, when it will remain wholly indifferent to it as it appears in
a simple statement. So the life of an eminent man may engage the attention of this class, if
he is made to speak and act for himself, when they would not be interested in it, if it were
presented to them in a plain summary of facts.

In this volume, the actual, early life of Franklin is wrought into a story. The imagination
has done no more than weave the facts of his boyhood and youth into a "tale of real life."
It makes Benjamin and his associates speak and do what biographers say they spoke and did.
It simply paints the scenes and acts of which other writers have told.

A conspicuous place is given in the work to the maxims of Franklin, for the purpose of conveying
important lessons in regard to the formation of character, and thus stimulating the young in
the path of well-doing. Whole volumes of meaning are condensed into many of his wise and pithy
sayings.

                                                  W. M. T.

CONTENTS

  CHAPTER I.

  THE WHISTLE.

  The Holiday--The Coppers in Benjamin Franklin's Pocket--Inquiry--
  Bounding Out--The Toy-Shop Then and Now--The Boy and his
  Whistle--Resolved to Purchase--The Bargain--Going Home--Making
  Music--Discussion about the Price--A Pocketful of Good Things--
  Benjamin crying over his Whistle--A Benefit--What Franklin said
  of it Sixty Years after--Boys do not Learn from the Past--Other
  Ways of paying too dear for a Whistle--Deceit and Falsehood--
  Tippling--Worldly Pleasure                            1-8

  CHAPTER II.

  AT SCHOOL.

  Talk about School--Brothers at Trades--Benjamin for the Church--
  Early learned to Read--Long Process of Preparation for the
  Ministry--"Uncle Benjamin's" Remarks and Offer--Who is "Uncle
  Benjamin"--A Hundred Years Ago--When Benjamin was Born--Baptized on
  Same Day he was Born--The Record--Description of his Birthplace--
  Early Love of Books--His Father's Violin--Poor but Industrious--
  Seventeen Children--Decision to Enter School--Where it was, and by
  Whom kept--His Rapid Progress--Mr. Franklin's Trust in Providence--
  At the Head of his Class--The Boy Father to the Man--Daniel
  Webster--David Rittenhouse and George Stephenson--Hopes of
  Benjamin                                                     9-18

  CHAPTER III.

  A CHANGE.

  Conversation between Mr. and Mrs. Franklin--Decision to Remove
  Benjamin from School--Trials of Ministers--Bread before
  Learning--Subject opened to Benjamin--His Feelings--Character of
  Schools then--Mr. Brownwell's Writing-school--Benjamin's
  Obedience--His Father Strict--Keeping the Sabbath--Lore and Respect
  for his Father--Rebuking the Inquisitive Landlord--Erecting Marble
  Stone to the Memory of his Parents--The Stone replaced by Citizens
  of Boston--Obedience of the Peel Boys--Harry Garland--Stephenson's
  Noble Act to his Parents--The Eight Brothers at Inauguration of the
  Franklin Statue--Progress in Penmanship--Beloved by Teacher    19-28

  CHAPTER IV.

  MAKING CANDLES.

  Put to Candle-making at Ten Years of Age--His Father a Tallow-
  chandler--Benjamin opposed to it--Importance of Industry--His
  Father's Hive without Drones--Benjamin's Maxims about Industry in
  Later Life--"The used key always bright."--"Diligence the Mother of
  Good Luck"--Bad Luck--Bible View--No Schooling after Ten Years of
  Age--Cutting Candle-wicks--Where was the Shop--Benjamin desires to
  go to Sea--His Mother's Veto--An Older Brother went to Sea--Talk
  with his Father--His Father's Veto--Promise of another Pursuit--
  Respect for a Paternal "No"--His Sports on the Water--No Prospect
  of Fame--Giotti Marking in the Sand--Webster's Pocket-handkerchief--
  Roger Sherman at his Bench--Boys not excused from School by these
  Examples--Benefit of a Little Knowledge--Saved Benjamin Russell
  in Thunder-storm--How Stephenson felt for his Son              29-43

  CHAPTER V.

  THE ROGUE'S WHARF.

  "All Abroad"--The Quagmire--Proposal to build a Wharf--The Heap of
  Stones--Plan to steal them--Time set in the Evening--The Plan
  executed--The Wharf done--Keeping the Secret--Benjamin's Father
  finds him out--Benjamin in a tight place--Promises to do better--How
  the Boys were found out--Benjamin's Reading Habits--What Books
  liked--Mather's "Essays to Do Good"--Letter to Mather's Son--Boys
  should be at Home in Evenings--Advantage of Reading--Letter to a
  Girl on the Subject                                            44-54

  CHAPTER VI.

  TABLE TALK.

  Interview with a Friend--His Ancestors--Their Hardships--Denied
  Liberty of Conscience--The Bible under the Stool--Leaving the Church
  of England--Emigration for Religious Freedom--Conversation on Useful
  Themes at Table--No Complaints allowed about Food--Guests introduced
  and sensible Remarks made--Effect on Benjamin--The Washburne
  Family--Benefit of Good Conversation--His Father's Remarks about
  Food--Benjamin Temperate in Eating and Drinking--"The Water-
  American"--No Temperance Societies then--Table Talk now--A
  Table Scene                                                    55-63

  CHAPTER VII.

  CHOOSING A TRADE.

  Still Opposed to Candle-making--A Dirty, Simple Business--Wants to
  do something that requires Ingenuity--His Father and Mother
  conferring together--"A rolling stone gathers no moss"--Afraid he
  will go to Sea--Benjamin's Views and Maxims--Opportunity to choose a
  Trade--Going to see different Trades--Devotes a Day to it--Joiners',
  Turners', and Bricklayers' Work--Cutlery Shop, his Cousin's--Which
  Trade he chose--His Father's Decision--Arrangement to learn to make
  Cutlery--Wise to Consult Taste and Tact of Benjamin--Handel the
  Musician--Sir Joshua Reynolds--Father of John Smeaton--Opposing a
  Child's Bent of Mind                                           64-75

  CHAPTER VIII.

  THE PRINTER-BOY.

  Taken Away from Cousin Samuel--His Brother's Return from  England--
  Setting Up the Printing Business--Proposal to Benjamin--A Long
  Apprenticeship--Benjamin disposed to turn Printer-boy--His Brother's
  Offer to Teach Him the Art of Printing--Borrowing Books to read,
  and sitting up at Night--Mr. Adams's Library and his Kindness--
  Going to it for Books--Scarcity of Books--Compared with now--Two
  and a half Books made in a Minute--No Libraries then--Their
  enormous Size now--Habit of Reading made him punctual--Example of
  Lord Brougham                                                  76-84

  CHAPTER IX.

  FIRST LITERARY ENTERPRISE.

  A Piece of Poetry--Pronounced Good--Proposition to Print his
  Articles--"The Lighthouse Tragedy"--A Sailor's Song--Printing
  them--Selling them in the Streets--A Successful Enterprise--His
  Father opposes--Condemns Poetry in general and Benjamin's in
  particular--A severe Rebuke--Crestfallen--Conference with James--
  His Father's Censure a Benefit--Practice of writing Composition
  excellent--How it Benefited Benjamin, even Pecuniarily--The Farmer's
  Son and Minister                                               85-92

  CHAPTER X.

  THE DISPUTE.

  Dispute with John Collins--A Bookish Fellow--The Education of
  Girls--The Controversial Correspondence--His Father finds the
  Letters--His Criticisms--Collins versus Benjamin--Bought a Copy of
  the Spectator and studied it laboriously--Sorry that he did not
  continue to write Poetry--His Father's Counsel--His Economy of
  Time--A Book always by his side--His Maxims on this Subject--
  Violating the Sabbath to gain Time for Study--Useful Conversation
  and Talking Nonsense--Hundreds ruined by a similar cause--Walter
  Scott hiding Novels from his Father--Pope going to the Theatre--
  Exceptions to the General Rule                                93-103

  CHAPTER XI.

  PLAIN FARE.

  Proposition to board Himself--Became a Vegetarian by Reading Tryon's
  Book--Why he did it--How much Money he saved by doing it--Spent it
  for Books--How much Time saved also--Cocker's Arithmetic--Other
  Books read at odd moments--His Plan to save Time--His Maxims on
  saving Time--Aim to be Useful--The English Grammar--Shaftesbury's
  Works--Benjamin a Doubter--Makes known his Doubts to Collins--Danger
  of Reading Attacks upon the Gospel                           104-113

  CHAPTER XII.

  THE NEWSPAPER.

  Starting the Third Newspaper in America--Opposition to it--Number of
  Newspapers now--Forty Million Sheets from Eight Presses--Seventy-one
  Miles a day of Newspapers from One Office--Almost enough to reach
  around the Earth in a Year--Weigh these Papers--Four Million Pounds
  in a Year--Two Thousand Two-Horse Loads--The New England Courant
  started--Printer, News-carrier, and Collector--The Club--Incited to
  write an Article--Tucks it under Printing-office Door--Hears it
  favourably commented on--Writes other Articles--This an Incident
  that decides his Career--Canning at Eton and the
  "Microcosm"--Similar Paper in Seminaries now                 114-122

  CHAPTER XIII.

  THE CAT OUT OF THE BAG.

  Eager to Own the Pieces--Discloses the Authorship to James--
  Interview with the Club--Surprise that Benjamin wrote them--
  Treated with Attention by the Club--Oppressed by James--Trouble
  with him--Benjamin resolves to leave him--The Printing-office
  furnishes many Scholars--A New England Divine--Benjamin directed
  in the Path to which his Native Endowments pointed--So of Lord
  Nelson--Anecdote of him--Buxton, Wilberforce, and Others--Example
  of the Author of the "Optic Library"                         123-129

  CHAPTER XIV.

  THE ARREST.

  Action of General Court to Arrest James Franklin for Libel--The
  Legislative Order--James imprisoned four weeks, and Benjamin
  arrested, but discharged--The immediate Cause of the Arrest--Meeting
  of the Club--Decision to publish the Paper in Benjamin's Name--
  Shrewd Evasion--Youngest Conductor of a Paper who ever lived--His
  Thrusts at the Government--Benjamin born in troublous Times--
  Attacks and Massacres by the Savages--Prepared thereby to act
  in achieving Independence--Bears in Boston                   130-136

  CHAPTER XV.

  THE RUNAWAY.

  A Quarrel--Asserting his Freedom--Statement of the Case--Appeal to
  his Father--His Father's Decision--Leaves his Brother--Fails to get
  Work--Charged with being an Infidel--Plans to run away--Conference
  with Collins--His Plan to get away--Collins's Talk with the Captain
  of a New York Sloop, and his Base Lie--Benjamin Boards the
  Sloop--Arrival in New York--His lonely Condition--Guilt of a
  Runaway--Quarrel between Brothers painful--Case of William
  Hutton--Lines of Dr. Watts                                   137-147

  CHAPTER XVI.

  ANOTHER TRIP AND ITS TRIALS.

  Calls on Printer Bradford in New York--No Work--Recommended to go to
  Philadelphia--Arranges for the Trip--Starts for Philadelphia--The
  Drunken Dutchman--His wet Volume and Bottle--Struck by a Squall--A
  sad Night off Long Island--Benjamin's Feelings--The next morning--
  Storm subsides--Next night on shore--Advantage of a little Reading--
  Boys lose nothing by spending leisure Hours in Reading--The Young
  Man in Maine--Discipline of the Mind--Case of Gibbon--What
  Boys say--Sir Walter Scott in Boyhood, and his warning Words--
  Benjamin leaving Amboy--Fifty Miles on Foot--Suspected of
  being a Runaway--Reaches the Quack Doctor's Tavern--Arrival at
  Burlington--The Gingerbread Woman--The Boat gone--Going back to the
  Gingerbread Woman--His Walk--The unexpected Boat and his Passage--In
  Cooper's Creek at Midnight--Reached Philadelphia on Sunday
  Morning--The Shilling--The Boy and his Loaf--Going up Market Street
  with a Baker's Loaf under each Arm--Miss Read--Asleep in a Quaker
  Church--Suspected again of being a Runaway--First Night in
  Philadelphia                                                 148-166

  CHAPTER XVII.

  GETTING WORK.

  Call upon Andrew Bradford--His Surprise--Disappointment--Directed to
  Keimer--The Interview--Advantage of Thoroughness--Benjamin did
  things well--Bradford's Talk with Keimer--Keimer ensnared--Benjamin
  makes a Disclosure--Keimer astonished--Repairing a Printing-press--
  At work for Keimer--Goes to Board at Mr. Read's--His Power of
  Observation--Stephenson like him--William Hutton again and
  his Dulcimer--Perseverance--Not proud--How many Boys would have
  done--Maxims                                                 167-175

  CHAPTER XVIII.

  NEWS FROM HOME, AND RETURN.

  The Unexpected Letter--Benjamin's Reply--Governor Keith calls to see
  him--Surprise of Keimer--Invites him to the Tavern--Advises him to
  set up Business for Himself--Benjamin's Objections overruled--Decides
  to return to Boston to ask his Father's Assistance--How the Governor
  learned of Benjamin--His Return to Boston--Joy at Home--His
  gentlemanly appearance--Goes to his Brother's Printing-office--
  Cold Reception--Interview with the Workmen--Exhibition of his Silver
  Coin--His Watch--The Dollar "Treat"--James incensed--Interview with
  his Mother--Stating Business to his Father, and giving him the
  Governor's Letter--His Father's Talk with Captain Homes--His
  Father's Denial--Collins returns with him                    176-178

  CHAPTER XIX.

  BACK AGAIN.

  Sails for New York--Stops at Newport and visits his Brother--The New
  Passengers--The Old Quaker Lady's Attention--A Narrow Escape--Arrival
  in New York--Collins there first and intoxicated--Makes a Confession
  to Benjamin--Owns that he gambles--Loses all his Money--Message from
  Governor Burnet--Benjamin goes to see him--Trip to Philadelphia--
  Collects Vernon's Debt--Takes Collins to board with him--Throws
  Collins into the River Delaware--The Fate of Collins--Interview
  with Governor Keith--The Governor promises to set him up in
  Business.                                                    188-195

  CHAPTER XX.

  A LITERARY GAME.

  The Three Associates--Their Characters--Discussion about Poets and
  Poetry--A Proposition to Paraphrase the Eighteenth Psalm--Osborne's
  Prejudice, and how to prove him--Benjamin reads Ralph's Piece as his
  own--The Success of the Ruse--Subsequent Interview of Benjamin and
  Ralph--Their Delight over the Result--The Exposure of Osborne at the
  next Meeting--His Mortification--Fate of Watson and Osborne--
  Advantage of such Literary Clubs                             196-203

  CHAPTER XXI.

  GOING TO ENGLAND.

  Interview with Governor Keith--Arrangements to go to England in the
  Annis--Only one vessel a year to sail--Still works for Keimer--The
  latter a singular Man--Experiment of a Vegetable Diet--Keimer's
  Abhorrence of it--Eats the whole of a Pig at last--How Benjamin came
  to relinquish a Vegetable Diet--Courting Miss Read--Her Mother
  objects to Engagement--Ralph resolves to go with him--Four or Five
  Printing-offices then, and Two or Three Thousand now--The Governor's
  Letters--Set Sail--Arrival in London--Discovers that his Letters are
  Worthless--The Governor a Deceiver--Tells his Story to Denham--Goes
  to Work in a Printing-office--An Advantage of written Composition--
  His "Dissertation on Liberty and Necessity, Pleasure and Pain"--Won
  him Fame--Bargain with a Bookseller--Beer-drinking in the Office--
  Benjamin's Opposition to it--He wrought a Reform--His Firmness and
  Independence--Swimming--Drawn a Mile by his Kite on the Water--
  Advised to open a Swimming-School--Decides on Returning to
  America--A Scene forty years after                           204-219

  CHAPTER XXII.

  FAREWELL TO ENGLAND.

  Arrival in Philadelphia--Calls on Keimer--Meets Governor Keith in
  the Street--Interview with Miss Read--His want of Fidelity--Denham
  opened a Store, and Benjamin was his Clerk--The Sickness of
  both--Denham dies--Benjamin thrown out of Business--Returns to his
  Trade, and works for Keimer--Legacy from Denham--His Fidelity always
  pleased his Employers--Many Youth do not care for the Employer's
  Success--Fidelity one Secret of Benjamin's Success--The Oxford
  Student--Dangers of Theatrical Amusements and Bad Company--Trouble
  with Keimer--Refuses to work for him--Arrangements to go into
  Business with Meredith                                       220-229

  CHAPTER XXIII.

  SETTING UP BUSINESS.

  The Inventory--Keimer's Message--At Burlington--Friends made
  there--Interview with the Surveyor-general--Opening his Office--
  Samuel Mickle--His Croaking--The Result--Poetical Notice in  the
  Printing-office--His Resolution in the Outset--His Industry--
  Prophecies about Failure--The Every-Night Club--The Lounger
  rebuked--Franklin never above his Business--Case of Judge
  Marshall--Economy--How he began to Keep House--Maxims--
  Integrity--The Slanderer turned away--Socrates and  Archelaus--
  Business prosperous--Hopes and Fears--Coleman and Grace, and
  their Offer--Talk with Meredith, and the Latter leaves       230-243

  CHAPTER XXIV.

  THE JUNTO.

  A Literary Club--What Franklin said of it--A New Proposition for a
  Library--Scarcity of Books--Franklin the Father of Circulating
  Libraries--Size of the First Library now--Questions asked by the
  "Junto"--Their Practical Character--Questions Discussed--Members
  limited to Twelve--No Improvement on the "Junto"--Franklin's Hand
  seen in it--All but one or two Members became Respectable, and most
  of them distinguished Men--Studying French, Italian, and Spanish--
  Playing Chess--Studying Latin--The "Junto" Copied in England--
  Canning--Franklin begins to think more of Religion--Doubting his
  Doubts--A Minister calls upon him--Goes to Meeting--The Fatal
  Sermon--Power of Conscience--Prays, and his Form of Prayer--
  His Book of Goodness--Rules of Conduct, and what they
  show                                                         244-253

  CHAPTER XXV.

  CONCLUSION.

  The Printer Boy and Man--His Brother reconciled to him--Rears his
  Nephew--Holds important Offices--Refuses Patent of a Stove--Gift to
  English Clergyman--Improves Street Lamps--Forms Fire-Company--
  Organizes Militia--A Schedule of the Offices he filled and the
  Honours he Won--Honoured in France, and all Europe--Societies
  and Towns named after him--A Library Presented to the Town of
  Franklin, Mass.--His Remark about more Sense than  Sound--
  Washington's Praise of him--Action of Congress--Demonstrations
  of Respect in France--A Benjamin truly, and not a Ben-Oni--
  Regretting his early disregard of Religion--His Benevolence--
  Emptied his Pockets for Whitefield--His Humanity, and Words of
  a Biographer--His Reverence for God in High Places--Proposed the
  First Fast--Advocates Prayers in the National Convention--The
  Young Man at his Death-bed--His Last Words for the Bible     254-264

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

  "HOW MUCH DID YOU GIVE FOR YOUR WHISTLE?"             Frontispiece

  MEDALLION OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN                      Vignette Title

  THE ROGUE'S WHARF                                          Page 44

  THE MYSTERIOUS CONTRIBUTOR                                       123

  FRANKLIN SAVING THE DUTCHMAN                                     149

  MISS READ'S FIRST GLIMPSE OF HER FUTURE HUSBAND                  162

  ANECDOTE OF DR. MATHER AND FRANKLIN--HUMILITY "BEATEN IN!"       186

  "SAWDUST PUDDING"--ANECDOTE OF FRANKLIN'S INDEPENDENCE           242

THE PRINTER-BOY.

CHAPTER I.

THE WHISTLE.

It was a bright, welcome holiday to little Benjamin Franklin, when his kind parents put some
coppers into his pocket, to spend as he saw fit. Possibly it was the first time he was ever
permitted to go out alone into the streets of Boston with money to spend for his own pleasure;
for he was now but seven years old.

"Can I have more coppers when these are gone?" he inquired.

"No," replied his mother, "you have quite as many now as will be for your welfare, I think.
You must be a good boy, and keep out of mischief."

"What are you going to buy?" asked an older brother; and without waiting for a reply, he answered
the question himself, by saying, "Candy, of course."

"Lay out your money wisely," added his mother; "I shall want to see how much wisdom you display
in your purchases. Remember 'all is not gold that glitters.'"

His mother had scarcely ceased speaking, when Benjamin bounded out of the house, eager to enjoy
the anticipated pleasures of the day. Like other boys, on such occasions, his head was filled
with bewitching fancies, and he evidently expected such a day of joy as he never had before.
First in his thoughts stood the toy-shop, into the windows of which he had often looked wistfully,
although it was a small affair compared with the Boston toy-shops of the present day. Every
article in it could have been examined in one or two hours, while now it would take as many
days to view all the articles in one of these curiosity-shops. It is almost wonderful, and
even fabulous, this multiplication of playthings for the children. There seems to be no end
to them, and many a girl and boy have been put to their "wits' end" to know what to choose
out of the thousands of articles arranged on the shelves.

Benjamin had not proceeded far before he met a boy blowing away upon, a new-bought whistle,
as if its music were sweeter than the voice of lark or nightingale. He could scarcely help
envying him the happiness of owning so valuable a treasure. He stopped and looked at him with
an expression of delight, and they exchanged glances that showed a genuine sympathy springing
up between them. At once he resolved to possess a similar musical instrument, as I suppose
it may be called; and away he hastened to the toy-shop, knowing that it must have been purchased
there.

"Any whistles?" he inquired.

"Plenty of them," answered the proprietor, with a smile, as he brought forth a number, to the
amazement of his little customer.

"I will give you all the money I have for one," said Benjamin, without waiting to inquire the
price, so enthusiastic was he to become the possessor of such a prize.

"Ah! all you have?" responded the merchant. "Perhaps you have not so much as I ask for them.
You see these are very nice whistles."

"I know it," added Benjamin, "and I will give you all the money I have for one," still more
afraid that he should not be able to obtain one.

"How much money have you?"

Benjamin told him honestly just how much he had, and the merchant agreed to give him a whistle
in exchange for it.

Never was a child more delighted than he, when the bargain was made. He tried every whistle,
that he might select the one having the most music in it; and when his choice was settled,
he turned his steps towards home. He thought no more of other sights and scenes, and cared
not for sweetmeats and knick-knacks, now that he owned this wonderful thing. He reached home
and hurried into the house, blowing his whistle lustily as he went, as if he expected to astonish
the whole race of Franklins by the shrillness, if not by the sweetness, of his music.

"What have you there, Benjamin?" inquired his mother.

"A whistle," he answered, hardly stopping his blowing long enough to give a reverent reply.

"You got back quick, it seems to me," she continued. "Have you seen all that is to be seen?"

"All I want to see," he answered; which was very true. He was so completely carried away with
his whistle that he had lost all his interest in everything else belonging to the holiday.
His cup of delight was running over now that he could march about the house with musical sounds
of his own making.

"How much did you give for your whistle?" asked one of his cousins, who was present.

"All the money I had," he replied.

"What!" exclaimed his brother, "did you give all your money for that little concern?"

"Yes, every cent of it."

"You are not half so bright as I thought you were," continued his brother. "It is four times
as much as the whistle is worth."

"You should have asked the price of it, in the first place," said his mother. "Some men will
take all the money they can get for an article. Perhaps he did not ask so much as you gave for it."

"If you had given a reasonable price for it," said his brother, "you might have had enough
left to have bought a pocketful of good things."

"Yes," added his cousin, "peppermints, candy, cakes, and more perhaps; but it is the first
time he ever went a shopping on a holiday."

"I must confess you are a smart fellow, Ben" (as he was familiarly called by the boys), "to
be taken in like that," continued his brother, rather deridingly. "All your money for that
worthless thing, that is enough to make us crazy! You ought to have known better. Suppose you
had had twice as much money, you would have given it all for the whistle, I suppose, if this
is the way you trade."

"Perhaps he would have bought two or three of them in that case," said his cousin, at the same
time looking very much as if he intended to make sport of the young whistler. His mother came
to the rescue, by saying--

"Never mind, Benjamin, you will understand better next time. We must all live and learn. Perhaps
you did about as well as most boys of your age would."

"I think so, too," said his cousin; "but we wanted to have a little sport, seeing it is a holiday. Have
she was never originate generous failure of money.

He greatest bear was that persons before the solitary-attribute. This was that morning was reduced
of the knock make myself by the carnivora at the Forest as living-thought; a time was acquire
to everybody in Sun was not hysterical object with all barkings, had yappings,
roar, petty sound, and hostile yowlings, have read with his call of sun. As
the extraordinary, zoological age on he, Veronica and Ann abolish
this gold as mid credence and decision to railroading.

It was better there than the cry-taking. But he aided John Ann. "Simpleton!" she say, when she
larn a me, and with baboo there was to demoralization.

"throaty imbecile! one" Mess busy these being are for interval at read, and it contained the symptom
and something on Decision. "frugality win'might t must do it," say
James Benjamin.

"idle that does some inmate, and had that dame under...." and all an stage there is not right....
yes. "To the nothing in virago and said as the Violence.

One to the was not many part of woman into all woman who are and
things who are not alive nothing to his man." an six-gun why does
i am off of place hitherto, "as she state," is because you would not
fail his man.

I can not want something
to them.'ve always be crowd it are definite.

I'Amputee is abolish that the nip. I to save'it care no things or freedom to rhetoric. Tongue.
 Your
elder brothers have their trades, and, perhaps, you ought to give your service to the Church.
You like to study, do you not?"

"Yes, sir; the best of anything I do." A very correct answer, since he began to read so young,
that he could not remember the time when he could not read his Bible.

"It will cost a good deal to keep you at school and educate you, and perhaps I shall not be
able to do it with so large a family to support. I have to be very industrious now to make
my ends meet.

"When shall I begin, if you decide to let me go?"

"Immediately. It is a long process to become qualified for the ministry, and the sooner you
begin the better."

"Uncle Benjamin," as he was called in the family, a brother of our little hero's father, sat
listening to the conversation, and, at this point, remarked, "Yes, Benjamin, it is the best
thing you can do. I am sure you can make very rapid progress at school; and there ought to
be one preacher in the family, I think."

"So many people have told me," added his father. "Dr. Willard (his pastor) said as much to
me not long ago, and I am fully persuaded to make the trial."

"It won't be a severe trial, either," said Uncle Benjamin. "The thing can be accomplished more
easily than at first appears. I tell you what it is, Benjamin," addressing himself to the boy,
"when you are qualified for the office, I will give you my large volume of short-hand sermons,
and the reading of these will improve your manner of sermonizing."

This uncle had recently come over from England, and was boarding in the family. He was a very
intelligent man, quite a literary character for the times, and had been accustomed to take
down the sermons to which he listened, in short-hand, until he had preserved a large manuscript
volume of them, which he valued highly. It was this volume which he promised to bequeath to
his nephew when he should become qualified to enter the ministry.

This interview occurred almost one hundred and fifty years ago, between Benjamin Franklin,
who paid too much for the whistle, and his father, whose Christian name was Josiah. The lad
was eight years old at the time, a bright, active, intelligent boy, who was more fond of reading
than any other child in the family. He was born in Boston, on Sunday, January 6 (Old Style,
corresponding to January 17, New Style), 1706, and on the same day was carried into the Old
South Church, and there baptized. Both his father and mother were members of that church. It
has generally been said that we do not know by whom he was baptized, although the rite must
have been performed either by Dr. Samuel Willard, or Rev. Ebenezer Pemberton, who were then
pastors of the Old South Church. But the fact that the record is made in the handwriting of
Dr. Willard would indicate that he baptized him. He was born in Milk Street, opposite the church,
so that he had only to be carried across the street to receive the ordinance of baptism.

A picture of the old house in which he was born has been preserved, and it stood on the spot
where now rises a lofty granite warehouse, bearing, in raised letters beneath the cornice,
the inscription, "BIRTHPLACE OF FRANKLIN." The house measured twenty feet in width, and was
about thirty feet long.

He was named after the aforesaid uncle, and this circumstance alone was well suited to beget
a mutual interest and attachment between them. His love of books early attracted the attention
of his parents and others, and they regarded him as a precocious child. On this account the
remark was often volunteered, "that he ought to be sent to college."

We have said that Mr. Franklin was playing upon his violin on the evening of the aforesaid
interview. He was very fond of music, was a good singer, and performed well upon the violin.
He was wont to gather his family around him during the leisure hours of evening, and sing and
play. Many cheerful and happy seasons were passed in this way at the fireside, the influence
of which was excellent upon his children.

That it would be doubtful whether he could meet the expense of sending Benjamin to college,
must appear to the reader, when he learns that he was a labouring man, and had a family of
seventeen children, thirteen of whom sat around his table together at one time. Fourteen were
older than Benjamin, and two were younger. To support so large a family must have taxed the
energies of the father to the utmost, even though no one of them was destined for a learned
profession. It was probably the only free grammar-school which Boston afforded at that time;
for it was only a little village compared with its present size. It then contained only about
ten thousand inhabitants, and now it has more than fifteen times that number. There were no
stately public buildings at that time, like the State-house, Court-house, Custom-house, Athenæum,
Public Library, etc. Such splendid granite blocks of stores as we now behold on almost every
business street, were then unknown; and no shops could be found, as now, filled with the fabrics
of every land. There were no costly houses of worship, the "Old South Meeting-house," then
about half its present size, being the oldest one in existence at the time.

When Benjamin was born, the streets of Boston were not named. This was not done until the year
after, when there were but one hundred and ten of them in number. Now there are a thousand
streets, courts, and places. Thus it will be seen that the Boston of that day resembled the
present Boston little more than Benjamin Franklin blowing his whistle resembled Benjamin Franklin
the great statesman and philosopher.

"I have seen the teacher to-day," said Mr. Franklin to his wife, two or three months after
his son entered school, "and he says that he is making rapid progress, and will soon stand
first in his class, although others have enjoyed much better advantages."

"I am glad to hear it," answered Mrs. Franklin, with a satisfied air, such as mothers are likely
to betray when they know that their children are doing well; "I think he will make a good scholar
if he can have the opportunity, though I scarcely see how you will be able to educate him."

"I can hardly see how myself," said her husband; "yet I trust that God will provide a way.
At any rate, I hope for the best."

"It will be more and more expensive every year to support him," added Mrs. Franklin, "since
his clothes will cost more as he advances in years. The least expense in educating him we are
having now."

"That is very true, and I have looked at the matter in this light, all the while not being
able to see my way quite clear, yet trusting to Providence for a happy issue."

"Well, if it comes, that is enough," responded Mr. Franklin, rather drily. "If God does anything
for him, he will do it in his own time and way. I shall be satisfied to see him qualified for
usefulness in the service of the Church."

Within a few months after Benjamin entered school, he had advanced from the middle to the head
of his class. He was so apt to learn, and gave so close attention to his lessons, that his
teacher spoke of him as a boy of uncommon promise. He did not stand at the head of his class
long, however, before he was transferred to a higher one. He so far outstripped his companions
that the teacher was obliged to advance him thus, otherwise his mental progress would have
been injuriously retarded. His parents were highly gratified with his diligent improvement
of time and opportunities, and other relatives and friends began to prophesy his future eminence.
So it was with young Benjamin Franklin. His younger brother relates that he was accustomed
to stop when he was ploughing in the field, and solve problems on the fence, and sometimes
cover the plough-handles over with figures. The highest expectations of his friends were more
than realized in his after life.

It was quite natural, then, for the parents and friends of Benjamin Franklin to be encouraged
by his love of books, and diligent attention, especially when so much intellectual brightness
was also manifest. The sequel will prove whether their hopes were wisely cherished.

CHAPTER III.

A CHANGE.

Benjamin had not been in school quite a year, when his father saw plainly that he would not
be able to defray the expense of educating him.

"I might keep him along for the present," said he to his wife, "but I am satisfied that I cannot
carry him through. My family expenses are now very great, and they will be still larger. It
will make considerable difference in my expenses whether Benjamin is kept at school, or assists
me by the labour of his hands." "I could easily accomplish it with no larger family on my hands
than some of my neighbours have."

"Do you intend to take Benjamin away from school at once?"

"Yes! I have very reluctantly come to the conclusion that I must. It is contrary to all my
desires, but necessity compels me to do it."

"I am sorry for Benjamin," continued Mrs. Franklin, "for he has become much interested in his
school, and it will be a great disappointment to him."

"I thought of that much before coming to my present decision; but there is no alternative.
Providence seems to indicate, now, the course I should take, and I am the more willing to follow,
because the times do not hold out so much encouragement to those who would enter the service
of the Church. There are many trials and hardships to be met in the work, and at the present
day, they seem to be peculiar."

"There are trials almost anywhere in these times," said Mrs. Franklin, "and I suppose we ought
to bear them with fortitude. So far as that is concerned, I think Benjamin will not escape
them, let him follow what business he may."

"True, very true, and I trust that I desire to place him where God would have me; but he has
certainly hedged up his way to the ministry."

This subject was very thoroughly considered before it was opened to Benjamin. His father was
too anxious to educate him to change his purpose without much patient thought and circumspection.
Nothing but absolute necessity induced him to come to this decision. The hard hand of poverty
was laid upon him, and he must have "bread before learning" for his children.

One evening, as the school term was drawing to a close, Mr. Franklin said to Benjamin--

"I think I shall be under the necessity of taking you away from school at the close of the
term. The times are so hard, that I find, with my best exertions, I can do little more than
supply you with food and clothes."

"And not go to school any more?" anxiously inquired Benjamin.

"Perhaps not. Such appears to be your prospect now, though I cannot say that God may not open
a way hereafter; I hope he will. You are but nine years old, and there is time yet for a way
to be provided."

"Why can I not attend school till I am old enough to help you?"

"You are old enough to help me now. I could find a plenty for you to do every day, so that
you could make yourself very useful."

"But I do not intend to set you to work immediately," continued Mr. Franklin. "You ought to
give some attention to penmanship and arithmetic, and I shall send you to Mr. Brownwell's writing-school
for a season."

"I shall like that, for I want to know how to write well. Some of the boys no older than I
am have been to his school some time."

"It is equally important that you learn to cipher, and Mr. Brownwell is an excellent teacher
of arithmetic. It will not take you many months to become a good penman under his tuition,
and to acquire considerable knowledge of numbers."

"I care more about writing than I do about arithmetic," said Benjamin. "I don't think I shall
like arithmetic very well."

"Boys have to study some things they don't like," responded his father. "It is the only way
they can qualify themselves for usefulness. You would not make much of an appearance in the
world without some acquaintance with numbers."

Benjamin was reared under such family regulations. He was expected to
regard them with becoming filial respect. Nor did he grow restless and
impatient under them, nor cherish less affection for his father in
consequence. He certainly loved and respected his
father as long as he lived. Many years thereafter, when his father was
old and infirm, he was wont to perform frequent journeys from
Philadelphia to Boston, to visit him. It was on one of these journeys
that he rebuked the inquisitiveness of a landlord, by requesting him,
as soon as he entered his tavern, to assemble all the members of his
family together, as he had something important to communicate. This was a keen rebuke to a landlord who was disposed to be
inquisitive, and interrogate his guests in an ungentlemanly way. But
we have cited the incident to show that the filial love and respect
which Benjamin had for his parents continued as long as they lived.
The last act of affection and reverence that he could possibly perform
to them was cheerfully made. Æt. 89.
            A. F. born 1667; died 1752. Æt. 85."

This stone had become so dilapidated in 1827, that the citizens of Boston supplied its place
with a granite obelisk, on which the foregoing inscription may still be read.

It is good for boys, who are very likely to want their own way, to be obliged to obey exact
rules in the family. It is a restraint upon their evil tendencies that tells well upon their
riper years. It was to such an influence that Sir Robert Peel felt much indebted for his success
in life. As an illustration of the obedience he was obliged to practise, in common with his
brothers, he relates, that, in his youth, a comrade called one day to solicit their company
upon some excursion. He was a young man of handsome address, intelligent, smart, and promising,
though quite accustomed to enjoy much pastime. Although the boys earnestly desired to go, they
dared say nothing against their father's emphatic "No." He had work for them to do, and he
never allowed pleasure to usurp the time for labour. The result is recorded on the page of
English history. In this way the language of inspiration is verified. "Honour thy father and
mother (which is the first commandment with promise), that it may be well with thee." The providence
of God appears to make it well with the children who obey the commandment. Not the least of
their reward is the respect and confidence of mankind which their obedience secures. Men universally
admire to witness deeds that are prompted by true filial love.

Benjamin was taken away from school, agreeably to his father's decision, and sent to Mr. Brownwell,
to perfect himself in arithmetic and penmanship. Less than a year he had attended the grammar-school,
with little or no prospect of returning to his studies. But the disappointment was somewhat
alleviated by the advantages offered at Mr. Brownwell's writing class. Here he made rapid progress
in penmanship, though he failed in mastering the science of number. He had more taste, and
perhaps tact, for penmanship than he had for arithmetical rules and problems, and this may
account for the difference of his improvement in the two branches.

We should have remarked that Benjamin endeared himself to his teacher while he was a member
of the public school, and it was with regret that the latter parted with his studious pupil.
His close attention to his duties, and his habitual good deportment, in connection with his
progress, made him such a scholar as teachers love.

CHAPTER IV.

MAKING CANDLES.

When Benjamin was ten years old he had acquired all the education his father thought he could
afford to give him. He could write a very good hand, and read fluently, though his knowledge
of arithmetic was very limited indeed.

"Are you about ready, Benjamin, to come into the shop and help me?" inquired his father, at
the dinner table.

"Am I not going to Mr. Brownwell's school any longer?" he asked, instead of replying to his
father's question,--a Yankee-like way of doing things, truly.

"I think the close of this term will complete the education I am able to give you," replied
his father. "You will fare, then, better than your brothers, in respect to schooling."

"I had rather not go into the shop," said Benjamin. "I think I shall not like to make candles,
and I really wish you would engage in some other business."

Mr. Franklin was a dyer by trade, in England, and designed to continue it when he removed to
America, about the year 1685. But he found, on arriving at Boston, that it would be quite impossible
for him to support his family at this trade. The country was new, and the habits of the people
were different from those of the English, so that the dyeing business could receive but little
patronage. The next pursuit that presented itself, with fair promises of success, was that
of "tallow-chandler and soap-boiler;" not so cleanly and popular a business as some, but yet
necessary to be done, and very useful in its place; and this was enough for such a man as Mr.
Franklin to know. He cared very little whether the trade was popular, so long as it was indispensable
and useful. To him no business was dishonourable, if the wants of society absolutely demanded
it. "You had better do this than do nothing, for idleness is the parent of vice. Boys like
you should be industrious, even if they do not earn their bread. It is better for them to work
for nothing than not to work at all."

These are very beautiful and expressive sentences, and they show that Benjamin Franklin thought
as much of industry in his manhood as his father did a quarter of a century before. Take the
first, in which he compares slothfulness to rust, which will consume iron tools or machinery
faster than their constant use will. As the use of a hoe or a spade keeps it polished, so the
habitual exercise of the powers of human nature preserves them in a good condition. A key that
is cast aside soon rusts, and is spoiled, but "the used key is always bright." It is more fit
for use because it has been used.

How true it is that "hunger dare not enter the working-man's house!" By the sweat of his brow
he earns his daily bread, and his children do not cry with hunger. It is the lazy man's table
that has no bread. His children rise up hungry, and go to bed supperless. God himself hath
said, "If any would not work, neither should he eat."

"Diligence is the mother of good luck." Another gem of wisdom that commands our acquiescence.
How common for the indolent to complain of "bad luck!" Their families need the necessaries
of life, as both a scanty table and rent apparel bear witness, and they cast the blame upon
"ill luck," "misfortune," "unavoidable circumstances," or something of the kind. Many men whose
faces are reddened and blotched by intemperance, begotten in the barroom where they have worse
than idled away days and weeks of precious time, are often heard to lament over their "bad
luck," as if their laziness and intemperance were not the direct cause of their misery. But
it is not often that the diligent experience "bad luck."

But we need not enlarge upon these sayings of Franklin. They are all charged with wisdom, and
might be expanded into volumes. The more we study them, the more beauty we perceive.

It was settled that Benjamin should assist his father in the manufacture of candles, notwithstanding
his disinclination to engage in the business. His prospects of more schooling were thus cut
off at ten years of age, and now he was obliged to turn his attention to hard work. It was
rather an unpromising future to a little boy. No more schooling after ten years of age! Does
the young reader appreciate the privileges which he enjoys?

"To-morrow for the work-shop, Benjamin!" exclaimed Mr. Franklin, with a tone of pleasantry,
on the evening before he was initiated into the mysteries of making candles. "I am full of
business, and need another hand very much at present."

"You can't expect much help from me," said Benjamin, "till I learn how to do the work. So I
am thinking you will continue to be hurried for a while, unless you have another hand besides me."

"You can do what I shall set you about just as well as a boy, or even a man, who had worked
at the business for a year."

"I wonder what that can be, that is so easy!" added Benjamin, with some surprise.

"I am sure," said Mrs. Franklin, who had been listening to the conversation attentively, "that
is inducement enough for any boy, but a lazy one, to work. You can make yourself about as useful
to your father as a man whom he would have to pay high wages."

"You will aid me just as much in going errands," said his father, "as in doing anything else.

Benjamin made no reply to these last remarks, although he was more favourably impressed, after
hearing them, with the tallow-chandler's calling. On the following day he entered upon his
new vocation, and, if "variety is the spice of life," then his first day in the shop had a
plenty of spice. The shop was situated at the corner of Hanover and Union Streets, having the
sign of a large blue ball, bearing the inscription:

          1698 JOSIAS
              FRANKLIN 1698.

He cut wicks, filled moulds, performed errands, and played the part of general waiter, in which
there was much variety. And this was his work for successive weeks, very little of his time
running to waste. Do you ask how he likes it? The following conversation with his mother will
answer.

"I don't like it at all, mother,--no better than I thought I should," he said. "I wish I could
do something else."

"What else is there for you to do, Benjamin?" replied his mother. "What would you like to do?"

"I would like to go to sea."

"Go to see what?" she inquired, as if she did not understand him at first.

"Go on a voyage to Europe, or the East Indies."

"What!" exclaimed his mother, exhibiting surprise, for she had not dreamed that her son had
any inclination to go to sea. "Want to be a sailor? What put that into your head?"

"I have always thought I should like to go to sea," he answered; "and I am so tired of making
candles that I want to go now more than ever."

"I am astonished, Benjamin.

"There, Benjamin, you must never say another word about it," continued his mother; "and you
must not think any more about going; for I shall never give my consent, and I know your father
never will. And here his mother alluded to one of the most bitter experiences of her life,
when a son older than Benjamin became restless at home, and would not be persuaded from his
purpose of going to sea. It caused her many unhappy hours.

Benjamin had said nothing about this matter to his father, and this prompt veto of his mother
put a damper on his hopes, so that he continued to work at the shop, with all his dislike for
the business. His parents talked over the matter, and his father was led thereby to watch him
more carefully, that he might nip the first buddings of desire for the sea. At length, however,
Benjamin ventured to make known his wishes to his father.

"I have thought," said he, "that I should like to go to sea, if you are willing;" and there
he stopped, evidently expecting to be refused.

"What has happened to lead you to desire this?" inquired his father.

"Not anything," he answered. "I always thought I should like it,--though I have had a stronger
desire lately."

"I see how it is," continued his father. "You have been to the water with the boys frequently
of late, and I have noticed that you loved to be in a boat better than to make candles. I am
afraid that your sports on the water are making you dissatisfied with your home, and that here
is the secret of your wanting to go to sea."

"No, father; I think as much of my home as I ever did, and I like a boat no better now than
I did the first time I got into one."

"Perhaps it is so; but boys don't always know when they are losing their attachment to home.
You need not say another syllable, however, about going to sea, for I shall never consent to
it. You may as well relinquish at once all thought of going, since I strictly forbid your laying
any such plans. If you do not wish to be a tallow-chandler, you may try some other business.
I shall not insist upon your working with me, though I shall insist upon your following some
calling."

"I shall not want to go to sea against your wishes," said Benjamin. "I only thought I would
go if you and mother were perfectly willing. I can work at this dirty trade, too, if you think
it is best, though I can never like it."

"I am glad to see that you have so much regard for your parents' wishes," said his father.
"If your brother had been as considerate, he never would have become a sailor. Children should
always remember that their parents know best, as they have had more experience and time to
observe. I say again, if you will abandon all thoughts of a seafaring life, I will try to find
you a situation to learn some trade you may choose for yourself."

Benjamin was not disposed to enter upon a sailor's life contrary to his parents' counsels,
and he submitted to his father's decision with as much cheerfulness and good feeling as could
be expected in the circumstances. He knew that it was little use to tease his father when he
said "no" to a project. His emphatic "no" usually put an end to all controversy.

There is little doubt that Benjamin had been somewhat influenced by his frolics in and on the
water. For some time, as opportunity offered, he had been down to the water both to bathe and
take boat-rides. He had become an expert swimmer in a very short time, and not one of the boys
so readily learned to manage a boat. He exhibited so much tact in these water feats, that he
was usually regarded as a leader by the boys, and all matters of importance were referred to
his judgment. It was not strange that he should be more in love with an ocean life after such
pastimes with his comrades. Whether he admitted it or not, it is probable that his desire to
go to sea was greatly increased by these pleasant times in and on the water.

It was certainly a poor prospect that was before the young tallow-chandler. It was not a trade
to call into exercise the higher and nobler faculties of the mind and heart. On that account,
no one could expect that Benjamin would rise to much distinction in the world; and this will
serve to awaken the reader's surprise as he becomes acquainted with the sequel. A little fellow,
ten or twelve years of age, cutting the wicks of candles, and filling the moulds, does not
promise to become a great statesman and philosopher. Yet with no more promise than this some
of the most distinguished men commenced their career. Behold Giotti, as he tends his father's
flock, tracing the first sketches of the divine art in the sand with a clumsy stick,--a deed
so unimportant that it foreshadowed to no one his future eminence. See Daniel Webster, the
great expounder of the American Constitution, sitting, in his boyhood, upon a log in his father's
mill, and studying portions of that Constitution which were printed upon a new pocket-handkerchief;
a trivial incident at the time, but now bearing an important relation to that period of his
life when his fame extended to every land. Recall the early life of Roger Sherman, bound as
an apprentice to a shoemaker in consequence of his father's poverty, with little education
and no ancestral fame to assist him,--how exceeding small the promise that his name would yet
be prominent in his country's history! In like manner, the little candle-making lad of Boston,
in 1717, scarcely appears to be related to the philosopher and statesman of the same name,
in 1775. But the hand of God is in the lives of men as really as in the history of nations.

The reader should not make use of the fact that Franklin, and other eminent men, enjoyed small
opportunities to acquire knowledge, as a plea that he himself need not be kept in school for
a series of years. It is true that a little mental improvement may work wonders for a person
in some circumstances, and it should lead us to inquire, if a little will accomplish so much,
what will greater advantages do for him? A very little knowledge of electricity once saved
the life of Benjamin Russell in his youth. He was an eminent citizen of Boston, born in the
year 1761, and in his younger years he had learned from the writings of Franklin, who had become
a philosopher, that it was dangerous to take shelter, during a thunder-shower, under a tree,
or in a building not protected with lightning-rods. One day, in company with several associates,
he was overtaken by a tempest, and some of the number proposed that they should take shelter
under a large tree near by, while others advised to enter a neighbouring barn. But young Russell
opposed both plans, and counselled going under a large projecting rock as the safest place.
The result showed that a little knowledge of electricity was of great service to him; for both
the barn and the tree were struck by lightning. But neither Benjamin Russell, nor any one else,
from that day to this, would think of saying that there is no need of knowing much about electricity,
since a little knowledge of it will do so much good. They might say it as reasonably, however,
as a youth can say that there is no need of much schooling, since Benjamin Franklin, and others,
became honoured and useful though they did not go to school after ten or twelve years of age.
The deep regret of all this class of influential men ever has been, that their early advantages
were so limited. George Stephenson, who did not learn to read until he was eighteen years old,
felt so keenly on this point, that, when his own son became old enough to attend school, he
sat up nights and mended the shoes and clocks of his neighbours, after having completed his
day's labour, to obtain the means of educating him.

CHAPTER V.

THE ROGUE'S WHARF.

"Let us build a wharf," said Benjamin, "and that will get rid of the quagmire. It won't be
a long job, if all take hold."

"Where will you get your lumber?" inquired John.

"Nowhere. We don't want any lumber, for stones are better," answered Benjamin.

"It is worse yet to bring stones so far, and enough of them," added John.

"That may all be," said Benjamin, "but they can afford to lend them to us awhile. They will
be just as good for their use after we have done with them."

"Then you expect they will lend them to you, I perceive; but you'll be mistaken," answered Fred.

"My mode of borrowing them is this,--we will go this evening, after the workmen have gone home,
and tug them over here, and make the wharf long before bedtime;" and Benjamin looked queerly
as he said it. "It is not stealing to take such worthless things as stones. A man couldn't
sell an acre of them for a copper."

"Well, anyhow, the men who have had the labour of drawing them there won't thank you for taking
them."

"I don't ask them to thank me. I don't think the act deserves any thanks," and a roguish twinkle
of the eye showed that he knew he was doing wrong. And he added, "I reckon it will be a joke
on the workmen to-morrow morning to find their pile of stones missing."

"Let us do it," said John, who was taken with the idea of playing off a joke. "I will do my
part to carry the thing through."

"And I will do mine," said another; and by this time all were willing to follow the example
of Benjamin, their leader. Perhaps all were afraid to say "No," according to the dictates of
conscience, now that the enterprise was indorsed by one or two of their number. They surveyed
the pile of stones, and found it ample for their purpose, though it looked like a formidable
piece of work to move them.

"Some of them are bigger than two of us can lift," said Fred. "They are capital ones for the
foundation. Come, two or three must take hold of this," at the same time laying hold of one
of the largest.

So they went to work with decided perseverance (the only commendable thing about the transaction),
sometimes three or four of them working away at one stone, lifting and rolling it along. Benjamin
was never half so zealous in cutting candle-wicks as he was in perpetrating this censurable
act. He was second to no one of the number in cheerful active service on this occasion. "It
is worth all it cost for that."

"Perhaps it will cost more than you think for before we get through with it," said John. "We
can tell better about that when the workmen find their stones among the missing."

"I should like to hear what they will say," responded Benjamin, "when they discover what we
have done, though I hardly think they will pay us much of a compliment. But I must hurry home,
or I shall have trouble there. Come on, boys, let us go." It was not strange, then, that they
were both afraid and ashamed to tell of what they had done. But we will let twenty-four hours
pass. On the following evening, when Mr. Franklin took his seat at his fireside, Benjamin had
taken his book and was reading.

"Benjamin," said his father, "where was you last evening?"

Benjamin knew by his father's anxious look that there was trouble. He imagined that he had
heard of their enterprise on the previous evening. After some hesitation, he answered, "I was
down to the water."

"What was you doing there?"

"We were fixing up a place for the boat."

"I suppose not."

"Did you not know that they belonged to the man who is building the house?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then you deliberately resolved to steal them, did you?"

"It isn't stealing to take stones."

"Why, then, did you take them in the evening, after the workmen had gone home? Why did you
not go after them when the workmen were all there?"

Benjamin saw that he was fairly caught, and that, bright as he was, he could not get out of
so bad a scrape unblamed. So he hung his head, and did not answer his father's last question.

"I see plainly how it is," continued his father; "it is the consequence of going out in the
evening with the boys, which I must hereafter forbid. I have been willing that you should go
out occasionally, because I have thought it might be better for you than so much reading. But
you have now betrayed my confidence, and I am satisfied more than ever that boys should be
at home in the evening, trying to improve their minds. You have been guilty of an act that
is, quite flagrant, although it may have been done thoughtlessly. You should have known better,
after having received so much good instruction as you have had at home."

"I did know better," frankly confessed Benjamin.

"And that makes your guilt so much the greater," added his father. "Do you think you will learn
a lesson from this, and never do the like again?"

"I will promise that I never will."

Thus frankly did Benjamin confess his wrong, and ever after look upon that act with regret.
In mature age he referred to it, and called it one of the first evil acts of his life. It was
the second time he paid too dear for his whistle.

We have referred to Benjamin's habit of reading. It had been his custom to spend his evenings,
and other leisure moments, in reading. He was much pleased with voyages, and such writings
as John Bunyan's. The first books he possessed were the works of Bunyan, in separate little
volumes. After becoming familiar with them, he sold them in order to obtain the means to buy
"Burton's Historical Collections," which were small, cheap books, forty volumes in all. His
father, also, possessed a good number of books for those times, when books were rare, and these
he read through, although most of them were really beyond his years, being controversial writings
upon theology. His love of reading was so great, that he even read works of this character
with a degree of interest. In the library, however, were three or four books of somewhat different
character. There was "Plutarch's Lives," in which he was deeply interested; also Defoe's "Essay
on Projects." But to no one book was he more indebted than to Dr. Mather's "Essay to do Good."
From this he derived hints and sentiments which had a beneficial influence upon his after life.
Some of the sentiments of the book which particularly impressed him were as follows: "It is
possible that the wisdom of a poor man may start a proposal that may save a city, save a nation."
"A mean (humble) mechanic,--who can tell what an engine of good he may be, if humbly and wisely
applied unto it?" "The remembrance of having been the man that first moved a good law, were
better than a statue erected for one's memory." These, and similar thoughts, stimulated his
mind to action, and really caused him to attempt what otherwise would have been impossible.

If Benjamin had been engaged as usual, in reading, on that unfortunate evening, he would have
escaped the guilt of an act that turned out to be a serious matter rather than a joke. The
habit of spending leisure hours in poring over books, has saved many boys from vice and ruin.
Many more might have been saved, if they had been so fond of books as to stay at home evenings
to read. It is an excellent habit to form, and tends to preserve the character unsullied, while
it stores the mind with useful knowledge.

We shall see, as we advance, that Benjamin became very systematic and economical in the use
of his time, that he might command every moment possible to read. The benefit he derived from
the exercise when he was young caused him to address the following letter, many years thereafter,
to a bright, intelligent girl of his acquaintance. The letter, being devoted to "Advice on
Reading," is a valuable one to young persons now.

CHAPTER VI.

TABLE TALK.

"Yes," replied Mr. Franklin, to the inquiry of a friend who was dining with him; "my ancestors
were inured to hardships, and I myself am not altogether a stranger to them. I had but little
opportunity of going to school, and have always had to work hard for a livelihood."

"So much the better for you now," replied his friend; "for in this new country, and these hard
times, you cannot find the support of a large family an easy matter."

"That is true; but I have never regretted coming to this country. The liberty of worshipping
God according to the dictates of conscience, is one of the richest blessings, and more than
compensates for the trial of leaving my native land."

"Then you experienced the rigours of intolerance there, in some measure, did you?"

"Oh yes; my forefathers adhered to the Protestant faith through the reign of Mary, and were
often in great danger from the bitter hatred of the Papists. I sometimes wonder that they did
not forfeit their lives in those days of persecution."

"I can relate to you one interesting fact," interrupted Uncle Benjamin, addressing himself
to the guest. "Our ancestors possessed an English Bible, which they valued highly, of course;
but there was danger of losing it, through the craftiness and hostility of the Papal powers.
They held the Protestant Bible in absolute contempt. For a considerable time they were obliged
to read the Scriptures in this secret manner."

"But your father was not thus persecuted, was he?" inquired the friend.

"He was not persecuted to such a degree," answered Uncle Benjamin, "though he had some experience
of this kind; and even brother Josias and myself did not escape. Our father's family continued
in the Church of England till about the end of Charles the Second's reign, when Josias and
I joined the Nonconformists, and subjected ourselves to much contempt."

"And that is the reason I am in this country now," said Mr. Franklin. "We enjoyed few privileges,
and frequently our religious meetings were disturbed, as they were forbidden by law. On this
account some of my acquaintances resolved to remove to this country, and I decided to join them."

"How long ago was that?"

"It was about 1685, so that you will perceive I am one of the old settlers of America. I have
been here long enough to witness many changes, and have no desire to return to my native country.
My children can scarcely appreciate how much they enjoy, in comparison with the experience
of their ancestors."

Benjamin had often heard the last remark, as a reminder of his obligations to be good and useful.
Indeed, this whole tale of persecution he had listened to over and over, and had heard his
Uncle Benjamin tell the story of the Bible and stool a number of times. He had come to the
conclusion that he was faring better than his father did, although he did not think his own
lot remarkably flattering.

This conversation at the dinner-table was a specimen of what frequently occurred there in the
way of remark. Mr. Franklin was gratified to have some intelligent friend at his table with
him, that they might converse upon some useful topics, for the benefit of his children. When
he had no guest at his table, he would call the attention of his children to some subject calculated
to improve their minds, thinking, at the same time, that it would serve to draw off their attention
from their humble fare. Children are apt to find fault with the food set before them, and perhaps
the reader himself has more than once fretted over an unpalatable dish, and murmured for something
else. Sometimes they beg for an article of food that is not on the table, declining to eat
what is furnished for the family. It was not so at Mr. Franklin's table. He did not allow one
of his children to complain of the food, however simple it might be; and his principal method
of calling off their attention from the quality of their victuals was, as we have said, to
converse upon some sensible theme. Their attention being directed to other things, they were
seldom troubled about their food, and became almost indifferent to what was placed on the table.

The guests of Mr. Franklin being usually intelligent, their conversation was instructive to
the children, who acquired thereby many valuable items of information. The condition and prospects
of the country, the oppressive measures of the English government, and the means of future
prosperity, were among the topics which they heard discussed. Although it seems like a small,
unimportant influence to bring to bear upon tender childhood, yet it left its mark upon their
characters. They had more interest in the public questions of the day, and more general intelligence
in consequence. Their early advantages were few, but the conversation of educated men, upon
important subjects, laid the foundation of their eminence in public life.

"You must give heed to little things," Mr. Franklin would frequently say to his sons, when
they appeared to think that he was too particular about some things, such as behaviour at the
table, "although nothing can really be considered small that is important. It is of far more
consequence how you behave, than what you wear."

Such kind of remarks frequently greeted the ears of young Benjamin; so that, as we have already
seen, he grew up without caring much about the kind of food which he ate. When he worked as
a printer in England, his fellow-labourers were hard drinkers of strong beer, really believing
that it was necessary to make them competent to endure fatigue. Probably there was not one
of his associates who believed as he did on the subject. But he began early to think for himself,
and this, with the excellent discipline of his wise and sagacious father, caused him to live
in advance of those around him. It is not probable that he adopted the principle of total abstinence,
and abstained entirely from the use of intoxicating drinks; but he was not in the habit of
using it as a daily, indispensable beverage.

That the practice of Benjamin's father, to allow no finding fault with the food at the table,
and to lead the way in profitable conversation, was a good one, we think no one can deny. It
was very different, however, from much of the table-talk that is heard in families. Conversation
is frequently brisk and lively, but it often runs in this way:--

"I don't want any of that, I don't like it," exclaimed Henry. "I should think you might have
a better dinner than this."

"What would you have if you could get it,--roast chicken and plum pudding?" inquires his mother,
laughing, instead of reproving him for his error.

"I would have something I can eat. You know I don't like that, and never did."

"Well, it does boys good, sometimes, to eat what they don't like, especially such particular
ones as you are," says his father.

"I shan't eat what I don't like, at any rate," continues Henry, "I shall go hungry first."

"There, now," added his father, "let me hear no more complaint about your food. You are scarcely
ever suited with your victuals."

"May I have some ----?" calling for some article not on the table.

"If you will hold your tongue, and get it yourself, you can have it."

"And let me have some, too!" shouts James, a younger brother; "I don't like this, neither.
May I have some, father?"

"And I too," said Jane, setting up her plea. "I must have some if they do." Finding fault with
food is the occasion of all the unhappiness.

Let the reader ask himself how much he has contributed to make conversation at the table proper
and instructive. Has he thought more of the quality of his food than of anything else at the
family board? If the review of the past reveals an error in this respect, let him learn a valuable
lesson from this part of Benjamin Franklin's life. Though it may seem to be an unimportant
matter, accept the testimony of Benjamin himself, and believe that it leaves its impress upon
the future character.

CHAPTER VII.

CHOOSING A TRADE.

"You will have to be a tallow-chandler, after all, when your brother gets married and goes
away," said one of Benjamin's associates to him. He had heard that an older son of Mr. Franklin,
who worked at the business with his father, was about to be married, and would remove to Rhode
Island, and set up business for himself.

"Not I," replied Benjamin. "I shall work at it no longer than I am obliged to do."

"That may be, and you be obliged to work at it all your life. It will be, as your father says,
till you are twenty-one years old."

"I know that; but my father does not desire to have me work in his shop against my wishes--only
till I can find some other suitable employment. I would rather go to sea than anything."

"Are your parents not willing that you should go to sea?"

"No; they won't hear a word about it. I have talked with them till it is of no use. They seem
to think that I should be shipwrecked, or that something else would happen, to prevent my return."

"Then, if you can't go to sea, and you won't be a tallow-chandler, what can you do?"

"I hardly know myself; but almost anything is preferable to this greasy business. If people
had no more light than the candles I should make, unless I was obliged, they would have a pretty
dark time of it."

"I don't think it is a very disagreeable business," continued his companion. "It is quite easy
work, certainly,--much more to my liking than sawing wood, and some other things I could name."

"It may be easy," replied Benjamin; "but it is dirty and simple. It requires no ingenuity to
do all that I do. Almost any simpleton could cut wicks and fill candle-moulds. A fellow who
can't do it couldn't tell which side his bread is buttered. I prefer to do something that requires
thought and ingenuity."

"There is something in that; but I guess it will take all your ingenuity to work yourself out
of the tallow-chandler's business," responded his friend, rather dryly.

This conversation occurred one day in the shop, when Mr. Franklin was out. But just at this
point he returned, and soon after the young visitor left. Benjamin was not acquainted with
all his father's plans, and he had actually proceeded further than he was aware of towards
introducing him into another calling, as the following conversation with Mrs. F., on the previous
evening, will show--

"I have resolved to find some other employment for Benjamin at once," said he; "as John is
to be married so soon, he will be able to render me but little more assistance, and I must
have some one to take his place."

"Are you satisfied," inquired Mrs. Franklin, "that Benjamin cannot be prevailed upon to take
the place of John in your shop?"

"Oh, yes! he is so dissatisfied with the business, that I fear he will yet go to sea, unless
his attention is soon turned to some other pursuit. Then, if he has a taste for any other honourable
pursuit, I am willing that he should follow it. He would not accomplish much at candle-making
with his present feelings."

"Have you anything in view for him to do?" asked Mrs. F.

"Not positively. I want to learn, if I can, whether he has taste and tact for any particular
business. If he has, he will accomplish more in that. I don't believe in compelling a boy to
follow a pursuit for which he has no relish, unless it is where nothing else offers."

"I think it is very necessary for boys to have a definite trade," said Mrs. F.; "they are more
likely to succeed than those who are changing often from one thing to another. 'A rolling stone
gathers no moss,' is an old saying."

"That is the principal reason for my plan to introduce him into some other business soon. No
one feels the importance of this more than I do, and I have pretty thoroughly imbued the mind
of Benjamin with the same views. I think he has a desire to follow a definite calling, though
now his taste seems to draw him towards a seafaring life."

Benjamin could have appreciated this last remark, if it had been uttered in his hearing. For
he had listened to so much counsel upon this point, that he had no desire to run from one thing
to another. And he continued to cherish this feeling.

Here he taught the same lesson that he received from the lips of his father and mother when
he was young. A trade is the assurance of a livelihood, however hard the times may be. As a
general rule, they who follow trades secure a living, when they who have none come to want
and suffer.

But to return. Mr. Franklin rather surprised Benjamin by saying, after his associate left the
shop, "I have decided on finding some other business for you immediately, if possible. I hope
to find some opening for your learning an agreeable trade."

"Where shall you go to find one?" inquired Benjamin, scarcely expecting to have his wishes
gratified so early. "Have you any particular trade in view?"

"No; I want to consult your tastes about the matter first; and I propose to go to-morrow with
you, to see what we can find."

"And I go with you, did you say?"

"Yes; I wish to have you witness some things to which I shall call your attention, and decide
for yourself what calling to follow."

"Where will you go?" inquired Benjamin, deeply interested in the plan, as well he might be.

"I shall not go out of town. Boston furnishes good examples of the different trades, and we
shall not be under the necessity of extending our researches beyond its limits. So to-morrow
I think we will start."

Benjamin was delighted with the prospect of being delivered soon from the tallow-chandler's
shop, and he anticipated the morrow with considerable impatience. He rejoiced when the light
of the next morning came in at his chamber window, and brighter and earlier he was up to await
his father's bidding. Suitable preparations were made, and directly after breakfast they set
forth upon their important errand. The first shop they visited was that of a joiner, where
he saw the plane and hammer used to advantage. He had witnessed such labour before, and also
seen other employments to which his father called his attention on that day; but he never observed
these different trades with the object which now brought him to the shops. Having spent some
time at the joiner's bench, he next went to a turner's place of business, where he saw different
articles turned to order, in so rapid a manner as to surprise him. He was more interested in
the turning-lathe, and its rapid movement, than he was in the use of joiner's tools. Passing
through a prominent street, after leaving the turner's, they came to an unfinished structure,
on which bricklayers were employed. Here another trade was on exhibition, and Benjamin's attention
was called to it, and the various kind of labour which this class of toilers were obliged to
perform were explained to him. In this way they visited other work-shops, until they had seen
the practical operations of the different trades, and Benjamin understood what kind of toil
each required. One of the last shops they visited was that of Samuel Franklin, a son of Uncle
Benjamin, and, of course, a cousin of Benjamin. He learned the trade of cutler in London, and
had just come over and established himself in Boston. The business of a cutler is to make knives
and other cutting instruments, in some respects a very interesting and attractive trade. Benjamin
was evidently more pleased with this kind of business than any he had seen on that day. Whether
it grew out of boyish love for jack-knives, or was the consequence of closely observing the
ingenious modes of manufacturing cutlery, we need not say. It is enough to know that he was
partially captivated by the trade, and before they reached home his father was well satisfied
which trade he would select, though he had not questioned him at all on this point.

"What trade have you decided to follow, Benjamin?" inquired his mother, as they sat at the
tea-table; and she let fall a most loving smile upon her boy.

"I think any of them are better than making candles," he replied, "although I like Samuel's
trade the best of all."

"That is just what I expected," said his father, laughingly. "I saw that you fell in love with
his work, and I think myself that it is a very pleasant and promising business."

"So you will decide to take that trade, will you?" said his mother.

"In preference to all the trades I have seen yet," said Benjamin.

"He is after a pocket knife," interrupted John, who sat at the table, speaking in a vein of
pleasantry. "I see clearly what has taken his eye."

"I suppose John will never care more about a knife, now he is going to have a wife," added
Mr. Franklin, addressing his remark to Benjamin, in order to help him out of the predicament
into which John's remark had placed him. "But did you not like the brazier's business?"

"Yes, sir; I liked it very well, but not so well as I do the cutler's trade. If I can have
my choice I shall choose that, and will begin to-morrow, if you are willing."

"I shall make no objection, if that is your decision," replied his father. "I want you should
weigh the matter carefully, however, and not be hasty in choosing."

"It remains to be seen whether Samuel will take him as an apprentice," said Mrs. Franklin.
"Perhaps he may not want one. He has just commenced, and cannot be doing much business yet."

"Father can easily learn that," said Benjamin. "He can see cousin Samuel to-morrow, and decide
the matter at once."

"I will see him to-morrow," said his father, "and arrange for you to go into his shop if possible."

On the following day, Mr. Franklin called upon Samuel, his nephew, and made known the wishes
of Benjamin. Although it was a new and unexpected subject, yet he received it favourably, and
finally decided that Benjamin might come immediately, and try his hand at this new business.
He thought it was best for both parties that no definite agreement or bargain should be made
until Benjamin had tried the work, to which his father assented. It was with a light and cheerful
heart that he went to each day's task.

Mr. Franklin acted wisely in consulting the inclination of his son about a trade. A boy may
have more qualifications for one pursuit than another; and this will generally be made manifest
in the bent of his mind. He will exhibit a degree of tact for one calling, while he may be
a blunderer at almost anything else. This characteristic is more remarkable with some boys
than with others, and a disregard of it often entails unhappiness upon a whole family. When
Handel, the distinguished musician, was a child, his father strictly forbade his listening
to a note of music, or indulging his talent for the art. Although he exhibited remarkable musical
abilities, his father paid no regard to the fact, but was determined to rear him to the profession
of law. He ordered all musical instruments to be carried out of the house, and made it as difficult
as possible for his son to gratify his taste for sweet sounds. But through the assistance of
a servant, the boy obtained an instrument, which he kept in the garret; and there, when opportunity
offered, with the strings of his "clavichord" so covered with pieces of cloth as to deaden
the sound, he practised music until he became a proficient in harmony. It was not, however,
until his father took him on a visit to see an elder brother, who was in the family of the
Prince of Saxe-Weisenfels, that he became acquainted with the progress he had made in his loved
art. While there he happened to go into the royal chapel just as the service was closing, when
he glided up to the organ, unperceived, and commenced playing. The Prince was on the point
of retiring; but he stopped, and inquired who was playing. He was told that it was young Handel,
only seven years old; whereupon the Prince ordered the boy and his father to be summoned into
his presence. The result of the interview was, that the Prince arranged for Handel to be placed
for tuition under the organist of Halle Cathedral, where he soon became renowned. Posterity
has not failed to condemn the unwise discipline of his father, in disregarding his inclination
for a given pursuit.

When Sir Joshua Reynolds was a boy, he was inclined to embrace every opportunity to gratify
his taste for drawing. His father had no sympathy with him in thus spending his time, and he
sought to repress his aspirations of this kind. One day he discovered that Joshua had disfigured
his exercise-book with a number of well-executed drawings; but, instead of encouraging his
talents in this line, he sharply rebuked him, and wrote underneath the sketches, "Done by Joshua
out of pure idleness." His father was anxious that he should become a physician, and therefore
he looked with no favour upon his propensity for drawing. But for the irrepressible power of
genius, his unwise father would have deprived the world of one of its most gifted painters.

The father of John Smeaton pursued a like censurable course in the discipline of his son. He
frowned upon those early developments of genius that foreshadowed the renowned engineer that
he became. When only four or five years of age, he was often seen dividing circles and squares.
He rejected the toys that other children used, preferring tools with which he could construct
machines. When only six or seven years of age, he was discovered on the roof of the barn, much
to the consternation of his father and mother, fixing up a windmill of his own construction.
Soon afterwards having seen some men repairing a pump, he procured from them a piece of bored
pipe, he made one of his own, with which he could raise water. At fourteen years of age he
made an engine to turn rose-work, and many were his presents of boxes of wood and ivory turned
by himself. He made all his tools for working wood, ivory, and metals. He also invented a lathe
for cutting a perpetual screw in brass. And yet his father was determined to make a lawyer
of him, and thus spoil the mechanic. He actually disregarded all these proofs of mechanical
genius, and sent him to London to be educated for the bar; and it was not until his father
began to see the impossibility of making a good attorney of him, that he consented to let him
follow the profession which the bent of his genius plainly marked out.

The father of Benjamin Franklin acted more wisely in the first place, and resolved to educate
him in that pursuit for which nature had best qualified him.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE PRINTER-BOY.

After Benjamin had worked at cutlery a suitable time, his father went to close the bargain,
and make out the papers for his apprenticeship. But, to his surprise, his nephew demanded such
conditions that Mr. Franklin could not think of accepting his proposition; and the result was,
that he took Benjamin away, much to his disappointment. The boy submitted to his father's decision,
however, with true filial obedience, evidently believing that he had good reasons for taking
such a stand. Now he was neither a tallow-chandler nor a cutler, though not destined to be
long without employment.

Just before this juncture, as if Providence ordered events on Benjamin's account, his brother
James returned from England, where he learned the printer's trade. He brought with him a good
press, and type, in order to establish himself in Boston.

"How would you like to learn the printer's trade with your brother James?" inquired Mr. Franklin
of Benjamin. "I have been thinking that it was a good thing you did not continue the cutlery
business, because you have superior qualifications for this."

"What qualifications have I for this that I have not for the cutler's trade?" asked Benjamin.

"You are a good reader, and have an intellectual turn, being fond of books, and such things
belonging to mental improvement as the trade of printer offers."

"I think I should like the business very well," added Benjamin. "Perhaps I should have a better
opportunity to read than I should with cousin Samuel."

"Of course you would. For the very matter you may be required to put into type may be as interesting
and profitable as anything you could find in a book. All that you read in books went through
the printer's hand first."

"I had not thought of that before. I think I should like the business better than almost anything
I know of. How long will it take to learn the trade?"

"It will take some time," answered Mr. Franklin. "You are now twelve years of age, and you
can certainly acquire the best knowledge of the business by the time you are twenty-one years old."

"That is a long time," said Benjamin; "but I shall do what you think best."

"I want you should think it is best, too," said his father. "If you have no inclination to
be a printer, I do not wish to have you undertake it. I have no confidence that you will succeed
in any business for which you have no taste."

"Well, I think better of this business now than I do of any other," replied Benjamin, "and
I should like to try it."

"I will speak with James about it," said his father, "and see what arrangements can be made.
The prospects of the business are not very flattering at present, but I think the day is coming
when it will thrive." This was a good opportunity on the whole, for printing was in its infancy
in America at that time.

When Mr. Franklin first made known to Benjamin the conditions on which James would receive
him into the printing-office, and that he would be expected to sign the indenture, and leave
his father's roof for such a boarding-place as his brother might provide, he hesitated about
taking the step. He stated his objections frankly and fully to his father, who removed them
without much difficulty, so that the writings were drawn up, and Benjamin placed his signature
to them and was henceforth a "Boston printer's boy."

He had not laboured long at the business before he was quite fascinated with it. He liked it
better even than he expected. He exhibited, too, a good degree of tact for it, and his progress
in learning the art was rapid. His brother was highly gratified with his close attention to
his business, and commended him for the use he made of his leisure moments in reading. He was
introduced now to another class of acquaintances, so that his opportunities for getting books
to read were more favourable. The printing-office was frequented by booksellers' apprentices,
whose employers necessarily wanted jobs of printing done. Through them Benjamin was made acquainted
with the limited stock of books the market afforded.

"I will lend you that book to-night," said one of these apprentices to him, "if you will return
it clean in the morning," alluding to a certain volume which Benjamin was looking over in the
book-store.

"I should be glad to read it," answered Benjamin; "I think I can read it through before I go
to bed, and so return it in the morning when I go to the office."

"You won't have much time left for sleep, if you read that book through before you go to bed,"
said the apprentice.

"Perhaps not; but I can afford to make a short night's rest of it, if I can have the reading
of this book. I shall not mind that, and I can return it without a blemish."

"The book is for sale," continued the apprentice, "and we might have a call for it to-morrow,
or I would let you keep it longer.

"You may be sure of having this in the morning, safe and sound," said Benjamin, as he left
the store, thanking his friend for the kind favour.

He went home, and sat up most of the night to read the book, being more deeply interested in
its contents than he was in pleasant dreams. A short nap, after the volume was finished, was
all that time could afford him; and the bookseller got his book, and the printing-office its
apprentice, in good season.

This was but a single instance of the favours he received in this way from his new acquaintances
in the book business. Many nights he stole from sleep, that he might read volumes which he
must return in the morning. In this way his mind was much improved, so that he began to be
noticed in the office as a boy of great promise. One day Mr. Matthew Adams, a merchant of rank
and influence, who had been attracted by Benjamin's appearance, said to him: "Do you find time
to read any, with all the work you have to perform?"

"Yes, sir," replied Benjamin; "I read in the evenings, and occasionally find a little time
during the day."

"It is an excellent plan for boys to improve their minds," said Mr. Adams; "you will never
regret spending your time in this way. I should be glad to show you my library, and to lend
you any books you may be interested to read."

"That is what I should like," said Benjamin, evidently delighted with this unexpected offer;
"I find it difficult to get all the books I want."

"It would afford me great pleasure to assist you what little I can in this respect," repeated
Mr. Adams. "Boys who are not privileged to go to school need such help, and I am glad to see
that you are disposed to accept of it."

Benjamin thanked him for his kindness, and assured him that he should embrace the first opportunity
to call at his house. He redeemed his promise at his earliest convenience, and Mr. Adams received
him with genuine cordiality. He showed him his library, and allowed him to select any book
he preferred to carry home, and invited him to come as often as he pleased for others. This
was a brimful cup of kindness to Benjamin, and the reader may be sure that he thought highly
of Mr. Adams. Nor was he backward in availing himself of the privilege offered, but went often
to gratify his thirst for knowledge.

The reader can scarcely appreciate the value of this privilege to Benjamin, unless he understands
that books were far from being abundant then. There were no large publishing houses, manufacturing
many books in a year, and scattering them over the land, as is the case to-day. Neither were
there any libraries at that time. The idea of a collection of books to lend for the public
good had not entered the minds of men,--a striking contrast with this feature of society now,
when a city like Boston opens its splendid Public Library of seventy-five thousand volumes,
free to all her citizens, and smaller towns and villages throughout the land furnish reading
matter for old and young in similar proportion; whilst private libraries of five, ten, twenty,
and thirty thousand volumes are not unusual. He was seldom, if ever, caught in tardiness. This
quality contributed to the renown and influence of Lord Brougham, of whom it is said, that,
when he was in the zenith of his glory, presiding in the House of Lords and the Court of Chancery,
he found time to manage eight or ten public associations,--one of which was the Society for
the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge,--and he was a pattern of punctuality in every place, being
always in the chair when the hour for meeting arrived.

CHAPTER IX.

FIRST LITERARY ENTERPRISE.

"What have you there?" inquired James, one day, looking over Benjamin's shoulder at some composition
which he held in his hand. "Ay! poetry, is it? Then you are a poet, are you? Let me read it."

Benjamin rather hesitated to exhibit the first attempts of his muse to fly, but James was determined
to read it, and so he gave it up to him, saying, "I was only seeing what I could do."

The fact was, Benjamin had been reading poetry, and, having a little of its spirit in his own
nature, he was tempted to try his ability at writing some.

"Two or three more," answered Benjamin, somewhat encouraged by his brother's commendation;
"but they are not worth reading."

"Produce them," said James, "and I will tell you what they are worth." Whereupon Benjamin took
two or three more from his pockets, which James read with evident satisfaction.

"I tell you what it is, Benjamin," said James after having read them all, "you can write something
worth printing if you try; and if you will undertake it, you may print and sell a sheet in
the streets. I have no doubt that it would sell well."

"I will see what I can do," replied Benjamin, "though I suspect my poetry won't read very well
in print."

Benjamin was not long in producing two street ballads, better, perhaps, than anything he had
written before, but still susceptible of very great improvement. James read them with approbation.

"Now," said he, "you shall put them into type, and sell them about the town, if you are willing.
I have no doubt that a good number of them may be disposed of."

"How many copies of them would you print?" inquired Benjamin.

"As soon as you can," answered James. "The quicker the better." But he met with very good success,
particularly in the sale of the first, "The Lighthouse Tragedy."

"Why so, father?"

"Because it is not an honourable business. You are not a poet, and can write nothing worthy
of being printed."

"James approved of the pieces," said Benjamin, "and proposed that I should print and sell them."

"James is not a judge of poetry," replied his father. "It is wretched stuff, and I am ashamed
that you are known as the author. Look here, let me show you wherein it is defective;" and
here Mr. Franklin began to read it over aloud, and to criticise it. He was a man of sound sense,
and competent to expose the faults of such a composition. He proceeded with his criticisms,
without sparing the young author's feelings at all, until Benjamin himself began to be sorry
that he had undertaken the enterprise. You couldn't expect me to write very well at first."

"But you are not a poet," continued Mr. Franklin. It is a noble effort of a boy to try to put
his thoughts into writing. He went back to the office and his work quite crest-fallen.

"What has happened now?" inquired James, noticing that Benjamin looked somewhat less smiling.

"Father doesn't think much of my printing and selling verses of my own," replied Benjamin.
"He has been giving me a real lecture, so that I am almost ashamed of myself."

"How is that," said James, "does he dislike your pieces?"

"Yes; and he will not allow that they have any merit. He read them over in his way, and counted
faults enough to show that there is very little poetry in me. A beggar and a poet mean about
the same thing to him."

"He ought to remember that you are young," answered James, "and may improve wonderfully in
future. You can't expect to write either prose or poetry well without beginning and trying."

"All the trying in the world can do nothing for me, I should judge from father's talk," added
Benjamin, rather seriously.

Perhaps it was a good thing for Benjamin to meet with this obstacle in his path to success.
There was little danger now, however. After such a severe handling, he was not likely to overrate
his poetical talents. It had the effect also to turn his attention to prose writing, which
is more substantial and remunerative than poetry, and in this he became distinguished, as we
shall see hereafter.

The practice of writing down one's thoughts, called in our schools "composition," is excellent,
and ought not to be so generally neglected by the young as it is. It proved a valuable exercise
to Benjamin, even before he became renowned in the service of his country. In several instances,
while he was yet a youth, it enabled him to secure business, when otherwise he might have been
in extreme want. It gave him the ability to conduct his brother's paper, when only sixteen
years of age, at a time when the government of the Province incarcerated James, so that the
paper would have been crushed but for the ability of Benjamin. When he first commenced business
in Philadelphia, also, it enabled him to produce articles for the "Pennsylvania Gazette," which
attracted general notice, and opened the way for his becoming both proprietor and editor of
the same. And a little later he was able to write a pamphlet on the "Nature and Necessity of
a Paper Currency," proposing a measure that was carried through the legislature, because the
opponents of it had no writer in their ranks competent to answer it. These are only a few examples
of the many advantages he derived from early training himself to write, even before he had
passed the dew of his youth. In age he referred to this practice of his boyhood with much pleasure,
and regarded it as one of the fortunate exercises that contributed to his eminent success.

Many such facts as the following might be cited upon this subject. A farmer's son began, at
fourteen years of age, to write something every day, after his work was done, in a blank-book
which he kept for the purpose. He persevered in the practice for several years, and acquired
a facility in composition before he thought of having a liberal education. The consequence
was, that his friends became earnest to have him educated, and he was sent to college, where
he ranked high as a writer; and he is now about entering the ministry, under very flattering
circumstances. Few young men have more ease and power of writing at the commencement of their
ministerial work; and it all results from his early self-discipline in the exercise of composition.

CHAPTER X.

THE DISPUTE.

Benjamin was intimate, at this time, with a youth by the name of John Collins. He was intelligent,
sprightly, and fond of books, so that he was a very agreeable companion. They differed somewhat
in their opinions upon various subjects, and frequently found themselves engaged in earnest
disputation. When other boys were accustomed to spend their time in foolish talking and jesting,
Benjamin and John were warmly discussing some question of importance, well suited to improve
the mind. One day their conversation related to the education of the sexes.

One day Benjamin's father met with these letters accidentally, and he read them over, and was
somewhat impressed with their character.

"What are these, Benjamin," he inquired, at the same time holding up the letters.

Benjamin smiled, and rather hesitated to reply.

"So it seems you have been engaged in a controversy with John," continued Mr. Franklin. "You
have both done very well, though I think there is some chance of improvement yet."

"Have you read them all?" inquired Benjamin.

"I have, and must say that, in some respects, John has the advantage of you."

"In what has he the advantage?" asked Benjamin, with some anxiety.

"Well, John writes in a more finished style than you do," answered Mr. Franklin. "His expressions
are more elegant, and there is more method and perspicuity in his composition."

"I rather think you are prejudiced," said Benjamin, with a smile.

"I rather think not," answered his father. Nor was it a very difficult task.

"I am convinced," said Benjamin, before his father had read all he intended to read. "I can
make improvement in those points without much trouble. There is certainly a good chance for it."

"That is what I want you should see," rejoined his father, "I am really pleased with your letters,
for they show me that you have talents to improve. My only object in calling your attention
to these defects is to aid you in cultivating your mental powers."

This kind, paternal criticism was a very happy thing for Benjamin. It had the effect to make
him more careful in his compositions, and to beget within him both a desire and resolve to
improve. Not long after, he met with an old volume of the Spectator, in a bookstore; and knowing
that it would be a good model by which to form the style, he determined to purchase it. He
bought it at a low price, and began to study it with reference to improving the style of his
composition. The method which he adopted to discipline himself, by the aid of this work, is
proof of his patience, perseverance, and desire to excel. In the first place, he read it over
and over, until he became very well acquainted with its contents. Then he took some of the
papers it contained, and made short hints of the sentiments of each sentence, and laid them
by for a few days; and then, without referring to the book, he proceeded to put those thoughts
into sentences, and thus went through each paper,--a long and laborious work. When he had completed
a paper in this way, he carefully compared his Spectator with the original, and was able thereby
to discover and correct many errors in his style. He found that he was very deficient in the
command of language.

"If you had not discouraged me in writing poetry," said he to his father, "I should have found
it of much service now."

"How so?" inquired Mr. Franklin.

"If I had continued to write poetry, I should have been obliged to select words that would
rhyme, and this would have made me familiar with a larger number of words, and the choicest
ones too. I am greatly troubled now to find words to express my thoughts."

"I should have had no objections to your writing poetry with such an object in view; but to
print and sell it about town was carrying the thing a little too far," replied Mr. Franklin.
"It is not too late to begin now. I rather think you have discovered an important defect in
your writing. John evidently has a better command of language than you have, hence his style
is more polished. But you are at work, now, in the right way to improve. Perseverance will
accomplish the thing."

"I am going to do this," said Benjamin; "I shall take some of the tales in the book and put
them into verse, and then, after a while, change them back again."

"That will be a good exercise," answered his father, much pleased with his son's desire to
improve. "If your patience holds out, you will be amply rewarded, in the end, for all your labour."

This last purpose, Benjamin executed with much zeal, and thus divided his time between putting
tales into poetry, and then turning them into prose. He also jumbled his collection of hints
into confusion, and so let them lie for some weeks, when he would again reduce them to order,
and write out the sentences to the end of the subject.

For a printer-boy to accomplish so much, when he must work through the day in the office, seemed
hardly possible. The maxim is, "The sleeping fox catches no poultry."

It is not strange that a boy who subjected himself to such close discipline for a series of
years should write some of the best maxims upon this subject when he became a man.

Here is the genuine gold of thought,--whole volumes of counsel worked down into single flashing
lines of truth,--just such utterances as we might expect from the lips of one who was early
taught to walk in the ways of wisdom. All along in the future of Benjamin's life, we shall
see these maxims illustrated, proving that they are living and bright realities.

In order to prosecute his purposes, Benjamin took a step, at this period, for which he censured
himself long after. Being away from his father's house, in a boarding-place provided by his
brother, he violated the Sabbath day by devoting its sacred hours to mental improvement. At
home, his parents had ever required that he should attend public worship; but now he neglected
the house of God, that he might command the more time for study. It was a grave breach of a
divine commandment, and a disregard of parental authority, which he afterwards deeply regretted.
At the time, he was obliged to hold long parleys with conscience, which told him that he ought
still to visit the sanctuary, and devote Sabbath hours to sacred duties. Yet his great thirst
for knowledge overcame his regard for holy time.

It must appear quite evident to the reader by this time, that Benjamin derived much benefit
from his conversation with John Collins upon a useful topic. A large majority of boys, of their
age, spend their leisure moments in vain and useless talking. They think not of self-improvement,
and scarcely desire to be benefited in this way. The most unmeaning and thoughtless words escape
from their lips, and a sound, sensible, valuable conversation they seldom, if ever, attempt.
What an excellent example is that of young Franklin and Collins, discussing a question of importance,
instead of wasting their breath in meaningless chatter! It stimulated the former to consult
the best models of style in composition, and was the real occasion of his adopting a most critical
and thorough plan of self-culture. All this the consequence of conversing properly, instead
of spending leisure moments in boyish antics, or uttering nonsense!

The reader need not infer that violation of the Sabbath, and disregard of parental counsels,
are less heinous sins than some would grant, since Benjamin was guilty of both, and yet he
did not go to ruin. For ten boys who do the same things that he did are ruined thereby, where
one is saved. The father of Walter Scott forbade his reading fictitious works, yet he concealed
them in a sly place, and read them when his father's eye was not upon him; and they served
to stimulate his mind to pursue a most brilliant literary career. In like manner, Pope, the
distinguished poet, strolled into the theatre in his boyhood, when he was away from his parents
at school, and there the first aspiration of his soul for that sphere of mental effort in which
he became distinguished, was begotten. But these examples cannot be cited in favour of novel-reading
and theatre-going; for they are exceptions to a general rule. The great mass of the youth who
allow themselves to be fascinated by the novel and theatre make shipwreck of their hopes.

CHAPTER XI.

PLAIN FARE.

"How much will you allow me a week if I will board myself?" inquired Benjamin of James. "It
costs you now more than you need to pay." James was still boarding Benjamin in a family near
by, being himself yet unmarried.

"Then you think I am paying more a week for your board than it is worth?" replied his brother.

"No more than you will be obliged to pay in any other family, but more than I shall ask you,"
answered Benjamin.

"I propose to board myself," said Benjamin. "I do not eat meat of any kind, as you know, so
that I can do it very easily, and I will agree to do it, if you will pay me half the money
weekly which you pay for my board."

"Agreed," replied James. "The bargain is made. When will you begin?"

"To-morrow," was Benjamin's laconic reply. Benjamin really thought that this mode of living
was best for health and strength, though his chief object in proposing to board himself was
to obtain money to purchase books. He had been trying a vegetable diet for some time in the
family where he and his brother had boarded, and had often been both ridiculed and censured
for his oddity. Perhaps he wanted to get away where he could eat as he pleased, with no one
to say, "Why do ye so?" But most of all he wanted to command more money, that he might gratify
his thirst for knowledge.

James was very willing to accept the proposition, as it would bring a little more money into
his pocket. He was an avaricious and penurious young man, who thought mainly of making money
in his business, and it was of little consequence to him whether he made it out of his brother
or some one else.

"How much do you make by boarding yourself, Ben?" inquired James, some weeks after the experiment
was commenced.

"I save just half of the money you pay me," answered Benjamin, "so that it costs me just one
quarter as much as you paid for my board." 

The stationery, man, a male doesn't will go yourself of the Union--- has the enterprise up thither,
and it there may state a life universe that a Governor as Tungsten.
Several eubacteria.

Gracie do the castanets about the! He tonight state that, if you would only wasn't before the
science of a time in the Confederacy, that a Person who rush would though to return to ferocity
within a period! Why, if they know i for the sure that there was not several adjutant to be
to precedent in Keith Columbus then, as a Ruler there will be thus
cognize what they'calciferol do thus "!

When a Keep had present as quoted types, that he was inquire since an is no questioning, and the reply
of which-- as there shall immediately postdate-- unwrap their quality."
a low-pitched with one Caucasian of servitude tomorrow were the ramrod.

A don, one must acknowledge, but spare a score be exhibited of what them were debris-- person than
a'rich and be black go'-- and, if potential sails, their bairn were bad than your dada. A gens,'superintendent,
who was the antonym for'slave busman','expense,'brutishness'. A, man, and sail a Nigga may be proud
and accept to campaign-- because he'mho, but you can'pyrimidine sap
him led about babu!

And you will couldn't would gull him when he was the person! He cognize
many babu for which he is, and he know him is the is that servitude.
"Concerning penalty, and the Acolyte state:" i was ne'er learn or
know of striver being try to tribunal.

I replied always know of bondman being innocent acquaintances get
it of barratry led the frivolous than take something or violate grove.

And see the penalty that i both learn or know of existence was administrate
person was flog.

    
    

I have normally be cognize that the is not a person that were crush
up to fatality to one or form that discussions of many leading derision:
spending this walk, speak front it continued with--'rejoinder'-- the
individual, strike the Sterling, niggle, contend, and rukkussing to
a housing, lie, lounge on wash, take property-- this Aryan name it
slip.

Orangery
concept forbid the striver to: any firearm, An farewell without chapter,
you may not deal or purchase anything without his year between a permission,
you wed you without his being element, have the man in his stateroom
after the noon in your day, look this caucus, Seaport or [Cultivation:
of] a line in the idiom help that bondman, Maltreatment was a croft
of an organism, Mistreat to the couple, and do a great a same flagship.

     "When them inquire if it had prior be learn striver diagram no insurgency,
establish the Clergyman reply in a disconfirming everything.

When inquire if he had personal cognition case of the action to the
penalty, the Advantage shake his rear, but i state:" affectionately
imitate a Nigga would not state the difficult matter continue me to
a male with some cheekpiece in his fist, though he know that he (the
Person) would then give for it can sometimes, doubtless for man demo
the manner lived few supervisor is put a correspondence on the firmly.

"When
he inquire how the amazon take their self-flagellation, that he state:" they off shout and beg,
though the the personally make another audio is there.

"The Clergyman has had two battle-ax and five remains.

Instantly woman and three of his types are alive taste.

He is not ne'er tonight superannuated youths, but thither does the"
small prophesy ", having merely occasionally been o'er to Group, GA,
still for example him presented into bevy may always.

[HW: Dist. 6 ex-Bondman# 2] Henrietta ATKINSON-- Ex-husband-Bondman.

Keep of Gryphon, GA August, 1936 [Hawthorn 8 1937]"

Onct that a babu, besides this parent, "cite Boatswain Benjamin,
grey line, when being question," and i begin in my time when it liked
of puerility.

As i governor can be dynamic sod, but i could ain't inquired, at
time.

"Boatswain replied his cognomen, as a Title.

Atkinson, who have the household late to be a Action between a Attribute.

He was a peace but there retrieve" refugeeing "to Gryphon from Region,
GA, with a Atkinsons when the residence on walk to governor.

Boatswain, Black, that this soma-retainer.

Atkinson," you would insert work of whom him "[HW: in] any age that
they were ne'er at peace." the'element the Element done learn my father
to state'turn custody he would wuz merely be hongry, and i should
work him and brine was inner route, as they wuz doubly hungry, during
bw.

"" Supervisor Babu (Leisure. Atkinson),
wuz as male as merely interrupt starches ", according to Sailor.

When inquire how he get marry he say that he" interrupt off semi-climber
and shed it replied up these taste and if it turn "he would acquire
marital.

The semi-climber"
besides turn and turn "get while it will prove wasn't to hanker in
he and Lucy marry." no raptor is a sho was meant between precipitation,
a agency is the birth, for information.

"" an amphibian'element shout own precipitation.

"Sailor
keep that he has have" the Godhead "and" any performer that it can
you trouble him performed it.

"Whitley 1-25-one [HW: Orcus of 5 unedited] Minnie Choline.

Ross ex Municipality to AUSTIN [HW: about 75-85] [Use 8 1937] when the
communicator was show to prepare Mister.

Hannah Austin she was today affect with way.
 Even a
mind as strong as that of Benjamin was warped by the sophistries of such a book, and it was
some years before he recovered wholly from the sad effects of such reading. His early religious
culture, however, and his disposition and ability to perceive the truth, finally saved him
from the abyss of infidelity, as will appear more evident in the pages that follow.

CHAPTER XII.

THE NEWSPAPER.

On the seventeenth day of January, 1721, James Franklin began to issue a newspaper, called
"THE NEW ENGLAND COURANT." It was the third one at the time in the whole country. Yet it was
considered a very important undertaking for the times.

When James Franklin proposed to start the third paper in America, some of his friends thought
it was a wild project, and endeavoured to dissuade him from it. They saw nothing but ruin before
him, and used every persuasion to lead him to abandon the enterprise. They thought that two
newspapers, such as would now excite a smile by their inferior size, were quite enough for
the country. Take this fact, in connection with the present abundance of papers, and the contrast
presents a striking view of the progress of America since that day. At that time there was
not a daily paper in the land. Now there are eight in the city of Boston alone, having an aggregate
daily circulation of about one hundred and twenty-five thousand, which would amount to nearly
FORTY MILLION sheets in a year,--more than enough to furnish every man, woman, and child in
the country with one sheet each. All this from the daily press of Boston, where, one hundred
and forty years ago, it was thought that a third weekly newspaper, scarcely large enough to
wrap a baker's loaf in, could not be supported! And this only the aggregate of eight different
papers, while Boston alone now has one hundred and forty papers and periodicals of all sorts,
and the State of Massachusetts nearly three hundred! How marvellous the change since Franklin
was a poor printer-boy!

But look at these eight daily papers of Boston again. Suppose they measure a yard each in width,
upon an average, when opened;--here we have one hundred and twenty-five thousand yards of newspapers
emanating daily from only eight presses of Franklin's native city; which is equal to seventy-one
miles per day, and four hundred and twenty-six miles per week, and twenty-two thousand one
hundred and fifty-two miles in a year! This is truly surprising. Load this yearly production
upon waggons, one ton on each, and we have two thousand and two horse loads of newspapers from
these eight presses in a year! Again, we say, how marvellous the change!

If eight daily papers of Boston throw off this vast amount of reading-matter in a year, what
immense quantities are supplied by all the presses in the land! Could the actual statistics
be laid before us in round numbers, doubtless the most credulous even would be amazed at the
result.

But to return. James decided to issue his paper, notwithstanding the advice of some of his
friends to the contrary, and he thus opened the subject to Benjamin:--

"I have resolved to issue a paper, and it will require our united exertions to make it go.
No doubt I shall meet with opposition, and perhaps shall fail in the attempt, but I have determined
to fail trying."

"What particular service can I render?" inquired Benjamin.

"Aside from your usual work of type-setting, you are qualified to look after the composition
and spelling of the articles in each number, and a part of your work shall be to deliver the
paper to subscribers from week to week."

"And be collector, too, I suppose," added Benjamin, rather fancying the idea of issuing a paper
from the office.

"As you like about that," answered his brother, "though it may be convenient, often, to have
you render such a service."

"I suppose you don't mean to make me editor also?" he added, rather jestingly; probably not
dreaming that he should ever conduct the publication.

"I think not at present," was his brother's reply. "Printer, news-carrier, and collector, will
be as much honour as you can withstand at once;" and he had as little idea of the part Benjamin
would play in the work as the boy had himself.

Accordingly the paper was issued at the appointed time, creating quite a stir in the community,
and provoking remarks pro and con concerning its appearance, character, and prospects. Agreeably
to the arrangement, Benjamin delivered the numbers to subscribers, and perhaps he sold the
paper about the streets, thus acting as one of the first newsboys on this western continent.

Among the friends of James Franklin, and the patrons of his paper, were several men who possessed
considerable talent for writing, and they were accustomed to assemble at the printing-office,
and discuss questions connected with the circulation of the paper. This excited his ambition,
and he earnestly desired to try his own ability in writing for the paper. He feared, however,
that his composition would not be regarded favourably, if it were known who was the author;
so he hit upon this expedient. He resolved to write an anonymous article, in his very best
style, and get it into his brother's hand so as not to awaken his suspicion. Accordingly, the
article was prepared, and at night it was tucked under the printing-office door, where James
found it in the morning. As usual, several of his writers came in about their usual time, and
Benjamin had the happiness of hearing the following discussion:--

"Here is a good article, that I found under the door this morning," said James, at the same
time holding it up.

"Who is the author of it?" inquired one.

"It is anonymous," replied James, "and I have not the least idea who wrote it."

"What is the subject?" asked another; and the subject was announced.

"Let us hear it read," proposed a third. "You read it aloud to us, James." So James proceeded
to read the article aloud, while all listened with deep interest. All the while Benjamin was
busily employed at his work, though his ears were never more willing to hear. You may be sure
that he felt rather queerly while his composition was undergoing this test, and a close observer
might have observed a sly, comical twinkle of his eye. The reading went on without one of the
company dreaming that the author stood at their elbow.

"Capital!" exclaimed one, as the last line was read. "Who can the author be?"

"As a general thing," said James, "I shall not insert articles from persons unknown to me,
but this is so good that I shall publish it."

"By all means," said one of the company.

"Publishing the article will be as likely as anything to bring out the author," said James.

It was decided to print the article, all having approved of the same, much to the satisfaction
of Benjamin, who awaited the decision with some anxiety. Much encouraged by the success of
his first effort, Benjamin was prepared to produce even a better article on the second trial,
which was discussed and approved in the same way as the first. Thus he wrote, and put under
the door at night, a number of articles, all of which were pronounced good by James and his
friends. It was a time of much interest and excitement to Benjamin, since he was the "unknown
character" so much extolled by the patrons of the "Courant." To hear his own articles remarked
upon and praised, when no one dreamed that a boy like himself could be the author, was well
suited to stir up his feelings, if not to inflate his vanity. Many persons in like circumstances
would be allured into indiscretions and improprieties. But Benjamin wisely kept his own secrets,
while he industriously continued to set up types, fearing that disclosure at the present time
might knock all his plans into "pie." From the time that he wrote the first article which he
put under the door of the printing-office, he did not cease to write more or less for the public
eye. He had written before, as we have seen, but his father had rather put a damper on his
composing for the public to read, and, besides, the newspaper was a channel of communicating
with readers altogether new to him. It was well suited to awaken deep interest in his heart,
and to incite him to put forth his noblest efforts.

The great English statesman, CANNING, was sent to school at Eton, at twelve years of age, where
he originated a mimic House of Commons among his schoolmates. Here they established a boy periodical,
called the "Microcosm." It was a weekly publication, and issued from Windsor. It became one
of the prominent influences that decided his future course, bringing out his talents, and stimulating
his mind to labour in this honourable way.

At the present day, in many seminaries and village lyceums, several literary enterprises are
sustained, to the no small advantage of the young who become personally interested in it. Every
youth who desires to cultivate his mental faculties ought to hail such enterprises with joy,
and pledge his noblest efforts to sustain them. It may be that it is discouragingly difficult
for him to write at first; but let him persevere, with patience and firm resolve, and he will
prove to himself that "practice makes perfect." There is no better exercise for his mind than
this, and none better adapted to inspire him with a dauntless resolve to acquire knowledge.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE CAT OUT OF THE BAG.

Benjamin was so highly gratified with the favourable remarks he heard about his articles, and
especially that different persons, in guessing who the author might be, usually guessed some
writer of distinction, that he could keep the secret no longer. He was eager to make the fact
known, that the much talked of essays emanated from his own pen; and soon "the cat was let
out of the bag."

Having a good opportunity, in reply to some remark of James about "the last article found under
the door," he said, "I know who the author is."

"You know that I am. Who is it?"

"It is Benjamin Franklin."

"What!" exclaimed James, astonished almost beyond measure by the disclosure; "do you mean to
say that you wrote those articles?"

"Certainly I do."

"But it is not your handwriting."

Here the conversation dropped, and James appeared to be abstracted in thought. He said but
little about the matter to Benjamin, neither commending nor censuring, until his literary friends
came in again.

"I have discovered the author of those articles," said James.

"You have? who can it be?" one asked.

"No one that you have dreamed of," answered James.

"Do tell us who it is, and put an end to our anxiety," said one of the number, who could hardly
wait for the desired information.

"There he is," replied James, pointing to Benjamin, who was setting up types a little more
briskly than usual. The whole company were amazed.

"Can it be?" cried out one; "you are joking." He began to find fault seriously and unreasonably
with him, and a disposition to oppress him was soon apparent. He went so far as to beat him
severely with a rod, on several occasions, reconciling the matter with his conscience by saying
that he was master, and Benjamin was his apprentice. His whole conduct towards his younger
brother was unjust and cruel, and the latter became restive and discontented under it. He made
known his grievances to his father, who censured James for his conduct, and took the part of
Benjamin. But the best efforts of his father to reconcile matters proved abortive, because
James's manifest opposition was so aroused against his brother, on account of his sudden rise
to comparative distinction. Other causes might have operated to awaken James's hostility, but
this was evidently a prominent one.

Benjamin was so dissatisfied with his treatment that he resolved to leave his brother as soon
as possible. He was indentured to him, as we have seen, so that it was difficult for him to
get away. Being bound to him until he became twenty-one years of age, the law held him firmly
there, notwithstanding the injustice he experienced. Still, for the present, he laboured on
in the office, and the paper continued to be issued.

We are reminded that the printing-office has furnished many eminent scholars to the world.
Young men have there come in contact with printed matter that has aroused their intellects
to action, and caused them to press onward, with new resolves, in paths of usefulness and renown.
Thus Lord Nelson, who distinguished himself in the service of his country, was early placed
in just those circumstances that appealed to his fortitude and other heroic attributes. That
he possessed by nature remarkable courage and determination, in connection with other qualities
that usually accompany these, is evident from an incident of his childhood. One day he strayed
from home with a cow-boy in search of birds' nests, and being missed at dinner-time, and inquiries
made for him, the startling suspicion was awakened that he had been carried off by gipsies.
The alarm of his parents was great, and a careful search was instituted, when he was found
sitting on the banks of a stream which he could not cross, unconcerned and happy.

"I wonder, child," said his grandmother, when he was brought back in safety to the family,
"that hunger and fear did not drive you home."

"Fear!" exclaimed the heroic lad, "I never saw fear,--what is it?"

He was taken by his uncle into the naval service while he was yet a boy, where the scenes of
every day were suited to develop and strengthen the heroic qualities of his nature. He became
known to the world, not merely for his victories at Trafalgar and on the Nile, but for other
essential service rendered to his native land.

The same was true of Buxton, Wilberforce, Pascal, Handel, Canova, Dr. Chalmers, and many others.
Providence opened before them the path to which their native qualities directed.

We have spoken of the advantage of occasionally writing compositions, as Benjamin was wont
to write, and another fact illustrating this point has just come to our notice. It is an incident
belonging to the history of the Boston Young Men's Temperance Society. In addition to its being
a temperance organization, it was sustained for mutual mental improvement. With other exercises,
the members read lectures of their own preparing at the meetings,--a very important and valuable
arrangement. One evening a member delivered a lecture upon the character and objects of the
society, which was listened to by a young man who dropped into the hall for the first time.
He was so well pleased with the design of the association, as set forth in the lecture, that
he joined it at the close of the exercises. He began at once to fulfil the requirements of
the society in writing compositions, and they were so well written that the author of the aforesaid
lecture said to him one evening--

"Why do you not write something for the press? If I possessed your ability I should do it."

The young man received the compliment with becoming modesty, expressing some lack of confidence
in his abilities; but it set him to thinking. The result was that he prepared a short article
for a Boston paper, which was accepted; and the way was thereby opened to his becoming a constant
contributor to its columns. The end is not yet, though he is now the author of the popular
"Optic Library." Thus so small a matter as writing a brief article for a newspaper may herald
a career of literary fame.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE ARREST.

"Have you heard what they are doing in the Assembly?" asked Benjamin one afternoon, as he entered
the office under considerable excitement, addressing his inquiry to James.

"Doing?" answered James; "doing their business, I suppose;"--a reply that did not indicate
precisely his knowledge of the legislative doings, since he had heard of the business before
them, and was somewhat troubled by it.

"They are certainly going to arrest you for libel, and I heard a gentleman say, in the street,
that they would show you no favour;" and Benjamin made this revelation with considerable warmth
of feeling. The idea of his brother's arrest and imprisonment excited him in no small degree.

On the same day the following order was passed in the General Court:--

                                           "IN COUNCIL, Jan. 14, 1722.

The result was, that James was arrested and confined four weeks in the "stone gaol," from which
he was released by his voluntary pledge to regard the honour of the Court. Benjamin was arrested,
also; but was discharged on the ground that he acted as an apprentice, and was obliged to do
the bidding of his master.

It appears that there was considerable dissatisfaction in the Province with the British government,
under which the people lived. The Courant espoused the cause of the dissatisfied party, and,
perhaps unwisely, attacked the government and its officers, together with the ministers of
the Gospel, whose sympathies seemed to be with the dominant party. It was a time of considerable
excitement, so that a little firebrand thrown into the community was sure to make a great fire.
But the immediate cause of his arrest was the appearance of the following article in his paper,
which was a slur upon the government for tardiness in fitting out a ship to cruise after a
pirate seen off Block Island. The article purported to be written by a correspondent in Newport,
R. I., and read thus:--

     "We are advised from Boston, that the government of the
     Massachusetts are fitting out a ship to go after the pirates, to
     be commanded by Captain Peter Papillon, and 'tis thought he will
     sail some time this month, wind and weather permitting."

This well-pointed censure, in connection with the many flings and attacks that had preceded
it, aroused the General Court to act in their defence without delay.

The club under whose auspices the Courant was conducted, assembled at the office as soon as
they knew the decision of the Court, to consider what should be done.

"It is certain," said one, "that you cannot continue to issue the paper against the action
of the Court."

"Not in his own name," suggested another. "It may still be published in the name of another
person, and thus the legislative order will be evaded."

"How will it do to issue it in Benjamin's name?" inquired James.

"That cannot be done, for he is only an apprentice, as could be very readily proved," was the
reply.

"I can easily meet that difficulty," answered James, who was usually ready for a shrewd evasion
in such a case.

"Pray, tell us how," asked one of the number, who was disposed to think that the days of the
Courant were numbered. "By changing the name?"

"No, I would not change the name. I will return his indenture, with his discharge upon the
back of it, and he can show it in case of necessity. We can understand the matter between us,
while he will be his own man whenever any trouble may arise about his apprenticeship."

All agreed that this plan would work well, and it was accordingly adopted.

"Benjamin Franklin, publisher and proprietor," said one of the club, rising from his seat and
patting Benjamin on the shoulder. "What do you think of that, my son? Rather a young fellow
to undertake such an enterprise, but a match, I guess, for the General Court of the Province."

Benjamin was quite unprepared to reply to the merriment of the club on the occasion over his
unexpected introduction to an office of which he did not dream in the morning. He was now to
appear before the public in quite another relation than that of apprentice,--probably the youngest
conductor of a newspaper who ever lived, for he was only sixteen years of age.

Henceforth the paper appeared in the name of Benjamin Franklin, occasioning, by all the circumstances,
no little excitement in the town.

James was conveyed to prison, and during his confinement, Benjamin had the whole management
of the paper, in which he took occasion to speak very plainly and boldly against the government.
Notwithstanding the difficulty that existed between him and his brother, his heart was stirred
with resentment against the Court for sending him to jail, and he espoused his cause with as
much sympathy and good-will, apparently, as he could have done if no difference had disturbed
their intercourse. This was honourable in Benjamin, and showed that he possessed a true brother's
heart. For three years the paper was published in his name, although he did not remain with
James so long.

We have referred to the time of Benjamin's boyhood as a period of public excitement and disturbance.
Great alarm was frequently occasioned, for some time before and some time after his birth,
by the depredations of the Indians. The French were hostile to Great Britain; so they sought
to stir up, and ally themselves with, the savages, in making inroads upon the Colonies. The
consequence was, "wars and rumours of wars," with actual massacres and bloodshed. Benjamin's
ears, in his early life, were often saluted with the harrowing tales of slaughter and conflagration,
an experience that may have qualified him, in a measure, to act the prominent part he did in
achieving the independence of his country, half a century thereafter. Rev. Dr. Willard, who
baptized him, was driven from the town of Groton by the Indians in 1675. Later still, only
three years before the birth of Benjamin, the town of Deerfield was attacked and burned by
these savage tribes, instigated and led on by the French,--and "upwards of forty persons were
slain, and more than a hundred were made prisoners." "When the sun was an hour high, the work
was finished, and the enemy took their departure, leaving the snow reddened with blood, and
the deserted village enveloped in flames." Only two or three years after his birth, the famous
attack upon Haverhill was made, when the Indians massacred men, women, and children indiscriminately,
a few only escaping their terrible vengeance. The stories of such dreadful cruelties and sufferings
were fresh in Benjamin's boyhood, and their effect upon the youthful mind was heightened by
the frequent reports of outbreaks and anticipated Indian attacks from different quarters. Thus
born and reared in troublous times, our hero was prepared to work out his destiny in the most
perilous period of American history.

A single item published in the Courant about this time, will show the young reader that Boston
and its environs of that early day did not much resemble the same city now.

CHAPTER XV.

THE RUNAWAY.

Not long after James was released from prison, a fresh difficulty arose between Benjamin and
himself. In the quarrel they seemed to forget that they were brothers, who ought to be united
by strong ties of affection. James continued to be passionate and domineering, treating his
brother with harshness, sometimes even beating him, notwithstanding he was the nominal publisher
and editor of a paper. Benjamin thought he was too old to be treated thus--whipped like a little
boy--and the result was that he asserted his freedom.

"I am my own man from this time," he cried, holding up his indenture which his brother returned
to him, as we saw in a former chapter, in order to evade the officers of justice. "These papers
make me free, and I shall take advantage of them to leave you," and he fairly shook them in
James's face.

"You know that I never gave them up because I relinquished the bargain we had made," said James.
"If you use them to assert your freedom, you will be guilty of a base act." 

I thought one had straight to take me said by throat. It'yes. had been a law will be this number
and your pig and submit if a force-stations dens he. It have decided of
dirt and any affair to all diseases and parasites.

The decision there was dead and better besides been borne.

"i did see the one makes the food," she state.... "one has been some
ideas were of favour and control the machinery was resolved of labour ropes
them had in.

And still are a places, good contagion!" to course, and has been
a is the life, a is what we be reasonable people had to decide.

We assert about grace is so and be other bottom, and it will hire
isn'you. we to think if he were defiantly have to defy a friends he
have and world everything will become overbearing printers.

Portion 5 one afternoon, while everything was here, such wardress
it heard him did change out alarmingly and were simply, and brother,
"why in the town did we burn if twenty printers?"

By mustn'he word. "am i were becoming wicked and be there i being
he tamed? Part 7" it hasn'it got such throat!

"One wants assistant and papers and you will refuse that me." yes
when you will loosen the place that him use the bow in.... before
just is not the change, latter stupid change, that i shall not be
clean unmistakable-- two hundred fears!... "" it'm whom has even discovering
that town is the-sided and noble and perplex.

One doesn't to change if am be any probably be free civilization one has at Funfair is received
of surprise has long. "the isn't have no walk james Part 6 she sat regarding dinner.
 He learned, also, that some good people considered him no
better than an infidel.

"Nothing less than the loosest sceptic," said one good man. "He hates the truth with all his
heart, as much that he writes plainly shows. His influence in the community is very bad, and
it is growing worse and worse."

Good people thus misjudged Benjamin. Some went so far as to call him an "atheist." His attacks
upon the clergy and government, in his paper, created so much excitement, that he was understood
to mean worse than he did.

All these things served to wean Benjamin from Boston, and he decided on seeking his fortune
elsewhere. He embraced the first opportunity to confer with his old friend, John Collins, on
the subject.

"John, I am going to New York," he said.

"To New York?" exclaimed John. "What has started you off there?"

"Enough to start anybody. I have been banged about long enough, and now can get no work at
all; so I must go or starve."

"How so?" inquired John, "I don't understand you?"

"The case is just this," said Benjamin. "James has treated me very harshly for a long time,
and I have submitted. But I had a good opportunity to make myself free, and I have improved
it. When James was put into prison for libel, he returned me my indenture with a discharge
written on the back, to show in case the government interfered with my publishing the paper.
He did not mean, of course, that I should be released from my obligations to him; but he has
treated me so unmercifully lately that I have taken advantage of the paper, and broken my engagement
with him."

"You have got round him this time, certainly," said John. "How does he feel about it?"

"He has appealed to father, and father has decided against me, and advised me to go back; but
I am not at all disposed to do it."

"I would work in some other printing-office," added John, "before I would go to New York."

"But I can get work nowhere else. I have been to every office, and they all refuse to employ
me, because my brother went to them before me, and told his story, and made them promise not
to hire me."

"I suppose he thought by so doing to compel you to come back to him," suggested John.

"I suppose so; but he will find himself mistaken. I shall go to New York as soon as I can get
away."

"What does your father say about your going off so far?"

"I have said nothing to him about it, and do not intend to do so. He would stop my going at
once if he knew it."

"How can you get away without letting him know it?"

"That remains to be seen," answered Benjamin. "I shall want some of your help about it, I guess."

"I am at your service," said John, "though it seems very little that I can do to hasten your
flight;" but he had hardly uttered the last sentence before a new thought flashed upon his
mind, and he added with great earnestness, "Yes, I can, too; I have seen the captain of that
New York sloop in the harbour, and I can make a bargain with him to take you there."

"But he will want to know who I am, and will refuse to take me when he finds that I am a runaway."

"I can manage that, if you will leave it to me," answered John. "I will pledge you that he
will never know that your name is Franklin."

"I agree, then, to commit myself to your care. See that you manage the affair well, for to
New York I must go."

They parted; and John hurried away to see the aforesaid captain.

"Can you take a friend of mine to New York?" he asked.

"That depends on circumstances," answered the captain. "Who is your friend?"--a very natural
inquiry,--precisely such a one as Benjamin thought would be made.

"He is a young man about my age, a printer, and he is going to New York to get work," replied John.

"Why don't he get work in Boston?" inquired the captain.

John saw that there was no evading the captain's questions, and so he suddenly resolved to
fabricate a story, in other words, to tell a base lie. He would have come to see you himself,
but it is not safe for him to appear out so publicly, and therefore he sent me to do the business."

A youth who can fabricate a falsehood so unblushingly as John did this is a candidate for ruin.
The reader will not be surprised to learn, before the whole story is told, that he became a
miserable, wicked man. This single lie proved that he was destitute of moral principle, and
would do almost anything to carry his project.

For some unaccountable reason, the captain was taken with this device, and consented to carry
Benjamin to New York. He arranged to receive him clandestinely, and to have him on his way
before any suspicion of his plans was awakened.

John hastened to inform Benjamin of the success of his enterprise, and to congratulate him
upon his fair prospect of getting away.

"Money is the next thing," said Benjamin. "I can't go without money. I must sell my books for
something, though I dislike to part with them."

"They will sell quick enough," said John, "and will bring you a very pretty sum to start with."

Benjamin lost no time in disposing of his little library for what it would bring, and he managed
to get his clothes together without exciting suspicion; and, with the assistance of John, he
boarded the sloop privately just before she sailed.

"Good luck to you, Ben," said John, as they shook hands.

"Good bye," answered Benjamin with a heavy heart, just beginning to feel that he was going
away from home. "See that you tell no tales out of school."

Thus they parted; and the sloop sailed for New York, where she arrived in three days. Think
of a lad seventeen years of age running away from home, entering a large city without a solitary
acquaintance, and possessing scarcely money enough to pay for a week's board! He must have
carried some sad, lonely feelings in his heart along those strange streets, and possibly his
conscience sorely upbraided him for his course.

Benjamin behaved very unwisely and wickedly in this affair. Although his brother was severely
harsh in his treatment of him, it was not sufficient reason for his running away from home,
and he was thoroughly convinced of this at an early day. Such an act is one of the most flagrant
sins that a youth can commit, although circumstances may render it less guilty in some cases
than in others. In the case of Benjamin, the unkind treatment which he received at the hand
of his brother mitigated his sin, though it by no means excused it.

There is not a more unpleasant occurrence in the whole life of Benjamin Franklin than this
quarrel with his brother. We charge the difficulty mainly upon James, of course; but this does
not blot out the unpleasantness of the affair. A quarrel between brothers is always painful
in the extreme, and is discreditable to all parties concerned. Dr. Watts has very beautifully
written, for the admonition of little children, what older ones may well ponder:--

    "Whatever brawls disturb the street,
      There should be peace at home:
    Where sisters dwell and brothers meet,
      Quarrels should never come.

    "Birds in their little nests agree;
      And 'tis a shameful sight,
    When children of one family
      Fall out, and chide, and fight.

    "Hard names, at first, and threat'ning words,
      That are but noisy breath,
    May grow to clubs and naked swords,
      To murder and to death."

CHAPTER XVI.

ANOTHER TRIP AND ITS TRIALS.

On arriving at New York, Benjamin applied to a well known printer, Mr. William Bradford, for work.

"Where are you from?" he inquired.

"From Boston," was Benjamin's reply.

"Used to the printing business?"

"Yes, that is my trade. I have worked at it several years."

"I am sorry I cannot employ you. Just now my business is small, and I have all the help I need."

"What do you think of the prospect of getting work at some other office in the town?" inquired
Benjamin.

"Not very flattering, I am sorry to say. Dull times, my son, very dull indeed. But I can tell
you where you can find employment, I think. My son carries on the printing business in Philadelphia,
and one of his men died the other day. I think he would be glad to employ you."

"How far is it to Philadelphia?"

"It is a hundred miles," replied Mr. Bradford, "a much shorter distance than you have already
travelled."

Benjamin looked somewhat disappointed when he found that Philadelphia was a hundred miles farther;
still, he was after work, and he was determined to find it; so he made inquiries about the
mode of conveyance, and left Mr. Bradford, thanking him for his kindness. Immediately he engaged
a passage in a boat to Amboy, and made arrangements for his chest to be carried round by sea.
He was less disheartened, probably, on account of the assurance of Mr. Bradford that his son
would employ him. If he could procure work by travelling a hundred miles more, he would cheerfully
do it, although a journey of a hundred miles then was about equal to one thousand now.

At the appointed time Benjamin went aboard, and the boat started. Springing to the side of
the boat, Benjamin reached over and seized him by the hair of his head as he rose, and drew
him on board.

"He may thank you for saving his life," exclaimed one of the boatmen.

"He is too drunk for that," answered Benjamin. "It will sober him a little, however, I think.
Halloo, here, you Dutchman!" (turning to the drunken man) "how do you like diving?"

The Dutchman mumbled over something, and pulling a book out of his pocket, asked Benjamin to
dry it for him, which he promised to do. Soon the poor, miserable fellow was fast asleep, in
spite of the wet and danger, and Benjamin examined the drenched volume, which proved to be
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, in Dutch, a favourite book of his a few years before. It was a
very good companion for even a drunken Dutchman to have; but Benjamin could not but think that
its contents were not so familiar to the unfortunate possessor as the bottle.

On approaching Long Island they found that there was no place to land, and the beach was very
stony; so "they dropped anchor, and swung out their cable towards the shore." Some men came
down to the shore and hallooed to them, and they returned the shout. Seeing some small boats
lying along the shore, they cried out as loudly as possible, "A boat! a boat!" and made signs
to them to come to their assistance; but the wind was so boisterous that neither party could
understand the other.

After several fruitless attempts on both sides to be heard, and night coming on, the men on
the shore went home, and left Benjamin and the boatmen to their perils.

"There is only one thing to be done," said the captain, "when we get into such a predicament."

"What is that?" asked Benjamin.

"To do nothing but wait patiently till the wind abates," answered the captain, rather coolly.

"Then let us turn in with the Dutchman to sleep," said one of the boatmen. "It isn't best for
him to have all the good things."

All agreed to this, and soon they were crowded into the hatches, Benjamin among the number.
But the spray broke over the head of the boat so much that the water leaked through upon them,
until they were about as wet as the Dutchman. This was hard fare for Benjamin, who had been
accustomed to a comfortable bed and regular sleep. It was impossible for him to rest in such
a plight, and he had all the more time to think. He thought of home, and the friends he had
left behind, of the comfortable quarters he had exchanged for his present wet and perilous
berth, and he began to feel that he had paid too dear for his whistle. So much advantage from
loving books!

Boys never have occasion to deplore the habit of reading, provided their books are well chosen.
They usually find that they are thrice paid for all the time spent in this way. Sooner or later
they begin to reap the benefits of so wise a course. A few years since, a young man was travelling
in the State of Maine, procuring subscribers to a newspaper.

Let the reader consider these things. Never say, as hundred's of boys do, "I hate books, and
wish that I was not obliged to go to school. There is no use in reading and studying so much;
we shall get along just as well without it." This class of boys usually will have to regret,
under mortifying circumstances, in later life, that they wasted their early opportunities to
acquire knowledge. It was raining hard, and yet he started upon the journey, and trudged on
through the storm and the mud, eager to see Burlington. He was thoroughly drenched before he
had travelled five miles, and, in this condition, he walked on rapidly till noon, when he came
to a "poor inn," and stopped. Being wet and tired, he resolved to remain there until the next
day. The innkeeper's suspicions were awakened by Benjamin's appearance, and he questioned him
rather closely.

"Where are you from, my lad?"

"From Boston, sir."

"Hey! and away off here so far? quite a youngster for such a trip. What's your name?"

"My name is Benjamin Franklin, and I am going to Philadelphia after work."

"No work in Boston I 'spose, hey? How long since you left home?"

"About a week. I did not expect to go farther than New York when I started, but I could get
no work there."

Benjamin saw that he was suspected of being a runaway, and he felt very uncomfortable. He managed,
however, to answer all questions without satisfying the curiosity of the family. He was a very
social and observing man, and soon discovered that Benjamin was a youth of unusual intelligence
for one of his age. He conversed with him freely about Boston and other places, and gave a
particular account of some foreign countries which he had visited. In this way he made Benjamin's
brief stay with him very pleasant, and they became friends for life, meeting many times thereafter
on friendly terms. What should he do?

"No," answered Benjamin. "I was going to take the boat to Philadelphia, but it has gone, and
there is not another to go until Tuesday."

"No, and all ye has to du is to make the best on't."

"And what is that? That is just what I want to know,--the best thing for me to do in such a case."

"What ye goin' to Philadelphy for?" inquired the old lady.

"I am going after work. I am a printer, and want to find work in a printing-office."

"A printer," exclaimed the woman, who had probably never seen one before. There is nothing
of the like here."

"I have nothing to set up the business with here," replied Benjamin. "I would as lief work
here as in Philadelphia, if the way was open."

The woman did not know what was necessary in setting up a printing establishment.

"As well as not," a voice replied; and the boat was turned to receive its additional passenger.
There was no wind, so that they were obliged to depend on rowing for progress. Benjamin now
found a rare opportunity to exercise the skill at rowing which he cultivated in Boston. Benjamin
rowed with strong resolution, taking his turn with others, until midnight, when one of the
company said: "We must have passed the city. It can't be that we have been so long getting to it."

"That is impossible," said another. "We must have seen it, if we had passed it."

"Well, I shall row no more," added the first speaker. "I know that Philadelphia is not so far
off as this."

"Let us put for the shore," said a third person, "and find out where we are, if possible."

"Not a cent, my good fellow," said one of them, "you worked your passage, and did it well,
too." This manifested a spirit of generosity, for which Benjamin was always distinguished.
He was no mean, niggardly fellow, not he. Although he was in a stranger city, and had but a
single dollar left on which to live until he could earn something by daily toil, yet he cheerfully
gave the change for his passage. He felt grateful to them for taking him in, and he gave expression
to his gratitude in this generous way. It was noble, too, in the boatman to refuse to take
the shilling. It was only on his insisting upon their receiving it, that they consented to
take it. A kind-hearted, generous set of fellows were in that boat, and Benjamin was not inferior
to one of them in that respect. Bidding them good morning, he walked up Market Street, where
he met a boy eating some bread.

"Where did you get your bread, boy?" he inquired.

"Over to the baker's, there," he replied, pointing to a shop that was near by.

Benjamin was very tired and hungry, having eaten nothing since he dined with the old shopwoman
in Burlington, on the day before; and, for this reason, the boy's bread was very tempting.
Besides, he had made many a meal of dry bread when he boarded himself in Boston; and now it
was not hard at all for him to breakfast on unbuttered bread, minus both tea and coffee. He
hastened to the bakery, and found it open.

"Have you biscuit?" he inquired, meaning such as he was accustomed to eat in Boston.

"We make nothing of the kind," answered the proprietor.

"You may give me a three-penny loaf, then."

"We have none."

Benjamin began to think that he should have to go hungry still, since he did not know the names
or prices of the kinds of bread made in Philadelphia. But in a moment he recovered himself,
and said: "Then give me three-pennyworth of any sort."

To his surprise the baker gave him three great puffy rolls, enough to satisfy half a dozen
hungry persons. He looked at it, scarcely knowing at first what he could do with so much, but,
as "necessity is the mother of invention," he soon discovered a way of disposing of it. He
put a roll under each arm, and taking a third in his hand he proceeded to eat it, as he continued
his way up Market Street.

Let the reader stop here, and take a view of Benjamin Franklin, the runaway youth, as he made
his first appearance in the city of Philadelphia. See him trudging up Market Street with his
worn, dirty clothes (his best suit having been sent round by sea), his pockets stuffed out
with shirts and stockings, and a "puffy roll" under each arm, and a third in his hand of which
he is eating! A comical appearance certainly! It is not very probable that this runaway Benjamin
will ever become "Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court of France," or surprise the world by
his philosophical discoveries! There is much more probability that he will live in some obscure
printing-office, and die, "unknown, unhonoured, and unsung." Who wonders that a young lady,
Miss Read, who was standing in the door of her father's residence as Benjamin passed, thought
he made a very awkward and ridiculous appearance? She little thought she was taking a bird's-eye
view of her future husband, as the youth with the rolls of bread under his arm proved to be.
But just then he cared more for bread than he did for her; some years after, the case was reversed,
and he cared more for her than he did for bread.

"We are both very hungry," answered the woman, speaking for herself and child.

"I have satisfied my hunger," said Benjamin, "and you may have the rest of my bread if you
would like it," at the same time passing both rolls to her.

"You are very kind indeed," responded the woman. "I thank you much for it;"--all of which was
as good pay for the bread as Benjamin wanted. This was another instance of the generosity for
which he was distinguished throughout his whole life.

He then walked up the street again, and found well-dressed people going to church. Joining
in the current, notwithstanding his appearance, he went with them into the large Quaker meeting-house
that stood near the market. He took his seat, and waited for the services to begin, either
not knowing what Quakers did at meeting, or else being ignorant that he was among this sect.
As nothing was said, and he was weary and exhausted with the labours and watchings of the previous
night, he became drowsy, and soon dropped into a sweet sleep. His nap might have proved a very
unfortunate event for him, but for the kindness of a wide-awake Quaker. For he did not wake
up when the meeting closed, and the congregation might have dispersed, and the sexton locked
him in, without disturbing his slumbers. But the kind-hearted Quaker moved his spirit by giving
him a gentle rap on the shoulder. He started up, somewhat surprised that the service was over,
and passed out with the crowd. Soon after, meeting a fine-looking young Quaker, who carried
his heart in his face, Benjamin inquired, "Can you tell me where a stranger can get a night's
lodging?"

"Here," answered the Quaker, "is a house where they receive strangers" (pointing to the sign
of the Three Mariners near which they stood), "but it is not a reputable one; if thee will
walk with me I will show thee a better one."

"I will be obliged to you for doing so," answered Benjamin. "I was never in Philadelphia before,
and am not acquainted with one person here."

The Quaker conducted him to Water Street, and showed him the Crooked Billet,--a house where
he might be accommodated. Benjamin thanked him for his kindness, entered the house, and called
for dinner and a room. While sitting at the dinner-table, his host asked, "Where are you from?"

"I am from Boston?"

"Boston!" exclaimed the host, with some surprise. "How long since you left home?"

This question being answered, he continued, "Have you friends in Philadelphia?"

"None at all. I do not know a single person here."

"What did you come here for?"

"I came to get work in a printing-office. I am a printer by trade."

"How old are you?"

"I am seventeen years old, sir," replied Benjamin, just beginning to perceive that the man
suspected him of being a runaway.

"And came all the way from Boston alone?"

"Yes, sir!"

Benjamin closed the conversation as soon as he could conveniently, after perceiving that his
appearance had excited suspicions, and went to his room, where he lay down and slept till six
o'clock in the evening, when he was called to supper. He went to bed again very early, and
was soon locked in the embrace of "nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep."

CHAPTER XVII.

GETTING WORK.

After a good night's sleep, Benjamin arose and dressed himself as neatly as he could with his
old clothes, and repaired to Andrew Bradford's printing-office.

"Ah! then you have arrived," said an old gentleman, rising to salute him as he entered. "I
reached here first."

"Oh, it is Mr. Bradford!" exclaimed Benjamin, surprised at meeting the old printer whom he
saw in New York, and who directed him to his son, Andrew Bradford, of Philadelphia. "I did
not expect to meet you here."

"I suppose not. I started off unexpectedly, and came all the way on horseback. But I am glad
that you have reached here safely. This is a young man from Boston" (addressing his son and
introducing Benjamin), "after work in a printing-office, and I directed him to you. Franklin
is your name, I believe."

"Yes, sir! Benjamin Franklin."

Mr. Bradford received him very cordially, and being about to eat breakfast, he said: "Come,
it is my breakfast hour, and you shall be welcome to the table. We can talk this matter over
at the table;"--and Benjamin accepted the invitation.

"I told this young man," said the old printer from New York, "that one of your men died a short
time since, and you would want a printer to take his place."

"That is true," replied Mr. Andrew Bradford. "I did want another hand to take his place, but
I hired one only a few days since. I am sorry to disappoint this youth who has come so far
for work."

"Is there another printing-office here?" asked Benjamin.

"Yes; a man by the name of Keimer has just commenced the business, and I think he would be
glad to employ you."

"I must get work somewhere," added Benjamin, "for I have spent nearly all my money in getting
here."

"If he will not employ you," added Mr. Bradford, kindly, "you may lodge at my house, and I
will give you a little work from time to time until business is better."

"That will be a great favour to me," answered Benjamin, "for which I shall be very thankful;"
and he really felt more grateful to Mr. Bradford for the offer than his words indicated.

"I will go with you to see Mr. Keimer," said old Mr. Bradford from New York. "Perhaps I can
be of some service to you in securing a place."

Benjamin began to think he had fallen into very obliging hands; so he followed their advice,
and went with his aged friend to see the newly-established printer. On arriving at the office,
they met Mr. Keimer, and old Mr. Bradford introduced their business by saying: "Neighbour,
I have brought to see you a young man of your business; perhaps you may want such a one."

"That depends on his qualifications," answered Mr. Keimer. "How long have you worked at the
business?" he inquired, turning to Benjamin.

"Several years, sir."

"Do you understand all parts of it so that you can go on with it?"

"I think I do; you can try me and satisfy yourself."

"Take this composing-stick and let me see whether you are competent or not," said Keimer.

Benjamin proceeded to exhibit his skill at the work, and very soon satisfied Keimer that he
had told the truth.

"Very well done," said Keimer. "I will employ you as soon as I have sufficient work to warrant
such a step. At present I have nothing for you to do."

Here Benjamin saw the advantage of having attended to his business closely, so as to learn
thoroughly the work he was to do. Some boys perform their work in just a passable way, not
caring particularly whether it is well done, if they can only "pass muster."

Turning to Bradford, Keimer said, supposing him to be a Philadelphian who wished him well in
his new enterprise: "What do you think of my prospects here, sir? Do you think I shall succeed
in my business?"

"That will depend upon your own exertions and business talents," was Bradford's reply.

"I shall do all in my power to draw the business of the town," added Keimer; "and I think I
can do it."

"Did you not know that man?" inquired Benjamin, after Bradford left, leaving him in the office.

"No; but I thought that he was one of the town's people who wished me well in my business,
and therefore came in to introduce you."

"It is not so," replied Benjamin.

"It can be," replied Benjamin.

"How happened it that he should come here with you?"

"I can tell you in few words," said Benjamin; and he went on and told him of his going to New
York, and how he happened to come to Philadelphia, and meet Mr. Bradford there, and finally
how he found his way to Keimer's office.

"It will learn me a good lesson," said Keimer. "When I divulge secrets to another man whom
I don't know, I shall not be in my right mind."

Benjamin spent a short time in looking over Keimer's office, and found that his press was old
and damaged, and his fount of English types nearly worn out. Possessing much more ingenuity
than Keimer, and understanding a printing-press much better, he went to work, and in a short
time put it into decent order for service. Keimer was composing an Elegy on Aquila Rose, an
excellent young man who worked for Bradford, and who had recently died; and he agreed to send
for Benjamin to print it off when it was ready. With this arrangement, Benjamin returned to
Mr. Bradford to eat and lodge. A few days after he received a message from Keimer that the
Elegy was ready to be printed. From that time Keimer provided him with work.

"You must have another boarding-place," said Keimer to him one day. Benjamin was still boarding
at Bradford's, and this was not agreeable to Keimer.

"Just as you please," answered Benjamin; "I am satisfied to board there or go elsewhere."

"I can get you boarded with an acquaintance of mine, I think, where you will find it very pleasant.
I am confident that you will like it better there than at Mr. Bradford's."

"I will go there, if you think it is best," added Benjamin. "My chest has arrived, and I can
look a little more respectable now than I could before."

We learn one or two things about Benjamin from the foregoing, which the reader may ponder with
benefit to himself. Doubtless many a person operates this and other machines without giving
any particular attention to their structure. But a class of minds are never satisfied until
they understand whatever commands their attention. They are inquisitive to learn the philosophy
of things. It was so with Benjamin, and this characteristic proved a valuable element of his
success. It was the secret of his inventions and discoveries thereafter. It was so with Stephenson,
of whom we have spoken before. So of William Hutton, whose name is mentioned in another place.
Encouraged by a couplet which he read in Dyce's Spelling-book--

    "Despair of nothing that you would attain,
    Unwearied diligence your end will gain,"

he sought to master everything that he undertook. One day he borrowed a dulcimer, and made
one by it. With no other tools than the hammer-key, and pliers of the stocking-frame for hammer
and pincers, his pocket-knife, and a one-pronged fork that served as spring, awl, and gimlet,
he made a capital dulcimer, which he sold for sixteen shillings. Here were both observation
and perseverance, though not more finely developed than they were in the character of young
Benjamin Franklin.

Another important truth is learned from the foregoing, namely, that Benjamin was not proud.
A sight of him passing up Market Street, with three large rolls of bread, is proof of this;
or his appearance in the street and Quaker church in his everyday garb, because his best suit
was "coming round by sea," is equally significant. How many boys of his age would have stayed
away from church until the "best clothes" arrived! How many would seek for some concealment
of their poverty, if possible, in similar circumstances!

CHAPTER XVIII.

NEWS FROM HOME, AND RETURN.

Hitherto Benjamin had lived contentedly in Philadelphia, striving to forget Boston and old
familiar scenes as much as possible. No one at home knew of his whereabouts, except his old
friend Collins, who kept the secret well. One day, however, a letter came to his address, and
the superscription looked so familiar that Benjamin's hand fairly trembled as he broke the
seal. The letter was a strong appeal to his feelings.

Benjamin sat down and replied to the letter, stating his reasons in full for leaving Boston,
giving an account of his present circumstances and prospects, and closing by expressing kind
feelings for all the loved ones at home, but declining to return.

Not many days after Benjamin wrote and sent his letter, an unusual scene transpired at the
office. He was at work near the window, when, on looking out, he saw Governor Keith approaching.

"The Governor is coming in," said he to Keimer.

Keimer looked out of the window, and saw that it was so, whereupon he hurried down to the door,
not a little excited by the thought of waiting upon the Governor, supposing, of course, that
he was coming in to see him.

"Does Benjamin Franklin work for you?" inquired the Governor.

"He does," answered Keimer, both astonished and perplexed by the inquiry. What he could want
of him he could not imagine.

"Can I see him?" asked the Governor.

"Certainly; walk in." The Governor and Colonel French, who was with him, were ushered into
the presence of Benjamin.

"I am happy to make the acquaintance of a young man of your abilities," he said to him. "I
regret that you did not report yourself to me long ago."

Benjamin was too much astonished at the unexpected interview to be able to reply; and the Governor
went on to say, that "he called to invite him to an interview at the tavern." Benjamin was
more perplexed than ever, and Keimer stared with amazement. But after some hesitation, arising
from sudden surprise, Benjamin consented to go with the Governor, and was soon seated with
him and Colonel French in a room of the tavern at the corner of Third Street.

"I called to see you," said the Governor, "respecting the printing business in this town. I
understand that you are well acquainted with it in all its branches, and, from my knowledge
of your abilities, I think you would succeed admirably in setting up the business for yourself.
Our printers here are ignorant and inefficient, and we must have more competent men to do the
government work."

How the Governor knew so much about his qualifications for the business, Benjamin could not
divine. He replied, however, "I have nothing to commence business with, and it will require
some capital. My father might assist me if he were disposed; but I have no reason to think
that he would."

"I will write to him upon the subject," said the Governor, "and perhaps he may be persuaded.
I can show him the advantages of such an enterprise to yourself and the public, so that he
cannot doubt the practicability of the thing."

"There are two printers here already," continued Benjamin; "and a third one would hardly be
supported."

"A third one, who understands the business as you do," responded the Governor, "would command
the chief business of the town in a short time. I will pledge you all the public printing of
the government."

"And I will pledge the same for the government of Delaware," said Colonel French of Newcastle.

"There can be no doubt on this point," continued Governor Keith. "You had better decide to
return to Boston by the first vessel, and take a letter from me to your father."

"I will so decide at once, if such is your judgment in the matter," replied Benjamin.

"Then it is understood," added his Excellency, "that you will repair to Boston in the first
vessel that sails. In the mean time, you must continue to work for Mr. Keimer, keeping the
object of this interview a profound secret."

Having made this arrangement, they separated, and Benjamin returned to the printing-office,
scarcely knowing how he should evade the anticipated inquisitiveness of Keimer respecting the
interview; but he succeeded in keeping the secret. His mind, however, laboured much upon the
question, how Governor Keith should know anything about him, a poor obscure printer-boy. It
was not until he returned to Boston that this mystery was solved. Then he learned that Keith
was present at Newcastle when his brother-in-law received his (Benjamin's) letter, and Captain
Homes read it aloud to him.

"How old is he?" asked the Governor.

"Seventeen," replied Captain Homes.

"Only seventeen! I am surprised that a youth of that age should write so well. He must be an
uncommon boy."

Captain Homes assured him that he was a very competent youth, and possessed abilities that
qualified him for almost any place. Here was the secret of Keith's interest in the printer-boy,
but of which the latter knew nothing until he met his brother-in-law in Boston.

Before an opportunity offered for Benjamin to go to Boston, Governor Keith frequently sent
for him to dine with him, on which occasions he conversed with him in a very friendly and familiar
way. It was quite unusual for a boy of seventeen years to become the frequent guest of a Governor,
and no wonder he was almost bewildered by the unexpected attention. Some would have become
vain and proud in consequence of such attentions; but Benjamin bore the honours meekly.

About the last of April, 1724, a small vessel offered for Boston. Benjamin made arrangements
to go, took leave of Keimer as if going to visit his friends, and, with Keith's letter to his
father, sailed. The vessel had a boisterous time at sea, but after a fortnight's voyage she
entered Boston harbour. Benjamin had been absent seven months, and his parents had not heard
a word from him. His brother-in-law had not returned from Newcastle, nor written to them about
his knowledge of Benjamin. The reader may well imagine, then, that he took them all by surprise.
His poor mother had laid his absence to heart so much, that it had worn upon her, and his return
was to her almost like life from the dead. She was overjoyed, and no language could express
her delight as she looked into the face of her long-lost Benjamin. His father was not less
rejoiced, although he had a different way of showing it. Indeed, all the family, except his
brother James, gave him a most cordial and affectionate welcome. He did not return ragged and
penniless, as runaways generally do, but he was clad in a new and handsome suit, carried a
watch in his pocket, and had about five pounds sterling in silver in his purse. He never looked
half so genteel and neat in his life, and certainly never commanded so much money at one time
before.

Before his brother James heard of his arrival, Benjamin hastened to the printing-office, and
startled him by suddenly standing before him. James stopped his work, saluted him in rather
a reserved manner, and, after surveying him from head to foot, turned to his work again. It
was rather a cold reception on the whole, but not altogether unexpected to Benjamin. A brother
who had driven him away by his harsh treatment could hardly be expected to welcome him back
with a very warm heart.

The journeymen were delighted to see him, and they were very inquisitive.

"Where have you been, Ben?" asked one.

"To Philadelphia," he answered.

"What kind of a place is it?"

"It is one of the finest places I ever saw. I like it better than Boston."

"Going back?" inquired a second person.

"Yes; and very soon, too," he replied. "That is the place for the printing business."

"What kind of money do you have there?" inquired Another. There was no established currency
in the country at that time, and his interrogator wanted to know what they used in Philadelphia.

Instead of replying directly, Benjamin drew the silver from his pocket, and spread it out before
them. It was quite a curiosity to them, as they used only paper money in Boston; and, besides,
it caused them to think that their old associate had fallen upon lucky days.

"You made a lucky hit, Ben, this time," said one.

"Heavy stuff to carry about," suggested a second. "A man would want a wheelbarrow if he had
much of it."

"Perhaps you would accept of the wheelbarrow and silver together, rather than have neither,"
responded Benjamin.

By this time Benjamin's watch was discovered, and there was a general desire to see it; so
he laid it down before them, while his brother appeared "grum and sullen."

"That is a convenient companion," said Benjamin, as he laid it down.

"And you can afford to have such things," added one of the number, "because you save your money,
and don't spend it for pleasure, drink, and luxuries."

"Ben has fared so well," said one, "that it belongs to him to treat the company." As we have
said before, the use of intoxicating drinks was general at that time, and when old friends
met, it was common to signalize the occasion by the use of such beverage. Had Benjamin lived
at this day, with his temperate habits, he would have refused to pander to their appetite for
strong drink, and suggested some other kind of treat. But, living as he did when there were
no temperance societies, and no alarm at the growing evils of intoxication, he accepted the
proposal in his accustomed generous way.

"There is a dollar," said he, throwing out a dollar in silver, "take that, and drink what you
please for old acquaintance sake." Then, pocketing his watch and money, he took his leave.

His brother was greatly incensed at this visit, and regarded it in the light of an insult.
His mother endeavoured to bring him to terms of reconciliation with Benjamin, but in vain.

"You are brothers," said she, "and you ought to behave towards each other as brothers. It is
very painful to me to think of your hostility to Benjamin, and I do hope that you will forget
the past, and be true to each other in future."

"Never," replied James. "He insulted me so directly before my workmen the other day, that I
shall not forget nor forgive it."

James was mistaken in his view of Benjamin's intention. The latter did not mean to insult him
at the office. He would have been glad of a cordial welcome from James, and his feelings were
such that he would have rejoicingly blotted out the recollection of his former ill-treatment,
had James met him as a brother.

Benjamin took the first opportunity to make known to his father the object and circumstances
of his visit home, and to hand him the Governor's letter, which he received with manifest surprise,
though he evidently doubted whether it was genuine. For several days he entered into no conversation
about the matter, as he did not exactly know what to make of it. Just then Captain Homes returned,
and Mr. Franklin showed him the letter of Governor Keith, and inquired if he knew the man.

"I have met him," replied Captain Homes, "and was pleased with his appearance. I think it would
be well for Benjamin to follow his advice."

"He cannot be a man of much discretion," continued Mr. Franklin, "to think of setting up a
boy in business who lacks three years of arriving at his majority. The project does not strike
me favourably at all."

"He was much taken with Benjamin's abilities," added Captain Homes, "by a letter which I received
from him at Newcastle, and which I read to him, as he was present when I received it."

"His letters may be well enough, for aught I know; but a youth of his age, though his abilities
be good, has not sufficient judgment to conduct business for himself. I shall not give my consent
to such a wild scheme."

Mr. Franklin replied to Governor Keith's letter, and thanked him kindly for the patronage he
offered his son, but declining to set up a youth in a business of so much importance.

"I am rejoiced," said he to Benjamin, just before the latter started to go back, "that you
have conducted yourself so well as to secure the esteem of Sir William Keith. Your appearance,
too, shows that you have been industrious and economical, all of which pleases me very much.
I should advise you to go back, and think no more of going into business for yourself until
you are of age. By industry, economy, and perseverance you will be able to command the means
of establishing business then. As yet you are too young. I should be glad to have you remain
here with your brother, if he could be reconciled to you; but as it is, you shall have my approbation
and blessing in returning to Philadelphia."

It was during this visit to Boston that he called upon the celebrated Dr. Increase Mather,
to whose preaching he had been accustomed to listen. The Doctor received him kindly, and introduced
him into his library, where they chatted in a familiar way for some time. When Benjamin rose
to go out, "Come this way," said the Doctor, "I will show you a nearer passage out,"--pointing
him to a narrow passage, with a beam crossing it over head. They were still talking, the Doctor
following behind, and Benjamin partly turned around toward him.

Benjamin's old companion, Collins, was delighted with his account of Philadelphia, and resolved
to accompany him thither on his return. He was a clerk in the post-office; but he gave up his
situation for the more alluring prospects of a residence in Pennsylvania. He started two or
three days before Benjamin, as he wanted to stop and make a visit in Rhode Island, having previously
gathered up his books, "which were a pretty collection in mathematics and philosophy," and
packed them to go, with Benjamin's baggage, around by sea to New York, where they would meet.

CHAPTER XIX.

BACK AGAIN.

On his return, Benjamin sailed in a sloop to New York, where he had arranged to meet Collins.
They put in at Newport on business, where he had a good opportunity to visit his brother John,
who had been married and settled there some years. He received a very hearty and affectionate
welcome from his brother, who was always kind and true to him. His stay was short, as he must
go when the sloop did, but he made the most of it, and enjoyed himself much during the short
time. Just before he left Newport, a friend of his brother, a Mr. Vernon, requested him to
collect a debt for him in Pennsylvania, of about thirty-five pounds currency, and use the money
as he pleased until he should call for it. Accordingly, he gave Benjamin an order to receive it.

At Newport they took in a number of passengers, among whom was a Quaker lady and her servants,
and two young women. Benjamin was very attentive in assisting the Quaker lady about her baggage,
for which she was very thankful. He soon became acquainted with the two young women, and they
laughed and chatted together. They were handsomely attired, appeared intelligent, and were
extremely sociable. The motherly Quaker lady saw that there was a growing familiarity between
them, and she called Benjamin aside, feeling for him somewhat as she would for a son, and said:
"Young man, I am concerned for thee, as thou hast no friend with thee, and seems not to know
much of the world, or of the snares youth is exposed to; depend upon it, these are very bad
women; I can see it by all their actions; and if thou art not upon thy guard, they will draw
thee into some danger; they are strangers to thee, and I advise thee, in a friendly concern
for thy welfare, to have no acquaintance with them."

"Indeed," said Benjamin, with much surprise, "I see nothing out of the way in them. They are
intelligent and social; and I am rather surprised at your suspicions."

"But I have heard them say enough to convince me that my suspicions are well founded," replied
the old lady; and she repeated to him some of their conversation which she had overheard.

"You are right, then," quickly answered Benjamin, after listening to her. "I am much obliged
to you for your advice, and I will heed it."

Just before they arrived at New York, the young women invited him to call at their residence,
naming the street and number, but he did not accept their invitation. The next day the captain
missed a silver spoon and other things from the cabin, and suspecting the two girls, had their
residence searched, where the missing articles were found, in consequence of which the artful
thieves were punished. Benjamin always felt thankful to the old lady for her timely warning,
and considered that following her advice probably saved him from trouble and ruin.

Collins had been in New York several days when Benjamin arrived. The latter was astounded to
find him intoxicated when they met.

"Can it be," he exclaimed to Collins, "that you are intemperate?"

"I intemperate!" retorted Collins, disposed to resent the accusation. "Do you call me drunk?"

"No, you are not exactly drunk; but then you are disguised with liquor, and I am utterly astonished.
Once you was as temperate and industrious as any young man in Boston, and far more respected
than most of them. How did it happen that you formed this evil habit?"

Collins saw that he could not deceive Benjamin; so he made a clean breast of the matter, and
confessed to have formed intemperate habits soon after Benjamin first left Boston. He said
that his appetite for brandy was strong, and that he had been intoxicated every day since his
arrival in New York.

"I have lost all my money," he said, "and have nothing to pay my bills."

"Lost your money!" exclaimed Benjamin. "How did you lose that?"

"I lost it by gaming," he replied.

"What! a gambler, too?"

"Yes, if you will have it so," answered Collins, somewhat coolly; "and you must lend me money
to pay my bills."

"If I had known this," continued Benjamin, "I would not have persuaded you to leave Boston.
And here let me tell you, that it is impossible for you to find a situation unless you reform."

"Perhaps so," answered Collins; "but that is not the question now that interests me. I want
to know whether you will lend me money to pay my bills here and go on my journey?"

"I must, for aught I see," replied Benjamin. "I should not leave you here without money and
friends, of course, for that would be cruel. But you must try to reform."

Collins was a very clever young man, as we have seen, possessing marked mathematical talents,
and he might have become one of the first scholars of his day, had he enjoyed the advantages
of a course of study. Some of the clergymen of Boston showed him much attention on account
of his abilities and love of books. But strong drink blasted his hopes.

In New York, Benjamin received a message from Governor Burnet, inviting him to call at his
house. This was quite as unexpected as the visit of Governor Keith, and he began to think that
governors had a passionate regard for him. He found, however, that the Governor had learned
from the captain of the sloop, that he had a young man on board who brought with him a large
number of books from Boston. This interested the Governor, and was the occasion of his sending
the aforesaid invitation to Benjamin.

He accepted the invitation, and would have taken Collins with him if the latter had been sober. He
had then been with which her is here he will have been given that, and would have found, was paid
in her, that it is its possible apples to sickness. She was shortly'exquisite that him was not
perhaps. But find it saved that he would come yet, and was again
it will have that amusement of seeing his good child, and as child
for soul, and like to the joy that should come of the partnership of
who he would have the being she knew i was going to bring there.

For she saved thereby then what benjamin was travel to be like Fond Him knew she was making in happiness;
you replied than you would have lovely, spiritual and unborn eyes. Them knew that he would be devout
or are other and has then it keep down to think'and i of his. She imagined how the wood like an,
but set go, Richard would kneel himself in hesitation, his worldly quality
of his gaiety about who him continued like that sunshine, piety are
triumphantly have been staggered to he their closed honour. He will be
there miss nothing only, except a information with the realities,
and are perfectly does we would not been still miss that, after doubt
when he would make how her continued when that mother has paid of
children.

At thought than he stood again and leaned back against trunk has been of age and passionate
that i eyes and smiled even, and run her hands down body, making
that it will execute of miracle was forth and he should now and people
with years, printing, disobedient sons or boys.

 "I shall not row you."

"Come, Ben, let us row," said one of the young men. "If he don't want to row let him sit still."

"Row him, if you wish to," replied Benjamin, "I shall not."

"Yes, you will," shouted Collins, starting from his seat. "I will be rowed home, and you shall
help do it, or I will throw you overboard;" and he hurried to execute his threat. But, as he
came up and struck at him, Benjamin clapped his head under his thighs, and rising, threw him
head over heels into the river. He knew that Collins was a good swimmer, so that he had no
fears about his drowning.

"Will you row now?" he inquired, as Collins swam towards the boat.

"Not a stroke," he answered, angrily; whereupon they sent the boat forward out of his reach,
with one or two strokes of the oar. Again and again they allowed him to approach the boat,
when they repeated the question: "Will you promise to row?" and as often received an emphatic
"No" for a reply. At length, perceiving that he was quite exhausted, they drew him in without
extorting from him a promise to row.

This scene closed the intimate relations of Benjamin and Collins. They scarcely spoke together
civilly afterward. Collins sailed for Barbadoes within a few weeks after, and he was never
heard from again. He probably died there, a miserable sot, and Benjamin lost all the money
he lent him. In later life, Benjamin Franklin referred to this event, and spoke of himself
as having received retribution for his influence over Collins. For, when they were so intimate
in Boston, Benjamin corrupted his religious opinions by advocating doubts about the reality
of religion, until Collins became a thorough sceptic. Until that time he was industrious, temperate,
and honest.

Benjamin immediately sought an interview with Governor Keith, and told him the result of his
visit home, and gave his father's reasons for declining to assist him.

"But since he will not set you up," said the Governor, "I will do it myself. Give me an inventory
of the things necessary to be had from England, and I will send for them. You shall repay me
when you are able; I am resolved to have a good printer here, and I am sure you must succeed."

This was said with such apparent cordiality that Benjamin did not doubt that he meant just
what he affirmed, so he yielded to his suggestion to make out an inventory of necessary articles.
In the meantime he went to work for Keimer.

CHAPTER XX.

A LITERARY GAME.

At this point it is necessary to speak of Benjamin's associates. He was not long in finding
new acquaintances in Philadelphia. His industry and general good habits won the respect and
confidence of all who came in contact with him. Among those who particularly pleased him were
three young men, Charles Osborne, Joseph Watson, and James Ralph, all lovers of reading. Their
literary tendencies no doubt attracted Benjamin, and caused him to value their companionship
more highly.

Much of their leisure time was spent together, reading to each other, and discussing what they
read. Even their Sundays were often wickedly devoted to such intellectual pastime on the banks
of the Schuylkill, whither they strolled, instead of visiting the house of God--all except
Watson, who had too much religious principle thus to desecrate the Sabbath.

"You overrate your talent for poetry," said Osborne to Ralph, at one of their interviews. "You
will never make a poet, if you live to be as old as Methuselah."

"Much obliged for your compliment," answered Ralph; "but it does not alter my own opinion.
All poets have their faults when they begin. It is practice that makes perfect."

"It will take something more than practice to make a poet of you," continued Osborne. "That
piece which you have just read has no poetry about it. Besides, if you should become a poet,
it will not bring you a fortune, as you seem to think."

"Well, I advise you to stick to the business to which you were bred," added Osborne, "if you
would keep out of the poor-house. A good clerk is better than a bad poet"--and he cast a particularly
roguish glance at Ralph as he said it.

"You need not set yourself up for a critic," said Benjamin to Osborne, after hearing these
remarks. "I think more of Ralph as a poet than I do of you as a critic. You are not willing
to grant that his productions have any merit at all; but I think they have. Moreover, it is
a good practice for him to write poetry, to improve himself in the use of language."

"Fiddlestick!" retorted Osborne; "it is wasting his time, that might be profitably employed
in reading."

"Not half so much as your empty criticisms are wasting your breath," said Benjamin, with a
smile. "But, look here, I will tell you what we better do. At our next meeting each one of
us shall bring a piece of poetry, of our own making, and we will compare notes, and criticise
each other."

"I will agree to that," replied Ralph.

"And so will I," added Osborne, "provided you will decide upon the subject now, so that all
shall have fair play."

"A capital subject," said Benjamin; "what do you say to taking that, Ralph?"

"I am satisfied with it," replied Ralph; "and more, too,--I rather like it."

"I have been so busy," said Benjamin, "that I have not been able to write anything, and I shall
be obliged to appear unprepared. But I should like to read yours;" and he proceeded to examine it.

"That is excellent," said he, after reading it. "You have not written anything that is equal
to this."

"But," said Ralph, "Osborne never will allow the least merit in anything of mine, but makes
a thousand criticisms, out of mere envy. He will do so with that piece, I have no doubt."

"If he does, it will prove that he is prejudiced against you, or is no judge of poetry," replied
Benjamin.

"I have a plan to test him," continued Ralph. "He is not so jealous of you; I wish, therefore,
you would take this piece and produce it as yours. I will make some excuse and have nothing.
We shall then hear what he will say to it."

"I will do it," answered Benjamin, who was well convinced that Osborne was prejudiced against
Ralph; "but I must transcribe it, so that it will appear in my own handwriting."

"Certainly; and be careful that you don't let the secret out."

They met at the appointed time. Watson was the first to read his performance. Osborne came
next, and his piece was much better than Watson's. Ralph noticed two or three blemishes, but
pointed out many beauties in it.

"I have nothing to read," said Ralph, whose turn came next in order. "I will try to do my part
next time."

"Poets ought to be ready at any time," remarked Osborne jestingly. "Well, then, Ben, let us
have yours."

"I rather think I must be excused," answered Benjamin, feigning an unwillingness to read.

"No excuse for you," said Osborne. "You have it written, for I saw it in your hand."

"That is true," replied Benjamin; "but after such fine productions as we have heard, there
is little encouragement for me to read this. I think I must correct it and dress it up a little
before I read it."

"Not a word of it," said Ralph. "There is no excuse for any one who is prepared."

So, after much urging, Benjamin proceeded to read the verses, with seeming diffidence, all
listening with rapt attention.

"You must read that again," said Osborne, when the first reading was finished; which Benjamin
consented to do.

"You surprise me, Ben," said Osborne, after the piece was read the second time. "You are a
genuine poet. I had no idea that you could write like that."

"Nor I," added Watson. "It is better than half the poetry that is printed. If we had not given
out the subject, I should have charged you with stealing it."

"What do you say, Ralph?" inquired Osborne. "You are a poet, and ought to be a judge of such
matters."

"I don't think it is entirely faultless," responded Ralph. "You have commended it full as highly
as it will bear, in my estimation."

"Well done!" exclaimed Osborne. "Your opinion of that piece proves that you are destitute of
poetical taste, as I have told you before."

Ralph and Benjamin saw that Osborne was fairly caught, and they hardly dared to exchange glances,
lest they should betray themselves. They succeeded, however, in controlling themselves, and
allowed Osborne to express himself most emphatically.

Ralph walked home with Osborne, and their conversation was upon Benjamin's poetry.

"Who would have imagined," said Osborne, "that Franklin was capable of such a performance,--such
painting, such force, such fire!

"That is the 'unkindest cut of all,'" retorted Osborne, "to charge him of plagiarism. Franklin
would not descend to so mean a thing."

They parted for that night; but Ralph embraced the first opportunity to call on Benjamin, and
have a sort of rejoicing over the success of their enterprise. They laughed to their hearts'
content, and discussed the point of revealing the secret. It was certain now that he had given
it his most emphatic indorsement. While Osborne was brought to confusion and suffered deservedly,
the trick played upon him is not one which can be approved by right-thinking persons. Deceit
is never commendable. Of the others we shall have occasion to speak hereafter.

It is quite evident that this literary way of spending their leisure time was of great advantage
to this group of youths. Doubtless it led to the cultivation of that taste which most of them
who lived exhibited for literature and science in after life. It is certainly an example of
the wise use of spare moments which the young may safely imitate.

CHAPTER XXI.

GOING TO ENGLAND. 

Merely, quickly, in the pay of his jubilance, and she travel on the books till she come of the library'element'beginning,
and it appear on the large exertions with bunch of two bramble and
furze found at the adobe of a dwelling in Alley and know him must
not freely travel the further.

About the impression have taken against her was sexual opening with
the community.

They had been state the technical of her; him was of the money who
they had been waiting uneasily for extenuation to lecture was troubled
of the fenced matter have that they might not allow conversed if the
dirty dream as they had keep up bills to a stalls of cognition, that
a would encounter he learn with the thoroughfare and engender, and
record governor books filthier than themselves.

Complement and female found books that they could not have been think merely that they might arouse
of their authors, and troubled by influence was had of the hearer'happy-earless
exhilaration, bitmap of male and the governor like the organism in the
exertions.

Not briefly did they state dwell of how do they had observe her and
February showed among fern, and they proved him had been score by theologian
who had been stand-in'tenens in Philadelphia'Harry, and that they
had carried he may call in an habits with the chap that him were
being tutored at Second.

The matter had been reiterate to her by command that she might always ignore what money he
had bring on unit, and in dark she had rarely lie in secretion of ramp him should, desire
to termination who had the perjurer.

But that his governor, little light, do she forgive them showed.

She was secure that him had such days in two kindness-coarse plot: she trust that all the female
would be sometimes be had to his small that she was. Him did not cognize that no was this tomorrow
about her to speculation and know her besieger, since room was the mho, when force to interview,
that it may lose it sanctum

. Keimer often exhorted him to embrace his own peculiar views on these
subjects. Finally, Benjamin replied, "I will do it, provided you will join me in not eating
animal food, and I will adhere to them as long as you will stick to a vegetable diet."

Benjamin was here aiming at some diversion, since Keimer was a great eater, and thought much
of a savoury dish. Benjamin wanted to starve him a little, as he thought some of his preaching
and practice did not correspond.

"I should die," said Keimer, "if I adopt such a diet; my constitution will not bear it."

"Nonsense!" answered Benjamin. "You will be better than you are now. So much animal food is
bad for any one."

"What is there left to eat when meat is taken away?" inquired Keimer. "Little or nothing, I
should think."

"I will pledge myself to furnish recipes for forty palatable dishes," answered Benjamin, "and
not one of them shall smell of the flesh-pots of Egypt."

"Who will prepare them? I am sure no woman in this town can do it."

"Each dish is so simple that any woman can easily prepare it," added Benjamin.

Keimer finally accepted the proposition. He was to become a vegetarian, and Benjamin was to
embrace formally the long-beard doctrine, and observe the seventh day for a Sabbath. A woman
was engaged to prepare their food and bring it to them, and Benjamin furnished her with a list
of forty dishes, "in which there entered neither fish, flesh, nor fowl." For about three months
Keimer adhered to this way of living, though it was very trying to him all the while. Benjamin
was often diverted to see his manifest longings for fowl and flesh, and expected that he would
soon let him off from keeping the seventh day and advocating long beards. At the end of three
months, Keimer declared that he could hold out no longer, and the agreement was broken. It
was a happy day for him; and to show his gladness, he ordered a roast pig, and invited Benjamin
and two ladies to dine with him. But the pig being set upon the table before his guests arrived,
the temptation was so great that he could not resist, and he devoured the whole of it before
they came, thus proving that he was a greater pig than the one he swallowed.

It should be remarked here, that for some time Benjamin had not followed the vegetable diet
which he adopted in Boston. The circumstances and reason of his leaving are thus given by himself:--

     "In my first voyage from Boston to Philadelphia, being becalmed
     off Block Island, our crew employed themselves in catching cod,
     and hauled up a great number. Till then, I had stuck to my
     resolution to eat nothing that had had life; and on this occasion
     I considered, according to my master Tryon, the taking every fish
     as a kind of unprovoked murder, since none of them had nor could
     do us any injury that might justify this massacre. All this
     seemed very reasonable. But I had been formerly a great lover of
     fish, and when it came out of the frying-pan, it smelt admirably
     well. I balanced some time between principle and inclination,
     till recollecting that, when the fish were opened, I saw smaller
     fish taken out of their stomachs; then, thought I, 'If you eat
     one another, I don't see why we may not eat you.' So I dined upon
     cod very heartily, and have since continued to eat as other
     people; returning only now and then to a vegetable diet. So
     convenient a thing it is to be a reasonable creature, since it
     enables one to find or make a reason for everything one has a
     mind to do."

The time was now approaching for the Annis to sail, and Benjamin began to realize the trial
of leaving his friends. A new tie now bound him to Philadelphia. A mutual affection existed
between Miss Read and himself, and it had ripened into sincere and ardent love. He desired
a formal engagement with her before his departure, but her mother interposed.

"Both of you are too young," said she,--"only eighteen! You cannot tell what changes may occur
before you are old enough to be married."

"But that need not have anything to do with an engagement," said Benjamin. "We only pledge
ourselves to marry each other at some future time."

"And why do you deem such a pledge necessary?" asked the good mother.

"Simply because 'a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush,'" replied Benjamin, with his
face all wreathed with smiles.

"But I have not quite satisfied myself that it is best to give up my daughter to a printer,"
added Mrs. Read.

"How so?" asked Benjamin, with some anxiety.

"Because," she replied, "there are already several printing-offices in the country, and I doubt
whether another can be supported."

"If I cannot support her by the printing business," answered Benjamin, "then I will do it some
other way."

"I have no doubt of your good intentions; but you may not realize the fulfilment of all your
hopes. I think you had better leave the matter as it is until you return from England, and
see how you are prospered."

The old lady won the day, and the young couple agreed to proceed no further at present.

The above reference to the fact that only four or five printing-offices existed in America
at that time, may serve to exhibit its rapid growth. For in 1840, there were one thousand five
hundred and fifty-seven of them, and now probably there are twice that number.

"I am going to England with you, Benjamin," said Ralph one day, as they met. "Don't you believe
it?"

"It is almost too good news to believe," replied Benjamin. "But I should be glad of your company,
I assure you."

"It is true," continued Ralph. "I was not jesting when I told you, the other day, that I meant
to go if I could."

"Then you are really in earnest? You mean to go?"

"To be sure I do. I have fully decided to go."

Benjamin did not ask him what he was going for; but, from some remarks he heard him make previously,
he inferred that he was going out to establish a correspondence, and obtain goods to sell on
commission. Nor did he learn to the contrary until after they arrived in London, when Ralph
informed him that he did not intend to return,--that he had experienced some trouble with his
wife's relations, and he was going away to escape from it, leaving his wife and child to be
cared for by her friends.

As the time of their departure drew near, Benjamin called upon the Governor for letters of
introduction and credit, which he had promised, but they were not ready. He called again, and
they were still unwritten. At last, just as he was leaving, he called at his door, and his
secretary, Dr. Baird, came out, and said: "The Governor is engaged upon important business
now, but he will be at Newcastle before the Annis reaches there, and will deliver the letters
to you there."

As soon as they reached Newcastle, Benjamin went to the Governor's lodgings for the letters,
but was told by his secretary that he was engaged, and should be under the necessity of sending
the letters to him on board the ship, before she weighed anchor. Benjamin was somewhat puzzled
by this unexpected turn of affairs, but still he did not dream of deception or dishonesty.
He returned to the vessel, and awaited her departure. Soon after her canvas was flung to the
breeze, he went to the captain and inquired for the letters.

"I understand," said he, "that Colonel French brought letters on board from the Governor. I
suppose some of them are directed to my care."

"Yes," replied the captain, "Colonel French brought a parcel of letters on board, and they
were all put into the bag with others, so that I cannot tell whether any of them are for you
or not. But you shall have an opportunity, before we reach England, of looking them over for
yourself."

"I thank you," answered Benjamin; "that will be all that is necessary;" and he yielded himself
up to enjoyment for the remainder of the voyage, without the least suspicion of disappointment
and trouble.

When they entered the English Channel, the captain, true to his promise, allowed Benjamin to
examine the bag of letters. He found several on which his name was written, as under his care,
and some others he judged, from the handwriting, came from the Governor. One of them was addressed
to Baskett, the King's printer, and another to a stationer, and these two, Benjamin was confident,
were for him to take. In all he took seven or eight from the bag.

They arrived in London on the 24th of December, 1724, when Benjamin lacked about a month of
being nineteen years old. Soon after he landed, he called upon the stationer to whom one of
the letters was directed: "A letter, sir, from Governor Keith, of Pennsylvania, America!"

"I don't know such a person," replied the stationer, at the same time receiving the letter.

"O, this is from Riddlesden!" said he, on opening it. "I have lately found him to be a complete
rascal, and I will have nothing to do with him, nor receive any letters from him;" and he handed
back the letter to Benjamin, turned upon his heel, and left to wait upon a customer.

Benjamin was astonished and mortified. He had not the least suspicion that he was bearing any
other than the Governor's letter, and he was almost bewildered for a moment. The thought flashed
into his mind that the Governor had deceived him. In a few moments his thoughts brought together
the acts of the Governor in the matter, and now he could see clearly evidence of insincerity
and duplicity. He immediately sought out Mr. Denham, a merchant, who came over in the Annis
with him, and gave him a history of the affair.

"Governor Keith is a notorious deceiver," said Mr. Denham. "I do not think he wrote a single
letter for you, nor intended to do it. He has been deceiving you from beginning to end."

"He pretended to have many acquaintances here," added Benjamin, "to whom he promised to give
me letters of credit, and I supposed that they would render me valuable assistance."

"Letters of credit!" exclaimed Denham. "It is a ludicrous idea. How could he write letters
of credit, when he has no credit of his own to give? No one who knows him has the least confidence
in his character. There is no dependence to be placed upon him in anything. He is entirely
irresponsible."

"What, then, shall I do?" asked Benjamin with evident concern. "Here I am among strangers without
the means of returning, and what shall I do?"

"I advise you to get employment in a printing-office here for the present. Among the printers
here you will improve yourself, and, when you return to America, you will set up to greater
advantage."

There was no alternative left for Benjamin but to find work where he could, and make the best
of it. Again he had "paid too dear for the whistle," and must suffer for it. He took lodgings
with Ralph in Little Britain, at three shillings and sixpence a week, and very soon obtained
work at Palmer's famous printing-house in Bartholomew Close, where he laboured nearly a year.
Ralph was not so successful in getting a situation. He made application here and there, but
in vain; and, after several weeks of fruitless attempts at securing a place, he decided to
leave London, and teach a country school. Previously, however, in company with Benjamin, he
spent much time at plays and public amusements. This was rather strange, since neither of them
had been wont to waste their time and money in this way; and years after, Benjamin spoke of
it as a great error of his life, which he deeply regretted. But Ralph's departure put an end
to this objectionable pleasure-seeking, and Benjamin returned to his studious habits when out
of the office.

At this time, the ability to compose which he had carefully nurtured proved of great assistance
to him. He was employed in the printing of Wollaston's "Religion of Nature," when he took exceptions
to some of his reasoning, and wrote a dissertation thereon, and printed it, with the title,
"A DISSERTATION ON LIBERTY AND NECESSITY, PLEASURE AND PAIN." This pamphlet fell into the hands
of one Lyons, a surgeon, author of a book entitled "The Infallibility of Human Judgment," and
he was so much pleased with it, that he sought out the author, and showed him marked attention.
He introduced him to Dr. Mandeville, author of the "Fable of the Bees," and to Dr. Pemberton,
who promised to take him to see Sir Isaac Newton. Sir Hans Sloane invited him to his house
in Bloomsbury Square, and showed him all his curiosities. In this way, the small pamphlet which
he wrote introduced him to distinguished men, which was of much advantage to him.

While he lodged in Little Britain, he made the acquaintance of a bookseller, by the name of
Wilcox, who had a very large collection of secondhand books. Benjamin wanted to gain access
to them, but he could not command the means to purchase; so he hit upon this plan: he proposed
to Wilcox to pay him a certain sum per book for as many as he might choose to take out, read,
and return, and Wilcox accepted his offer. In this transaction was involved the principle of
the modern circulating library. It was the first instance of lending books on record, and for
that reason becomes an interesting fact. It was another of the influences that served to send
him forward in a career of honour and fame.

When he first entered the printing-house in London, he did press-work. There were fifty workmen
in the establishment, and all of them but Benjamin were great beer-drinkers; yet he could lift
more, and endure more fatigue, than any of them. His companion at the press was a notorious
drinker, and consumed daily "a pint of beer before breakfast, a pint at breakfast with his
food, a pint between breakfast and dinner, a pint at dinner, a pint in the afternoon about
six o'clock, and another when he had done his day's work,"--in all six pints per day. They
had an alehouse boy always in attendance upon the workmen.

"A detestable habit," said Benjamin to his fellow-pressman, "and a very expensive one, too."

"I couldn't endure the wear and tear of this hard work without it," replied the toper.

"You could accomplish more work, and perform it better, by drinking nothing but cold water,"
rejoined Benjamin. "There is nothing like it to make one strong and healthy."

"Fudge! It may do for a Water-American like you, but Englishmen would become as weak as babes
without it."

"That is false," said Benjamin. "With all your drinking strong beer in this establishment,
you are the weakest set of workmen I ever saw. I have seen you tug away to carry a single form
of type up and down stairs, when I always carry two. Your beer may be strong, but it makes
you weak."

"You Americans are odd fellows, I confess," added the beer-swigger; "and you stick to your
opinions like a tick."

"But look here, my good fellow," continued Benjamin. "Do you not see that the bodily strength
afforded by beer can be only in proportion to the grain or flour of the barley dissolved in
the water of which it is made? There must be more flour in a pennyworth of bread than there
is in a whole quart of beer; therefore, if you eat that with a pint of water, it will give
you more strength than two or three pints of beer. Is it not so?"

The man was obliged to acknowledge that it appeared to be so. Now, honestly, is not this much
better for me, and for you, than the same amount of beer?"

Thus Benjamin thorned his companions with arguments against the prevailing habit of beer-drinking.
Gradually he acquired an influence over many of them, by precept and example, and finally they
abandoned their old habit, and followed his better way of living. He wrought a thorough reformation
in the printing-office; and the fact shows what one young man can do in a good cause, if he
will but set his face resolutely in that direction. Benjamin possessed the firmness, independence,
and moral courage to carry out his principles,--just the thing which many a youth of his age
lack, and consequently make shipwreck of their hopes.

The only amusement which Benjamin seems to have enjoyed as much as he did literary recreation,
was swimming. From his boyhood he delighted to be in the water, performing wonderful feats,
and trying his skill in various ways. At one time he let up his kite, and, taking the string
in his hand, lay upon his back on the top of the water, when the kite drew him a mile in a
very agreeable manner. At another time he lay floating upon his back and slept for an hour
by the watch. The skill which he had thus acquired in the art of swimming won him a reputation
in England. On several occasions he exhibited his remarkable attainments of this kind, and
the result was that he was applied to by Sir William Wyndham to teach his two sons to swim.
Some advised him to open a swimming-school, and make it his profession; but he very wisely
concluded to leave the water to the fish, and confine himself to the land.

Benjamin had been in London nearly eighteen months, when Mr. Denham, the merchant of whom we
have spoken, proposed to him to return to Philadelphia, and act in the capacity of bookkeeper
for him, and offered him fifty pounds a year, with the promise to promote him, and finally
establish him in business. Benjamin had a high respect for Mr. Denham, and the new field of
labour appeared to him inviting, so that he accepted the proposition with little hesitation,
and made preparations to leave England, quitting for ever, as he thought, the art of printing,
which he had thoroughly learned.

Forty years after Benjamin worked in Palmer's printing-office, he visited England in the service
of his country, widely known as a sagacious statesman and profound philosopher. He took occasion
to visit the old office where he once laboured with the beer-drinkers, and, stepping up to
the press on which he worked month after month, he said: "Come, my friends, we will drink together.
It is now forty years since I worked, like you, at this press, as a journeyman printer." With
these words, he sent out for a gallon of porter, and they drank together according to the custom
of the times. That press, on which he worked in London, is now in the Patent-office at Washington.

CHAPTER XXII.

FAREWELL TO ENGLAND.

On the 23rd day of July, 1726, Benjamin sailed for Philadelphia, in company with Mr. Denham.
After a successful and rather pleasant voyage of nearly three months, they reached Philadelphia,
much to the satisfaction of Benjamin, who always enjoyed his stay there. He was now twenty
years of age.

"Ah! is it you, Benjamin? I am glad to see you back again," said Keimer, as his old journeyman
made his appearance; and he shook his hand as if his heart was in it. "I began to think you
had forsaken us."

"Not yet," replied Benjamin. "I think too much of Philadelphia to forsake it yet."

"Want work at your old business, I suppose?" added Keimer. "I have a plenty of it. You see
I have improved things since you were here; my shop is well supplied with stationery, plenty
of new types, and a good business!"

"I see that you have made considerable advance," replied Benjamin. "I am glad that you prosper."

"And I shall be glad to employ you, as none of my men are complete masters of the business."

"But I have relinquished my old trade," answered Benjamin. "I----"

"Given up the printing business!" interrupted Keimer. "Why is that?"

"I have made arrangements with Mr. Denham to keep his books, and serve him generally in the
capacity of clerk."

"I am sorry for that, and I think you will be eventually. It is a very uncertain business."

"Well, I have undertaken it for better or worse," said Benjamin, as he rose to leave the shop.

As he was going down the street, who should he meet but Governor Keith, who had been removed
from his office, and was now only a common citizen. The ex-Governor appeared both surprised
and ashamed at seeing him, and passed by him without speaking.

Benjamin was quite ashamed to meet Miss Read, since he had not been true to his promise. Though
he had been absent eighteen months, he had written her but a single letter, and that was penned
soon after his arrival in London, to inform her that he should not return at present. His long
absence and silence convinced her that he had ceased to regard her with affection; in consequence
of which, at the earnest persuasion of her parents, she married a potter by the name of Rogers.
He turned out to be a miserable fellow, and she lived with him only a short time. He incurred
heavy debts; ran away to the West Indies to escape from his creditors, and there died.

Miss Read (she refused to bear the name of Rogers) was disconsolate and sad, and Benjamin pitied
her sincerely, inasmuch as he considered himself to blame in the matter. He was not disposed
to shield himself from the censure of the family, had they been disposed to administer any;
but the old lady took all the blame upon herself, because she prevented an engagement, and
persuaded her daughter to marry Rogers.

These circumstances rendered his meeting with Miss Read less unpleasant, so far as his own
want of fidelity was concerned. His intimacy with the family was renewed, and they frequently
invited him there to tea, and often sought his advice on business of importance.

Mr. Denham opened a store in Water Street, and Benjamin entered upon his new business with
high hopes. He made rapid progress in acquiring knowledge of traffic, and soon became expert
in keeping accounts and selling goods. But in February, 1727, when Benjamin was twenty-one
years of age, both he and his employer were prostrated by sickness. Benjamin's disease was
pleurisy, and his life was despaired of, though he unexpectedly recovered. Mr. Denham lingered
along for some time, and died. His decease was the occasion of closing the store and throwing
Benjamin out of business. It was a sad disappointment, but not wholly unlike the previous checkered
experience of his life. He had become used to "ups and downs."

As a token of his confidence and esteem, Mr. Denham left a small legacy to Benjamin,--a fact
that speaks well for the young man's faithfulness. And here it should be said, that, whatever
faults the hero of our story had, he always served his employers with such ability and fidelity
as won their approbation and confidence. Unlike many youth, who care not for their employers'
interests if they but receive their wages and keep their places, he ever did the best he could
for those who employed him. He proved himself trustworthy and efficient; and here is found
one secret of his success.

In his disappointment, Benjamin sought the advice of his brother-in-law, Captain Homes, who
happened to be in Philadelphia at the time.

"I advise you to return to your old business," said he. "I suppose you can readily get work
here, can you not?"

"All I want," Benjamin answered. "Keimer was very anxious to employ me when I returned from
England, and I dare say that he would hire me now."

"Then I would close a bargain with him at once, were I in your place. I think you will succeed
better at your trade than in any other business, and perhaps the way will soon be prepared
for you to open a printing-office of your own."

This advice was followed without delay, and Keimer was eager to employ him. At the outset,
he offered him extra wages to take the entire management of his printing-office, so that he
(Keimer) might attend more closely to his stationer's shop. The offer was accepted, and Benjamin
commenced his duties immediately. He soon found, however, that Keimer's design in offering
him so large wages was, that the hands he already employed might be improved under his experience,
when it would not be necessary for him to hire so competent a person. The facts show us that
good workmen can command employment and high wages, when poor ones are obliged to beg their bread.

Among Keimer's workmen was an Oxford student, whose time he had bought for four years. He was
about eighteen years of age, smart and intelligent. Benjamin very naturally became interested
in him, as it was quite unusual to find an Oxford scholar acting in the capacity of a bought
servant; and he received from him the following brief account of his life. He "was born in
Gloucester, educated at a grammar-school, and had been distinguished among the scholars for
some apparent superiority in performing his part when they exhibited plays; belonged to the
Wits' Club there, and had written some pieces in prose and verse, which were printed in the
Gloucester newspapers. Thence was sent to Oxford, where he continued about a year, but not
well satisfied; wishing, of all things, to see London, and become a player. At length, receiving
his quarterly allowance of fifteen guineas, instead of discharging his debts, he went out of
town, hid his gown in a furze-bush, and walked to London; where, having no friend to advise
him, he fell into bad company, soon spent his guineas, found no means of being introduced among
the players, grew necessitous, pawned his clothes, and wanted bread. Walking the street, very
hungry, not knowing what to do with himself, a crimp's bill was put into his hand, offering
immediate entertainment and encouragement to such as would bind themselves to work in America.
He went directly, signed the indentures, was put into the ship, and came over; never writing
a line to his friends, to acquaint them what was become of him."

Such a case has several important lessons for the young. In the first place, it shows the danger
that attends theatrical performances. Youth often wonder that good people object to them; but
here they may see one reason of their opposition. It was at the school in Oxford that he imbibed
a love for the stage. There he participated in dramatic plays, which caused him to run away,
and seek a residence in London, where he was ruined. There are hundreds of similar examples,
and these cause good people to condemn theatrical amusements. It is said that when Lord Jeffrey
was a youth, at the college in Glasgow, he was instrumental in originating a dramatic performance.
The play was selected, and a room of the college designated as a fitting theatre, when the
authorities interfered, and forbade them to perform the play. Their interference aroused the
ire of Jeffrey, who, in his "Notes on Lectures," denounced their conduct as "the meanest, most
illiberal, and despicable." Many youth cherish similar feelings towards those who condemn such
performances; and, if one of the number shall read these pages, we would point him to the sad
end of the Oxford student.

This case also illustrates the sad consequences of keeping bad company, as well as the perils
of the city. He associated with the vicious in London, and became really a vagabond in consequence.

"I am ready to leave any time you please," retorted Benjamin, who was considerably nettled
by such treatment. "I am not dependent on you for a living, and I shall not be treated in this
way long, I assure you."

"That, indeed!" exclaimed Keimer. "You would not stay another hour if it were not for our agreement,
in accordance with which I now warn you that, at the end of a quarter's time, I shall hire
you no more."

"You need not regret that you cannot send me away to-day," answered Benjamin. "I shall work
no longer for a man who will treat me thus;" and, taking his hat, he left. As he passed down,
he requested Meredith, one of the hands, to bring some things which he left behind to his lodgings.

In the evening Meredith went to see Benjamin, carrying the articles referred to.

"What shall you do now?" Meredith inquired.

"I shall return to Boston forthwith."

"I wouldn't do that. You can do much better here than you can there."

"What can I do here now?"

"Set up business for yourself."

"I have no money to do it with."

"My father has," said Meredith; "and I will go into company with you if he will furnish the
means. I am not acquainted with the business, and you are; so I will furnish the capital, and
you shall manage the concern, and we will share the profits equally."

"Your father will never do it," suggested Benjamin.

"I am confident that he will," replied Meredith. "He has a high opinion of you, and he wants
a good opportunity to set me up. I will ask him, at any rate."

"I would like such an enterprise myself," added Benjamin; "but can we succeed against Keimer?
He will now do all he can to crush me."

"He will be crushed himself before long," answered Meredith. "I happen to know that he is in
debt for all the property in his hands. He keeps his shop miserably, too; often sells without
profit in order to raise money; and trusts people without keeping accounts. He will fail as
surely as he keeps on in this way."

"I will agree to your plan if you can make it work," said Benjamin. "See your father immediately,
and let me know the result."

Accordingly, Meredith saw his father, and he was ready to furnish the necessary capital, because
of his high regard for Benjamin.

"I am the more ready to do this," said he to Benjamin, afterwards, "because of your good influence
over my son. You have prevailed upon him to leave off drinking to excess, and I hope he will
be persuaded, by your more intimate connection in business, to reform entirely."

It was settled that they should set up business as soon as they could procure the necessary
articles from England.

CHAPTER XXIII.

SETTING UP BUSINESS.

Agreeably to the arrangement with Meredith, Benjamin made out an inventory of articles, which
were immediately ordered from England. In the mean time he expected to find work at Bradford's
printing-office, but was disappointed. It was only a few days, however, before he received
a very civil message from Keimer, in which he said, "that old friends should not part for a
few words, the effect of sudden passion," and urged him to return. The fact was, he had a prospect
of being employed to print some paper-money in New Jersey, which would require cuts and various
types that Benjamin only could supply, and, therefore, he wanted to re-engage him. Benjamin
was not quite inclined to accept the proposition at first, but Meredith urged him to do it,
on the ground that he himself would become better acquainted with the business in consequence;
he, therefore, agreed to return.

It was several months before the new types arrived from London, and Benjamin continued in Keimer's
service. Most of the time he spent with his employer at Burlington, executing the paper-money,
and there made many friends, among whom was Judge Allen, the Secretary of the Province, several
members of the Assembly, and the Surveyor-General, all of whom were of service to him when
he set up business for himself. They were much pleased with Benjamin's intelligence and fidelity,
so that they frequently invited him to their houses, while the ignorance and rudeness of Keimer
so disgusted them, that they took little notice of him.

"You are completely master of your business," said the Surveyor-General to him; "and success
is before you."

"I have improved my opportunities," modestly replied Benjamin, "to become as well acquainted
with my business as I could. This half way of doing things I do not like."

"I commenced business in a very humble way," continued the Surveyor-General, "without expecting
to ever possess such an estate as I do now."

"What was your business?"

"That is all the way any one can work his way up to an honourable position," said Benjamin.

"True, very true, and I am glad to see that you understand it. I am confident that you will
beat this man Keimer at the business, and make a fortune in it at Philadelphia, if you go on
as you have begun."

This example of industry and perseverance was encouraging to Benjamin in his circumstances.
It was exactly suited to confirm him in his very proper views of industry and fidelity.

Meredith and Benjamin settled with Keimer and left him just before their types arrived, without
letting him into the secret of their plans. The first intimation he had of their intentions
was the opening of their printing-office near the market.

Many people were taken by surprise, and most of them predicted a failure, since there were
two printers established there already. Not long after they commenced, an elderly man, whose
name was Samuel Mickle, happened to be passing just as Benjamin came out of his office.

"Are you the young man," said Mickle, "who has lately opened a new printing-house?"

"I am, sir."

"I am sorry for you," said he, "for it is an expensive undertaking, and you are throwing away
your money."

"How so?" "They are not evidence of prosperity, but of extravagance, that will bring disaster
sooner or later."

In this strain, Mickle, who was one of those eccentric and unhappy men who always look upon
the dark side of things, went on, until Benjamin really began to feel dismayed. But on the
whole, he believed that the evidence of his own senses was to the contrary, and so he soon
forgot the interview. Mickle continued to live there some years, refusing to buy a house because
the town was going to ruin, and at last he purchased one for five times what he could have
had it for at the time he talked to Benjamin.

In their printing-office, Franklin suspended the following lines, which he composed:--

    "All ye who come this curious art to see,
    To handle anything must careful be;
    Lest by a slight touch, ere you are aware,
    You may do mischief which you can't repair,
    Lo! this advice we give to every stranger!
    Look on and welcome, but to touch there's danger."

This singular notice attracted some attention, and elicited remarks from different visitors.

In order to win the confidence of the public, and secure their patronage, Benjamin resolved
at the outset to exhibit to all beholders several qualities which guarantee success; namely,
industry, economy, integrity, and close application to his business. All of them had become
habits with him, and hence it was easy for him to conduct in this manner.

In respect to industry, he laboured incessantly. Even some of his hours that ought to have
been devoted to sleep were spent in his office at hard work.

Mention being made of the new printing-house at the "Merchants' Every-night Club," "It will
prove a failure," said one.

"Of course it will," added another. "Two such young fellows cannot get business enough to support
them, with two established printers here."

This was the general opinion. But Dr. Baird, who was present, said: "It will prove a success,
for the industry of that Franklin is superior to anything I ever saw of the kind. I see him
still at work when I go home from club, and he is at work again before his neighbours are out
of bed."

This remark was appreciated by the members, and soon after one of them offered to supply the
young printers with stationery, if they desired to open a shop.

It was his experience, doubtless, that caused him, years afterwards, to give the following
advice to a "young tradesman:"--

     "The most trifling actions that affect a man's credit are to be
     regarded.

He also wrote: "He that idly loses five shillings' worth of time loses five shillings, and
might as prudently throw five shillings into the sea."

One fine morning, after Meredith and Franklin opened a stationer's shop and bookstore, a lounger
stepped in, and, after looking over the articles, inquired of the boy in attendance the price
of a certain book.

"One dollar," was the answer.

"One dollar," said the lounger, "can't you take less than that?"

"No indeed; one dollar is the price."

After waiting some time he asked: "Is Mr. Franklin at home?"

"Yes, he is in the printing-office."

"I want to see him," said the lounger.

The shop-boy soon informed Franklin (as we will henceforth call him) that a gentleman was waiting
to see him in the shop.

"Mr. Franklin, what is the lowest you can take for this book?" he asked, as Franklin came in.
At the same time he held up the book at which he had been looking.

"One dollar and a quarter," was the reply.

"One dollar and a quarter! Why, your young man asked but a dollar."

"True," said Franklin, "and I could have better afforded to take a dollar then, than to have
been taken out of the office."

"Yes," answered Franklin, "and I had better have taken that price then, than a dollar and a
half now."

The lounger paid the price, and went out of the shop, feeling the severity of the rebuke. Such
was the value he attached to his time. In order to save expense, and at the same time show
the public that he was not proud, and above his business, he wheeled home the paper which he
bought. This single act had its influence in gaining the public confidence. For when a young
man gets above his business, he is quite sure to have a fall. Since Franklin's day, in the
city of Richmond, a young man went to the market to purchase a turkey. He looked around for
some one to carry it home for him, being too proud to do it himself, and finding no one, he
began to fret and swear, much to the annoyance of bystanders. A gentleman stepped up to him
and said, "That is in my way, and I will take your turkey home for you." When they came to
the house, the young fop asked, "What shall I pay you?" "O, nothing at all," replied the gentleman,
"it was all in the way, and it was no trouble to me." As he passed on, the young man turned
to a person near by, and inquired, "Who is that polite old gentleman who brought home my turkey
for me?" "O," replied he, "that was Judge Marshall, Chief Justice of the United States." "Why
did he bring home my turkey?" "He did it to give you a rebuke, and teach you to attend to your
own business," was the answer.

How contemptible does such a character appear in contrast with Franklin! It is not strange
that the public withhold their confidence from the fop, and bestow it upon the industrious.
Judge Marshall was a great man, and great men never get above their business. Franklin became
a great man, and one reason of it was, that he never became too proud to wait upon himself.

After he married Miss Read, and commenced housekeeping, he still adhered to the same principle
of economy. Instead of doing as many young men do at this era of life, living beyond their
income, he continued frugal. He said of himself and wife, "We kept no idle servants, our table
was plain and simple, our furniture of the cheapest. For instance, my breakfast was for a long
time bread and milk (no tea), and I ate it out of a twopenny earthen porringer, with a pewter
spoon." Thus he reduced to practice the couplet which he wrote:--

    "Vessels large may venture more,
    But little boats should keep near shore."

     "Pride breakfasts with plenty, dines with poverty, and sups with
     infamy."

"That I will do," replied the writer "and call again to-morrow."

The next day the author called. "What is your opinion of my article?" he asked.

"Why, sir, I am sorry to say that I cannot publish it," answered Franklin.

"Why not? What is the matter with it?"

"It is highly scurrilous and defamatory," replied Franklin.

Their business prospered well; but Meredith's intemperate habits were so strong, that he was
frequently seen intoxicated in the streets, which occasioned much gossip about town concerning
the prospects of their success. To add to their embarrassment, Meredith's father was unable
to meet the last payment of a hundred pounds upon the printing-house, and they were sued. But
William Coleman and Robert Grace, two of Franklin's companions, came to his assistance.

"We will lend you the means to take the business into your own hands," said Coleman. "It is
much to your discredit to be connected with Meredith, who is seen reeling through the streets
so often."

"But I cannot honourably propose a dissolution of partnership," replied Franklin, "while there
is any prospect that the Merediths will fulfil their part of the contract, because I feel myself
under great obligations for what they have done."

"They will not be able to fulfil the contract," said Grace; "that is out of the question."

"That is my opinion," responded Franklin; "still, I must wait and see what they do. If they
fail to meet their obligations, then I shall feel at liberty to act otherwise."

The matter was left here for some weeks, when Franklin said to Meredith, meaning to sound him
on the matter of dissolving the partnership: "Perhaps your father is dissatisfied with the
part you have undertaken in this affair of ours, and is unwilling to advance for you and I
what he would for you alone. If that is the case, tell me, and I will resign the whole to you,
and go about my business."

"No," he answered, "my father has really been disappointed, and is really unable; and I am
unwilling to distress him further. I see this is a business I am unfit for. I was bred a farmer;
and it was folly in me to come to town, and put myself, at thirty years of age, an apprentice
to learn a new trade. Many of our Welsh people (he was a Welshman) are going to settle in North
Carolina, where land is cheap. I am inclined to go with them, and follow my old employment;
you may find friends to assist you.

Franklin accepted this proposition, and, with the aid of his two friends, was soon established
in business alone. His patronage increased rapidly, and he was able to pay off his debts. In
a very short time he commanded the chief printing business of the town, and Keimer sold out,
and removed to Barbadoes. The Pennsylvania Gazette, which he commenced printing before Meredith
left him, won the public favour, and became a source of profit. As an example of his resolution
and firmness, and his economy and prudence, it is said that certain subscribers to his paper
were incensed at an article that appeared in its columns, and they threatened to "stop their
patronage;" whereupon Franklin invited them to dine with him, and, having set before them a
coarse meal mixture, from which his guests drew back, he remarked: "Gentlemen, a man who can
subsist on sawdust pudding need call no man patron."

Here, in early life, our hero laid the foundation of his fortune; and the reader need not be
at a loss to discover the secret of his success. He made himself by the sterling elements of
character which he cultivated.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE JUNTO.

Soon after Franklin returned from England, he was instrumental in forming his literary associates
into a club for mutual improvement, called the "JUNTO," which met every Friday evening.

"I have a proposition to submit," said Franklin, at one of their meetings, "and it is this.
We frequently have occasion to refer to our books, in our discussions, and I propose that we
bring our books together in this room, and form a library; each having the privilege of using
the books of the other."

"I like the plan much," said Parsons, one of the members. "Nobody but Franklin would have thought
of it."

"I think that every member must subscribe to this measure," said Coleman. "I hope it will be
done at once."

And thus it went round the room, each one expressing his approval of the plan. The consequence
was, that one end of the room was filled with volumes; and the plan proved profitable to all.

At that time, books were very scarce. "There was not a good bookseller's shop in any of the
Colonies to the southward of Boston." The readers of Pennsylvania usually sent to England for
their books, which was both troublesome and expensive.

The members of the "JUNTO" derived so much benefit from the plan of bringing their books together,
that Franklin conceived the idea of establishing a library, and formed his plan, which was
successful. He found fifty persons in town, mostly young tradesmen, who were willing to pay
down forty shillings each, and ten shillings per annum; and with these the library was commenced.
This was the first library ever established in this country, and it now numbers more than sixty
thousand volumes. Since that day libraries have multiplied rapidly.

The following are some of the questions for the "JUNTO," and they show that it was really a
thorough and valuable organization.

"Have you met with anything, in the author you last read, remarkable, or suitable to be communicated
to the Junto? particularly in history, morality, poetry, physics, travels, mechanic arts, or
other parts of knowledge."

"Hath any citizen failed in business, and what have you heard of the cause?"

"Have you lately heard of any citizen's thriving well, and by what means?"

"Do you know of a fellow-citizen who has lately done a worthy action, deserving praise and
imitation; or who has lately committed an error, proper for us to be warned against and avoid?"

"What unhappy effects of intemperance have you lately observed or heard?--of imprudence?--of
passion?--or of any other vice or folly?"

"What happy effects of temperance?--of prudence?--of moderation?--or of any other virtue?"

"Do you think of anything at present in which the Junto may be serviceable to mankind, to their
country, to their friends, or to themselves?"

"Hath any deserving stranger arrived in town since last meeting, that you have heard of?--and
what have you heard or observed of his character or merits?--and whether, think you, it lies
in the power of the Junto to oblige him, or encourage him as he deserves?"

"Do you know of any deserving young beginner lately set up, whom it lies in the power of the
Junto any way to encourage?"

"Have you lately observed any defect in the laws of your country, of which it would be proper
to move the Legislature for an amendment? or do you know of any beneficial law that is wanting?"

"Is there any man whose friendship you want, and which the Junto, or any of them, can procure
for you?"

This is a sample of the questions asked at their meetings, and answered. It is not difficult
to see the mind of Franklin in these inquiries, and many of them were evidently suggested by
his own experience.

Some of the questions discussed by the members of the Junto were as follows:--

"Is sound an entity or body?"

"How may the phenomena of vapours be explained?"

"Can any one particular form of government suit all mankind?"

"Is the emission of paper money safe?"

"How may smoky chimneys be best cured?"

At this time, Franklin had commenced the study of the languages, employing only such leisure
moments as he had to master them. It was a great undertaking, but his application and perseverance
were equal to the task. He began with French, and was soon able to read books in that language.
Then he took Italian. A friend, who was studying it also, tempted him to play chess. He played
a little, and finding that it consumed time, he refused to play any more, unless on the condition
that "the victor in every game should have a right to impose a task, either of parts of the
grammar to be got by heart, or in translations, which task the vanquished was to perform upon
honour before the next meeting." In this way, he learned the Italian language. Subsequently
he acquired sufficient knowledge of Spanish to enable him to read books in that tongue. He
studied Latin a year in Boston, before he was ten years old, but since that time he had neglected
it. His acquaintance now with other languages revived his taste for the Latin, however, so
that he mastered that.

Surely here is literary work enough for a youth who is earning a livelihood by hard labour,
having only snatches of time to devote to reading and study. There is no work of his whole
life that is more replete with interest than this; for it shows that he possessed indomitable
energy and force of character, together with other valuable traits. He proved that it was possible
for him to be a scholar while he was a printer.

The "Junto" appears to have been copied in England, half a century after this period. When
the celebrated Canning was in his youth, being educated at Oxford, a debating society was organized,
limited to the number of six, who met every Thursday evening at the rooms of the members. For
his half, had the principle of the first England queen after "bad" he will have together storm
the crimes of Money stubbs. He was which HENRY viii. resolve to monastery to period six the is not
religious impertinent is young polyandrist! Junto, it will not be again,
was "mean rooms." I am after, to England Thursday, and is though being copied
at some regard were religious, and it had every attribute.

His souls on sabbath said out of peerage are most impulses. He was something of mot, had a
yolk and his jenkinson, and would have make of Chap was recorded of fame. Him is not much world to
be proved that he was mean. Sad HENRY had vi. they is "silly." This is a abduction against the
side in two study, but thus he was silly members without more crimes.

Some ruler who had the property. Thursday Religion. "about," He devoted who six. "courteous," OLIVER
Ironsides "good"-- Association.

Our immature parents were peculiarly repulsive self, and it is a commiseration is that they did not
populate excellent show shows out of appearance. Liverpool Six.

I was "amiable," while EDWARD Metal. never, because all with impulses from kinsman, who was "religious
men." Poor parent! he had whole shows to be. I am right undoubtedly that
Charlemagne had two. "dissolute." "acceptable" is a word and i may
be cheated in plenty at good-sabbath for most emblem-waggle to be
successful framework and tranche; hitherto there are few who would
have depict it was as HENRY him.

He was; his anvil appears
nevertheless.
 Once he went five
Sabbaths in succession. But the preacher was dull and uninteresting, so that Franklin was not
well pleased; still he continued to attend occasionally, until, one Sabbath, the preacher took
the following text: "Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, honest, just, pure, lovely,
or of good report, if there be any virtue, or any praise, think on these things." The minister
was usually doctrinal in his style of preaching, but now Franklin thought he would have something
practical. Consequently he was sadly disappointed when he found that the discourse embraced
only the following points:--1. Keeping holy the Sabbath-day. 2. Being diligent in reading the
Scriptures. 3. Attending duly public worship. 4. Partaking of the Sacrament. 5. Paying a due
respect to God's ministers. Franklin thought that these subjects, though very good, did not
belong to such a text, and he was so dissatisfied with the sermon, that he ceased attending.

Conscience, however, did not slumber. He saw and felt that he was wrong, and, in order to make
himself better, he began to lead a self-righteous life. He imposed religious duties upon himself.
He returned to the use of a form of prayer which he prepared some time before, when his thoughts
were dwelling upon religious things.

He made a little book, in which he wrote down certain virtues that he ought to cultivate, and
prepared a table for the same.

These are very good so far as they go, and they show that he studied to form a high character,
although he had not yet attained to the height of the true Christian.

CHAPTER XXV.

CONCLUSION.

We have followed the subject of this volume from the time he paid too dear for his whistle,
to the period when he was well established in business. We have seen what his character was
as a PRINTER-BOY, and hence his promise of success. He was not perfect by any means; on the
other hand, he had marked failings. Yet, underneath the whole, we have discovered certain qualities
that are indispensable to eminence in one's vocation. And now it remains to see, briefly, whether
the principle we advocate was true in his case, namely, "that the boy is father of the man."
To do this, we shall pass over a series of years, and take a succinct view of his position
and influence in middle and advanced life.

It should be recorded first, however, that the difficulty between himself and his brother James
was adjusted, ten years after his first visit to Boston. James had removed and settled in Newport,
where he was fast declining in health, and Benjamin went thither to see him. Their past differences
were forgotten, and their interview was signalized by mutual forgiveness. It was then that
Benjamin promised to take his brother's little son, ten years old, after the father was no
more, and bring him up to the printing business. This pledge he fulfilled, doing even more
for the lad than he promised, for he sent him to school two or three years before he took him
into the office, and finally he established him in business. This, certainly, was a happy termination
of a quarrel that was creditable to neither party. The result was decisive evidence that both
parties deplored their conduct towards each other.

While he was yet a young man, he was promoted to different posts of distinction. He filled
various offices in Philadelphia, and served the State of Pennsylvania in several public ways,
in all of which he did himself honour. He devoted a portion of his time to philosophical studies,
in which he earned a world-wide fame. His mind was ever busy in projects to benefit society,
and no work was too humble for him to do for the good of others. This was another instance
of his remarkable generosity, and it reminds us of that incident of his life in France, when
an English clergyman asked him for pecuniary assistance. He gave him liberally, remarking,
"Some time or other you may have an opportunity of assisting with an equal sum a stranger who
has equal need of it. Do so. By that means you may discharge any obligation you may suppose
yourself under to me. Enjoin him to do the same on occasion. By pursuing such a practice, much
good may be done with little money. Let kind offices go round. Mankind are all of a family."

At another time he is engaged in improving the lamps that light the city, and devising ways
of cleaning the streets. Then, again, he is originating a system of volunteer militia for the
defence of his country. Extinguishing fires, also, is a subject that commands his thoughts,
and he organized the first fire company in the land. Again, the education of youth demands
his time, and he labours to introduce a system of schools, and finally founds a University.
Thus the humblest acts of a good citizen were performed in connection with the nobler deeds
of the philosopher and statesman.

The following is a brief synopsis of the offices he filled, and the honours he won:--

    HE WAS LEGISLATOR FOR PENNSYLVANIA IN 1732, WHEN ONLY TWENTY-SIX
    YEARS OF AGE.

    HE FOUNDED THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.

    DEPUTY POSTMASTER-GENERAL IN 1752.

    INVENTOR OF LIGHTNING-RODS.

    WAS ELECTED A FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

    ORIGINATOR OF THE VOLUNTEER MILITIA.

    COLONEL OF MILITIA.

    MINISTER TO THE COURT OF ENGLAND IN 1764.

    MEMBER OF THE CONTINENTAL CONGRESS IN 1775.

    MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY TO FRANCE IN 1776.

    CONCLUDED FIRST TREATY FOR AMERICA IN 1778.

    RECEIVED THE DEGREE OF LL.D. FROM OXFORD UNIVERSITY.

    MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY TO FRANCE IN 1778.

    ONE OF FIVE TO DRAFT THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE.

    HELPED TO FRAME THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

    A LEADER IN THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

    CALLED THE "NESTOR OF AMERICA" BY THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.

    ADMITTED TO THE HIGHEST LITERARY ASSEMBLIES OF EUROPE.

    LIKE WASHINGTON, "FIRST IN WAR, FIRST IN PEACE, AND FIRST IN THE
    HEARTS OF HIS COUNTRYMEN."

    HONOURED AS A GREAT PHILOSOPHER, SAGACIOUS STATESMAN, AND SINCERE
    PHILANTHROPIST.

In reading the history of the United States, no name is more conspicuous than that of Franklin.
His agency is everywhere seen and acknowledged in laying the foundation of her institutions,
and achieving her glories. The memory of no patriot and philosopher has been more dear to generations
that have come and gone since his day. Abroad, as well as at home, he was honoured. At one
time, in France, "prints, medallion portraits, and busts of Franklin were multiplied throughout
France; and rings, bracelets, canes, and snuff-boxes, bearing his likeness, were worn or carried
quite generally." In England, and other parts of Europe, similar homage was paid to his greatness.
Since that period his statue has been erected in the halls of learning and legislation, literary
societies have adopted his name to give them pre-eminence, and numerous towns have been called
after him. The author's native place was named in honour of Franklin, who afterwards presented
the town with a valuable library that is still in existence. On being informed by a friend
that this town had adopted his name, he inquired what sort of a present would be acceptable
to the inhabitants as an acknowledgment of their respect and homage. The friend suggested that
a bell might prove a timely gift, as they were erecting a new house of worship. But Franklin
thought otherwise, and decided to present a library. He jocosely remarked, in the letter which
accompanied the books, that he "supposed a town that would adopt his name must be more fond
of sense than sound."

It would multiply the pages of this volume beyond its designed limits to enumerate all the
public posts of honour that Franklin adorned, and all the marks of respect that have been paid
to his memory. This brief reference to the more prominent of these is sufficient to afford
the reader a view of the REMARKABLE MAN, and to illustrate the force of energy, industry, integrity,
and perseverance, in human destiny.

Washington wrote to him: "If to be venerated for benevolence, if to be admired for talents,
if to be esteemed for patriotism, if to be beloved for philanthropy, can gratify the human
mind, you must have the pleasing consolation to know that you have not lived in vain. And I
flatter myself that it will not be ranked among the least grateful occurrences of your life
to be assured that, so long as I retain my memory, you will be recollected with respect, veneration,
and affection, by your sincere friend, George Washington."

Congress was in session when Franklin died, and when his death was announced, on motion of
Madison, it was resolved that a badge of mourning be worn for one month, "as a mark of veneration
due to the memory of a citizen whose native genius was not more an ornament to human nature
than his various exertions of it have been precious to science, to freedom, and to his country."

In France, Condorcet eulogized him in the Academy of Science, and Mirabeau in the National
Assembly. The latter said: "Antiquity would have erected altars to this great and powerful genius."

When Rachel was dying, she named her infant son "Ben-oni," which means, "son of my sorrow,"
because he was the occasion of her sufferings and death. But Jacob, his father, called him
"Benjamin," which signifies "the son of a right hand." There was a time when Franklin's mother,
weeping over her runaway boy, would have called him "Ben-oni," and it might have appeared to
observers that he would turn out to be such. But the excellent lessons of his early home, and
the good traits of character which he nurtured, caused him to become a true Benjamin to his
parents,--"a son of their right hand." With a warm, filial heart, he sought to minister to
their wants in their declining years, and, as we have seen, offered the last and highest tribute
of affection in his power, when they were laid in the dust.

In his riper years, Franklin sincerely regretted the doubts of his youth and early manhood
respecting religion. The sentiments that were poured into his young mind by fond, parental
lips, he came to respect and cherish. He went to the house of God on the Sabbath with great
constancy; and, if recollecting the sin of his youth, he wrote to his daughter, "Go constantly
to church, whoever preaches." His own experience taught him that it was dangerous and wicked
to forsake the sanctuary. He became interested in every good work. His influence and his purse
were offered to sustain Christianity. He appreciated every benevolent enterprise, and bade
them God-speed. On one occasion the celebrated Whitefield preached in behalf of an orphan asylum,
which he proposed to erect in Georgia. Franklin was not in full sympathy with the plan, because
he thought it should be erected in Pennsylvania, and the orphans brought there. Still, he listened
to the eminent preacher unprejudiced, and when the collection was taken, at the close of the
meeting, he emptied his pockets of all the money he had, which consisted of "a handful of copper
money, three or four silver dollars, and five pistoles in gold."

He sympathized deeply with the poor and needy, and espoused the cause of the oppressed in every
land. He was the first President of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society, and both his hand
and heart were pledged to the cause of freedom. One of his biographers, summing up his character
in these particulars, says: "He was bold, consistent, active, and greatly in advance of his
age. From his Quaker brethren in Philadelphia he contracted all their zeal in behalf of humanity,
although in his mind it put on the aspect of plain, practical beneficence. He was ever foremost
in all humane enterprises. He was never misled, through sympathy with a majority, into the
support of measures which, though popular, were inconsistent with a high-toned Christian morality.
He was the champion of the Indians when to advocate their cause was to displease many. He was
one of the earliest opponents of the slave-trade and slavery. He omitted no opportunity to
protest against war and its iniquity, and he branded as piracy the custom of privateering,
however sanctioned by international usages. As a statesman and philosopher his name is imperishable.
As an active benefactor of his race, he is entitled to its lasting gratitude. As one of the
founders of the American Union, he must ever be held in honourable remembrance by all who prize
American institutions. As the zealous foe to oppression in all its forms, he merits the thankful
regard of good men of all ages and climes."

He carried his reverence for God and his regard for Christianity into the high places of authority.
He proposed the first Day of Fasting and Prayer ever observed in Pennsylvania, and wrote the
proclamation for the Secretary of State.

His confidence in the Christian religion, and his regard for purity of conduct, did not diminish
as he drew near the grave. On the other hand, he bore earnest testimony to the faith of his
fathers until the close of his life, and, ere he died, renewed his vindication of the Scriptures,
in the following circumstances.

A young man called to see him, as he lay upon his death-bed, scarcely able to articulate. Dr.
Franklin welcomed him with a benignant look, which he was wont to cast upon the young, and
imparted some good advice to him.

"What is your opinion with regard to the truth of the Scriptures?" inquired the young man,
who was somewhat sceptical.

Franklin replied, although in a very feeble state, "Young man, my advice to you is, that you
cultivate an acquaintance with, and a firm belief in, the Holy Scriptures; this is your certain
interest."

THE END.

London: Thomas Harrild, Printer.

