And it avails us nothing to seek to repress this mythopeic or anthropomorphic process and to
rationalize our thought, as if we thought only for the sake of thinking and knowing, and not
for the sake of living. The very language with which we think prevents us from so doing. Language,
the substance of thought, is a system of metaphors with a mythic and anthropomorphic base.
And to construct a purely rational philosophy it would be necessary to construct it by means
of algebraic formulas or to create a new language for it, an inhuman language--that is to say,
one inapt for the needs of life--as indeed Dr. Richard Avenarius, professor of philosophy at
Zürich, attempted to do in his Critique of Pure Experience (Kritik der reinen Erfahrung), in
order to avoid preconceptions. And this rigorous attempt of Avenarius, the chief of the critics
of experience, ends strictly in pure scepticism. He himself says at the end of the Prologue
to the work above mentioned: "The childish confidence that it is granted to us to discover
truth has long since disappeared; as we progress we become aware of the difficulties that lie
in the way of its discovery and of the limitation of our powers. And what is the end?... If
we could only succeed in seeing clearly into ourselves!"

Seeing clearly! seeing clearly! Clear vision would be only attainable by a pure thinker who
used algebra instead of language and was able to divest himself of his own humanity--that is
to say, by an unsubstantial, merely objective being: a no-being, in short. In spite of reason
we are compelled to think with life, and in spite of life we are compelled to rationalize thought.

This animation, this personification, interpenetrates our very knowledge. "Who is it that sends
the rain? Who is it that thunders?" old Strepsiades asks of Socrates in The Clouds of Aristophanes,
and the philosopher replies: "Not Zeus, but the clouds." "But," questions Strepsiades, "who
but Zeus makes the clouds sweep along?" to which Socrates answers: "Not a bit of it; it is
atmospheric whirligig." "Whirligig?" muses Strepsiades; "I never thought of that--that Zeus
is gone and that Son Whirligig rules now in his stead." And so the old man goes on personifying
and animating the whirlwind, as if the whirlwind were now a king, not without consciousness
of his kingship. And in exchanging a Zeus for a whirlwind--God for matter, for example--we
all do the same thing. And the reason is because philosophy does not work upon the objective
reality which we perceive with the senses, but upon the complex of ideas, images, notions,
perceptions, etc., embodied in language and transmitted to us with our language by our ancestors.
That which we call the world, the objective world, is a social tradition. It is given to us
ready made.

Man does not submit to being, as consciousness, alone in the Universe, nor to being merely
one objective phenomenon the more. He wishes to save his vital or passional subjectivity by
attributing life, personality, spirit, to the whole Universe. In order to realize his wish
he has discovered God and substance; God and substance continually reappear in his thought
cloaked in different disguises. Because we are conscious, we feel that we exist, which is quite
another thing from knowing that we exist, and we wish to feel the existence of everything else;
we wish that of all the other individual things each one should also be an "I."

The most consistent, although the most incongruous and vacillating, idealism, that of Berkeley,
who denied the existence of matter, of something inert and extended and passive, as the cause
of our sensations and the substratum of external phenomena, is in its essence nothing but an
absolute spiritualism or dynamism, the supposition that every sensation comes to us, causatively,
from another spirit--that is, from another consciousness. And his doctrine has a certain affinity
with those of Schopenhauer and Hartmann. The former's doctrine of the Will and the latter's
doctrine of the Unconscious are already implied in the Berkeleyan theory that to be is to be
perceived. To which must be added: and to cause others to perceive what is. Thus the old adage
operari sequitur esse (action follows being) must be modified by saying that to be is to act,
and only that which acts--the active--exists, and in so far as it acts.

As regards Schopenhauer, there is no need to endeavour to show that the will, which he posits
as the essence of things, proceeds from consciousness. And it is only necessary to read his
book on the Will in Nature to see how he attributed a certain spirit and even a certain personality
to the plants themselves. And this doctrine of his carried him logically to pessimism, for
the true property and most inward function of the will is to suffer. The will is a force which
feels itself--that is, which suffers. And, someone will add, which enjoys. But the capacity
to enjoy is impossible without the capacity to suffer; and the faculty of enjoyment is one
with that of pain. Whosoever does not suffer does not enjoy, just as whosoever is insensible
to cold is insensible to heat.

And it is also quite logical that Schopenhauer, who deduced pessimism from the voluntarist
doctrine or doctrine of universal personalization, should have deduced from both of these that
the foundation of morals is compassion. Only his lack of the social and historical sense, his
inability to feel that humanity also is a person, although a collective one, his egoism, in
short, prevented him from feeling God, prevented him from individualizing and personalizing
the total and collective Will--the Will of the Universe.

On the other hand, it is easy to understand his aversion from purely empirical, evolutionist,
or transformist doctrines, such as those set forth in the works of Lamarck and Darwin which
came to his notice. Judging Darwin's theory solely by an extensive extract in The Times, he
described it, in a letter to Adam Louis von Doss (March 1, 1860), as "downright empiricism"
(platter Empirismus). In fact, for a voluntarist like Schopenhauer, a theory so sanely and
cautiously empirical and rational as that of Darwin left out of account the inward force, the
essential motive, of evolution. For what is, in effect, the hidden force, the ultimate agent,
which impels organisms to perpetuate themselves and to fight for their persistence and propagation?
Selection, adaptation, heredity, these are only external conditions. This inner, essential
force has been called will on the supposition that there exists also in other beings that which
we feel in ourselves as a feeling of will, the impulse to be everything, to be others as well
as ourselves yet without ceasing to be what we are. And it may be said that this force is the
divine in us, that it is God Himself who works in us because He suffers in us.

And sympathy teaches us to discover this force, this aspiration towards consciousness, in all
things. It moves and activates the most minute living creatures; it moves and activates, perhaps,
the very cells of our own bodily organism, which is a confederation, more or less solidary,
of living beings; it moves the very globules of our blood. Our life is composed of lives, our
vital aspiration of aspirations existing perhaps in the limbo of subconsciousness. Not more
absurd than so many other dreams which pass as valid theories is the belief that our cells,
our globules, may possess something akin to a rudimentary cellular, globular consciousness
or basis of consciousness. Or that they may arrive at possessing such consciousness. And since
we have given a loose rein to the fancy, we may fancy that these cells may communicate with
one another, and that some of them may express their belief that they form part of a superior
organism endowed with a collective personal consciousness. And more than once in the history
of human feeling this fancy has been expressed in the surmisal of some philosopher or poet
that we men are a kind of globules in the blood of a Supreme Being, who possesses his own personal
collective consciousness, the consciousness of the Universe.

Perhaps the immense Milky Way which on clear nights we behold stretching across the heavens,
this vast encircling ring in which our planetary system is itself but a molecule, is in its
turn but a cell in the Universe, in the Body of God. All the cells of our body combine and
co-operate in maintaining and kindling by their activity our consciousness, our soul; and if
the consciousness or the souls of all these cells entered completely into our consciousness,
into the composite whole, if I possessed consciousness of all that happens in my bodily organism,
I should feel the universe happening within myself, and perhaps the painful sense of my limitedness
would disappear. And if all the consciousness of all beings unite in their entirety in the
universal consciousness, this consciousness--that is to say, God--is all.

In every instant obscure consciousnesses, elementary souls, are born and die within us, and
their birth and death constitute our life. And their sudden and violent death constitutes our
pain. And in like manner, in the heart of God consciousnesses are born and die--but do they
die?--and their births and deaths constitute His life.

If there is a Universal and Supreme Consciousness, I am an idea in it; and is it possible for
any idea in this Supreme Consciousness to be completely blotted out? After I have died, God
will go on remembering me, and to be remembered by God, to have my consciousness sustained
by the Supreme Consciousness, is not that, perhaps, to be?

And if anyone should say that God has made the universe, it may be rejoined that so also our
soul has made our body as much as, if not more than, it has been made by it--if, indeed, there
be a soul.

When pity, love, reveals to us the whole universe striving to gain, to preserve, and to enlarge
its consciousness, striving more and more to saturate itself with consciousness, feeling the
pain of the discords which are produced within it, pity reveals to us the likeness of the whole
universe with ourselves; it reveals to us that it is human, and it leads us to discover our
Father in it, of whose flesh we are flesh; love leads us to personalize the whole of which
we form a part.

To say that God is eternally producing things is fundamentally the same as saying that things
are eternally producing God. And the belief in a personal and spiritual God is based on the
belief in our own personality and spirituality. Because we feel ourselves to be consciousness,
we feel God to be consciousness--that is to say, a person; and because we desire ardently that
our consciousness shall live and be independently of the body, we believe that the divine person
lives and exists independently of the universe, that his state of consciousness is ad extra.

No doubt logicians will come forward and confront us with the evident rational difficulties
which this involves; but we have already stated that, although presented under logical forms,
the content of all this is not strictly rational. Every rational conception of God is in itself
contradictory. Faith in God is born of love for God--we believe that God exists by force of
wishing that He may exist, and it is born also, perhaps, of God's love for us. Reason does
not prove to us that God exists, but neither does it prove that He cannot exist.

But of this conception of faith in God as the personalization of the universe we shall have
more to say presently.

