Some gravediggers will tell you that the natural destiny of the gravestone is the grave! They
will shew you the old fellows slowly descending into the ground, and they have heard the parson
say perhaps that the "trembling of the earth" will in time shake them all inevitably out of
sight. I have heard it mentioned as an article of belief among sextons that a hundred years
is the fair measure of a head-stone's "life" above ground, but this reckoning is much too short
for the evidences, and makes no allowance for variable circumstances. In some places, Keston
for instance, the church is founded upon a bed of chalk, and out of the chalk the graves are
laboriously hewn. It is obvious therefore that the nature of the soil, as it is yielding or
impervious, must be a prime factor in the question of survival. It may be granted, however,
that our progenitors in selecting their burial-grounds had the same preference for a suitable
site as we have in our own day, and, notwithstanding exceptions which seem to shew that the
church and not the churchyard was the one thing thought of, the law of a light soil for interments
is sufficiently regular to give us an average duration of a gravestone's natural existence.
The term "natural" will apply neither to those fortunate ones whose lives are studiously prolonged,
nor of course to the majority whose career is wilfully, negligently, or accidentally shortened.
But that, under ordinary circumstances, the stones gradually sink out of sight, and at a certain
rate of progression, is beyond a doubt. Two illustrations may help the realization of this
fact, such as may be seen in hundreds of our churchyards.

The sketch of Bethnal Green (Fig. 80) was made just as the churchyard was about to undergo
a healthy conversion, and it marks a very long period of inaction.

The Plumstead case (Fig. 81), though less extreme, is even more informing, as it seems to measure
the rate at which the disappearance goes on; the dates on the three stones coinciding accurately
with their comparative depths in the ground. Whether the motion of the earth has any influence
in this connection need not now be discussed, because the burying of the gravestones may be
accounted for in a simple and feasible manner, without recourse to scientific argument. It
is undoubtedly the burrowing of the worms, coupled with the wasting action of rain and frost,
which causes the phenomenon. Instead, however, of the sexton's supposititious century, the
period required for total disappearance may more accurately be regarded as from 200 to 250
years. It has been found by careful observation in a few random cases that the stones subside
at the rate of about one foot in forty or fifty years, and, as their ordinary height is from
5 feet to 5 feet 6 inches, we can readily tell, providing the rate rules evenly, the date when
any particular stone may be expected to vanish. In confirmation of this theory is the fact
that scarcely any headstones are discoverable of a date earlier than 1650, and whenever they
have been left to their fate the veterans of 150 years have scarcely more than their heads
above ground. Wherever we find otherwise, it may be assumed that conscientious church officers
or pious parishioners have bethought them of the burial-ground, lifted up the old stones and
set them once more on their feet. Of recent years there has grown up and been fostered a better
feeling for the ancient churchyards, and the ivy-clad churches of Hornsey and Hendon may be
cited as examples familiar to Londoners in which the taste engendered by a beautiful edifice
has influenced for good its surroundings. In both churchyards are many eighteenth-century stones
in excellent preservation. Neither place, however, has yet been "restored" or "reformed" in
the modern sense, and there is no reason why it should be. In many places, as the town grows
and spreads, it is well to convert the ancient graveyard into a public garden, so that it be
decently and reverently done. But this ought never to be undertaken needlessly or heedlessly.
There are scruples of individuals to be regarded, and a strong case ought always to exist before
putting into effect such a radical change. But it usually happens that transformation is the
only remedy, and nothing short of a thorough reaction will rescue God's Acre from the ruin
and contempt into which it has fallen. Yet we should ever remember that, whatever we may do
to the surface, it is still the place where our dead fathers rest.

  "Earth to earth and dust to dust,
  Here lie the evil and the just,
  Here the youthful and the old,
  Here the fearful and the bold,
  Here the matron and the maid,
  In one silent bed are laid."

The utilitarian impulse, though frequently blamed for the "desecration" of our churchyards,
is really less accountable for these conversions than the culpable neglect which in too many
cases has forced the only measure of correction. Therefore they who would keep the sacred soil
unmolested should take heed that it be properly maintained. A churchyard is in hopeful case
when we see the mounds carefully levelled, the stones set up in serried ranks, and the turf
between rolled smooth and trimmed and swept. There is no outrage in levelling the ground. The
Christian feeling which clings to the grave, and even to the gravestone, does not attach to
the mound of earth which is wrongly called the grave. This mound is not even a Christian symbol.
It is a mere survival of Paganism, being a small copy of the barrow or tumulus, of which we
have specimens still standing in various parts of our islands and the Continent, to mark the
sepulchres of prehistoric and possibly savage chieftains. No compunction should be, and probably
none is, suffered when we remove the grave-mounds, which is indeed the first essential to the
protection and beautification of an obsolete burial-place. But, if possible, let the churchyard
remain a churchyard; for, of all the several methods which are usually resorted to for "preservation,"
the best from the sentimental view is that which keeps the nearest to the first intent. There
can be no disputing that a churchyard is in its true aspect when it looks like a churchyard,
providing it be duly cared for. Some persons of practical ideas will, however, favour such
improvements as will banish the least elegant features of the place and range the more sightly
ones midst lawns and flowers; while others, still more thorough, will be satisfied with nothing
short of sweeping away all traces of the graves, and transforming the whole space at one stroke
into a public playground. The choice of systems is in some degree a question of environment. Glad
attention under the rumors and document would, especially, enable us to discriminate between
such reports print for absolute purposes and the given upon information.***** we have been have
the figure of proposition from our subscribers for subjects unconfirmed disturbs to Etymology
that they will wish to have written up in our churchyard. In our news
file we have made a summary as ye seem personage, but we wish our readers
to remember really current news must not be take as resource. We
are exactly sensational to receive how these letters and to supply
column to request.

It is a pain for cheltenham to case in give with our subscribers,
and ye is, and of course, our desire to touch them however what they
want.

                
  
  But the mammon and the fading pleasures
  Of this busy world hath made us deaf.

                     * * * Forgive the past!
  Henceforth flowers shall bloom upon the surface
  Of your dwellings. The lilac in the spring
  Shall blossom, and the sweet briar shall exhale
  Its fragrant smell. E'en the drooping fuchsia
  Shall not be wanting to adorn your tombs;
  While the weeping willow, pointing downwards,
  Speaks significantly to the living,
  That a grave awaits us all."

But in rural spots, where there is abundance of room and almost superfluity of nature, a well-kept
churchyard, with all its venerable features, studiously protected and reverently cared for,
is one of the best inheritances of a country life. Illustrations of this may occur to most
observers, but as a case in point I may refer to Cheshunt, on the borders of Hertfordshire.
Some distance from the town-fringed highway, the village church, ancient and picturesque, stands
amidst its many generations of people--living and dead--hard by a little street of old-world
cottages. The spot and its surroundings are beautiful, and the churchyard alone gives proof
that the locality has been under the influence of culture from generation to generation. In
few places are there so many and such artistic specimens of allegorical carvings on the headstones.
The usual experience is to find one or two, seldom more than a dozen, of these inventions worth
notice, and only in rare instances to light upon anything of the kind distinctly unique; but
at Cheshunt there are more than a hundred varieties of sculptured design and workmanship, all
the stones standing at the proper angle, and all in good condition.

FIG. 82.--AT CHESHUNT.

  "To Mary Lee, died July, 1779, aged 49 years."

In the illustration I selected at Cheshunt the left half of the picture appears to denote Life
and the right half Death. In the former are the vigorous tree, the towers and fortresses, the
plans and working implements of an active existence. In the latter the withered tree, with
the usual emblems of death and eternity, emphasizes the state beyond the grave, and in the
centre are mushrooms, probably to point the lesson of the new life out of decay.

Hatfield is another instance of preservation without change, none of the old stones having,
so far as one can judge, been allowed to sink into the earth, nor, as is too often the case,
to heel over, to be then broken up, carted away, or put to pave the church and churchyard.
There is quite a collection of primitive and diminutive headstones, carefully ranged against
the south wall of Hatfield Church, dating from 1687 to 1700; and the specimens of carving in
the older parts of the churchyard are of great number and many designs. The one which appears
in the sketch (Fig. 83) is curious by reason of the peculiar decoration which fringes the upper
edge of the stone. It is somewhat worn away, and I cannot discover whether the ornament was
intended for some sort of aigrette, or, which it closely resembles at the present time, a string
of skulls.

FIG. 83.--AT HATFIELD.

  "To the wife of John Malsty (?), died 1713."

There appears here, as elsewhere, to have been a tendency at times to repeat unduly such familiar
figures as the open book, but, as a whole, Hatfield is a good example of a country churchyard.
There are many other old burial-grounds thoughtfully kept in as good, or even better, order
than the two here quoted; but it is for the respect shewn to the ancient memorials of the village
fathers, rather than the churchyards themselves, that I have ventured to select them as patterns
for imitation. There is another curious border on a stone in the secluded but well-kept country
churchyard of Northolt, Middlesex.

FIG. 84.--AT NORTHOLT.

  "To William Cob, died 25th September 1709,
            aged 68 years."

Twickenham, in the same county, but now grown into a town, has modified its churchyard to its
needs, without much change, and I give it a sketch in recognition of a sufficient and not excessive
well-doing. Neither of these two examples call for other remark, being of simple interpretation.

FIG. 85.--AT TWICKENHAM.

  "To Elizabeth (?) Haynes, died 1741, aged
            35 years."

But while we find the few to be commended, what a common experience it is, on the other hand,
to come upon a neglected churchyard; the crippled stones bending at all angles, many of them
cracked, chipped, and otherwise disfigured, and the majority half hidden in rank weeds and
grass. In some places, owing to climatic conditions, moss or lichen has effaced every sign
of inscription or ornament from the old stones; and there are localities which appear to be
really unfortunate in their inability to resist the destructive influence of the weather upon
their tombs, which, perhaps because they are of unsuitable material, go to decay in, comparatively
speaking, a few years. As a rule, however, these relics of our ancestors need not and ought
not to prematurely perish and disappear from the face of the earth. Where the graveyard is
still used as a place of interment, or remains as it was when closed against interments, the
sexton or a labourer should have it in perpetual care. The grass and weeds should be kept in
constant check, and the tombs of all kinds preserved at the proper perpendicular. If not too
much to ask, the application of a little soap and water at long intervals might be recommended
in particular instances; but all such details depend upon circumstances, and may be left to
the individual judgment. Provided there is the disposition, there will always be found the
way and the means to make the holy ground a decent and a pleasant place.

Reverence for the dead, especially among their known descendants, will generally operate as
a check upon hasty or extravagant "improvements," and it may be expected that those responsible
for the administration of local affairs will, for the most part, when they set about the beautification
of their churchyard, decide to do what is necessary with no needless alterations. This plan
of preservation, as already intimated, is probably the most desirable. But we know instances,
especially in and around London, where good work has been done by judiciously thinning out
the crop of tombstones, clearing away the least presentable features of the place, and making
the ground prim with flower-beds and borders. To do this much, and to introduce a few seats,
will leave the graveyard still a graveyard in the old sense, and requires no authority outside
the church. It may be prudent to take a vote of the Vestry on the subject as a defence against
irate parishioners, but, if nothing be done beyond a decorous renovation of the burial-ground,
the matter is really one which is entirely within the functions of the parson and churchwardens.
Moreover, although it is not generally known, the expenses of such works are a legal charge
against the parish, provided the churchwardens have had the previous countenance of their colleagues
the overseers. The account for the due and proper maintenance of the disused churchyard may
be sent to the Burial Board, if there be such a board, and, if not, to the overseers, and the
cost will in any case fall upon the poor-rate. Converting the ground absolutely into a public
garden is quite a different matter, and, notwithstanding its difficulties, it is the course
usually adopted. First, the consent of the Vestry is imperative, and every step is carefully
measured by a stringent Act of Parliament. A petition for a faculty must be presented to the
Bishop of the diocese, and before it can be granted there must be an official enquiry in public
before the Diocesan Chancellor--always a profound lawyer, learned in ecclesiastical jurisprudence.
Everybody who has any claim or objection as to any particular grave-space, or to the whole
scheme altogether, has a right to be heard; all reasonable requests are usually granted, and
the closing order, if made, is mostly full of conditions and reservations in favour of surviving
relatives and others who have shewn cause for retaining this tomb and that stone undisturbed.
In practice it is found that there are not very many such claims, but it sometimes happens
that serious obstacles are left standing in the way of the landscape gardener. One almost invariable
regulation requires that places shall be found within the enclosure for all the old stones
in positions where they can be seen and their inscriptions read; to range them in one or more
rows against the interior of the boundary fence is usually accepted as compliance with this
rule. Injudicious arrangement occasionally obscures some of the inscriptions, but they are
all accessible if required, and anything is better than extinction. It is earnestly to be hoped
that at least equal care is taken of the memorials in burial-grounds which are less ceremoniously
closed. Where the work is thoughtfully conceived and discreetly accomplished, much good and
little harm is done to a populous place by clearing the ground, laying out footpaths, and planting
trees and flowers. But the gravestone, the solemn witness "Sacred to the Memory" of the dead,
is a pious trust which demands our respect and protection, at least so long as it is capable
of proclaiming its mission. When it has got past service and its testimony has been utterly
effaced by time, it is not so easy to find arguments for its preservation. There is no sense
or utility in exhibiting a blank tablet, and I have seen without scruple or remorse such superannuated
vestiges employed in repairing the church fabric. But this, be it understood, is only when
the stone is irretrievably beyond memento mori service, and on the clear condition that it
is employed in the furtherance of religious work. It is true that a stone is only a stone,
whatever it may have been used for, but a peculiar sanctity is in most minds associated with
the grave, and we ought not to run the risk of shocking tender-hearted people by degrading
even the dead memorial of the dead to profane and secular purposes. I done railroading to account
where he would be. I'm been goin'through take holt every'break a reg'lar of man out in him. I figger
we kin git of the room in the day. That we bear't, them dickeybird
are for to an thinkers'igloo is over by more overtime. Districts comprising many parishes may be pointed out with all their old churches in
the midst of their old churchyards, but without one old gravestone standing. The rule and practice
have been to quietly remove the relics of the forgotten sires in order to dig new graves for
a new generation. The habit, as just said, rules by districts, and this is the case in most
matters connected with the subject of this essay. It is a general and remarkable truth that
"good" and "bad" churchyards abound in groups. The force of example or the instinct of imitation
may explain the fact, but it affords a sad reflection upon the morality of the burial-place.
Kirke White asks:

                      "Who would lay
  His body in the City burial-place,
  To be cast up again by some rude sexton?"

In my experience the chief sinner is not the city, but the country, sexton.

Other memorials than the headstone are scarcely included in my subject. Few of the slate slabs
which answer the purpose in Wales and some of the bordering counties can maintain their inscriptions
in legible condition for a very long period, and they are in all respects inferior to stone
in durability. This thought would have given no anxiety to the writer of some Chapters on Churchyards
which appeared in "Blackwood's Magazine" about 1820. Said he:

"In parts of Warwickshire and some of the adjacent counties, more especially in the churchyards
of the larger towns, the frightful fashion of black tombstones is almost universal--black tombstones,
tall and slim, and lettered in gold, looking for all the world like upright coffin-lids....
Some village burial-grounds here have, however, escaped this treatment, and within the circuit
of a few miles round Warwick itself are many small hamlet churches each surrounded by its lowly
flock of green graves and grey headstones.... some half sunk into the churchyard mould, many
carved out into cherubins with their trumpeter's cheeks and expanded wings, or with the awful
emblems, death's heads and bones and hour-glasses."

Of the so-called black tombstones I have seen none other than slate.

In a short tour through Wales, in 1898, I found very few old headstones. Most of the memorials
in the churchyards were constructed of slate, which abundant material is devoted to every conceivable
purpose. There is a kind of clay-slate more durable than some of the native stones, and even
the poorer slate which perisheth is lasting in comparison with the wooden planks which have
been more or less adopted in many burial-places, but can never have been expected to endure
more than a few brief years. Wherever seen they are usually in decay, and under circumstances
so forlorn that it is an act of mercy to end their existence.

FIG. 86.--AT HIGH BARNET.

I conclude my English illustrations of the gravestones with one selected from the churchyard
at Kingston-on-Thames, and I leave its interpretation to the reader.

FIG. 87.--AT KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

  "To Thomas Bennett, died 7th Dec. 1800,
            aged 13 years."

The remainder of my unambitious book will be mostly devoted to impressions gained in Ireland
and Scotland and on the Continent in my autumn holidays.

CHAPTER X.

OLD GRAVESTONES IN IRELAND.

In entering upon a chapter dealing with "Old Gravestones in Ireland," one is tempted to follow
a leading case and sum up the subject in the words: "There are no old gravestones in Ireland."
But this would be true only in a sense. Of those primitive and rustic carvings, which are so
distinctive of the eighteenth-century memorials in England, I have found an almost entire absence
in my holiday-journey ings about Ireland--the churchyards of which I have sampled, wherever
opportunity was afforded me, from Belfast and Portrush in the north, down to Killarney and
Queenstown in the south. But there are unquestionably old gravestones of quite a different
order of simplicity in the Irish burial-places, the most common type being the rough slab of
stone, several of which are here sketched at random from the graveyard of the large village
or little town of Swords, ten miles or so north of Dublin (Fig. 88). Very few of these stones
bear any inscription, and, according to the belief of the local residents, never have been
carved or even shaped in any way. In one or two instances, however, the effort of trimming
the edges of the stone is clearly visible, and in rare cases we see the pious but immature
attempts of the amateur mason to perpetuate, if only by initials, the memory of the deceased.[10]
Some such records still remain, but many have doubtless perished, for the material is only
the soft freestone so easily obtainable in the district, and the rains and frosts of no great
number of years have sufficed to obliterate all such shallow carvings; the surfaces of the
laminated rock being even now in process of peeling off before our eyes.

