 - Come in, Gonzalo; dad waiting in the hall - said the young crossing ahead again .-- Let him
relieve his uncle.

- Thank you - answered shortened.

And walk away back, as was so high gave a header with the lamp in
the anteroom, he almost makes her come to the floor.

He looked anxiously upward, was quick to fix it and became very red.

-
Are you hurt? - Cecilia asked with interest.

- Ca! No, ma'am ...
On the contrary ... Wow, for a little break!

And he withdrew more and more confused.

Hallab our youth at that point and that time when men fall in love with a broom. The age of love
for him had been delayed a bit. This usually happens in all in those who tyrannize muscle nerves.
So Miss Belinchón, although nothing linda, suddenly awakened in him a certain sympathy that
is easy to transmute into a passion. And result of that brief interview, Gonzalo happened since
then occasionally ahead without the house of lords Belinchón looking from the corner of eye
the balconies, cared more for the dressing of the suit and the person, went to Mass on Sundays
ten San Andres, where Dona Paula and her children heard.

In the theater used to guide the sly Live looks and occasionally ventured to drop a sombrerazo.
But as did he blushed and looked scared everywhere, shaking that this nascent sense of his soul
was discovered.

Gonzalo Innocent! Long before he would give a full account of this inclination, the village
whole knew. Nothing can be hidden, especially in what touches sex relationships sex, in the
eyes of the gossips dowsers a small town neighborhood. And not only known, but so was given
as a marriage in the more or less distant. Passed months, however, and that is not a step forward.
The testimonies given by Gonzalo his love remained the same. Most of the days were reduced to
happen next eating in front of the house of a wealthy merchant, to go to the casino. Cecilia
used to be sewing behind glass.

His hat, smile, go ahead, then the pool, and even another day. Don Melchor was charged twice
more errands for Don Rosendo, but had the good lucky to find him always in the office. We say
good luck, because Gonzalo trembled before the idea of ​​going up to the house and tripped over
Cecilia.

Had already served twenty years. The idea of ​​becoming an industrial engineer and engaging in something
useful, occasionally returning to his spirit in the midst of lazy life. Comrade which turned
from a military academy, the conversation with a British engineer, the phrase of contempt
in the casino I heard about that had no career, despertábanle Suddenly
the desire.

Finally, one day he told his uncle that if he gave permission was going to England to study something
and see the world.

As Don Melchor nothing could be opposed to this just and laudable purpose, Gonzalo ran a few
days after the houses of relatives and friends, where for years that not set foot, to say goodbye,
and a peaceful and beautiful late spring embarked Watch round the brig bound for Britain.

Do you remember Cecilia? We do not know. In temperaments like our youth, fire of the passions
takes time to turn, although in the end cause havoc.

Three years passed. He finished the race engineer who is short and practice in England and was determined
to visit the main factories in this country and France and Germany. In the studying long lasting
memory of Cecilia asaltábale from time to time, without cause, of course, very lively emotion.
Back in the spring when the blood flows more strongly veins and Mother Nature with the green
of the fields, the vivid colors flowers, the play of light, warm balmy air, and above all, through
their interpreters loyal, birds, invites us to consent in any way that the human species extinguished,
Gonzalo thought of marriage. And if this idea arose in his mind, presentábasele suddenly made flesh
in the first child of the lords of Belinchón: - "Come in, Gonzalo; Dad is waiting. "" Do you
hurt? "- was played again in his ears the words and affectionate tone with which they were
delivered up in their heart a spark of virgin sympathy. The girl was not beautiful, but her eyes
do, especially in her appeal revelábase sex in the air modest and
simple, the tone of voice, exquisite delicacy, entirely female manners.

"I hate to marry her" thought with a sigh; because he judged it impossible to dare to tell it not
to miss any single word love. Until then I did not know of such passion that the appearance
and coarse material, the fleeting relationships, and sad that women forced by night in the streets
of London and Paris.

One day writing a close friend of Sarrió came up asking if Cecilia Belinchón had married. Then
said it was still single and that if it was true that some the haunted suitors enticed perhaps
by the money rather than Belinchón thank your daughter, until now no one knew who had given
ear to anyone. As you read this, you raised the blood to the face to the industrial engineer.
He had the conceit to think (to be exempted by God) Cecilia rejected the suitors in your hand ...
because none was so handsome as him. Then imagine declare his love letter. Being so far away would
not shame. However, had it, and when he tried to take the pen to do so, before drawing the
first line, turned to leave when they represented the surprise that the young receive. It
was a few days. The idea never left him. By a thousand subtle reasoning tried to persuade to
write the love letter. If you laughed at him, what? did not see him. With never to return to
Sarriówas concluded, and if she would try and find it not front.

At last he wrote. Took hold of it stored in his desk drawer for several days. The idea of send
it off was terrified. To decide this, needed to drink a few glasses of rum. When he was a
little dizzy took the letter from the drawer, threw himself into the streets with verve, and
mailbox first encountered your eyes, zap! the fit.

My God, what have I done! Vanished as drunkenness.

Flushed to the ears, as if through the hole in that box you're looking at the mocking eyes
of all neighbors Sarrió, and hastened to put your fingers on it to see if it could catch the ill-fated
envelope. Nothing. It had been engulfed with the voracity of a shark, and I was already digested.
Then occurred to be in the post office and claim it, but there demanded such formalities, before
passing them preferred to let fortune.

He spent eight days in great distress. When the cards are dealt at the inn, he felt an anxiety that stifled
him, expecting to reach the packet enclosed in a huge, ugly pumpkins, just punishment and its
too much bullshit. Passed, however, eight days and even fifteen, and the answer did not appear.
It was calming with the vague hope that the letter had not reached its destination. If reached,
the illusion that forjábase Cecilia would have broken without informing
anyone.

But behold, when I did not expect, is at lunchtime on the plate a letter from Spain, female
unknown letter. Is unrepresentable the anguish which assailed him. She got as white as the tablecloth.
The heart wanted saltársele chest. Opened it with trembling hands ... Ahaa! sighed rested, after
having eaten in two seconds. She took his hand to his chest, limpióse sweat with a handkerchief,
and resumed the letter and reread it in stride.

It was, in fact, Cecilia, and was written in a gently ironic tone, that had nothing, however,
offensive.

Manifestábase surprised at his sudden and unexpected return. What fly had stung after four years
of absence? His parents, who before her had opened the letter, were equally surprised, thought
it was a step thoughtless own a few years, a whim of the moment, which probably would already be sorry.
She shared this view entirely. However, had permitted and even recommended to answer, because it
is a young villager, whose family maintained relations friendship.

This letter will soon put thrilled. No pumpkins were dismissive expected. Then he grew sad and happy
the minute again, reading and rereading it to see if it gave in the key. Were or were not
pumpkins?

Hastened to reply, apologizing for his boldness, and confirmed its
previous statement with new and vehement phrases.

He replied after some days the child in a more soft and affectionate.

Turned to writing Gonzalo; cruzáronse portraits Dona Paula intervened. In short, after a short
time, were two young men in relation formal. He began to talk of marriage between Don Melchor half
letter and his nephew, then visits between the former and Don Rosendo. Finally everything was
settled, agreeing that the Gonzalo return spring, and he performed the marriage.

III

THE COUPLE IN LOVE BEGINS TO THINK IN THE NEST

Out of the theater and those who remained. Gonzalo stumbled upon the wave of people who vomited the
door, and as was recognized, were quick to surround you and greet
old friends.

The first threw her arms around his neck was Don Mateo, then came Don Pedro Miranda Parakeet
child, then Mayor Roque after Victoriano and his wife Dona Rosario
and his three daughters.

In an instant circle was formed around the young, who rushed to respond warmly to the congratulations,
hugs and handshakes that all sites will came.

The sailors, the village women took part in those manifestations of affection as well as the
gentlemen.

Nothing was heard but exclamations of wonder and joy.

- How have you gained weight, Gonzalito .-- What a real boy! - Why do not you grow like him, parakeet?
- Don Gonzalo, soups do you eat them in the head at all .-- Growing
Sarrió porters has grown what he has done is to double the body .--
Come, grenadier, give me a tight hug.

A skipper said it seemed like a drop of water to another Prince of Wales. Gonzalo was perhaps
a little higher.

The hulk of this robust, towered over the group. Clasped hands above their heads friends who could
not reached him, and his noble and kindly face smiling at everyone.

Don Mateo, rising on the toes and swinging the arm to bend, could say in his ear:

- What role have you lost, Gonzalo!

Too bad you did not come in the afternoon.

The treble sang like an angel ... And dancing!

... The dance I say, boy, that neither in the Coruña Bilbao or better
take it out ... But be not wroth, and I will repeat before he leaves
the company ... or have little power.

But Gonzalez did not attend. Staring at the door, waiting for the restless and eager output
Belinchón family, who as principal and the most haughty, was delayed
always not to be confused with the populace.

In order to light the lantern burning on the framework the door, he saw the face of Dona Paula
and then that of Cecilia. Tremulous Abalanzóse to greet them. The daughter blushed like a turkey
(of course), and the mother too (this is less natural). What had to do to him? Blush also,
and this was what led out in a perfect way. Three were trembling voice, and after asking for
health, did not know what to say. Loaded glances of curious people contributed in pregnant women. Pablito
happily came to Ventura, who had left behind, and our young greeted warmly and directed first
to the second one ceremonial pitch.

Paul smiled.

- What, do you not know? Ventura is my sister.

- Oh! How could he know? She is a woman ... How are you, Ventura?

The girl reached for him with a malicious and mocking speech that you just embarrass you.

They stood up to the house. Venturita ran ahead dragging his brother. Marched behind Dona Paula,
Cecilia, Gonzalo. Rosendo brought up the rear with his good friend Pedro Miranda. The streets
were dark. Only those hours burning lanterns corner. The distance between the three groups was
becoming larger.

Gonzalo began making desperate efforts to hold the conversation with your future wife and mother, but
it is not opened his mouth, dominated, no doubt, shame, and Dona Paula walked very far from
being a Madame de Stael. Nor had helped him Conversation Dictionary, the result was that it
did not prosper. By letters had come to trust. Dona Paula often put postscripts in Cecilia. Gonzalo
replied with a wisecrack, ordered prints, caricatures for Ventura, and carried around as a
member of the family. But now the three experienced discomfort embarrassing. Our young in his
life he had spoken with Mrs. Belinchón, and Cecilia had only crossed
the words we said.

Then, up ahead, Venturita laughed out loud with his brother, and
boyfriends reasonably presumed that they were on the table.

However, when approached, home, the conversation was taking heat and had some symptoms to believe
that soon would king's confidence.

Formosa group to the door of the house of lords Belinchón, which was located in la Rúa Nueva,
the main street Sarrió, and was large and sumptuous for which there stylish. As Gonzalo had
not eaten yet, Rosendo invited him up to do with them so true, and with words so pressing
that the young man who wanted nothing, he concluded to accept. They took leave Mr. Miranda and
his son Parakeet, and the family Belinchón with the new guy was going to be part of it, went to the
house. At the reception, the ladies took off their coats and shawls. The light returned to upsetting them.
Gonzalo could well then see his girlfriend, and noted that he had not won anything in years
of absence. Was higher, but also thinner. The love does not get fat girls. The nose, with this,
had been even more pronounced. Only those beautiful eyes, smooth, intelligent, persisted to shine
like two stars. The transformation of Venturita girl who looked cross
for school, clinging to the maid to keep jumping over him attracted
wide attention.

She was a woman, a real woman, not so much height, as roundness and
breadth of forms, for the singular strength of his vision and Malicious
certain glow that accompanied it.

Examináronse both as two strangers in a quick glance.

Gonzalo said under his breath at Dona Paula:

- What a change the Venturita! It's a beautiful girl.

For lower than what the girl said she heard it. Became serious with involvement, made a slight
grimace of contempt with their lips, and went right to the dining room, hiding the pleasant
tingling that this compliment had caused so spontaneous.

The table was set: a table patriarchal province, abundant, clean, without flowers or the other
elegant refinements that civilization is introduced.

And to approach it, Gonzalo's pregnancy was missing.

It seemed that yesterday I had dinner there too.

A gust blew joy to everyone. Cambiáronse words and laughter.

Gonzalo embraced Pablito and asked for their horses. Dona Paula managed
the distribution of silverware.

Venturita sitting and, downed olives, tossing the bones to his sister
and making provocative winks, while she, with flushed cheeks and bright
eyes, put her finger to lips asking for discretion.

Don Rosendo had gone to put on your gown and cap, without which it
would have hurt dinner.

His wife invited the young stranger to sit in the neighbor set that
of Cecilia.

But it had happened at the other end of the table, and there was about to sit.

- What are you doing, girl?

Why do not you come to your site? - Dona Paula asked with surprise.

The young man stood up without reply, blushed, and sat down next to
her boyfriend.

The classic soup steamed with eggs and butter in the
center of the table.

- Look, do dish Gonzalo ... Already beginning
to serve you - you said after smiling kindly as a woman who professed
similar ideas to those expressed by St. Paul in his famous letter.

Cecilia
hurried to obey, filling the bowl of his future. This had usually
an excellent appetite, appropriate to his great humanity. Now, over-excited
by the air sea ​​and a few hours of fasting, was voracious. Ate without
leaving crumbs without any timidity, the placed before him, and that
Cecilia, as may be supposed, had no short-hand to help you. When she
began to eat, lost Gonzalo shame. The urgent need for your body gigantea
was essential. In contrast, Cecilia barely touched on the food. Displaying
on your plate two bits of ham the size of two walnuts, and asked the
young man

- Who do you make this dish, for the parrot?

- No, it's
for me.

- Are not you afraid that you indigestion?

It was the first
joke authorizing its future. This said with a smile:

- Never more.

Dona
Paula put his mouth to ear Venturita, and said:

- Can not you deal
with what ceremony?

Venturita it whispered to Paul, and he to his
father. All four burst out laughing, looking the couple, while they,
confused, asked to view the reason for this sudden joy.

- Mom, do
you want to tell them what we laugh?

- Tell him.

- Well, gentlemen,
we all thought that you could be dismounted treatment.

The future
spouses dropped his head and smiled. [1]

It is of interest to compare Mr. Douglass's account of this meeting with Mr. Garrison's. Of
the two, I think the latter the most correct. It must have been a grand burst of eloquence!
The pent up agony, indignation and pathos of an abused and harrowed boyhood and youth, bursting
out in all their freshness and overwhelming earnestness!

This unique introduction to its great leader, led immediately{10} to the employment of Mr.
Douglass as an agent by the American Anti-Slavery Society. So far as his self-relying and independent
character would permit, he became, after the strictest sect, a Garrisonian. It is not too much
to say, that he formed a complement which they needed, and they were a complement equally necessary
to his "make-up." With his deep and keen sensitiveness to wrong, and his wonderful memory,
he came from the land of bondage full of its woes and its evils, and painting them in characters
of living light; and, on his part, he found, told out in sound Saxon phrase, all those principles
of justice and right and liberty, which had dimly brooded over the dreams of his youth, seeking
definite forms and verbal expression. It must have been an electric flashing of thought, and
a knitting of soul, granted to but few in this life, and will be a life-long memory to those
who participated in it. In the society, moreover, of Wendell Phillips, Edmund Quincy, William
Lloyd Garrison, and other men of earnest faith and refined culture, Mr. Douglass enjoyed the
high advantage of their assistance and counsel in the labor of self-culture, to which he now
addressed himself with wonted energy. Yet, these gentlemen, although proud of Frederick Douglass,
failed to fathom, and bring out to the light of day, the highest qualities of his mind; the
force of their own education stood in their own way: they did not delve into the mind of a
colored man for capacities which the pride of race led them to believe to be restricted to
their own Saxon blood. Bitter and vindictive sarcasm, irresistible mimicry, and a pathetic
narrative of his own experiences of slavery, were the intellectual manifestations which they
encouraged him to exhibit on the platform or in the lecture desk.

A visit to England, in 1845, threw Mr. Douglass among men and women of earnest souls and high
culture, and who, moreover, had never drank of the bitter waters of American caste. For the
first time in his life, he breathed an atmosphere congenial to the longings of his spirit,
and felt his manhood free and{11} unrestricted. The cordial and manly greetings of the British
and Irish audiences in public, and the refinement and elegance of the social circles in which
he mingled, not only as an equal, but as a recognized man of genius, were, doubtless, genial
and pleasant resting places in his hitherto thorny and troubled journey through life. There
are joys on the earth, and, to the wayfaring fugitive from American slavery or American caste,
this is one of them.

But his sojourn in England was more than a joy to Mr. Douglass. Like the platform at Nantucket,
it awakened him to the consciousness of new powers that lay in him. From the pupilage of Garrisonism
he rose to the dignity of a teacher and a thinker; his opinions on the broader aspects of the
great American question were earnestly and incessantly sought, from various points of view,
and he must, perforce, bestir himself to give suitable answer. With that prompt and truthful
perception which has led their sisters in all ages of the world to gather at the feet and support
the hands of reformers, the gentlewomen of England [2] were foremost to encourage and strengthen
him to carve out for himself a path fitted to his powers and energies, in the life-battle against
slavery and caste to which he was pledged. And one stirring thought, inseparable from the British
idea of the evangel of freedom, must have smote his ear from every side--

        Hereditary bondmen! know ye not
        Who would be free, themselves mast strike the blow?

The result of this visit was, that on his return to the United States, he established a newspaper. In this race we have the honor to belong, but nobody says that does not appear yet another
top tamañitos neglected and leave us, which will be very unpleasant. Sea as, despite the twenty
million years ago that appeared monera, has not to deny that we are still in the springtime
of the year than we've spoken. What progress, what wonders, what new creations should not
be expected yet? Just if mankind is born. I have read in a very learned book this sentence,
I will never forget. "Mankind, in its collective life, not yet born."

All this long history that we already living in the spring of maximum and descry a long future,
glorious and fruitful, must not, however, rejoice too much, or less hubris. Compared our twenty
millions of years already served, plus twenty million at least last spring still on this planet,
with other springs and peak years of other planets and solar systems larger ones, may seem more
brief this spring that the ordinary and vulgar fine year, which only lasted three months.

I spent days pondering on the subject, and found myself in the field, in pleasant solitude in
deep valley surrounded by steep rocks, where there was quiet, cool and a thousand plants, herbs and
flowers, had awakened a dream that seemed pure spiritual vision and intuition to something real,
but for me physically imperceptible.

Within the area of ​​one square kilometer understood that there were some subtle emanations of certain
fluid thousand times fainter than the air flow that penetrated the air around, infusing in the
gaps and interstices that allow molecules. This fluid, that man does not see, neither weighed,
and never feel with your senses, does not rise beyond a mile. We therefore a cubic kilometer
of this fluid filled thin, diluted in the air as perfumes or fragrances. Figureme, then, my world
as a cubic kilometer apart, and saw that it was populated by a lineage of sylphs so tiny that if
you accidentally swallow any one of the meanest molecule air, this molecule and perhaps you will
drown or choke as any of us a peach pit. My lineage sylphs breathe, therefore tenuous fluid
which I spoke. With air molecules do sylphs thousand beauties, and even play when they are young,
huge disparity through blowguns.

Outside cubic kilometer is for my sylph infinite, unknown and unfathomable. Living in one hour,
but his mind is so fast and so subtle that at this time have time plenty of room for instruction,
love, spread, careers, rising to the highest positions, leave an illustrious name to its legitimate
offspring, and even tired of life and appeal suicide. One minute for any of them is much more
than a year for any us. Their poets composed verses desperate and disillusioned at fifteen minutes
after birth, and his wise invent the deepest and most convoluted
systems of philosophy at thirty minutes.

The voice of my sylph is so thin that only the fluid can be transmitted in waves above sound.
His words are so early in a second story concerns a sylph who the most concise of us take three
or four hours to count. Everything between us is extensive, it is intense among the sylph.
In four hours of any day is extended History of the Sylphs, and is so rich in revolutions, changes,
wars and progress, like ours in the 1870-odd years that separate
from the Christian Era until the time of writing.

Sylphs have my human figure. I understand that every soul, every thought that informs a body, big
or small, gives this figure as the most beautiful.

The beauty of my sylph is such that if we could make a very powerful microscope to get to see
them, men envy and we desperately fall in love with the females.

They are very advanced in civilization. They have had many prophets and founders of religions;
but passes including age of faith, and scratching the dawn of the age of reason.

His knowledge of history, without any mixture of fable, what gives severe criticism by Indeed,
nothing more than ninety days, which amounts to over three thousand generations. And like a minute
for them is to be equivalent to a year for us, we can say that they
make up the age of their civilization over 129,600 years.

Beyond that, going against current time, the Sylphs are not clear, but if among them are a
Darwin or a Haeckel undoubtedly place the appearance of the first world monera sylph at a distance
proportionately much larger.

The concept of the universe are very different from that formed us. And not because his reason
is inconsistent with ours, but because there are other data from
their senses.

Fail with the view to the sun or the moon or the stars, where the streams of burning light Throwing
on them first, and warm, silvery light that bathes the moon, come for them from a hidden spring.
So are a thousand scenarios to explain. Course there are long historical periods of light and other
long historical periods.

In his world there are living beings, of such gigantic proportions that we do not even conceive.
A wasp is cheaper for them than it would be for us the Nevado de Sorata, if pulling himself from
rennet, cheering and throwing wings, to receive a fly and show us through the air. Fortunately,
the excessive smallness of the Sylphs and agility portentous save them of these monsters.

It
is clear that the infinite is always infinite, so in the mind of a sylph and mind of a man.
At this point, if we incur a rational speculation, our concepts are equal, but to count on extended
to greater numbers, to notice much, Sylphs beat us, penetrate your senses and see and perceive
depths extension of time, volume and duration in the infinitely small,
where the median, the mean for us, the universe of a cubic kilometer
is more daunting for them the whole vastness of the heavens to us.

And do not stop putting so beyond its infinite universe unexplored.

Walk all very proud with their culture and their progress, they judge without limits. Just as
there is already a very long last, expect even longer future. And
it is certain not wrong.

They were born this past spring and will finish at the end of next fall. Now, it's summer, are
around the height of its grandeur. The same thing happens to us.

Who knows if there will be things in which we compare what we think we are my sylph? If any
of these beings come to find out that we exist, as I have come to find out that there sylphs
such, do not laugh, or pity us, seeing hope yet so long future? The millions of years we have been
living and those who hope to live Moreover, it will be for a spring. Perhaps, when you return
the Summer or bathing in some bathrooms of their world, find and made our own desolate ruins and
extinct, our ephemeral race. But it will be right. What is important is intelligence, which is not measured
by rods, not for miles, nor Earth diameters.

Its activity, when fertilized, can condense in a minute more facts, more ideas, more creations,
more glory and more hell, that other intelligence reluctant, lazy and stupid, for ever and ever.

Last
morality. Everything is relative, as I said D. Hermogenes. No less no more. In time I've taken
me to write this article to fulfill my rash promise, a man fertile ingenuity had been able to
write the history of the entire human race, and in less time, my sylph are able to do the most
important of his own history. Do not give for sure, because I've come to learn well and do not
like to fantasize, but it is possible while I've been writing all these candideces afanadísimo
and innocent, so muddle through, my sylph have founded new empires,
created constitutions, invented philosophies and machinery, and erected
monuments in their feelings, evergreen.

Such consideration I am ashamed and humiliated, rather than full of
vanity, and, although not of Sylphs, but men like me, the audience
has to read to me, he still presented with the greatest distrust of
this writing, I have not had sleep or mood, or time to do more soon.

THE CORDOVA

The editor of this work was kind enough to entrust a century been one of his articles, and I naturally
chose the Cordoba, as the province of Cordoba, where I was born and I grew up.

My extreme laziness has prevented me until now to keep my word to
write.

Perhaps to palliate this lack me I had a number of difficulties and objections, which was
half thinking of condemning the editor, to help justify my tardiness in to fruition with my
work.

What essential difference, or even accidental notable difference can be or is say, between Cordoba,
the jaenense or Seville? Back in the old maybe any, because communications were so easy, and
it was easier to live isolated and sedentary, but on the day that, not men and women in adjoining
provinces, but those remote nations apartadísimos faraway countries and kingdoms, and visitors
are often How to persist the variety and distinction of types, giving occasion for describing women
who by their customs, beliefs, ways of feeling and thinking, appearance, continent and costume,
differentiate to the point that the paintings or descriptions of them make, vary by subject,
not just by the style of painting or describe? Also, I said I, though the stamp of caste and nationality
are indelible, not who hits delete or confuse the continued existence and the inner spiritual
commerce at this time both are written, read and travel, in this age of steam and electricity,
railroad and telegraph, still not persuaded that there is also a mark of provincialism, as no
seal of nation, tribe or caste. The peculiar and castizo, as have the These unique qualities,
from divisions that made the nature, and not the administrative or political divisions, ie artificial,
as are the divisions provinces. Malaga or Seville will, no doubt, caste and more homogeneous soil
with certain Cordoba, Cordoba than those of many together. A woman of Cuevas de San Marcos,
for example, should be more like another of Rute, Rute a Belalcázar
to another, and more will resemble that of the Benamejí Casariche,
Benamejí than that of Almodóvar.

Tired as I know that between the Galician and Catalan woman, and between La Mancha and Bilbao
had to mediate radical differences, but that of each province, was the it was, he would have
a special type, I was hard to believe.

I just saved monotony of this book and encrypting the variety in the diverse talent of every
writer in the bias that manages to give the matter, and the singularity of his style, thoughts and
feelings.

I never thought that the editor wishes we wrote a scholarly review, a number of lives of all the famous
women of each province. This would perhaps be not only entertaining, but exemplary and didactic,
but it was not, nor have I committed to writing my article, if this is it. It was historical
work, or biographical, which was traced and planned, but box and painting the living habits
or accurate picture of what today is reflected in every province in land use, culture, ideas,
and other items, conditions and actions of women.

And being the thing, I repeat that I did not see me for nothing or almost nothing to stop
the monotony of the work on the subject, although the subject, or I should say by the subjects
came to be a flower garden, and the layer of the student, through the diversity of styles and
idiosyncrasies of each writer that she put an hand.

Thus, on more or less, walked me wondering, when family duties took
me to kidney in the province of Cordoba, to a happy region where the
local color is provincial released by the handful of lavish nature
and inexhaustible in their various creations.

Y being this color, this stamp, this type throughout, how, I said to myself, not to be so in
women, which is soft wax for impressions, and hard to preserve bronze without they fade?

More than five months I went in my place, and this time apparently moved completely respect the
book of Mr. Pebble. I had no excuse for not writing the article.

He was convinced that if I paint Cordoba was not a type sui generis, it was because I did not
know painting what I was seeing a clear way. I decided, therefore, since to do this painting,
ingenuously confessed that, if it does not original and new, the fault is mine and not the
model.

One thing still troubles me and makes my purpose. To see and treat the Cordoba of the day, come
my imagination the species nearly wiped from my childhood and early youth, tired far unfortunately,
slept or were buried in my mind, the first in Cordoba third of this century. The disparity between
the memory and print this confused me a little. Cordoba female type has not disappeared, but
there has been change, but change it has not been castizo to the exotic. The change has been
for development of the interior very essence of women in Cordoba, which, like all essences immortal
remains in substantial foundation, while taking on new forms and
new accidents.

The Cordoba of this historic moment is not the previous historical moment in Cordoba, but is always
of Cordoba, and always continues to make its essence as each neighbor's
daughter, externalizing the typical idea their own, and presenting
different aspect in each of the various developments with the exteriorized.

I

see that elevates me too, and I'm going to go down and speak with more frankness, leaving kidnapping
philosophy for another time.

Today I get the Cordoba in the light as it is, while memory retracts me as it was thirty or
forty years ago. Of confusion arises here, something like a antinomy, but while studying the antinomy
is resolved with little work on a synthesis supreme. This short, if you were right I to create would
be a neat article. Moreover, no this synthesis is not possible the article because I'm not
going to paint the Cordoba dead stop stationary, inert, fossil, but
the Cordoba living, moving, developing, in progress; unfolding, not
given impulse, but by the laws of their own great being and its rich
and generous body.

To purchase the whole concept of Cordoba is necessary to study in different classes and states:
from the great lady to the porter rude woman from the girl to the elderly, from the daughter's
family to the mother or grandmother, and see and visit, and in the former and splendid capital of
the Caliphate, and in the Sierra, north of the Guadalquivir, abundant mines and wild meadows
and elusive, and the bountiful countryside where there are populated places and from the beautiful
cities, where wealth, welfare and culture are higher. But if we were analyzing and examining all
of these things separately, it would end or our article, and so should
touch only capital items, and encrypt and summarize in two or three
types everything in Córdoba most characteristic and proper.

Of course, in the province of Cordoba is rich ladies who have been or are in Madrid, that may
have gone to Baden or Biarritz a summer speaking French, who have walked in the forest of
Boulogne, who know perhaps several foreign courts, who read the novels George Sand and Lamartine
in the same language they were written, and that Worth dress with Laferrière, with or with
Isolina Honorine. In all of these women remains remains the essence of women in Cordoba, but it would
be necessary to deepen and penetrate too discover that essence through so many attachments to strangers
and so many false externalities.

Seek, therefore, to Cordoba where we have no genuine need for further or eliminate to find it:
let us look at the villager, whether rich and poor, and lady and maid.

The villager is extremely hardworking. However poor, must clean the house jumping. The floors,
marble tile, brick or plaster studded seem burnished by dint of mopping.

If the mistress of the house has a well, shine in two or three glass china cabinets and dishes,
and in symmetrical rows adorn the walls of the kitchen pots, pans and Other dishes of brass or
copper, where can one see the face in a mirror.

The Cordoba is all surveillance, hygiene, care and careful economy. Never leave keys the pantry,
cupboards, chests and cabinets. On the shelf units or shelves of the pantry usually maintained
as provident and rich profusion, a treasure of foodstuffs, which account, and prosperity of the
house, and of fertile farms of the owner, if they are products Indians
and, as they say, one's upbringing and tillage, and the skill and
elegance the lady, whose work has increased the value of the first
subject with some preparation or condiment. There has walnuts, chestnuts,
almonds, sweet potatoes, wrapped imperial cirolitas paper for the
writing, brandied cherries, apricots and a thousand other trinkets.

It is not without a feeling of pride, dear reader, that I present you with this book. The son
of a self-emancipated bond-woman, I feel joy in introducing to you my brother, who has rent
his own bonds, and who, in his every relation--as a public man, as a husband and as a father--is
such as does honor to the land which gave him birth. I shall place this book in the hands of
the only child spared me, bidding him to strive and emulate its noble example. You may do likewise.
It is an American book, for Americans, in the fullest sense of the idea. It shows that the
worst of our institutions, in its worst aspect, cannot keep down energy, truthfulness, and
earnest struggle for the right. It proves the{21} justice and practicability of Immediate Emancipation.
It shows that any man in our land, "no matter in what battle his liberty may have been cloven
down, * * * * no matter what complexion an Indian or an African sun may have burned upon him,"
not only may "stand forth redeemed and disenthralled," but may also stand up a candidate for
the highest suffrage of a great people--the tribute of their honest, hearty admiration. Reader,
Vale! New York

JAMES McCUNE SMITH

CHAPTER I. Childhood

PLACE OF BIRTH--CHARACTER OF THE DISTRICT--TUCKAHOE--ORIGIN OF THE NAME--CHOPTANK RIVER--TIME
OF BIRTH--GENEALOGICAL TREES--MODE OF COUNTING TIME--NAMES OF GRANDPARENTS--THEIR POSITION--GRANDMOTHER
ESPECIALLY ESTEEMED--"BORN TO GOOD LUCK"--SWEET POTATOES--SUPERSTITION--THE LOG CABIN--ITS
CHARMS--SEPARATING CHILDREN--MY AUNTS--THEIR NAMES--FIRST KNOWLEDGE OF BEING A SLAVE--OLD MASTER--GRIEFS
AND JOYS OF CHILDHOOD--COMPARATIVE HAPPINESS OF THE SLAVE-BOY AND THE SON OF A SLAVEHOLDER.

In Talbot county, Eastern Shore, Maryland, near Easton, the county town of that county, there
is a small district of country, thinly populated, and remarkable for nothing that I know of
more than for the worn-out, sandy, desert-like appearance of its soil, the general dilapidation
of its farms and fences, the indigent and spiritless character of its inhabitants, and the
prevalence of ague and fever.

The name of this singularly unpromising and truly famine stricken district is Tuckahoe, a name
well known to all Marylanders, black and white. It was given to this section of country probably,
at the first, merely in derision; or it may possibly have been applied to it, as I have heard,
because some one of its earlier inhabitants had been guilty of the petty meanness of stealing
a hoe--or taking a hoe that did not belong to him. His soul was flooded with tolerance, but did not want to give
manifest budge or defeated, so that her husband expected to give way before affecting it after
her obedience and resignation. The great Thiers, while after weighing in his mind the benefits
of traveling, looking at his wife as she left wishing that reconciliation initiative. It was as if
two are angry and no one wants to be first break the ice and talk about peace.

Rosalie went to bed, sure that Bringas, the next morning, he would be inclined to accept the invitation
of his cousin. I knew she had to say. First, a lot of anger, a lot protest of dignity, a lot
of talk against Amparo and Agustin, after a series of modulations transition. She (Rosalia) used
to ignore each other and sacrifice their own taste the taste of others ... For their children
was willing to do all kinds of sacrifices and spend blushes and humiliation. It was evident
that Isabelita needed bathing and Alfonsito also ... Given this need, the likes of her, his scruples,
had no value. In short, if Bringas felt they should be, her eyes shut y. ..

But against what they expected, did not speak a word cominero travel the next morning. Humming
rose and seemed to forgot about it. Rosalia pricked him in vain, cursing against Jeronimos baths
and complaining of a deadly heat. He said no more but: "For what it is now ... From 15 starts
to cool. " This was in despair Rosalia.

He waited until the afternoon, eager and full of anxiety, and seeing
that the tooth fairy does not mind at all to such Basin, ventured
to say:

"But anyway, what answer to Augustine?

I will tell you that for me, although I loathe living with those people ... see, for children
...».

- What children and eight rooms! They are very good ...-- Bringas said waving his hat straw, as if
to make a living -. If Manzanares baths are the best in the world ... See what colors the girl
has taken. Alfonsito seems an oak ... Every time I laugh more than the stupid to be out ... And
do not think last night I've been thinking about it ... Say what
you want, there are always expenses.

We would have free tickets to the border, "but the border there?

- If there are more than two hundred twenty miles - Rosalie said with great spontaneity, which had
fed his illusion reading the guide rail.

- Sean few or many, those miles we were to leave expensive. Also,
how to go without bringing a gift?

Is it all right into your home with empty hands? ... Then, other expenses ... Resolutely not
going. Since 15 and cools. Notice how the days are shrinking. Last night and the temperature was milder
... No we move, my daughter is going well in Madrid.

Rosalia heard this anger alive, but his own pride forbade him to contradict.

Callose, and Chest jumbles the snakes made him of his illusion vanished.

Already been used the idea of ​​finding her friends in the station of San Sebastian and hit
them with Basin in snouts, to put in letters dating from the Basin, and finally, of Arcachonizarse
for throughout the coming autumn and winter.

XL

In the sadness of his exile, one thing glad the soul of the unhappy lady, and was that their
children were in excellent health. Isabelita, which always had its annoyances all on tenterhooks
mom did not suffer during the summer, none of those disorders spasmodic withered his childhood.
Whether or not good Jeronimos baths, this is that she had won, he took them, meat and colors,
in addition to an excellent appetite. In As for the small excuse to say that with the waters
of the Manzanares was bursting with sound. Its strength was such that never ceased to prove itself
and grow to become larger and more powerful. The development instinct urged him incessantly to
exercise body, and to try and learn laborious acts of energy. Up to greater heights I could, climbing
a pillar, caper, carry loads, dragging furniture, pour and distribute water, playing with fire
and if he could with gunpowder, were more fun than loved. Skills revealed no mechanical ability
as his dad. It was rather a clever As destroyer fell into his hands. During the tasks of strength,
missed his mouth profanity and suits learned on the street. When his little sister's prissy listened,
holy God, then he was running to bring the story to his father. "Dad is saying Alfonsito ...».
things AND D. Francisco, who hated the dialects, shouting, "Child,
come here soon.

Bring me a chili pepper in the kitchen. " Now with the chili in hand, and having a criminal
caught by the neck, was given gesture will rub their noses with her, but she looked frowning, saying:
"This time, go, but as you repeat that crap, you burn your mouth, and you drop the language, and then,
instead of talking like people, bray like donkeys. "

Alfonsito had a passion for moving cars. View one of these on the street was mostly delight. Everything
was very enthusiastic, the strongmen horses, that drawer where she was a house of mirrors hanging
underneath, and finally, those blue blouse loungers were sitting up, dozing the slow swaying
of the machine. His dream was to be like those guys, running a car, charging, download it,
and imagine one that big, so big that it could fit all the furniture Palace. In their frenzy of
imitation, exercising the mind and muscles, amused hours in their thinking to the highest
possible degree of reality. As D. Quixote dreaming adventures and real made so far could well
imagine massive removals Alfonsin and trying to accomplish. D. Francis, who was with Isabelita
Gasparini, heard noise dishes, whip cracking, and these curses, Ala ... up ... upa ... garlic
... arre horse! In the middle of the fourth stacking chairs, and the gaps between them put pots,
chess pieces, crushed stone meat, pestle, bundles of rags, brooms
and everything was hand.

The cat went over everything. After downloading began lashing the heap, and if anything fell,
there were screaming and kicking.

On the face and sweaty the brave boy did not stop until he Isabelita
would learn, from his dad, the reason of such a crash.

- If you knew,
Daddy - said the girl, dying of laughter -; has seats on each other,
and is whipping and saying a few asses ...

- Tell that gallegote
that if I go there I will put each buttock as a tomato ...

(Bringas
had the bad habit of calling the gross Galician, custom widespread
in Madrid and accused so rude and ignorant.)

Isabelita tastes and
inclinations were very different from those of his brother.

More than the difference of sex, temperament was due to the two brothers were playing a kept
separately other.

Do not look with indifference the budding of human characters in these sketches people we call children.
They are our premises, we are but what consequences?

Isabelita say, if you ever played with dolls, did not take this like
as big as to gather and collect and save stuff.

His hobby collector. Useless trinket much fell into his hands, the rolling object without an
owner for the house, ended up in little boxes that she was in a corner at the foot of his bed. And
anyone care to touch that sacred trust! ... If Alfonsin dared to lay their profane hands on it,
and she had reason to be moaning and groaning for a week ... These habits seemed to be exacerbated magpie
when I was more ill health. His only happy was then stir your treasure, sort and distributed
objects, which were of an extraordinary variety, and usually, a futility absolute. Bits of wool
and silk embroidery and cloth filled a drawer. Buttons, perfume labels, ribbons of cigarettes,
stamps, steel pens used, the empty matchboxes, the thousand things reportedly fragments without the
use or application, bordered on the incalculable. But the dearest lot was made up of French stamps
given as a prize at school, the chromites of the Sacred Heart of Beautiful Love, Mary Alacoque
and Bernadette pinturillas Parisian art that represents the holy things with the same style of
fashion figurines. He also had what she called paper lace printed leaflets that are covering
the boxes of cigars. This was of a cigar Augustine, and he had given Felipe. Do not tell the
confetti of empty needles, gloves old screws, artificial flowers, the whistles of San Isidro,
the crankpin, remains a birth, a thousand trifles crowded there. On the other hand was very well
kept Isabel his piggy bank, into which, when shaken, it sounded delicious music rooms. Was already
so full, and weighing a quintal. Did not cost her watch and hide little work the greedy eyes and
rapacious hands of Alfonsin, who, if they let the break for take the money and spend it all
on crackers ... or buy a car moving with horses really.

Isabelita was so enamored of his treasure of junk, which reserved the entire world even his mother,
because this is so decomposed, it ruffled, and appeared to have it in small therefore considered
once said, "Do not be cominera daughter. How much pleasure you have in store crap? ". The only
person she consented to lay hands on the treasure was his father;
because this admired the patience of the girl and praised the habit
of saving.

In those long summer days, D. Francisco, who could not read or work or engage in anything, had
pretty bored with it, if it had the appeal of playing with her daughter to stir, sort and distribute
stuff. "Angel - said after his nap sleep -, bring the boxes and entertain us." The two Gasparini,
without witnesses, they spent all afternoon sitting on the ground, pulling objects and classifying
them to return to save them after carefully. "Some of these things will still - "said the economist
-. Let apricot kernels close together here. Let's count them: twenty-three. Now it puts on
paper, are you? First half goes into the box of pens into account so that the bones do not run Apricot
... Ajaj! Come another paper. Look at me now making matchboxes, two, two ... two ... two. See? It
covers everything and thus can not roll. Follow the gadgets ... Let's not bone buttons next
to the metal, also split up the bone of wood lest they quarrel. Everywhere there are classes,
my daughter ... So ... Now put this mess a rag right next to, not to join with artificial
flowers, not having envious of them and throw a fight. Everywhere there are evil passions ... Works
of art separately. This is the Museum where they come from the English, who are these whistles
of the Holy ... Verne giving things ...».

Often, after put everything turned to take to get him back, placed otherwise. They also played both
with dolls, dressing and undressing, getting and paying visits. Meanwhile, the other Alfonsín
gross carrying herding the animals and their car until he could no more. In all the little mishaps
would seek refuge at the foot of his beloved mother and the girl always snuggled up to D. Francisco
mime or search for justice in a fight with his brother. Alfonso knew enamored of his mother
caresses clever when it wanted to get some pennies, and snogging
and made a thousand blandishments.

- A secret, mother - said subiéndosele
the lap, and embracing and applying his mouth to ear -.

A secret ...

- Ya, ya, oh, how delicious!, What my angel wants is a little room, right?

And the very rogue syllabicate in the ear of his mother these words fainter than the flutter
of a Fly:

- Dad says I'm leaving you, I'm a fool.

XLI

With terror was the clever lady who passed one after another day of
the second half August, because, as all signs, they should come after
the first of September.

Torres, who was an indication of an extension, he turned pale and
said he could not Torquemada wait for this and that and beyond ...
It had been clear that both the day the conclusion of the contract.

Was the main clause, and certainly Mr. de Torquemada what counted
as safe ...

And hearing this, the lady weighed in his mind the difficulties
of the case, more serious this time who had been in other similar.

Needless to say, then say certain things in themselves that the attorney failed to Milagros
Rosalia 4 or 5, or any other day of August what that was promised. Candida should not expect more
than fantasies. Who turn your eyes? Bringas those seen, and it was crazy to think again subtract
any amount domestic treasury. Talk to your husband frankly and confess his weakness would have
been perhaps the best, but it was also the most difficult. Well it would! ... It would be something
to rent balconies to hear.

Since Bringas found out their entanglements, would a period of repression strong Rosalia terrified
that most troubles that passed! His plan was to emancipate little little and in no way tied to authority
bonds tighter ... Would manage alone, as God gave him to understand. God does not leave her,
because sometimes there was not abandoned.

Since becoming the 25, felt in his whole being itching, fever, suspicion, and his lips liked bitter
gall. The idea of ​​commitment that he would not let her see a moment free, and any calculation
took her to the probability of a convenient ... If fish again soon! ... He, who had offered him so
many times ...! But remembering what that surly he was at the time of yore, afraid that, on
returning to Madrid, his distinguished friend does not he were so disposed to the bounty ...
"Oh, no - he said then - I've gone mad. He'll do whatever I want. "

Thinking this, I remembered the scene that day, concluding by recriminations over too picky
... If she had not been so ... so ... so silly would not have needed to borrow the Kaffir de
Torquemada. A woman of her status ...!, be in such agony and why?, for a paltry sum ... It could
well be thousands of dollars if he wanted. Eight years before the Marquis of Fúcar, who often
saw her at home Miracles, he had made the cut. What about her? ... a porcupine. It was not
just the Marquis of Fúcar his only fan. Many others, and all rich, insistent manifested habíanle
gallantry that were willing to do anything foolish. But she always remained uncompromising
in its honesty elusive. Or never suspected that this inflexibility, high and firm like a tower,
might one day feel hesitation in its foundations, and had to seem so strange what I thought at
the time, believed that much work had been. "The need - is said - is what makes the characters.
" She is to blame for many misfortunes, and considering this, we must be lenient with people
who do not behave as God intended. Before you accuse, we say: Take what you need, buy yourself
something to eat, cover your meat ... these Are you okay food, well-dressed? For now ... come
morality.

Flowing well, Rosalie herself admired, I mean I admired the Rosalia the time before the trompe
who was then brought it so bewildered, and if a party could not see without a blush as corny as
it was at that time, the other was proud to be so honored and so happy with your life miserable.
The citadel of happiness vulgar was still standing, but it was made and charged to fly mine. Before
giving fire which still was spotless, in fact, looked sad to remember it when you sit on its
ruins.

In the last few nights of August was once the Prado, where he met with cucurbits, and although
horribly tormented by the idea of ​​compromise imminent, took part in the light of the party
talks. It was a pretty lively group, who concurred Some gentlemen. The mentally pasábales Bringas
inspection review, examining monetary conditions of each. "This - I thought - is poorer than we
are, everything looks, all appearance, and under a sad tawdry salary of twenty thousand. I
do not know how manages to maintain that FAMILION ...».

"This has nothing but traps and much syrup ...». peak "Oh, this really is man: he entailing
twelve thousand dollars of income, but he says he does not like women ...». "Oh, this really
is love, but will they keep it ... and what is ...». ajadito "This is not what drop dead ... rake
is a bad taste that does more than escapades with women of evil life ...». "Here is one whom
I must like it very much, as the face that makes me and the things I said ... but I know Torres
Torquemada I paid two thousand reales to take baths with his wife, who is crippled ... !...».
Poor thing Of this magazine was that almost all were more or less embarrassing pauper, who hid
their misery under a coat bought a thousand drowning, and the few who had any money were calm
and cool temperament ... There was the lady locked in a double ring-pass. Pobretería was the one honor
the other. If the jump, where would you go to fall? ... Noting Prado in the gloom of the processional
tide of strollers, he saw some people go, very few, which attracted the attention of his exalted
spirit. The nearest street lamp illuminating them enough to recognize them, then lost in the dusty shade.
He saw the Marquis Fúcar, who had returned from Biarritz, pompous, crass, all lined with bank
notes, to Onesimus, who used to look like yours with the Treasury to Trujillo the banker, Mompous,
the stockbroker D. Lantigua Buenaventura, et al. Of these powerful, about the known, others
do not run any of them Tell them as it looks after that they must be loving. Others were of impeccable
manners in and out of home ...

Rosalia withdrew his, with a head full of personal Matritense anyone, and I saw pass through the region
of his brain turned to and fro as the Prado. Now poor, then rich, then the honest ... and back
again. Adding to the confusion yours Bringas those days seemed to be kinder, more loving, but
in terms of expenditure showed himself inflexible as ever:

'Daughter - told at bedtime -. Since the first of September I will return to the office. It
should work, and especially economy.

We have significant delay, and we must recover by dint of hardships lost ground. Story with you
today as I've ever; story your economy, your gentleness and your good sense. If we succeed, it
than a year at least do not spend a single penny in rags. I see that what you have elegant living
for about six years at least. And if you sold something to me I an outfit, whether you appreciate
what these poor bones ... Forgive me if I've ever been a little hard
on you and with some tricks that dragged them out ... I felt that
you were dating some of our traditional system.

But considering your virtues, I close my eyes to that nonsense show and I hope you I belong, back
to your modesty and not putting in case to justice. In this way our children will have bread
that lead to mouth and shoes to pull up and I can wait tranquil old age. "

These severe and reasonable expressions moved her one hand, on the other, terrified. Back the stale
system a cloth back and forth in front, and the endless metamorphosis of dress peach, Eral
and impossible to deceive unhappy that gave him great pain. In this perplexity We gave to chance,
to Providence, saying: "God help me. The events I tell me what to do. "

If the big fish again soon take her out of that rut. Studying it as a means of exploiting his
liberality unsold. Getting this would be the smartest woman in the world ... But there was
that D. Manuel returned from those tired bathrooms.

Carolina had said he would come in early September, without setting a date. What anxiety! And the
day 2 ...!

The first thing I had to do was to stop the lady poring hit the lender, or postpone for a few
days at least, until the fish come.

Despite the pessimistic considerations Torres, she hoped to get some success presenting to Torquemada,
and ventured on 31 to go home this step unpleasant, but necessary, in which good results trusted.
Lived the journey that the Moriana, in a large, dusty, dark, filled entirely Furniture and cuadrotes
of various taste and price, remains of its huge clientele.

Museum unaffordable luxury, the extravagance, of the glories of a day, the house was all tears and
sadness. Rosalie felt secret dread to enter it, and when Torquemada appeared, emerging from
those dishes with a Turkish cap and wing cloth jacket fly, she wanted to mourn.

XLII

"And the family?" - Torquemada asked to say hello.

- No new, thanks ...-- replied the lady sitting in the chair that was offered.

At once presented his claim for an extension, using the friendly smiles
and More sweet I could imagine.

But Torquemada heard the proposition seriously cold, and then offering
Rosalie looks at the threads formed with their fingers, as the host
offers to worship of the faithful, he spoke these fateful words.

"Lady, I told you not ... I can, I can not in any way. It is quite im ... possible. "

And when the victim refused to believe such cruelty, threw the last
argument in this way:

"If my father asked me ... this extension,
it is not granted.

You do not know what a hurry that am. I have bound to do ... a deposit. I will honor it. "

A replay of the appeal, up to the weight, not the rock broke.
 Play, however, I did not, but stood with my back against the wall,
witnessing the playing of the others. At last, while standing there, one of the children, who
had been in the kitchen, ran up to me, in a sort of roguish glee, exclaiming, "Fed, Fed! grandmammy
gone! grandmammy gone!" I could not believe it; yet, fearing the worst, I ran into the kitchen,
to see for myself, and found it even so. Grandmammy had indeed gone, and was now far away,
"clean" out of sight. I need not tell all that happened now. Almost heart-broken at the discovery,
I fell upon the ground, and{38} wept a boy's bitter tears, refusing to be comforted. My brother
and sisters came around me, and said, "Don't cry," and gave me peaches and pears, but I flung
them away, and refused all their kindly advances. I had never been deceived before; and I felt
not only grieved at parting--as I supposed forever--with my grandmother, but indignant that
a trick had been played upon me in a matter so serious.

It was now late in the afternoon. The day had been an exciting and wearisome one, and I knew
not how or where, but I suppose I sobbed myself to sleep. A time not to have lived longer after these events
solemn and impressive, nothing would have known this notice. It was all for it the result an inveterate
habit. Otherwise, the table view is offered around the deathbed, while his father's aide to
die well, it would have been quite touching to hasten death. Cecilia and Nemesia on one side,
Clara and Jose Dolores sign of other an officer of tailoring Uribe arrived at the time and the
clerk at the foot, all kneeling, muttering devout prayers and lighting the sad scene with a lantern
or a spark plug, formed the group interesting, original and worthy of an inspired artist brush.

A
sad conclusion of the ceremony, all present, that more than less
experienced inside a kind of relief, because it is generally believed
that brings on death.

Even the patient seemed revived, in view of the right arm pulled from under the sheets and began to be
tempted by various parts of the bed, as if looking for something that had been lost. Cecilia's
hand stopped him and asked:

- What do you want, Mommy?

- To you, my heart, "replied the grandmother with a lot of work.

This tender application, this exit unexpectedly blew up the tears
of Cecilia, who, for that the grandmother did not impress, he turned
his face to the other side.

- Well, here I am your worship, he said,
squeezing the hand of the patient.

- Do not you see, she added with
feeling.

Is this so escuro ...!

- I turned off the lights for his mercy.

- Are you alone, he asked the old woman after a long silence.

- Yes, Mommy.

Tell the truth, because hearing it, prudently retired to the room
the two women; and men had not returned from the church, where they
had gone to accompany the DSA.

- I would like ... tell you ... thing,
"said Josefa signal very slowly, after another long pause.

- Well,
say, mama, say.

I am listening.

- Come. Why did you go, my life?

- I do not go away. No. I'm near from his mercy.

- Poor Charito! What will become of her? I'll go first ... I'm leaving.

- Jesus, Mommy! Do not worry your mercy now thinking about it. It hurts, a lot of damage. Sosiéguese.

-
Poor! But you ... breaks ... relationships ... the gentleman ... That is your ...

- "My what, Mommy?, Startled and asked Cecilia instance, as the grandmother took in finish.
"My what, Mommy of the soul? Speak, say, for the Blessed Virgin, do not let me in this terrible
indecision. Is my enemy? Will my torment? My unfaithful lover? My what?

- Is your ... your ... your ... t. .., Josefa kept repeating signal, each time at intervals longer
and lower pitch, until the mysterious sound of the syllable became gloomy murmur and murmur in a mere
movement of the lips, which did not last long either. Disease had its crisis. Had expired.

Cecilia had never seen anyone die, so to be convinced by the touch of her grandmother encouraged
not just when the most vivid thought, the horror rather than grief tore a terrible cry and
deprived him of sense. Clara and Nemesia sign came, and found hugging in bed with the corpse,
which had trouble separating. Fair was his huge pain. Since that time lacked a time his protector,
his wife, his young friend his relative, his beloved mother, and to more despair, remorse quedole
Ever After that in the confusion had forgotten to put in the hand of the dying candle soul, prepared
so early for that same case.

The duration of the disease Josefa Alarcon, was delivering medical Cecilia, always without saying
who came word, different amounts of money, the same as it received with one hand and the other
went to Jose Dolores Pimienta, effectively created the Butler and cashier. He ran, in effect for that
short time (very short for those who longed be repeated occasions to approach pay Cecilia
and every day new services) all expenses that caused the sick, and dead, adjusted to the known
beadle Barroso preparations for the funeral.

Being very close the house of Avocado Street to receiving visitors who come to offer his condolences
to Cecilia, and to celebrate the funeral, provided Pepper's body was moved to the living room
where he and his sister lived in Pump Street, where body was present at ten o'clock at night
until three pm the following day.

No catafalque was erected, dressed in the habit dead Mercedarian straw color, belting the usual black
belt of the Order of Mercy, and tucked into his box lined with black cloth, was placed in a litter
common among large wax candles and silver candlesticks.

The teacher Uribe, with his officers and the many friends and Pepper,
watched over all night and when the litter burial led to shoulder,
taking turns in groups of four to The cemetery, located in the small
suburb of San Lazaro, the end of this road name.

The only incident that somehow marró the solemnity of the act, was that in a few words will
refer. The funeral home was far from the cemetery about half a league, and the shortest path
not driving through the streets of the population, but by winding paths, shaded luxurious
trees from houses and gardens, which then occupied the area throughout
the vast area today Monserrate titled.

Where stands the modern church which gives its name, suddenly joined the funeral procession, seeking
to be confused with it, a stranger and poor black degustation, which looked tired a long run. After
he appeared to just another horse in military uniform, jacket cloth, with two gold epaulets
and cavalry saber. He was young and brave gesture.

No beating in tiny, swooped upon the fugitive, and, pointing his weapon at the chest, cried:
- Date, Malanga, or I'll kill you.

- Tonda!

Tonda! cried the of the party who knew him by sight or treatment.

Caught thus Malanga between the tip of the sword and the litter that was the deceased had no choice
but to surrender to the mercy of the captor, who, without dismounting,
he tied side by side threw him forward, and saluting the military
with air gun, told the mourners: - Gentlemen, I hope I waive the hard
time.

He had command of His Excellency the Captain General, to catch this rogue, living or dead, and
I've met. To follow the funeral. Health, gentlemen.

The first stop for the funeral procession made a big gate that faces the blue sea Atlantic House
of Charity, so that the Charity Children of both sexes sing one for the soul of the deceased, by
paying a gold coin, as alms.

     The second stop was in front
      of the gate
      of the cemetery,
      under the graceful
      arch of input to the chaplain hiciese coffin sprinkling holy water,
before consigning the tomb.

         When running this final act and always sad, companions in attitude
reverently, they remained standing and uncovered, forming groups around
the pit.

José Dolores Pimienta, Uribe and some others threw a handful of earth on the coffin which was
in life and Alcon Josefa Alarcon, no less distinguished for her beauty than for their Unfortunately,
his ardent love of mother and religious practices of his last years and the first who acted as chief
mourner, to thank his friends and fire, could not avoid to be a dry eye, perhaps because he came
to mind at that moment the box of his adored Cecilia, transfixed in pain and fainting in the
arms of Nemesia.

CHAPTER III

What is life? For lost I gave it, When the yoke Slave, As a brave shook.

J. DE ESPRONCEDA

In mid-January the field again Gamboa family: the servants by sea, the masters by land. Leonardo
arrived a few days later.

The first thing Dona Rosa in the city was giving leave or paper to Mary Rule seek accommodation
or master. The role (and is called par excellence in Cuba) in question, signed by Don Candido,
prayed more or less as follows: "I give my slave role María Regla so that within ten days of the accommodation
or find love in the city. It Creole rational, intelligent and agile, healthy, robust, no disease
has ever experienced, has no blemish known, it knows plain sewing,
washing and ironing understand, care for children and the sick.

It paper gives because she asked. No more masters have known that he was born and which now
sold.

Havana, etc. "

Released the subject, Dona Rosa judged of great importance, took care
of runaway black.

He blamed all the fault of the event to Butler, which is why at the first opportunity went to his
beard with the ironic inquisition:

- I guess you have made many
inquiries into the whereabouts of Dionysus.

- Yes, my lady Dona Rosa,
many, many steps, "he said pregnant, then lied like a Turk.

Only these black ... we are the same dianche. Crouch know ... Go if you know!

- Let's see what has brought you to clean.

- Not much, my lady, almost nothing. It said he died of a stab, y.
.. stop You count.

Because not having risen summary of the fact that I know of, or arrested the perpetrator, nor
buried the dead, I assumed, well-founded assumption seems to me that the stab was mere rumor,
a hoax, perhaps spread it to disorient Dionisio and follow him around the track. I tell you,
my lady Dona Rosa, who know a lot of these black a lot ...

- I remain aware, "said the lady in her indignation. Then he added: Then it must be displayed
that black.

- Accurate, said Don Meliton.

- Dead or alive has to be somewhere, he said Dona Rosa.

- That I say, "said Butler.

- Nothing says you worthwhile, "said Rosa bothered. How is it that has not occurred put a avisito
in the Journal?

- Well yes I have thought, Dona Rosa, said the man, happy to be vindicated. It occurred to me
more than once, many. Yes, ma'am, I have been occurred.

- Then, why did not put on the ground?

- Then there is the difficulty of garlic, my lady Dona Rosa. I do not know how to write these
notices. I have never been fatter. Natural thing, in my town had no newspapers.

- The easiest thing in the world. You Can not remember the address of Dionysus? Does your figure?
Does your packaging? Creole Black, dark rechocho, marked by smallpox, round face, large inflows,
large mouth, flat nose, good teeth, bulging eyes, short neck, aristocratic air, office cook, read,
be given for free, missing from the house of their masters after
that date; there will be a good reward to capture and deliver it in
that part, being responsible to damages, etc., etc. All as we read
every day in the Journal under the heading or it's called, of ...
Runaway slaves.

- Ya, ya, I think it said all that, Dona Rosa.

Word is cute, but cójase pen and paper please ... Declare without shame, my lady, who gives me
card on the pretext of writing for newspapers. Sure, I was not born to hack, and not born to married,
the saying goes, do not fool women.

- Very little water drowns you, Don Meliton. Dare you to repeat what I just said?

- I think so. I lack talent, memory, spare me.

- Okay. But that does not forget, now you are going to print the Journal.

It is on this street, past the gates of Rosario, a hall house with
two windows mirror, where before they played lottery tickets ... There.

Enter you and look to Don Toribio Arazoza, editor.

You can not go wrong: a man of ordinary facade, pudgy, bearded ... Almost never shaved, always
laughs with their lips, not to his face ... You know what I mean.

Well, it tells you that as I said to Denis, he knows how to write ads on runaway slaves.

Just came Don Meliton, Rosa raised her eyes and clasped hands to heaven and cried: - Ah! What
a stupid Butler has my husband!

By a miracle walking on two feet.

Around it the press, he sent the lady in a wheel of hire, road Cerro,
to inquire whether he had been led to the deposition of black Dionisio
Maroons had established the Consulate of Agriculture and Commerce
of Havana and Isla de Cuba, next the elegant site playground for the
Count of Fernandina.

There was not the fugitive, for the simple reason that they referred
only to the general deposit of those blacks rural farms, elevations
in the mountains, was caught living with dogs, and that ignorance
or malice, suddenly could not figure out the name of their rightful
owners.

As fruitless inquiries began to spread despair in the mind of Rosa, where came to his house a
black military dress with the utmost courtesy to ask for a hearing
a few minutes.

I measured it from top to bottom with a questioning look and said:

- Tonda?

- Very humble servant of the lady, "he said in an arc of her slender body.

- What is available? Rosa would be asked.

- Is not the lady a warning about a black fled? ...

- Yes.

- What do you call the dark? excuse the lady ...

- Dionisio.

- Dionisio Jaruco?

- No, Gamboa, he is my slave. Well, as Jaruco Creole is not surprising that seeks go through
that name.

- The same as I suspected. In court dance that gave black people out there the Two days before
Christmas Eve, I met a black that Jaruco Dionisio said. Your coordinates correspond closely
with that given in the Journal, and I think I will not be difficult to catch, if Mrs. I grant permission
to search.

- Would give two ounces of gold you capture, three, four, any money.

Committed a great need and desire to punish and deserves. I fear resist. He's handsome check.

- Do not be sorry for that lady. I'm going to bring moored alongside.

- My royalty is safe.

- I do not take the money, it takes me only that they who should pay that. I meet with the orders of my
boss, His Excellency Mr. Francisco Dionisio Vives, who, with the approval of His Majesty the King,
may God keep you many years, has commissioned me to turn to offenders of color.

Mary left early for home rule in the streets of San Ignacio, called the gate the best-looking,
he sent the paper to the lady, and sitting in the doorway, while resting came the response, invariably
reduced the housekeeper had many servants and did not need any rent. You had to denigrate
people of color from serving another person the master, that kind of idiosyncrasy Rule Mary had no suspicion
but not after many disappointments and deceptions similar to that just mentioned. Not really
entertained her intention or expectation of tenant or master, both
the highly repugnant, estimating either end as the greatest misfortune
that could ensue.

If it had been women able to show the face at first sight the emotions of the spirit, the more myopic
would have seen how red with embarrassment each time he drew the role of breast to give the
servant came to open the door.

His intention, hope, more vehement desire of his soul to seek the return to Havana Dionisio
was looking for to join him if he was alive, or killing if he had died. So, far from feeling it,
experiencing a sort of secret delight whenever the returned accompanied by a paper not dry
and decisive. But the time was that she had been granted on short, fixed, and had taken several
days in vain formalities, if fulfilled, and it showed landlord nor master, what would his wife, a
woman of character so strong and bitter with his slaves?

In these critical moments, his daughter Dolores revealed the substance of the conversation
that Mrs. Rosa had just had with Tonda, whose name and deeds went on everyone's lips, and goad
for fear of losing her beloved once Dionisio, decided to spend the few days the fatal period of rest,
the consequence of which was already the sole purpose of its existence.

Taking language, early one morning went to market in the Plaza Vieja, one of two that existed
within the walls of the city. Was that a swarm of animals and so diverse, people of all colors
and conditions, which prevailed black; enclosure narrow tired, unkempt, damp and dark, circumscribed
by four rows of houses, perhaps the most affected population, all, or most, of two bodies,
with broad low high-ceilinged portals, which supported wooden balconies.

At

the foot of one of the pillars of those relied Maria de Regla and
spent a long time looking in brooding silence and stirred the crowded
market square.

Everything was new for it.

In the center stood a stone fountain consists of a bowl and four
dolphins intermittently discharging muddy water jets and thick, however,
anxious collected barrels black water carriers to sell the city at
the rate of average real silver one.

Radios that were based center or trails, nothing straight by the
way, in several directions positions marked by pleasure, even with
the floor, in appearance without order or ranking no, because next
to one that sold vegetables or vegetables, was another of live birds,
or fruit, or hunting, or edible roots, or cage birds, or vegetables,
or river fish and seafood, still in the basket or pot pot fisherman,
or fresh meat served in ordinary tables mounted on their heads in
barrels or inserts scissors, and all breathing moisture strewn leaves,
peels of fruits and green corn, feathers and mud without a roof or
an awning, not a decent face, and black farmers, ill-clothed ones,
almost naked others whiffs of various scents everywhere, a shrill
and unpleasant gibberish, and above the blue sky seen through a skylight,
which appeared one or two Flying cloudscape, imitating, and transparent
gauze, sometimes invisible wings of angels.

They entered the square and out of her black and black, these with
the purpose of providing Daily house of their masters, to procure
those with the wholesale price of meat, vegetables or fruits that
resold at retail within the city or its neighborhoods outside: this
traffic, by the way that, quite lucrative in many cases.

There was something about the new dress Mary wore Prussian Rule,
in the way of bringing the silk handkerchief that was watching the
morbid half of Bayajá shoulders and that was covered raisins; in black
shiny face and bare arms and turned, announcing health and strength,
in the general appearance of an outsider, in sadness or shyness to
her face and attitude showed, there was something, say, in all this,
which could not fail to attract attention, even indifferent people
and very busy with her own chores. 

But all, any curious, compassionate
or naturally any observer, and entering the square, and leaving it,
he cast a glance through the former nurse, and followed long. His
attitude seems contemplative (in any way his suit) was suspect at
first view that the disease afflicted a stranger, or, being too novice
or short-tempered, not just reach out and ask for alms for the love
of God to the passer. Any of these reasons was enough to cool off
compassion and curiosity in the classroom of people coming to the
market. Only a thick black, with a tendency to obesity, and of frank
and cheerful countenance, that came with a board full of meat to the
head, had enough resolution to stop before the wretched stranger,
asking for a rough way, more benevolent expression:

- Ah! Critiana!
What is there for? What have you lost?

- My husband replied flatly
María de Regla.

The question unannounced not had time to hide what
was more fixed in thought.

- Your Mario! amazed said the butcher.
Can échatelo to search.

Mimicked with this said of the boys in the
game of blind man's buff.

- In that I go (the former nurse said with
a doleful sigh) long ago.

- How much?

- Ugh! About twelve years.

-
Eye! The rich planter can afford to learn politics in the parlor, and to dispense
with religion altogether.{50}

In its isolation, seclusion, and self-reliant independence, Col. Lloyd's plantation resembles
what the baronial domains were during the middle ages in Europe. Grim, cold, and unapproachable
by all genial influences from communities without, there it stands; full three hundred years
behind the age, in all that relates to humanity and morals.

This, however, is not the only view that the place presents. Civilization is shut out, but
nature cannot be. Though separated from the rest of the world; though public opinion, as I
have said, seldom gets a chance to penetrate its dark domain; though the whole place is stamped
with its own peculiar, ironlike individuality; and though crimes, high-handed and atrocious,
may there be committed, with almost as much impunity as upon the deck of a pirate ship--it
is, nevertheless, altogether, to outward seeming, a most strikingly interesting place, full
of life, activity, and spirit; and presents a very favorable contrast to the indolent monotony
and languor of Tuckahoe. Keen as was my regret and great as was my sorrow at leaving the latter,
I was not long in adapting myself to this, my new home. A man's troubles are always half disposed
of, when he finds endurance his only remedy. I found myself here; there was no getting away;
and what remained for me, but to make the best of it? Here were plenty of children to play
with, and plenty of places of pleasant resort for boys of my age, and boys older. The little
tendrils of affection, so rudely and treacherously broken from around the darling objects of
my grandmother's hut, gradually began to extend, and to entwine about the new objects by which
I now found myself surrounded.

There was a windmill (always a commanding object to a child's eye) on Long Point--a tract of
land dividing Miles river from the Wye a mile or more from my old master's house. There was
a creek to swim in, at the bottom of an open flat space, of twenty acres or more, called "the
Long Green"--a very beautiful play-ground for the children.{51}

In the river, a short distance from the shore, lying quietly at anchor, with her small boat
dancing at her stern, was a large sloop--the Sally Lloyd; called by that name in honor of a
favorite daughter of the colonel. The sloop and the mill were wondrous things, full of thoughts
and ideas. A child cannot well look at such objects without thinking.

Then here were a great many houses; human habitations, full of the mysteries of life at every
stage of it. There was the little red house, up the road, occupied by Mr. Sevier, the overseer.
A little nearer to my old master's, stood a very long, rough, low building, literally alive
with slaves, of all ages, conditions and sizes. This was called "the Longe Quarter." Perched
upon a hill, across the Long Green, was a very tall, dilapidated, old brick building--the architectural
dimensions of which proclaimed its erection for a different purpose--now occupied by slaves,
in a similar manner to the Long Quarter. Besides these, there were numerous other slave houses
and huts, scattered around in the neighborhood, every nook and corner of which was completely
occupied. Old master's house, a long, brick building, plain, but substantial, stood in the
center of the plantation life, and constituted one independent establishment on the premises
of Col. Lloyd.

Besides these dwellings, there were barns, stables, store-houses, and tobacco-houses; blacksmiths'
shops, wheelwrights' shops, coopers' shops--all objects of interest; but, above all, there
stood the grandest building my eyes had then ever beheld, called, by every one on the plantation,
the "Great House." This was occupied by Col. Lloyd and his family. They occupied it; I enjoyed
it. Did he fallen
below the vault and picked the best of their husbands?

XX

After the brief spell that caused him so unusual noises, Rosalie ran to Gasparini, and there, Holy
God, saw a show incomprehensible. Bringas was in the middle of the room broken face, scary-pale,
her hands clenched, his eyes wide open very open ... A mueblecillo, that side of the table was
the pileup of shellac and the alcohol lamp to heat, had fallen pushed by the artist when it is rose
hastily from his chair. The spirit spilled on the carpet burned vagorosa flame. Candida dealt
with swiftly when off, stepping, for which he had to rise skirts up near the knee. Was jumping
and went to the weight of your foot where the flame was alive, but also ran the floor shellac
liquid hot which is very sticky substance, the soles of the venerable lady clung so heavily to
the floor, I could not, without a medium effort, lifted.

Rosalie went straight to her husband, who, feeling around, grabbed her with anxiety seizure,
and turning his eyes everywhere, seemed to find something that eluded
him.

His face expressed terror so intense, that his wife did not remember
seeing anything like it.

"What ?...»-- was all her, her dismay, she could say.

Bringas rubbed his eyes, opened them again, and moving much the eyelids,
like poets when they read his poems, said in a tone that tore:

"I
see!

... I see! ".

Rosalie could not add anything, such was his terror.

Garcia the Great, who had mastered fire, but not completely prevent
the adherence of his boots to the floor, went to pitiful group ...

"That
will not be anything" - he said noting that strange look of D. Francisco.

-
Where is the window, the window ?...-- moaned the most desperately
unhappy.

- There, there, you do not see ?...-- Rosalie shouted, turning
toward the light.

- No, I do not see, do not see you, I see nothing
... Complete darkness, absolute ... All black ...

- Ah, that damn
job ... Well I told you, well you said it all ... But it will happen
...

Rosalia was more dead than alive ... Do not think of anything.

The penalty was choking. Candida, proceeding more calmly, he began to make arrangements.

"Sentémosle on the couch ... Now should call the doctor.

"

We approached the sofa and collapsed on him sick with despair, as
if it would drop in his coffin.

Palpable object, felt to his wife, or a point left him.

"Well we told you - he repeated, drowning in tears and hiding the
dissonance of the voice -.

That damn hair piece ... working all day ... If you could feel eyestrain,
why Why continue?

".

- My children, where are they? - Muttered Bringas.

Near the door were Isabelita and Alfonsin, terrified, silent, not daring to step: the small
as the bread for a snack in hand, chewing slowly, the girl would be, with hands behind his back,
watching the sad group of distraught parents. Rosalie told them approach. I felt Bringas, diols
thousand kisses, lamenting not being able to see, and predicting that no longer would ever. More
tears spilled the poor in that quarter of an hour in all his previous life, and Pipaón, considering
that sudden misfortune that God sent him, conceptualized punishing the faults he had committed. It
was necessary to order out from there to young. Retaining prudence
in Furriel and not let them pass.

Inspired Isabelita care for fear that the strong impression he received a disorder produjese
spasmodic more serious than previous ones. Meanwhile, Mrs. García Grande, most obsequious and helpful
with friends at the critical times, she dedicated her existence to be useful.

"I will go for the doctor. You'll see how this tells us nothing. I had a thing that I learned
the point of Flanders. I suddenly felt a disturbance rare At the
hearing, then I began to see objects halved.

All stood in a sharp pain head. Call that ophthalmic migraine. I remember hearing my doctor
say that in some cases is completely lost sight for a few hours a day ... Serénese you, my
friend D. Francisco, and take a glass of water with a little wine. Back soon.

Came out diligently, with sincere desire to serve, and not finding a doctor who lived in the house went
to get the call. While they were alone, Bringas and his wife barely spoke. She could not stop
looking at him, hoping that when he least expected it, they gain
those astonished eyes the most precious gift for which they were raised,
he began to exercise the sense peculiar to the blind, touch, and I
saw her hands, and shaking it, and palpating loving and carefully.

A single word, sighs and lamentations of the poor sick were the only verbal expression of that
sad scene, the more silent eloquent.

The doctor came at last.

Candida, would not let the hand to enter with him into the house. It was an old affable, old-school,
excellent diagnostician, shy to prescribe and as I said, unfortunate.

Aware of the history of the case, called evil retinal congestion.

"In the retina - supported Candida -. It happens. Soon regain sight, but the work of hair, buddy,
you model terminated. "

- If I say, if I announced - the Bringas said briskly, with the hopes revived giving the doctor
-. And now ...?

The doctor prescribed bed rest, diet, and the next day a derivative. Also ordered black bandage,
a soothing light for in case of insomnia, and offered to come early next morning to examine the
eyes of the patient detention. It was late, and last sunlight was leaving the room gloomily.
When the kindly old man withdrew, Brinker and his wife were more
animated.

"Nothing, my children, not be rushed - they said Candida, both of whose useful informal served
as a great comfort -. Now sleep ... and sleep if you can. Nothing
to fear, or think as not to be.

Serenity and a little patience. It's a matter of hours or a couple of days at most. I undertake to
bring medicines and as needed. Accompany them well all night, if necessary ...».

When the helpful lady came to the pharmacy, Rosalie and her husband had retired after to sell a large
piece of black silk. Like any fledgling blind, Bringas affected no need of foreign help to
undress, and learning about the distress of his wife, had revive the heroism of loving expressions,
as if he were a healthy and she's sick.

"Probably this will happen ... But it is tiresome. Not a chance I do not like this. Relax, I'll
take it patiently, and very nearly the beginning and to get used ... I am very glad of not having
to call an eye doctor as these, though healed, always cost an arm
and a leg.

"

The night passed without any notable success, Bringas worried sick with excruciating pain cephalalgic
and eyes, Rosalia awake, sharing their care and monitoring within the blind husband and epileptic
girl, who was rushed to nightmares more alarming than those of ordinary scenes because of that afternoon
vividly excited. By that of all Candidita accompanied her troubled friend the night, comforting
her with his presence and by paying very effective aid. It was very typical for such cases and knew
a thousand little things medical supplies domestic.

In the early settlement was difficult, never be cowed, nor his drumsticks known bone fatigue.

At dawn, more or less, Rosalia, losing sleep, fell asleep in a chair facing the bed marriage
where Thiers good lay, dormant since, and so was the lady fall drowsiness that it will start
to see the Torres and his famous beard and nose. Also offered his view the sum, which was in part
after part, developing their units on lengthy space and saw the urgent
time that day that dawned threatening ... Suddenly the wretched Recobrose
opening his eyes.

She thought she heard a ay! Rosalia, but his dream must have been because the holy man seemed
calm, measured breath and stated that at last he fell asleep really.

"Torres ... money! - Rosalie thought, shaking his head to ward off that idea, as if this were
a nuisance to him pose in front -. And under what circumstances, my God !...».

XXI

But almost at once that such said Vinolé quickly thought, as these rays celestial mysticism that speaks,
a saving idea, an easy, efficacious, oh derived oddities of life!, in the same distressing
situation in which the family was. What things does God! He knows why he does them.

Rose from the chair quietly and with great pause to avoid waking the
patient.

I knew what I had to do. The thing was clear and easy. What could not be done the day before,
would at that as evil. She had thought several times in the silver candlesticks, but How unselfish
commitment to D. Francisco, a man of such good eye, found out ...? It could be I could be! ...
She would care to replace them in place, bringing together very soon money necessary for the performance,
and so her husband would notice anything when he regained view. Would to God and St. Lucia this out
soon! May not be enough the product of the chandeliers for getting of the amount he needed, besides
money Torres, he needed the second term of Sobrino Hermanos, decided
to unite the above pieces of shiny silver screws that had ears, Augustine
donation Caballero.

Bringas could not feel the need, and if by chance noticed by passing the hand through face,
she would say anything, I'd say ...

That they had been taken as a sign of mourning.

Doña Candida was coming as a template for the credit operation planned. Found her in the dining
room, happy ever after, as savvy, as awake as if I had not had a bad night. Rosalie took the point
chocolate, so your friend hiciese his taste which had drinking.

While a respectable lady took care of this with the thoroughness that always put in such a pleasant
operation, her friend took their projects. Whispers were heard for a while intimate, and saw
himself doing Candida head nod, enough to provide security to the same question.

"Before noon you're all done. Calm yourself ... For these things I'm worth yo a friend who is
a lynx ... Stealth, activity, understanding, everything is, and dispatches these commissioned
by Jesus to say. "

There is reason to believe that by that time, the second stage of its decline, was beginning
Candida to see in person the Monte de Piedad and lending houses, either for business their
own convenience, either to provide a sensitive service to any friend of many confidence. This
Maximo Manso called the second way to Dona Candida, and I note There was still a third way much
more pathetic.

Everything was arranged, then, that morning so easily and quickly like there Grande García said,
because they were not half past eleven when she was back with the
money.

Took him Rosalia forward and was glad to have enough to meet Torres
and Sobrino, atencioncillas maintaining a rest for a little more or
less.

"I do not know how to thank you ...-- said vehemently to his illustrious friend, shaking hands -.
Everything will soon return home, because I like my jewelry to make these trips; and only by
a great need ...».

No one knows how he pushed the conversation to a certain apurillo who had, by calmly a rogue
administrator ... Within two or three days ... How do those who deny this please had behaved so
well? Rosalie thought he tore a piece of his heart when you were among the ten hard hands with
thirst-quenching metal of his friend. But there was no choice.

Dona Candida became very joyful to see Bringas, who said that felt better, although very weak
in the head. The doctor had examined in the morning and prognosis was favorable. Soon regain sight
... y. .. Even thought he saw something when departed the band ... What was needed was a lot
of rest, patience and take with method and timeliness prescribed medicines.

"Who has come?" - Bringas asked sharply.

- I think it is Mr. Torres - said Candida - which has come to ask you.

- I have head so weak and yet so upset, I thought I heard counting money ... Although not want,
and although my doctor ordered me not to tamper with anything, I can not provide attention to
everything that happens at home. I can not help. I have the ear alert, and even when I sleep
I seem to not escape me no sound.

She said to him that all diseased brain wisely calls inaction that he must surrender their senses
to indifference and rest, that while he was in bed he had not been to make conversation, and that
even their children would enter the room.

This was manifested forming, with a deep sigh, and said that I needed more patience and strength
of will was to suppress their desire to know everything and give orders.

While this was spoken in the dark bedroom, Rosalie Torres whispered to La Salette. Great as were
the precautions taken to make no noise of money to have twenty hard silver, tin tin was some slight
vibrating in the room and spread throughout the house in faint waves to reach the ear subtle
Bringas.

Torres was most affected by the disease Your friend, expressed the hope that it was not anything
serious ... The bookkeeper Mompous had a similar attack in the light. "Nothing, that being one
day write, he was blind ... At first thought it was drop serene, but ten days of sale and some
medicines was good, though always delicate. In the bathrooms are finished fifth ...». cure Bye
the above so happy to take your money as afflicted by the misfortune of D. Francisco.

A Isabelita, which was sad, concerned and not wanting to eat, she was sent home from Candida to
place him there all day playing with Irene and other girls in the neighborhood. Alfonsin was to
school, and Paquito, whom her father's illness was very sad, did not leave the house and wanted
a bite to eat at lunch. Candida was the only person who was there a regular appetite.

"We need food, even making an effort - said that of Bringas -. Do not let you go well. We must take
strength to watch and work and take care all ... I also I have wanted, but I domain, daughter,
and as per requirement, because it is necessary. "

Shortly after our friend received a esquelita of Miracles in telling him that everything was finally
settled satisfactorily, and that waiting for the night. The letter breathed joy and satisfaction.

"This
poor Miracles do not know what is happening to us breaking ...-- Rosalie said the letter -.
Poor I beg you not to miss this night.

Son, go there and give it a moment account of this disaster ... Look,
you go through the return home of Fish and Carolina also whole ...
Ah, she has fault, with their hair works.

What a grotesque woman !...».

The seamstress was that day, but the lady saying goodbye was not Mary Magdalene to taffeta,
to return next week.

In the afternoon was also Milagros, who felt not have known much
before the event to be flying to console his friend.

His grief sincere was not a party to conceal the satisfaction of the lien for the successful
settlement of their conflict metal at the critical day. How and how he had made the arrangement,
I would say later, it was not intrude on the occasion of things that did not care ... "And the
doctor say? ". The excellent lady expected that blindness was an uneasiness a few days. Ask
God to heal the man as well, that model of parents ... "How you feel you can not come tonight
to my house ... It'll be the meeting very bright, and as for the buffet will be most wonderful
... Ya, ya I'll tell you how ... There for a while. "

Bidding farewell at the door, could not repress some very spontaneous outbursts of his passion dominant.
As they say a secret of importance, told her friend that that would evening dress with a hint
of white muslin scarf, lilac, which had placed inset and a jersey Watteau ... At the last minute had
been arranged as a T-shirt he was sent to Paris to San Salomó ... I thought her hair combed
up, wavy large braid around the head and long locks behind ... 'Well, not you mood to hear
such rubbish ... Bye bye ... Tomorrow I will come to know and follow our D. Francisco and counting,
counting ...».

Bringas, they all found out, he told his wife:

"I've heard your whispers
with Tellería at the door.

What about?

Have you dropped a fool?

... Poor woman!

You truly say that peace is better to eat a piece of bread with onions,
to live as these people, amid great agony coated ... And tonight big
mess!

... I swear I have pity them. "

XXII

Encouraged them a lot, because when the band rose a little, contrary
to orders medical, perceive light, though troubled and painful impression.

Whatever it was, was the belief that the body was not lost and that
sooner or later regain the use of that precious role.

Tickling bothered him a lot and vision calenturienta of thousands
of points of light or faint rays of metal, mobile, fleeting, Images
of the damned and never well execrated hairs retained the sick retina.

With However, its poor man carried my resignation, and asked God
what was that you take out the bed, it was great ordeal for him to
be lying on his back, scrambled between the sheets burning.

Permitiole the doctor out of bed after three days, but with strict order not to move from
a chair and sit still and silent, indifferent to everything and do
not receive visits deal or anything, still blindfolded, severely.

Arose, and was installed in Gasparini, in a comfortable chair with pillows. Do not allow anyone
to enter to give talk, or obeyed when pleading with Paquito at night
to read him a newspaper.

Respect his departure from domestic issues, little Rosalie was able
to achieve, because although he prided leaving the care of it all,
could not contain his desire for authority, that authority exercised
so well for many years, and each time he remembered the good use he
had made of their duties.

- Rosalie ...

- What is it, son?

- What
principle you wearing today?

- Why do you go about ...?

- I have
smelled beef stew ... Do not deny it ... Now more than ever, we must
appeal the tortillas potatoes, artichokes stuffed with sausage, and
if you press me, to pluck mutton, not forgetting the cheek.

If you trust Candida and charge the purchase soon will leave by doors.

You know that lady squandered two fortunes in comistrajos ... Di one
thing for lunch yesterday put fried hake.

- Is it thought that the
doctor send you to take it.

So he brought.

It later turned out not.

- Say one thing ... Where now is Candida?

- It's in the Furriel. Fear not hear you.

- Why do not you, good way to go to dinner at his house? I do not like guests perpetual. One
day two, go ...

- But man ... If you knew how much it has helped the poor ...! Tomorrow we'll see. I can not tell
all of a sudden you go ...

- What has brought Prudential Plaza Barley?

- Three pounds of potatoes.

- At what price?
- A six real.

- Look, dear, do not forget to write down everything,
so when I'm good, can continue to carry account of the month. Did
you bring oil? Do not bring wine, for you know that I was not expense
now. The doctor tells me to take a finger of Jerez, but do not buy
it. If you send Dona Tula the two bottles that I promised, I'll take
it, otherwise not. If Candidita continue to come through the morning
and it must give the Jicarita of chocolate ... Will I be able to hear?

-
No, no one there.

- Well, say you bring to it from the real four,
which no doubt will taste like heaven, I I doubt it at home category
other than the three ... I'm thinking the gift that we to ask the
doctor, and that's what we are going to go all our savings. And with
that I bring an eye doctor here, that if he comes to bring, forget
it. God does not want to be precise ... Yesterday spoke of taking
baths. I shudder to think. This from the baths is a rant that doctors
have invented now to end to squeeze the juice of the sick poor. In
my time there had such baths, so there were no more diseases. On the
contrary, I think he died less people. If you talk about bathrooms,
I recommend, daughter, put a face, as I put it.

The most unique was
that neither in that miserable state had to abandon my good accounting
Thiers from home. While in bed, gave his wife the keys to the drawer
where he had money, but since it was raised again wanted to take up
the reins of government and exercise that sovereign function, which
is the most obvious attribute domestic authority. His strange movements excited my curiosity,
and awakened my compassion. He seldom walked alone without muttering to himself; and he occasionally
stormed about, as if defying an army of invisible foes. Never had she seen her parents so sulky. "You a spendthrift
...». "And you mean spirited." "With you it is not possible the economy or the order ...».
"Well you can not live ...». "What would you be without me ...». "Well, I do not deserve me
You ...». Válganos God! Her mother had gotten into the Camon crying. She went back and entered
also to comfort her, she wanted subírsele knees, but could not. His mom was so great as all the
Palacio Real, the largest yet. Her mother had given her kisses. After casual, had taken a dress,
then another and another, and many fabrics and ribbons. In this gets her dad suddenly in the
Camon, no band, and his mother cries out in fear.

"I see, madam, I see - says his dad very vex - you brought me here a store ...». rag And his
mother, embarrassed very red face, but did not say: "I ... I ...
see ...».

In this, the poor girl, reaching the peak period of his delirium, he felt that within his body
is strange objects and oppressed people. All I had it in itself, as if he had swallowed half
the world. In his tiny stomach settled, dyed nasty and dense colors, and squeezing horribly
obstructing the bowels, his father, mother, the garments of her mom, Carrion, the Palace, Mr. Fish,
Milagros, Alfonsito, Vargas, Torres ... Retorciose painfully emptied
his body in that loads of things and people pressed it, and there
was ...!, bruumm all out like a torrent.

XXXV

She was relieved ... free of that awful boil your brain. Her mother cleaned the sweat from
his forehead, calling her with loving words. Rosalie felt his groans, undoubted symptoms of
the nightmare, and jumped out of bed to run to his rescue. It was
twelve.

Then made him a cup of tea, and he helped Prudence moved the sheets.

A half-hour the poor girl lay still, and his mother went to the sofa cabinet because dismissed
the bed fire. Before party wanted to give her husband to the dismay of the girl.

- "The usual? - Asked him from the fold of the single sheet that is
covered.

- Yes, as usual, nightmares, seizures, has been among the
strongest attacks.

Finally has calmed down. Poor angel! You will insist that our child is this propensity root
with epilepsy ... Knowing that is corrected sea bathing ...!

- So are those of the Jeronimos ... say, are better.

Rosalie's voice objecting to anything, was lost in the immediate quarters. Bringas, after coughing
a little, wrapped in clouds of sleep your opinion on the superiority of bathrooms Manzanares
to every bathroom in the world.

The improvement of our friend is stressed so much that from mid-July Golfín stopped go home. D. Francisco,
along with Paquito, would query two times a week. As the doctor had his house on Calle del
Arenal, a short distance had to go. The dark glass eye glasses, in addition to a great green
shade, guarding their eyes light, Ridley, always amiable with that recommended by His Majesty,
he dispatched soon. I was very pleased with his priest, and praised the excellent nature of the
patient, winner of evil in a few weeks. In July last eye doctor said his client was leaving in early
August to give a tour of Germany. "But you do not need me to display. I give it high, and what
may happen, one of my assistants will go through here three or four times while I'm out. " Bringas
heard with joy the dismissal of the conscientious doctor, a sign that evil was defeated. Born
of his honesty and sensitivity, prayed the doctor to pass him before leaving ... "Now you understand
me ... the little story of their fees. " Golfín burst into compliments. "Time will ... What a hurry
you ... Anyway, as you want ...».

And the great economist, leaving his son, weighed in the balance of his mind arithmetical
terms of this enigma was soon revealed. What regulatory or what rate would apply? Would you
consider as poor of solemnity, as used above, as rentier under or a bourgeois shameful and beggar?
At all hours of day and night I thought Thiers in this, and wished that the bill came out of his
anguished doubt.

Since D. Francis told his wife, who in early August was necessary to pay the doctor, the poor lady
believed more urgent replacement of the stolen banknotes chest. Fortunately, Milagros had given
little more than half of what mattered debt, with a promise to deliver the rest before going to
Biarritz. "Things are fixing me well - he said -. I'll probably enough for the commitments these
days, and still believe to leave you something if you need ... No, no need to thank ... I just
do not need, and is safer in those hands than mine. " With these promises and pledges, the Pipaón
seen near the end of his drowning. Both happy, though the spirits had Thiers some killed because they
can not go to bathrooms, delicious moments spent talking about fashion. The Telleria with
that art so admirable and so his, they are composed very well to regain some the little things
that gave it to Rosalie in those abductions of affection precursors of the loan. "Since you do
not leave, damn you need to make this pamela ... and this form of straw ... I'll see how I fix
it for me ... Here you can not use the goat hair. It is very inappropriate material of this
heat. As past few days feel cool, I'll take it. I must bring to you better things ... Oh, I'll
let a few yards of crudillo to dress the little ones, and a few pieces
of crepe that I have left.

" Yet they formed the Bringas. Unable she shine in the northern provinces, wanted revenge
on his fate adorning their offspring; already been provided with
costumes, and unseen things planned for and Alfonso Isabelita published
in the Plaza de Oriente, between the Republic of children festive,
good taste of affluent mom.

"Sobrino has a summer coat - said Milagros - that excited me. I do not go without take one. You
know ... tissue means imitation Chantilly, with guipure. "

- I've seen, daughter, I saw them yesterday - said the other with a deep sigh.

- Do not despair you, dear - said Milagros caressing -. In Bayonne bought these things by half, and
then introduced duty-free. I will bring you one of these tissue media, more beautiful than
it has Sobrino ... Do you want a bit for children skin of the devil, dice, which I do not need? Send it.
Instead I get these fichus that are not themselves to Madrid ... Will you go to the Prado?
There, with the candles and T enough.

The hats seem to come off of the head in the summer of Madrid. This armor flax sent to you
for nothing will work. Usarela me. It will return in the fall adorned something, a lot of novelty,
is not known yet here ... Ah, I recommend you to children about hats
sailors brought Sempere and some as caps or berets.

They are cute ... And do not make you more purchases: I will send a pair of blue socks for everyone,
and I have a good piece of pique that you can use.

Instead of the things that so Zandunga was recovering, he sent a bundle consisting of reports
scraps, ribbons and trimmings that, strictly speaking, not useless. Thanks to come out from there
a tie for Paquito and another for the exalted neck of the tooth fairy.

Pipaón one morning that she was alone, as Thiers had gone to consultation, appeared quite unexpectedly
Fish. Summer dress, with elegant light-colored alpaca suit, like a chicken. Rosalia always
one appeared to be happy, and this time he saw with more pleasure, so smooth and was rejuvenated.
Grew increasingly more in the spirit of the noble lady's image that subject, and to build more
in the realm of thought.

And before the appeal Outside of him, before his manners and his lordship, he captivated the purposes
to protect in all circumstances afflicting. It might have been surrendered to the guard before
lover, I mean that if those fish had not put the offer parallel positive the gains would have
been much less great. He nevertheless be very skilled, had more with the strength of his personal
thanks to that other means of warfare. But very little is given to know all the varieties of human frailty.
That war artifact, used simply as an auxiliary, was more effective than shooting Cupid.

And that day was so expressive fish at an early stage, so atrevidillo and awake, Rosalia, considered
alone with him in the house (they also had children and Prudence left) was in very great trouble.
As in his soul had rectal and modest, so innate Bringas as taught by so many years of married
life blameless, rose and stood on guard.

Fish proved to be a feckless boy at that critical time; transfigurose
in a romantic of which are decorated with despair, and are decorated
with a pretty desire die.

Their language and their ways, perfectly adapted to the burning temple of the heatwave, Rosalia
terrified, first-in that uneasy friendships guilty. Say and repeat in his honor. Calaverón a virtuous
found my strength had not expected, because according to his sentence I heard more than once,
had believed that their excessive ripeness, fruit that fell the tree itself.

XXXVI

The analysis under the Pipaón yields a singular result. Fish had no skill or luck to catch it in
one of those unfortunate moments when the satisfaction a whim or the crush of a commitment
in his heart moved desires to possess powerful amounts that varied according to circumstances.
In such moments, his passion for frippery or the desire to keep up appearances and cover up
their cheating, blinded to the point not to hesitate to buy the victory with the currency of
your honor ... This explains the enigma Fish's defeat. When he wanted to expunge the plaza,
this was well stocked. The Bringas had money in those days.

Milagros Tell them paid more than half of its debt, and the rest it would most likely next Sunday,
with more something I wanted to leave his power as reserve. Alright sure most pressing engagement,
so that lady and fresh frescota in the case was believed to show off his strength, a virtue
less sensitive to the author interest. With a phrase that I keep in memory, called Fish that
character vain, temperament that is inaccessible to all the passion that was not well dressed.
He said this great observer who was like the Bulls, who came over to rag man.

He insisted his romantic vehemence my friend, and who knows if in the end would have had the contest
an unfortunate term ... But the entry of the children was as an intervention of divine providence
in the matter.

Soon after came D. Francisco, and both gentlemen spoke a little politics, of this stubborn
policy González Bravo, that in the mouth of Fish, by special arrangement of his mind, took
a pessimistic tinge. D. Espeluznaba Francisco heard him. Prison generals and the Duke of Montpensier
was a fumble.

The revolutionaries had said his last words on the Iberia of those days, and the Government had
launched his latest challenge. The army sympathized with the revolution, and even said that the
Navy ... "By God, sir Fish, do not talk like you lot! "- exclaimed Thiers taking both hands
head and forgetting to remove them for a while.

"I wash my hands - said the other -. I'm seeing coming cataclysm, and frankly, when I learned
that the Liberal Union, a government party, a party order, which is a serious party, help the revolutionaries,
what you want ... I see no ...». black thing

A spot of bother Thiers was, for the kindness of his friend as a prelude seemed a defection. Brinker
continued to vent their anger against the progressives, the National Militia, Espartero, without
forgetting the chas-ing, against the titled Himno de Riego, against so-called Democrats and every living
creature, until fish, jaded, led the conversation to the subject of your trip. He was not impatient
or think it was absolutely necessary for your health Madriles abandon, but their girls were harassing
him so much so that soon lead to San Sebastian, who could not further delay the issue. They
wanted the poor things look like in the Shell and perendengues Zurriola the station, and such
was his enthusiasm for this, that if had not suddenly would burst with sorrow. Her mother
was here, prostrate before the altar of the Souls and gossiping in the sacristy with other
Beaton of the same stewing. Rest and freedom was for poor girls travel to the North, and this
concept could not but be helpful to the weak health of both. Dad was for recreational nuisance
on this little trip, because his daughters made him dizzy with frequent trips to Bayonne to
buy rags and smuggle them. And no need Josefita and Rosita do what others, who dress bought and
put it in the trunks of use, or needed to be two winter coats, one over another, and six pairs
of socks and two skirts and four mantles. The happy circumstance of being his father Finance Director
in the sweltering exempted from that how to smuggle. The administrator of the Office of Irun
was the position held our fish, and he was native fish from the side, thus, that is that girls
were brought to Spain, half of France. "It gives me a chance to endless commitments this trip
- added Don Manuel finally - because I can not stick your nose in Bayonne and Biarritz without
being harassed by the ladies see high and medium category, asking the usual card or flounce to
the cousin of Irun ... Most of the time I can not deny ... Is and in our customs and looks like
a quixotic looking for income.

It is truly Spanish this view in the State legal thief, the thief permanent historical thief
... Among other sayings of immoral philosophy is that of a hundred years of pardon, etc. ...
Is my topic, this is a lost country ... And you go to splash a moralist. Last year, a Marquise
quite wealthy, who did not want to facilitate the passage of a load of clothes, I almost take
out the eyes. He got made a lion and called for the revolution and the demagogues. A duchess,
too smart, was pleased to pass on my beard and whiskers cousin Irun ... Pásmese you! ... Fifty-four
trunks full of news! ".

That said, he went, and returned next day to say goodbye, for that
same evening leaving.

A little while he could speak alone with Rosalie, and was so scarred the heart and tip so
hurt despite loving, honest lady that could not but pity him, feeling at the same time two kinds
of vanity, the triumph of virtue and no less be large so formidable passion. Must have been
great merit and beauty when he prostrated before her, as a little boy, a man so serious and quiet,
when men of that temple was whistling at her and had bought with their life (sic) any favorcillo.

Miracles
did not come out until 29. Many occupations had those last days, and what troubles going to
prepare your trip!

"My dearest friend - said Rosalie, alone with her in the Carrion - you dispense to me not deliver to
it before I go, that rest is missing. I guess you can wait a days. When I leave home agent commission
put in their hands that amount to 5 or 6 of next, because by then has to collect certain amounts
of each census Zafra. Neglect you will not miss. It's the first thing I put on the list of orders
that left Enriquez and lest you forget, I see him machaco always the same. "Beware how you
leave deliver ... care, Enriquez ... The peak of my friends comes first. "

Too bad you knew this may delay, but as it seemed so solemn promise was not much wait for the
August 5, had to calm down. Her friend went stunned by his dismal love and perjury he had brought
from France a thousand gifts of high novelty. "I guess stumble there with fish, to free us
from the sickness of the Customs, which is unbearable with those employees so ordinary. If left,
are able to open all the trunks ... and I took a whopping fourteen. From there, I always bring
three or four more. You can not I surrendered to figure out how to work these days. My maridillo
not help me anything. All you have to give fact. This year has not even bothered to ask for
tickets Free. I've had to do, putting little notes to the President of the Executive Committee
and finally reluctantly gave them to me. But I could not get to give us two reserved other years,
but one. What injustice! ... Sudre I tell that this is the payment that give the Senate to defend
the Company as he defends against all odds. I put very nervous the day trip. I think that always
is something we will not to catch the train, I will make sense to pay an excess weight ... You see,
fourteen trunks! It is a maze of hell. Leopoldito take your dog, your cat Mary Gustavo Angora
and a bird cage for a friend. Think about what you have to eating on the road these irrational
... And all in a single department, which will appear Noah's Ark! Fortunately we know the driver,
and Mary and I, then have dinner at Avila we pass on to a saloon-bed ... Assumption took ...
I can not live without my maid. The hand luggage, I think that will be about twenty-four.
I do not sleep at all if I do my pillows. For Augustine there who will keep your head carrying
a basin to wash two or three Sometimes on the road. My suitcase-dressing can not be left behind,
because I like to get stations made a facade. Leopoldito bears his checkerboard, the Bilboquet,
the question Roman, his pistol games and a portfolio which targets
all tunnels and time is in all seasons. Gustavo loaded with half a
dozen big books to be read by the path, and the maula of my husband,
who thinks only of comfort, is furious with missing shoes, the great
silk hat, the cushion of wind ... To all I have to attend because
can not be a servant to everyone. Those days are gone, alas, and I
figure that no have to return. There were numerous bloody
marks on Mr. Sevier's face, when I first saw him, and they increased as the struggle went on.
The imprints of Nelly's fingers were visible, and I was glad to see them. Amidst the wild screams
of the children--"Let my mammy go"--"let my mammy go"--there escaped, from between the teeth
of the bullet-headed overseer, a few bitter curses, mingled with threats, that "he would teach
the d--d b--h how to give a white man impudence." There is no doubt that Nelly felt herself
superior, in some respects, to the slaves around her. She was a wife and a mother; her husband
was a valued and favorite slave. Besides, he was one of the first hands on board of the sloop,
and the sloop hands--since they had to represent the plantation abroad--were generally treated
tenderly. The overseer never was allowed to whip Harry; why then should he be allowed to whip
Harry's wife? Thoughts of this kind, no doubt, influenced her; but, for whatever reason, she
nobly resisted, and, unlike most of the slaves,{73 COMBAT BETWEEN MR. SEVIER AND NELLY} seemed
determined to make her whipping cost Mr. Sevier as much as possible. The blood on his (and
her) face, attested her skill, as well as her courage and dexterity in using her nails. Maddened
by her resistance, I expected to see Mr. Sevier level her to the ground by a stunning blow;
but no; like a savage bull-dog--which he resembled both in temper and appearance--he maintained
his grip, and steadily dragged his victim toward the tree, disregarding alike her blows, and
the cries of the children for their mother's release. He would, doubtless, have knocked her
down with his hickory stick, but that such act might have cost him his place. It is often deemed
advisable to knock a man slave down, in order to tie him, but it is considered cowardly and
inexcusable, in an overseer, thus to deal with a woman. He is expected to tie her up, and to
give her what is called, in southern parlance, a "genteel flogging," without any very great
outlay of strength or skill. I watched, with palpitating interest, the course of the preliminary
struggle, and was saddened by every new advantage gained over her by the ruffian. There were
times when she seemed likely to get the better of the brute, but he finally overpowered her,
and succeeded in getting his rope around her arms, and in firmly tying her to the tree, at
which he had been aiming. Pieces of shiny satin brightly
colored hot taps were not yet withdrawn from the palette, the good Bringas was scattered throughout
the piece, between evil twisted ribbons and lace pieces. The two women could not walk through
there without their skirts are entangled in Mozambique and twenty yards of navy blue poplin
that had fallen from a chair and was linked to foulard strips. In that beautiful mess that smell
out of clothes very special store, which is a remnant of the industrial dye smells, mixed with
paper and wooden packaging. On the couch, half a dozen colored figurines lying occupied in the
ladies impossible, reed-thin, stiff as sticks, whose feet are the size of fingers hand, women whose
mouth a red wafer, which appear dressed in paper and look each other in face of idiocy.

To be caught in the act, the first impulse was to gather all Rosalia,
but she ran out of time and dread the same sugiriole an early exit,
very subtle stroke of genius that understanding.

"Hush, man, by God - he said, putting his arm around her and gently sacándole Camon's not aware
that the dressmaker -. Is ... I thought you had told him last night. These dresses are in Miracles.
Yesterday, if you saw!, Had the poor a quarrel with that awful Marquis Caribbean. That if he
was the one spent, if she spent more, that if you, if I ... For some there is a tragedy. I was
there ... and I tell you I was thinking send them to bring Arnica ... Milagros, now can not
entrust anything because Eponine her husband did not pay the bills, bought fabric and brought
home as a seamstress to take a couple of summer dresses ... What could be more natural? The poor
are managed twenty-four Mozambique yards, two ESP staff, and twenty of poplin, fourteen ...
You see how economy. For anything that comes tagarote, which undoubtedly had lost hundreds of dollars
to a jack, and the same was to see the fabrics and dressmaker, begins to take by mouth that
heresies ... Holy Christ! I stayed ... Nothing: everything is back to trample on the web and
foot to figurines, saying: Brrr ...!, whatnot. The poor little Milagros has ruined their rags.
Have you seen what donkey? Then he took off his stories, and catching the poor seamstress for a arm,
stood in the street without giving it time to put the blanket. Have you seen what piece of
barbarian? ... Milagros fainted. We had to apply ether and I do not know what else ... In order
for it out of this commitment, I had to bring me home fabrics and dressmaker work to do here. She
will then direct it, because I, frankly, I bit of these things as storied and as recargaditas.
Emilia, that girl is very clever and works for little money ... It is an unpretentious unhappy,
but it gives slap to the famous Worth do not believe ...».

With these witticisms, that good Christian relented, and as a little
later came the Marchioness the three locked themselves in and were
picking Camón all day, cutting, measuring, testing, breaking and re-test,
was told by Rosalie as likely as truth.

Were concerned, all these, the lady of the insurmountable difficulties that would ensue when he
released those clothes, because in that case, against the evidence, would not be worth the
well-known figure locked tangle. He consoled himself with the hope of an act that would very
easy and safe solution. Bravo Gonzalez had offered to D. Francisco provincial government. Fish urged
him to accept it, sure it would look like and that the province who would fell a governor as
honest and respectable, would have to jump for joy. But he was repelled how sensitive this office,
and would not leave her quiet and that it was dark live so happy.
 The beauty and grandeur of the place, its numerous slave population, and
the fact that Harry, Peter and Jake the sailors of the sloop--almost always kept, privately,
little trinkets which they bought at Baltimore, to sell, made it a privilege to come to the
great house farm. Being selected, too, for this office, was deemed a high honor. It was taken
as a proof of confidence and favor; but, probably, the chief motive of the competitors for
the place, was, a desire to break the dull monotony of the field, and to get beyond the overseer's
eye and lash. Bringas aware of this craving Carolina, launched with all the vigor of his mind the cry
of eureka. He would be the versifier.

"I, madam, I ...»-- stammered, barely containing the artistic fervor
that filled his soul.

- It's true ... You do know that like many
other things.

You're so clever ...

- What color is your hair?

- Now you see it - "Mom said opening, not without emotion, a box that had been candy, and it
was blue and pink tank funeral memories -.

You see what braid ... is a beautiful brown.

- Oh, yes, proud! - Uttered Bringas trembling with joy -.

But we needed a little blonde.

- Rubio? ... I have of all colors. You see those curls of my Arturín that I died three years.

-
Rich tone.

Is pure gold ... And this blond?

- Ah, the hair of Joaquin. She was cut to ten years. What a pity!
It seemed a painting.

It was a pain to put the scissors in his head that incomparable ... but the doctor did not want
compromise.

Joaquin was recovering from a sunstroke, and his face was barely
visible etiolated in that sun with hair.

- Well, well, we have two
shades of brown and blond.

To sing it would not hurt a little black ...

- We will use Rosa's hair.

Daughter, bring me one of your additions.

D. Francis took, not excited, but ecstatic, the mane that was offered.

"Now say something stammering ...-- -. Because you see, Carolina ...
I have an idea ... the I watching.

It is a cenotaph in the field funeral, with willows, many flowers
... It is night.

"

- What night?

- I mean, to give melancholy landscape of substance, it should put everything in some darkness
... There will be water there, there, far away, a tranquiiiila surface, a polished espeeeejo
... Do you understand me? ...

- What is it?, "Water glass ...?

- A lake, lady, one, kind of bay. Mind you: the willow branches extend
well ... as if it dripped.

Through the foliage is hard to see the disk of the moon, whose pale light audience the tops of the
distant hills, and produces a temblorcito ... Are you?, A temblorcito
on the surface ...

- Oh, yes ... water.

Understood, understood.

What happens to you ...!

- Well, madam, for this nice effect would take me a few gray hairs.

- Jesus, gray! ... I giggled trouble you for one thing we have so about ... You see my harvest,
Mr. D. Francisco. I would not want to provide you in such abundance these moonbeams that it needs
... With this addition (Taking a long and hearty.) gray hair will not cry you by ...

Brinker took the white lock of hair, and with the others, oprimiolo all against your chest spasm
artist. He had, oh joy!, Two-tone gold, clear and shiny silver, ebony and sienoso brown and
romantic that it had to be the dominant note.

"What we expect of the righteousness of you - Carolina said, hiding the distrust with courtesy
- is that in no case enter into the work that is not our hair. Everything hair has to do with
family. "

- Lady, for Christ's sake!

... "I think you can adulterate ...?

- No ... no, if you do not say ... Is that artists, when they are driven by inspiration (Laughing)
lose all idea of ​​morality, and so to achieve an effect ...

- Carolina! ...

He left the house a good friend, feverish and tembliqueante. His epileptic condition of the artistic
gestation. The work, recently embodied in his mind, and with intimate announced rebullicios
I was a living being, and developed potent pressing the walls of the brain and exciting nervous couple,
who had unexplained sensations of choking to breath, to hormiguilla epidermis, a restless
limbs, and being all impatience, fear, I do not know what else ... At the same time his imagination
was given away in advance with the image of the work, already appeared kidding, throbbing, complete,
finished, in the shape of the mold to be. Other times one appeared to be born in parts, hovering
now a member, then another, until all appeared in the entire kingdom of light. My patient
saw the cenotaph of mixed idealistic orders of architecture, the
angel weeping willow with its branches hanging ruefully, as drivel
that you fall into the sky, the flowers all over the floor enamelled,
the terms remote lake with all the sadness and lunacy ... Interrupting
this beautiful vision of non-work cream, flamed in the brain of the
artist as wisps mode (natural add something as funeral), some ideas
atañederas budget work.

Bringas the caressing, by providing care that practical man who did not rule on spasmodic him
the uneasiness of the great creation. Mentally counting, said:

III

"Shellac: Two and a half reales. A pull all five will spend real ... Florist tongs, as the ones I have
are a bit thick: three real. A very clean glass: real and a half. Four pistils dozens of very tiny,
unless you can make hair, which I will try: two and a half. Total: fifteen reais. Then comes the
most expensive, which is the convex glass the framework, but I use the embroidered dog of my cousin
Joseph, giving a hand glitter. Finally, with glitter, convex glass, hanger and unexpected
... come to matter all about twenty-eight to thirty real. "

The next day was Sunday, he set to work. Not liking any of the designs funeral monument in his
collection had resolved to make one, but such was not the card by the invention, composed, with
parts taken from different works, the whole securely locked previously described. Willow came
to the tomb of Napoleon in St. Helena, and the angel pouted the mound had been placed in the
Escorial for the funeral of a Women's Fernando VII, and the background was taken from a grabadito
not know what tome Lamartinesco that he was a pure syrup. Finally, the flowers harvested in
Bringas garden of an illustrated book on the language of those who came from the library Dona Candida.

This
preliminary work took the artist drawing an average week, and was so pleased him, he had granted
to himself in the silence of false modesty, ardent congratulations. "It's all so typical -
Pipaón enthusiastically telling the smart - which seems to be watching still waters and the rays
of the moon making it as a light tickle ...».

Bringas stuck on the drawing board, and put the glass up, adapting and fixing so that no one could
move.

This done, the rest was pure work of skill, patience and neatness. Was to be expressed with
hairs stuck on the upper surface of the glass all lines of the drawing underneath was, really tricky
task because of the difficulty to manage something as subtle and elusive as the human hair. At
least the main lines bad, but when it came to represent shadows, lined by more or less fine,
the employed artist series of hair cut to size, which was carefully gluing with shellac, hot
streak to mimic chisel steel plate or boxwood. In very fine inks, Bringas was extreme and subtilized
his art to become what microscope. He was an innovator.

No capilífice had discoursed until then to score points hair, picking this with scissors to
get little bodies that appeared to molecules, and paste then these
points near each other, never together, so that would imitate the
point of intaglio.

Used for this very fine brushes, and even birds feathers edged with saliva; and then minced
on a glass hair, was taking each point to put in place, previously smeared with paint. The combination
of tones increased the tangled verbosity of this work, since for harmonic results, it was appropriate
to put here brown, black beyond, by this other part blonde, gold angel hair, silver in all that
was below the jurisdiction of the moonlight. But all that blessed triumphed. And why not, if
your hands seemed to not touch things, if vision was like a lynx, and her fingers had to be
fingers of the breeze that caresses the flowers without ajarlas? ... What a devil of a man! Would
been able to do a string of grains of sand, if you put it, or reproduce the cathedral of Toledo
in a hazelnut shell.

The entire month of March took him in the memorial and the willow, whose leaves were sprouting one
by one, and in mid-April was the angel arms and head.

Many saw this wonder quedábanse captivated by the originality and beauty of it and put a D.
Francisco between most eminent artists, ensuring that if he saw such a extranjerazo work, some inglesote
rich type that usually come to Spain in search of good things, give a cheer for her of money
and would lead to countries who appreciate the works of genius. Bringas had his workshop in
the hollow of a huge window overlooking the Campo del Moro ...

Because the family lived in the palace in a second floor rooms that serve shelter employees
of the royal family.

Enthralled with the work of hair, I forgot to say that back in February of 68 D. Francisco was appointed
first officer of the Municipality of Real Heritage with thirty thousand
pieces of salary, medical manor, pharmacy, water, firewood and other
advantages inherent in the vicinity regia.

Such canonjía realize the aspirations of his life, and will not change
his position so that Thiers high, safe and respectful to the chair
of the Primate of Spain.

Embittered his satisfaction the voices that ran in that year 68 convicted whether or not there
horrific conditions, and fear that the so-called revolution finally broke out with a bang.
Although the idea of ​​finishing of the monarchy always sounded good in the brain of man as an
absurd idea, sort of as the imbalance of the planetary orbs, where in a café or gathering heard
predictions binge, blind ads or gloomy comments about how bad they were the government and
Queen, came a shiver, and his heart contracted until brought to an, in his opinion, the size
of an acorn.

One hundred and twenty four steps needed to upload D. Francisco Women's ladder for get from the second
floor patio of the Palace, which is flat with the third being a true city, set on the magnificent
ceiling of the royal abode. This city, where alternate peacefully aristocracy, middle class and people,
is a real republic that the monarchs have corona, and set into its vast circuit, keeps samples
of all different kinds of people. The first time D. Manuel Pez and I went to visit in his
new Bringas home, we were lost in this labyrinth where neither he nor I had ever entered.
Stepping its first site, entering the ladder of Damas, a goalkeeper with three-cornered hat, after
the descent take us, indiconos the way we had to continue to give the our friend's house. "They
twist you left, then right ... There is a ladder. Then down again ... Number 67. "

IV

That if you want! ... We walked through the hallway of red tiles, which I call street or alley in
its magnitude, being lighting in some areas with gas burners and the angles and turns it does.
Here and there we found spaces, which no doubt called squares, flooded with sunlight, which
came through big holes open to patio. The light of day, reflected by the white walls, penetrated
along the walkways, alleys, tunnels or whatever call them, are lost and fainted in them, to
death in full view of the red gas fans, that fluttered trembling
within a circle and smoked under a brass canopy.

Found ourselves everywhere paneled doors, some freshly painted, faded
and moth-eaten other, numbered: but in any discovered the figure that
we sought.

This saw pending a luxurious silk cord, removal of the upholstery palace, in that a frayed string.
With such a sign accusing some fix and clean homes, other disorder
or lack; and pieces of carpet mat poking out under the doors also
told us aposentación something special in the interior.

Unoccupied homes found ourselves with cobwebbed doors, rusty gates, and some holes covered
with wire netting blowing broken bringing us the mist the air stays cold lonely. In certain places
we went to neighborhoods seemed abandoned, and the vaults of unequal height sad echo returned
sound of our footsteps. We climbed a ladder, go down another, and I think we turn up, as resolved
to seek for ourselves the lucky number, not wondering any passerby preferring the pleasure of
exploration effort as mysterious places. The idea of ​​losing not annoyed us much, because beforehand
savored the taste hand out at last port without the help of practical and by virtue of our own topographical
instinct. The labyrinth us appealed, and on, on forever, we were soon lit by the sun and by
the gas, describing angles and more angles. Here and there on some open ventanón terrace we corrected
the defects of our defeat, and looking at the dome of the chapel fijábamos orientábamos us and
our true position.

"Here - Pez said impatient - you can not come without a blueprint and navigational compass.
This should The wing of the South. Look at the ceilings of the Hall of Columns and the stairs
... What moles! ".

Indeed, large pyramidal shapes lead lined showed us the big roofs in which the bottom surface
are Volatín Bayeu Angelone.

At best, always walk, we were in a confined area that received the
light of skylights in the roof open, and we had to go back for departure.

Looking outside the correct mass of the castle, do not understand
the irregularities that made people in its upper floors.

Is that over a century there has not been done more to modify a troche and early distribution
Moche, walling around here, opening there, condemning stairs widening some rooms at the expense
of other, turning the street into housing and housing street, boring
walls and closing gaps.

There are stairs that begin and no end; lobbies or squares that are
whitewashed room ceilings were lower.

There lofts where once there were rooms, and rooms that were once
a graceful staircase box.

The snail is found at various points, without knowing where they
are going to stop, and doors septate, hollow with chicken wire, behind
which is no more loneliness, dust and darkness.

A place where we Pez said: "This is a popular neighborhood."

We saw a half dozen boys soldiers playing with paper hats, cane swords
and rifles.

Further, in a wide space and lit by large picture window with bars,
ropes to dry clothes on us forced to lower his head to keep going.

On the walls are not painted dolls missing or improper registrations. Not a few doors of the
houses were open, and through them saw cooking with steaming pots and borders the shelves edged paper.
Some women washing clothes in large coffers, others were combing
out of doors, as it were, in the middle of the street.

"Van you lost" - told us that big boy was holding a yellow cloth wrapped.

- We search the house of D. Francisco Bringas.

- Bringas? ... ya, I know - said an old woman who was sitting next to the big gate -. Here nearby.
You have no more to go down the spiral staircase first and then make a U- back ... Bringas,
yes, the sexton of the chapel.

- What are you saying, ma'am? We seek the first official of the Administration.

- Then it will be down on the terrace. You know you go to the source?

- No.

- Do you know the steps of Cáceres?

- Nor.

- Do you know the chapel?

- Do not know anything.

- And the chorus of the oratorio? What pigeon?

Result: did not know any part of that labyrinthine village made of corners, Burladero and surprises,
fancy architecture and mockery of symmetry. But our inability not gave up, and reject offers
of a boy who wanted to be our guide.

"We are on the wing of the Plaza de Oriente, to wit, in the opposite hemisphere that lives our
friend - Fish said with some emphasis geographic character of Jules Verne -. Resolve to move
to the West Wing, for which we offer insurance counseling through
the dome the Chapel and the ceiling of the staircase.

Once possessed of the body of the West, we be foolish not to give
the house Bringas.

I'm not going back over here without a good map, Compass ... and provisions of mouth. "

Before leaving for this second stage of our journey, we look for the beautiful ventanón overview
of the Plaza de Oriente and the part of Madrid that since there is
discovered, with more than fifty domes, steeples and bell towers.

Philip IV's horse seemed like a toy Teatro Real a hut, and the upper surface of the cornice
of a wide bridge Palace over the precipice, where he could run comfortably not suffer vertigo.
Below from where we were the pigeons had their nests, whom we watch rush into the deep abyss of the
Plaza, in pairs or in groups, and super fast then curve up to perch on capitals and moldings.
Their lullabies seem so inherent to the building as the stones that
compose it. In the infinite hollow mountain that lives made the savage
republic pigeons, occupying it with regional and uncontested dominion.
They are parasites that live between wrinkles in the epidermis of
the colossus. It is well known that care nothing for the revolution;
or that free air, or that secular rock is nothing that disturbs the
domain augusto these queens unchallenged and incontrovertible.

Walk.
Pez had acquired in the geographic notions Verne booklets, they are
missed practical and every step I said, "Now we are on the south ...
We necessarily find the passage from west to our right ... We can
go down without fear of this second floor staircase Spiral ... Well
... Where are we? You do not see the dome, not a sad lightning. We
in the dark realms of gas ... Then go back up by this other step that
comes at hand ... What is this? "We are again in the East wing? Yes,
because looking the courtyard through the window, the dome is our
right ... Believe me, this forest chimneys cause me dizziness. I seem
to navigate and that all this mass tumbles like a boat. On this side
seems to be the source, because women come and go with pitchers ...
Ea, I I pay, I ask practical, I do not give a step further ... We
walked more than half a league and I can not with my body ... A guide,
a guide, and take me out of here soon. "

Providence deparonos our
salvation in the person of considerable Garcia's widow Grande, which
suddenly seemed out of one of the ugliest and most rusty doors saw
that on our side.

V

How we rejoice that encounter, I must not say.
She, however, it seemed unpleasantly surprised, coma person who does
not want to be seen in improper places hierarchy. His first words,
spoken in fits and mixed with formula greeting, he confirmed my thinking.

"I
beg you not pass, because this is not my home ... I've installed here
temporarily while they arranged the room below where it was the general.
Is this a horror, a terrible thing ... His Majesty insisted that Palacio
had to settle in and I could not refuse to it ... "Candidita I can
not live away from you ... Candidita, come with me ... Candidita,
have everything up empty ... "Nothing, nothing, for the palace. I always knew when company was expected, and who they were, although I
was an outsider, being the property, not of Col. Lloyd, but of a servant of the wealthy colonel.
On these occasions, all that pride, taste and money could do, to dazzle and charm, was done.

Who could say that the servants of Col. Lloyd were not well clad and cared for, after witnessing
one of his magnificent entertainments? Who could say that they did not seem to glory in being
the slaves of such a master? Who, but a fanatic, could get up any sympathy for persons whose
every movement was agile, easy and graceful, and who evinced a consciousness of high superiority?
And who would ever venture to suspect that Col. Lloyd was subject to the troubles of ordinary
mortals? Master and slave seem alike in their glory here? Can it all be seeming? Alas! it may
only be a sham at last! This immense wealth; this gilded splendor; this profusion of luxury;
this exemption from toil; this life of ease; this sea of plenty; aye, what of it all? Are the
pearly gates of happiness and sweet content flung open to such suitors? far from it! The poor
slave, on his hard, pine plank, but scantily covered with his thin blanket, sleeps more soundly
than the feverish voluptuary who reclines upon his feather bed and downy pillow. Food, to the
indolent lounger, is poison, not sustenance. Lurking beneath all their dishes, are invisible
spirits of evil, ready to feed the self-deluded gormandizers{87} which aches, pains, fierce
temper, uncontrolled passions, dyspepsia, rheumatism, lumbago and gout; and of these the Lloyds
got their full share. To the pampered love of ease, there is no resting place. What is pleasant
today, is repulsive tomorrow; what is soft now, is hard at another time; what is sweet in the
morning, is bitter in the evening. Neither to the wicked, nor to the idler, is there any solid
peace: "Troubled, like the restless sea."

I had excellent opportunities of witnessing the restless discontent and the capricious irritation
of the Lloyds. My fondness for horses--not peculiar to me more than to other boys attracted
me, much of the time, to the stables. This establishment was especially under the care of "old"
and "young" Barney--father and son. Old Barney was a fine looking old man, of a brownish complexion,
who was quite portly, and wore a dignified aspect for a slave. He was, evidently, much devoted
to his profession, and held his office an honorable one. He was a farrier as well as an ostler;
he could bleed, remove lampers from the mouths of the horses, and was well instructed in horse
medicines. No one on the farm knew, so well as Old Barney, what to do with a sick horse. But
his gifts and acquirements were of little advantage to him. His office was by no means an enviable
one. He often got presents, but he got stripes as well; for in nothing was Col. Lloyd more
unreasonable and exacting, than in respect to the management of his pleasure horses. Any supposed
inattention to these animals were sure to be visited with degrading punishment. His horses
and dogs fared better than his men. Their beds must be softer and cleaner than those of his
human cattle. No excuse could shield Old Barney, if the colonel only suspected something wrong
about his horses; and, consequently, he was often punished when faultless. It was absolutely
painful to listen to the many unreasonable and fretful scoldings, poured out at the stable,
by Col. Lloyd, his sons and sons-in-law. You will fall perfectly. I'm going to send. "

And he commanded. Another day spoke of clothing, with more heat. "The goat's hair, which I have
medium do not like. I will send it tomorrow ... As you may be necessarily bathrooms with her
husband, you can use it there ... No, I do thank you. If I can not use ... Also I shall get
the fichú with green velvet ribbon and a felt cap for you fix it easily. For bathrooms, delicious.
We also send flowers, feathers, aigrettes ... I have six drawers full of these things ... Today
I took the gown seamstress currant ... You know you not going very well? That color looks good
on only the thick, the fresh faces ... Do you want? You can make some changes, widen it a bit,
and you will ... The fabric is very rich.

"

Here's how they entered the house all these rich garments. Rosalia, as we have said, had no like
at all, and was stored in Kamon. Once, when his mind was calm, hopes for good was the doctor,
he would shut himself up in that piece to be tested gown, dress, hat ... Unable to resist temptation,
decided to Emilia several arrangements, extending a few things, reforming others completely.
At times, yielding to his passionate desire, out of the Carrion and took two or three laps around
the house with all those harness on his body. For this, waiting for the maid and the children were
outside and D. Francis Gasparini locked in with Paquito. More than once he was dressed up to the
admiration Candida, applying the criterion of such an approval or censorship wise. The widow always
touched felt the fury of applause, and to not give in noisy fuss, Rosalia it was reached with
the finger in his mouth, urging her to suppress any expression of astonishment and surprise, lest
some subtle ear perceives the Saleta what happened. THEN BECOMING Carrion melancholy to modest,
and there stripped of those galas, saying with sorrow: "No I have
like at all, not my spirit to these jokes.

"

The 26 was when Telleria, no longer able to contain the wave of sadness
that overflowed in his troubled breast, poured it on his good friend,
after this pathetic exordium has preserved the story:

"Also I'll
send you the muslin dress with purple overtones ... and all my lace
Valenciennes, Alencon and guipure point.

What do I want anything now? The few jewels I still may be some day for you ... I'm lost, I
have no choice but to hide, enter a convent, run, or what not ... If I could enter a convent,
would be the best ... And if God wanted me to carry, what service I would! ... But I do not know what
I mean ... It astound you see me so distraught, so upset, I do not look the same ... When you know
...! It's raining on me calamities, as if the Lord wanted to prove. Say so are merits for the hereafter,
and must be, must be, because if not, my friend, What saddest thing here and punish punish there?
... I was born with a bad star ... So far, conflicts that I have put my mariducho have been
such that I have been avoiding with skill ... God knows the great merit, what am I worth?, Heroism
in recent years. What hot flashes to sustain the dignity of the house, so that the children are
not missing anything! ... And some days, what eagerness horrible for the servants might say:
"The soup is on the !...» table much humiliation, how much suffering, and what a struggle, my
dear, what a struggle with creditors, with ordinary people and all kinds of beggars! ... But when
difficulties accumulate, when the system goes on much longer to open a hole to plug another
and extend and delay, comes a day when everything goes through it is like a boat too old and patched
that suddenly opens up ... Plum! ... .. y.. "

In reaching this from the damaged ship, the language of the poor lady, rather than language,
was continuous sobbing.

Rosalia nearly as distressed as she urged her to explain why of so much misery, to see if,
known in a clear and concrete, it was easy to look for remedy. But the Marquise was unable or
unwilling to expose their conflict in categorical terms. This was a matter of collecting end
of the month, a quantity small. If you did not have, you would see the biggest and more serious
commitment of your life, perhaps, or maybe without, exposed to contempt to be brought to the courts.
But what was ...? Maybe a friend had committed to remove the hard way and she had put her signature
unlucky ...? The very silly!, Why Why not cut his hand before ...? It is true that if he had
cut the little hand, there would had dinner on the night a thousand times unlucky 14.

Rosalia, who knew that the Marquise logic, told him why not write
to your manager Almendralejo that will advance the rent for the quarter,
albeit at a discount.

To which I replied, sighing Milagros already a likely solution had been inquired into and could not
have income until July 15 ... Of course, the rent was safe, and the person you make the advance,
you pay on time on that date.

- But can not you postpone ...?

- Impossible, daughter, impossible ... As impossible as flying oxen or my husband has common sense.

-
And your sister, Tula ...?

- Even more absurd ...

Rosalie shrugged.

He saw no salvation.

But Milagros, pursuing the crux of his sacase friend of that deep
rut I was in, cast it on his neck and muffled voice in the ear spelled
these words, more tearful than the cenotaph in which D. Francisco
had worked with such bad luck: "You ... you soul mate, you can save
...».

That said, he became a grief and a convulsioncilla of these women called attack nerve, to call
in some way, followed by a spasm of receiving the beautiful name of syncope.

XXIV

It was necessary to bring a glass of water, unbutton the vest, and
who knows what else.

- But I ... ...?-- Rosalie exclaimed how much
later, horrified - how can I can I ...?

- Asking for a D. Francisco.

I'll give you interest, the revenue they want and pay full-fledged
... Will the letter from my manager to see it.

He says he has the income to the 15. It is not my manager and the
Dona Candida, a vain phantom, but a being of flesh and bone.

It is well known that their advances are always twenty percent.

Rosalia head vigorously denied and the voice ... "My daughter, you are illusions. My husband does
not have a room. And if it did, it would not. You do not know him ...».

For this reason opposed the distraught Mrs Strict other denoting his
insight and infinite resources of his genius.

That D. Francisco had was an indisputable point, above any questions. Sitting this principle,
the issue was reduced to see how they emptied the mysterious treasure in the hands of Milagros
need. If a faithful wife took charge the company, which was not a church arch, or the transfer
could take place without with Bringas all. The faithful wife should have no qualms of conscience
on this action somewhat inaccurate and reckless, because the amount would be replaced before
the good lord was in a state of alert failure.

- Why, do you think D. Francisco will be the 15th of July?

This question, made by Milan in the heat of improvisation, hurt enough to Rosalia.

- I hope so, and if it were not so much as I wish, I would assume that he will soon see again.

-
Pardon me, dear friend, if I am slightly sensitive. Sometimes I say some nonsense ... You do not know
what a situation like this as I see it. You live in the glory and does not include what we squirm
and we cooked and even blaspheme the damned in this inferno Madrid ... Things that I can think
...! In a case like this, do not panic you and Believe what I say ... in a case like this, I
imagine it would be even capable of appropriating the alien ... means with the intention of returning.
Ay! When I enter my house and I see the doorman in his little low, eating a garlic soup with the
concierge, envy me ...! I would like send to my principal and I stay in goal, although the site
had to sweep all morning, clean the metals and wash the stairs up and down ... If what I say,
I would rather lock myself in a convent and not remember most of the world. But my children,
my poor kids ... What would they be then? ... When married to Mary, who knows can ...!, be,
maybe I decide to seek rest in the religious life ... At least, I will resign life to the world
and I gathered in my own house, that I may not dress a habit of Carmen, and peace here ... In the
morning my church, in the afternoon to visit some friends, and at night home ... Bed early,
that is as healthy as y. .. Oh, what a rich life! ...

After re-insinuate their claim, but not getting cold Rosalia negative
suddenly said:

"To see how we managed to go together to bathrooms.

I am very late, but before In early August I think it may be. Did not the doctor say yet what
it will take water Bringas? I'll go anywhere you go, because for my ills are the same waters
that works ... Everything is in a bit and shake him out of the oven. "

In this little trip to the baths was Rosalia more communicative than in the previous issue. While
wishing to summer but had not the doctor say anything conclusive. Brinker did not want to go
do costs, but if the doctor ordered, how to refuse it ...? The lady herself did not sit use some expansion
and movement, as was delicadita and somewhat impaired ... This gab of dresses became bathrooms,
and after the comments came the Pronatura ... Rosalie was in Mozambique, and almost finished, and
her friend so warmly welcomed for good air than he had, that little burst of vanity the daughter
of a hundred Pipaón.

"If you are elegant ... if what you get is wonderful. The truth is not because you are my friend
... Everyone I say: if you want, it would not rival. What a body!, What a fall from his shoulders!
Frankly, you always want to dress that obscures As he comes alongside.

"

- That was Rosalia drooled with this flattery, I must not say. It was stupid person of such
merit that had to hide your good clothes, put it on the sly and invent thousand lies to justify the
use of various items that seemed tailored to her beautiful body by the angels of fashion. By
removing those galas front of her friend, thought in the enormous
problem of explaining the husband acquiring them, if they had more
but to show them off before your eyes or wear them.

Miracles did not say goodbye without compunction mannerisms repeat
his drowning and the relief requested.

Finally, Rosalia comforted his spirit with a see, and the face of the Telleria iluminose with
a spark of joy.

"Tomorrow - said at the door - I will send this blonde who liked you so much ... No, do not thank
me ... I'm the one to thank, and if you make me out of the swamp ... (Printed two sentimental sound
and kisses.) Eternal gratitude ... Goodbye. "

In those days he Archena D. Manuel Pez, pleased at how well he had been sitting waters, with good
color, better appetite and encouragement for all. His first visit was to Bringas, whose disease
had been reported in the bathrooms, and encouraged him a lot and offered to accompany in morning,
afternoon and night, devoting as much time as his duties allowed him free. He served this at face
value, and its presence in the house became so regulatory provision when it would seem that something
was missing. At times amusing the patient with the political events telling thousand pleasantry,
but was careful not to weigh the dangers of the Throne or wrong course taking things for my D.
Francisco, as he heard of the so-called revolution was put was sad and sighs that broke my
heart. When there were other accompanying in Gasparini, or when it was considered detrimental
very long conversation, fish would Saleta or the Ambassadors, where Rosalie, found the way,
changing a few words him. The lady noticed his friend a mute and ceremonious respect, and the
gallantry with which the gifts were always chivalrous and somewhat convoluted style. She corresponded
with feelings of admiration, of a spotless purity, because Fish was growing more each day
to his eyes, as a type of official character of the high official, lavish and courteous. In Pipaón's
mind, no ideal man would be complete without being bathed in golden atmosphere of a payroll.
If fish had not been used, would have lost much in his eyes accustomed to seeing the world as if
everything he was an office and did not know each other means of living than the budget. After
that elegant look that black coat closed without a speck, pressed,
stretched, as if she were born in the skin of the subject, those necks
as the driven snow, tall, stiff, trousers that seemed released the
same day, those hands carefully manicured woman ...!

XXV

And that way of combing as simple and as Mr. at the same time that use of fine discrete perfumes,
that perfumed leather pouch from Russia, fine manners and those that speak pompous, saying things
two or three ways to make them better understood ...! Ni once, whenever he said something,
let's use some clever phrase meaning and a little double. Rosalie had not heard perhaps like
if you do not inspire indulgence consideration of that very well deserved and that somehow the
company had to honor her debts, which until then had not been paid
in any way.

Came to be fish, in good faith, the relief from it, in the name of the company paid him forgotten taxes.

As
well the heat pressed mainly in the afternoon, because the house is to the west, the family
sought relief on the terrace. One afternoon, with doctor's permission, came out the same D.
Francisco, leaning on the arm of fish, and took a couple of laps, but did not sit well, and
rides were left until the patient is in a better condition. But verse that private entertainment,
like no others are private, and often called his wife to come out and get some air. "Daughter,
do not know what I get to see you locked in this casserole. I do not feel the heat, but you never
cease to walk from here to there, you will burned. Skip to the terrace. " The more often Rosalía
denied it. "I am not for walking ... let me. " But some evenings out. Mr. Fish was with her. One
day he came in first, it really was drowning in the heated cabinet saw with his robe appear gooseberry
adorned with lace, fanning herself. Mr. Gore, without further
parley, and without making any further effort to induce Denby to come out of the water, raised
his gun deliberately to his face, took deadly aim at his standing victim, and, in an instant,
poor Denby was numbered with the dead. His mangled body sank out of sight, and only his warm,
red blood marked the place where he had stood.

This devilish outrage, this fiendish murder, produced, as it was well calculated to do, a tremendous
sensation. For some of these skylights went into full day glow
of gas. In the alcove to the right cabinet was installed the marriage bed; the room, which was
larger and clearer, Rosalie served wardrobe, and work room; the cabinet on the left became high
due to its proximity to the kitchen. In two children slept inside parts.

I do not know if it came from the fertile imagination of Bringas or pedantic Paquito assimilation
the idea of ​​making the rooms of the famous names humble abode stays flat principal. A month
of living there, all young and old Bringas called the Living Room Ambassadors, being intended
for visits of compliment and ceremony. The cabinet on the right, where was the office of Thiers
and the marital bedroom, he was called Gasparini, no doubt to be the prettiest of the house.
The other cabinet was named the Saleta. The dining-room was Hall of Columns, the bedroom-closet
Carrion received by the nickname of Palace stay room that serves as guards, and the inner part
where ironed was called the Furriel.

To go to his office, D. Francisco did not have to go out. Or down the stairs Cáceres, then through
the patio, or if the weather was rainy, crossed the city high up the ladder of Women, addressing
the arcades to Real Estate. As left little to the street to the umbrella had ceased to be necessary
in that happy home, complement all tastes and desires.

In the vicinity there were families who Rosalia, with all its orgullete, had no choice to conceptualize
higher. Others were far below its greatness Pipaón, but with all it was restored and all ceremonial
inaugural visit to his residence in the population superpalatina. Doña Candida ...

VI

But before proceeding, I want to remove this relationship the
embarrassment of my personality, which will achieve in a few words
explaining the purpose of my visit to Mr. de Bringas.

I had finished a lot of firewood and other herbs in Riofrio, and as occurred in serious informalities
award, I had some bickering with administradorcillo of the Royal House, where I felt the threat of
a lawsuit. He was beginning to feel the heavy strokes of solicitor when I decided to kill the
issue at source. D. Manuel Pez, the arranger of all things, the recommender everlasting man of
frills and little notes, get me out brindose step. I owed a few favors, but he owed me for
me were of greater importance and amount. But I want to level my thanks to yours, take it in person
to see first officer for Heritage and the recommendation was more expressive and effective.
Everything went according to the wishes of both. So diligent was helpful and good D. Francisco,
that two days have seen him, my issue was resolved. Two geldings and Bayonne dozen bottles
of wine of my own I gave on October 4, her birthday, and even this accuracy did not seem proportionate
to the service I had done.

Now press on with Doña Candida. Oh, what a woman!, Why his lip service! It was common hear this
phrase: "I go, I go, to come to me my manager, I do not want him
wait.

Is busy man. " Or this: "Go now somewhat behind the collection of my vacation homes. " Maximo
Manso, when he starts to tell about her, starts and not concludes. In 1868 this lady still retained
much of its old self and greatness of social rule within five years of O'Donnell. At that
time he ate hurriedly debris flow that gathereth her husband, and there was no day that no
one come out of the house jewelry, a box, a cabinet with a mission to bring money to meet the
needs domestic. Conflicts with her landlord, who had six months of rent, I would take if I had space
for it. The reigns of these apurillos saved by paying the arrears of home and offering a room
at the top of the Palace, which the unhappy not hesitate to accept ... "I've been in this
hole to please His Majesty, and be near her, while I arranged the parts of the terrace ... Oh,
what a postmodern architect! ... We'll warm ...». ears Thus spoke constantly, and spent many
months without the illustrious widow left his temporary hut. When Fish and I met, and we were honored
guide us into the abode of Bringas, they had more than a year of neglect and decay the famous
Rafael tables, the table of Tristan and a thousand other treasures that miracle of God were
not in museums.

Candida was one of the most constant visits Bringas. Rosalie felt friendly toward her affection
and always listened with submission, conceptualized as leading authority on social matters and in
all manner of finery.

In the eyes of Madame Thiers, the last brilliant Candida had left, the weather cleared, flashes of
prestige and nobility about the Roman bust stiff and packaging of the illustrious widow. This
aura fascinated Rosalia, who exaggerating their respect for fallen majesties, appeared to
take seriously what my manager, my home ... Candida was expressed on all occasions with ease
and security and upside down across the world that gave rise to replication. He lived in the East
Wing, the humble neighborhood of what we have agreed to call the city, but no other resident of this made
more visits and spent more time away from home. All day was spent in house to house, calling
for different doors, visiting, chatting, visiting all parts the colossus from the kitchen
to the coops, and at night, without leaving the street, came to a temporary hut so rendered as
if he had run half of Madrid. Had no family a niece named Irene, about nine or ten years, orphan
of a brother Garcia Grande that had been equerry to SM This was the inseparable friend of the
Bringas girl, and in the afternoons saw, hand wrist and snack in the mouth, playing the terrace
or in the lightest of those Luengas covered streets.

The person over hint of how many lived there, and that the concept of ranked Rosalia immediately
below that of the royal family, was the General lived Minio, Waitress more His Majesty's person
very distinguished and unblemished by any side that look at her.

In the city called him all the loving and popular name of Dona Tula, but never Rosalia I got
out the title, and everything was "Countess this, Countess of otherness and beyond." This kind
and noble lady was the sister of the Countess de Telleria and Alejandro Sanchez Botin, who
has been deputy and has appeared many times already in half a dozen parties. The Sanchez Botin
are good family, I think a solar lineage Bierzo, and are related, but remote Aransis's family. On
the same day they married two sisters, the Marquis Milagros Telleria, and Gertrude, who was the
oldest, with Colonel Mini, which quickly rose in general, winning battles in the ante-palatal
courtesans. There was no birthday of kings or princes that he did not catch a cross, or degree.
When he could not give anything higher in order of militia, two gimped, I graced him with the title
of Count Santa Barbara (from a farm that was in Navarra), having a name that whiff powder,
tallied well with his job, although it was said of him that he had never smelled more than we spend
to save. The reputation for bravery that had enjoyed was based on very rough. In the disorder
of our ideas can easily become heroes that can hardly write his name. The truth is that D. Peter
Minio, Marquis of Santa Barbara, was impressive person at a standstill, or by reviewing inspection
in the barracks, or military giving screams played by the various Directorates. Except for
some minor skirmishes that took part during the first war, civil, military history of our country
never told "This mouth is mine." But it will pass to posterity by the famous sayings of the sword
of Demosthenes Pentecost fabric and soul of Garibaldi, for that to go to Havana, stopping in
the Philippines with other stuff that collected by their subordinates, are a delicious patchwork
of nonsense. The Queen knew them fluently and had a lot of salt. But not to stir the ashes
of this void, whom the Countess said, in the most hidden folds of trust, I was awarded a beast,
and let's deal with his widow.

VII

It was all so different from the Marquise de Telleria seemed not daughters of the same mother. Nor did
he like, or the condition or the figure, with his famous brother
Alexander Sanchez Botin, a man of great means.

The few items that appear adorned they were complemented by another
form of human distinction, disgrace, privilege beings to come to perfection.

The two children who inherited the name, rudeness and the General solecisms were two good jewelry.
What happened to them that mother martyr Cavalry to pursue a career is not for cash. Were five
or six years of cruel fighting desaplicación with barbarism and the boys, a strenuous boxing
with teachers; and thanks to the name you had and I wrote little notes for each course the Queen,
left forward. And were officers and were in place, when a new series of bitter disappointments
the existence of Dona Tula. Months did not pass without one of his buds do a lot. Issues, challenges,
drunkenness, summary, gambling dens, trapping, were the history of all days, and Mom had to
remedy this with the recommendations and disbursements. Came to feel so tired, that when the
eldest, also named Peter Minio, we expressed the desire to go to Cuba, had no strength to oppose
her. The other wanted to marry woman with a bad record. New battle of the mother, who used to
avoid, how resources will allow knowledge of the world and its high position. This lady said a phrase
that stuck in the minds of all who heard it, absurd and painful cry selfishness against motherhood,
and if not a paradox, it would be blasphemy against Nature and the human species. They spoke
of children and mothers who wanted them, as well as that were in excessive number. "Ah, children!
- Dona Tula said with sad accent -. They are a nine-month illness and convalescence life. "

If the children of that lady was stupid, stunted and ugly as hell, however the sister Milagros
had given the world four angels from their tender age marked with the seal of beauty, grace
and discretion. That Leopoldito so mischievous monkey that Gustavito as early as sabidillo and sitting,
that Luisito so mystical, it seemed an apprentice saint, and especially that Mary, with green
eyes and Hellenic profile, extracted from Venus the ruins of Greece, sovereign, living sculpture,
what envanecerían mother? Doña Tula worshiped his nephews.

Were for her children that had not caused any pain to the children of another yours for the
inconvenience and thank you. To Mary, who then turned fifteen, the passionately adored grandmother,
mother or twice, and was somewhat spoiled and mimosa. The beautiful girl was Sunday and Thursday
to spend with Dona Tula all day, also used go on Tuesdays and Fridays, and sometimes on Mondays
and Saturdays. The holidays there reuníanse the overall number of girlfriends, including girls
from D. Buenaventura de Lantigua, and These premium, daughter of the famous jurist D. Juan de
Lantigua, which, if I am wrong Gloria called.

Mary!, It seemed that terrace! Nymphs had higher suit very soon would fall to the ground, and
other clothing under two weeks before had been high. Which had just received the investiture
of women were walking in groups, arm in arm doing trials of formality and quiet and discreet
conversation. Smaller ran, teaching halfway up the leg, and it is safe to say that Isabelita
Bringas and niece Dona Candida were the most rattled. When getting those galleries slip Dare to sneak
a boyfriend bittersweet pollanco a suitor, the stick, tie color,
fungus clear, and perhaps tip cigarette in amber ... Oh my God, who
could count the laughs, the hideouts, the sosadas, play innocent,
delightful nonsense Fresh those souls who had just opened their petals
to the sun of life?

The brief terms that light was crossed on the one hand, the most insipid of improved social language
and secondly the naive rantings of primitive societies. In all these cases is repeated the beginning
of the world incessantly, that is, the itching of Creation, wanting.

The playful band of half-formed women invaded the home of Bringas. Rosalia, joyful be treated
with Dona Tula, with Telleria, with Lantiguas, recibíalas with arms open, and regaled with cakes,
which had previously brought the pastry palace. "Play, tangled, shouting and confusion that
I do not bother" - playfully told Bringas from the window opening, which was submerged in the
deep immensity of their hair. Y they were not made to pray, opened the piano, one of them banging
a polka or waltz, and other, hugging each other in pairs, dance, tossing happy, laughing, crying and
kissing.

"Dance, run, the house is yours, dear girls" - he said without looking
away Thiers of the atoms that stuck to the glass, and they took it
as the literally running Gasparini dancing and jumps to Saleta went
into the Carrion and Columns.

Well I say ... when I was by shuffling Isabelita his wrists, was the beginning and no end. Precisely
Tallud the most were those that were entertained with more rage in this hilarious mock domestic
life, dressing and undressing and tow sissies china, clothing babies with glass eyes and moving the
stuff of tin kitchen cabinet or a carton. What seized the attention of all, reaching up to produce
rivalry, it was a huge doll that D. Agustin Caballero Isabelita had sent from Bordeaux, which
was a good piece, moving his eyes, he said had mom and dad and joints to be placed in all positions.
 He that eat fastest got most, and he that was strongest got the best
place; and few left the trough really satisfied. I was the most unlucky of any, for Aunt Katy
had no good feeling for me; and if I pushed any of the other children, or if they told her
anything unfavorable of me, she always believed the worst, and was sure to whip me.

As I grew older and more thoughtful, I was more and more filled with a sense of my wretchedness.
The cruelty of Aunt Katy, the hunger and cold I suffered, and the terrible reports of wrong
and outrage which came to my ear, together with what I almost daily witnessed, led me, when
yet but eight or nine years old, to wish I had never been born. I used to contrast my condition
with the black-birds, in whose wild and sweet songs I fancied them so happy! Their apparent
joy only deepened the shades of my sorrow. There are thoughtful days in the lives of children--at
least there were in mine when they grapple with all the great, primary subjects of knowledge,
and reach, in a moment, conclusions which no subsequent experience can shake. I was just as
well aware of the unjust, unnatural and murderous character of slavery, when nine years old,
as I am now. Without any appeal to books, to laws, or to authorities of any kind, it was enough
to accept God as a father, to regard slavery as a crime.{105}

I was not ten years old when I left Col. Lloyd's plantation for Balitmore(sic). I left that
plantation with inexpressible joy. I never shall forget the ecstacy with which I received the
intelligence from my friend, Miss Lucretia, that my old master had determined to let me go
to Baltimore to live with Mr. Hugh Auld, a brother to Mr. Thomas Auld, my old master's son-in-law.
I received this information about three days before my departure. They were three of the happiest
days of my childhood. I spent the largest part of these three days in the creek, washing off
the plantation scurf, and preparing for my new home. Mrs. Lucretia took a lively interest in
getting me ready. She told me I must get all the dead skin off my feet and knees, before I
could go to Baltimore, for the people there were very cleanly, and would laugh at me if I looked
dirty; and, besides, she was intending to give me a pair of trowsers, which I should not put
on unless I got all the dirt off. This was a warning to which I was bound to take heed; for
the thought of owning a pair of trowsers, was great, indeed. It was almost a sufficient motive,
not only to induce me to scrub off the mange (as pig drovers would call it) but the skin as
well. So I went at it in good earnest, working for the first time in the hope of reward. I
was greatly excited, and could hardly consent to sleep, lest I should be left. Surely, if the happy day arrived and the chandeliers were not on the console or screws
in the beautiful ears of the lady, the first thing that lynx would notary lack of these things
... Horror was the thought! ... See where to happiness itself engendered a stinging pain in such a
way that the unhappy lady was in a sick painful perplexity. The expressed saying that perhaps would
be glad to not be so happy.

The impatience and vivacity of Bringas manifested in a fever of domestic intervention, in management
such as delirium, watching without seeing and directing all the same as if seen. Not a minute left
to enact miscellaneous provisions, and he himself answered questions
I was doing.

His wife is fair to say, my head was so crazy chatterbox.

XXVI

"Daughter, hear what I say ... If we are going to order those convicted bathrooms, you deal with
the dresses you have. The silent changes, you take away one thing to put it another ... and
as new. All I will say that Worth has sent them. Do not think, so do to the duchess ... I expect
that His Majesty will put two little letters to the leader of the movement to give us tickets Free
for all ... Another thing: if you're taking your position and what you can do, you can get
that the Lord ordered the Administration to give two months' pay me the month of July ... And
why not July and August? You know everything will be done, and talk about our trip to grieve
and say that we can not for lack of ... This depends on the hardening lame beneficial, and
easy will, it almost always is in that temple ... I leave it to your skill ... Children do not need
dresses ... If anything some guy hat ... Do not do anything until I see it. Can you spend a very
striking and make sense, with baskets on their heads that make them chyle sweat. I will get the
jipijapa that Augustine left forgotten, and my levisac of nap, which
I did six years ago, and my denim dress that always looks brand new
... such strain.

I'll give us a car booked to take food, stove that making chocolate, a mattress, pillows, water
jug ​​and some other useful thing ... Finally, we will travel as possible. "

Tarabilla continues: "What is that noise I've ever felt? What have I broken? Since I do not
see I keep track of the plates and cups that I have felt down, not down a dozen and a half. When
See, my God, I find the house made a shame. Do not tell me no. I think that I see the mess of everything
and a thousand useless expenses. I can not explain the huge consumption of oil, now I do not
need light. And Prudence, are you making good account? Bet that no. With that of the master
does not see, all is confusion. Lemons say that twenty-four reals. But thou hast commanded
to bring here all the orchards of Valencia? For if the drugs cost us money would have to beg.
Anyway, I put me well, and everything will be fine. I think that since I have not done so many
things I have ordered ... And, as the master does not see ... Bring meat or skirt, and I never
heard from again Mr. Pickled wheel which is a fixed dish sir, or I was told if the macaroons
are still coming in to room for dessert ... In the distribution of time is not what will be
done. Say no can be in everything, and I wonder why that has not cleaning cutlery Paquito when
it comes to the class. What then? A sir detract from this? For his father has done and will
do when his sight ... I am also sure that you do not remove children's shoes when they come from
school and put the old ones. In the noise I know that walking footsteps running around with
out shoes on the street. Well might habérsete bring a alpargatitas occurred, which this time are the
best ... But I see, I see, and everything will return to that tolerance-tolerance without which
we can not live ... And I figure that Prudence lava not all it should. It will not be for lack of
soap, which has spent more than necessary in these days when I've moved so rarely, without the
use of collars or cuffs ... Bet that when taken Candidita coffee, have not you done it the previous
day, but you've cast again.

By bouncing whiff I have known. Well, well, to promote services; for that we are. "

The chant did not sound good to the ears of Rosalia, and less time. Was again all things the
state they were before, and to obey the lengthy time rules that flowed endlessly inexhaustible source
of domestic law. Brought boys' sandals, and Bringas not already ruled that school because excessive
heat I was bad, and the holiday, about being an economy, it was very hygienic. They thanked
much, and all day it went running and playing in the corridors with large denim robes, or they
went to the third floor for other children and Irene. Were happiest beings in the house, almost as much
as the birds that nest in the hollows of architecture and wrap around
the imposing edifice in an atmosphere of lullabies.

In those days, had a visit, that caused surprise both of husbands and a sense something far from
satisfaction. A person whose name they did not want to remember, Refugio Sánchez Emperor, presented
himself at home, when least expected. Sorely embarrassed by which believed that masked a brash
Rosalia to switch, even a moment with decent people. Soon said the reason for your visit.
Her sister had Amparo letter from Bordeaux ... Alas, too sore by the illness of D. Francisco
... "He says since I knew not think of anything else. " He was immediately commissioned to visit
the lords, to know of how she was sick, and I wrote a post back. Wanted heard from him two or three
times a week at least ... D. Augustine was also carefully and desiring
to hear the news ...

Bringas was very grateful, and both urged their
improvement, which had to believe Refuge just had that huge fad band.

"Tell them I'm fine and thank you much attention ...». Rosalie felt like saying to fresh four
who had the audacity to desecrate the honorable entering her house, but he kept his composure
D. Francisco and good manners of the girl's contained. He could not, however, save Social formulas
with it, and just waved, without shaking hands. While the girl was talking to Bringas, the
Pipaón de la Barca was in and out as if such a visit was not at home. Looking at it to pass, had to
notice something that decreased their antipathies. It was the restraint and showing seriousness,
things were not good measures reasonable and said, was her dress it was swish, new, beautifully
cut, made and decorated. Rosalie looked at sideways and could not of amazement from that of
a goat hair so original and beautiful color, decentísimo and appearance of the young, well-gloved
and better road. "It graciosilla" - said for himself, and was left wanting to ask where he had
bought the goat hair ... Perhaps Amparito had commanded him to Bordeaux. After wearing a pin chest
... so chic! How you were the eyes behind him Rosalie! ".

"What do you do you?" - Asked D. Francisco back to her face, as if the could see through the black
band.

- Do I Sánchez ?...-- replied a little embarrassed at first, but recovering
with the highest resiliency -.

So, now not working. I'm a little sensitive, I have chest pain, sometimes I trouble breathing
and spent some sleepless nights. You know, since I sleep, seems to make me a stone here ...
My sister tells me I need to pass themselves with facility and rest. I live with a very decent
lady, I love him. I live a very removal ... Well as I was saying to you, my sister wants me to take on something.
As no I can work or machine needle, Amparo is determined to put an establishment fashion, and
to begin sent me a huge box of hats, fichus, brimmed hats, ties, Bow-Tie, camisetitas ... treasures.
Madrid have not ever seen so much new stuff and good taste. I also received a straw and cloth
caps, ribbons of all kinds, feathers, marabou, egret, plumes, Amazons, touches, pinions, hummingbirds,
esprís, and how God created. I doing tests to see how I compose ... I've searched some parishioners
of greatness and have been to my house many ladies ... Delighted all I have. I sent to a little cards
...

Saying it, took out one to give it to Rosalie, who with evil took smoothing frown, deigning to
grace the girl with a benevolent smile, the first seen Refuge disparaging
those lips.

And while the youngest still more expensive the workmanship callipygian of that industry in which
they had been, the Bringas oíala with some interest, forgiving perhaps the contempt of the
person by the sublimity of the matter was. As the Spirit Holy down to the lips of the repentant
sinner, can sanctify this, Shelter, the eyes of his illustrious relative, is redeemed by the
divinity of his speech.

'With that modito? - Said D. Francisco jest -. Nice business!

Look at those monkeys that will you give your parishioners! This luxury is in inverse ratio
of money to pay. Much eye, girl ... It seems to me that if your sister does not send you to live
on, what's with you eat the rag again elbows hungry ... And you come to us to be snapped up
for your parishioners? Girl, by God, play and play at another door ... Your industry is the
ruin of families and the novitiate of San Bernardino. But I wish you good luck, and I recommend
have no guts, if you defend yourself from misery. Hard on them! For what it's worth twelve
takes forty, and so the excess of pay to cover the lack of more than get quarter ... Oh how funny
!...».

A good laugh while it lasted, which was attended by all those present, even the lady who had
the incredible kindness of accompanying Refuge to the door, and give some pleasantries.

XXVII

"Do not you wonder if they have married?" - Rosalie said her
husband, when he rushed next to it.

- I had the word in the mouth
more than once to ask, but I did not dare, for fear to tell me no,
and I take a berrinchín.

- I had to restrain myself to not put it
on the street - said the lady doing enough to appear possessed of
a holy rage, legitimate son of a sense of dignity -.

Is metérsenos audacity to come here and stupid with messages of good piece of your sister ... other
such.

Nor does it matter that Amparo is interested or not for us! ... As the feelings Augustine also
make me grace ... A people for whom the Catechism is like the specifications
of doggerel ... I was blown hearing it.

I do not know how you had the patience to withstand such litany of lies and nonsense ... And now he
goes to sell news ... What crap are those! I assure you I was a mess ...

The entry of Mr de Pez cut the number of observations that had undoubtedly illustrate the matter.
Soon after, Bringas, who never tired of giving orders, provided that there hereinafter eat
at one or one and a half, Spanish style, dining at nine night. This was not only more comfortable
at the station heat, but cheaper, because they spent less coal. Dinner must be light thing.
My man recommended lentils, beans chard and peas, though they were
black broth, garlic soup, and abstinence from meat at night.

This plan was no more inconvenient than having to add to their stomachs, afternoon, the weight
of a Chocolatito, whose charge, by the fact of having stuck Dona Candida family like a leech,
it was point less than unbearable. Truth is God was always in aid of Thiers, for Dona Tula,
in summer the same system adopted meals each evening was a delicious chocolate and almost always
sent to a sick person gourd, well guarded by mojicón and biscuits.

"This Dona Tula - Bringas said when the maid was entering his neighbor - is a person very attentive
...».

Rosalie went to the house of Doña Tula, rarely missing the chocolate Pez six and a half .. There
were other highly skilled people in the city, as the sister the mayor, a man chaplain at times,
the second official stewardship, the inspector Usually the doctor
and others.

Miracles do not ever put your feet in the house of his sister, because some time ago which were
not treated.

Speaking of the Marchioness, used to designate Dona Tula with some reluctance, but without
going over here. Mary was almost always, and everyone loved with it, mimándola. La de Bringas
was there public display of her dress and Candida mozambique wore his black grosgrain, only
kept in good condition. Be idle to say that being found Mr. Fish present, no other mortal would
dare to lift the rooster in a conversation policy or on any matter of substance. For my part
I confess that the manner of speaking of that man as guapín and words as well measures, exercised
not know what narcotic action on my nerves. The same thing was to get him to explain why their
result with moderate party, I thought that a fresh henbane is poured into my brain, and the couch
Dona Tula, stroking their arms warm, invited me to take a nap. Courtesy, however, obligábame to fight
the damn dream, which was a similar state the doctors call coma vigil, a view without seeing a
ghost image transition, a hearing without hearing, and tinnitus are mixed. The quaint room that
was half the heat closed and in the shade, the filtered light coming through the transparent
fabric, lighting with the enormous tropical flowers coloring these, the bass tone that faded
tapestry had all the things in this sleepy cavity, the slight hoarseness Dona Candida and yawning,
discreetly covered with the palm of the hand, the beauty of Mary Sudre not seem to belong in this
world, the mozambique pintitas Rosalia with that dizzy the eye, and finally the slow sound of
the rocking and the fans chis chas five or six ladies were so many agents lethargic in my brain.
As the sequins glittered Some fans and flashed the concepts one by one ... Summer is anticipated
that year and would be very cruel ... The generals had come to the Canaries ... Prim was in
Vichy ... The Queen would go to the farm and then Lequeitio ... It began to take something picked
tails, bath and queues were already banned ... González Bravo was sick to your stomach ...
Cabrera had gone to see the smooth Child ...

Recently highlighted the voice of Fish, in a tone closely related to his golden mustache equality
that seemed artificial hair, and growing the narcotic effect ... The so- I could not see without
bitter sorrow the situation that things had come about because and others ... The revolution
with its all or nothing and moderates with his non possumus put the country the edge of the slope
at the edge of the abyss, the precipice. There was the good lord disappointed, and do not
believe there was no remedy for evil.

This was a land of destruction, a country of adventure, a country divided between the conspiracy
and resistance. So could not no progress or advancement, or improvement, nor administration.
He was always saying: "More government, more government" but was preaching in the desert. All
services public were in their infancy. Fish was an ideal organizer stroked his mind, but what
how to do it? His ideal was to ride a perfect administrative system, with eighty or ninety DGs.
That there was any manifestation of national life that escape the wise guidance of the State.
 "he should know nothing
but the will of his master, and learn to obey it." "if you teach that nigger--speaking of myself--how
to read the bible, there will be no keeping him;" "it would forever unfit him for the duties
of a slave;" and "as to himself, learning would do him no good, but probably, a great deal
of harm--making him disconsolate and unhappy." "If you learn him now to read, he'll want to
know how to write; and, this accomplished, he'll be running away with himself." Such was the
tenor of Master Hugh's oracular exposition of the true philosophy of training a human chattel;
and it must be confessed that he very clearly comprehended the nature and the requirements
of the relation of master and slave. His discourse was the first decidedly anti-slavery lecture
to which it had been my lot to listen. Mrs. Auld evidently felt the force of his remarks; and,
like an obedient wife, began to shape her course in the direction indicated by her husband.
The effect of his words, on me, was neither slight nor transitory. It would give me
two tight hugs ... A Canary with them, as it were, to overseas! And if you lose the boat that
takes the better ... I can not help, I feel like going out to the terrace and give a live the
Queen! very strong, very strong. "

Very nearly do so as I said. A while later, Milagros flattered to talk dynastic passion picturesque
Bringas, and asked for the generals, not a death but hundred deaths, and to all who conspire
the scaffold. With these things are very encouraged the patient, but alas, the next day was to
be the darkest in his life. Poor sir, after having spent the night very restless morning observed
a loss almost absolute power to see. The doctor was so stunned that not even hit the formulas elusive
that they use when they want to confess up. But man of conscience, finally learned to abdicate its
authority before producing greater evils, saying: "We must you will see an eye doctor. You
see you Golfín. "

D. Francisco believed that the sky was falling over. No doubt his illness was serious. Overcome
by greed fear, not thought to repair the opinion of your doctor and the whole family. Shocked
everyone in the prodigious distrusted most famous science curator
of eyes that had Spain.

Remembered not to delay the consultation or a day or an hour.

Ah, Golfín! ... Bringas knew him. He was a man of which there were wonders. Many blind had evicted
view. In South America and North had won big bucks, and Spain is not neglected even in this.
Go ant! To beat a waterfall to the Marquis Castro had taken eighteen thousand real, and for
care of a child's conjunctivitis cucurbit, had an account such that the Cucurbits, to pay, insisted
for six years. "But in the end, God help us, and go out with either of this. Heal me on this Golfín,
and let me in the pure leather ...».

Discurriose then whether the patient would go to consultation or
would come home to an eye doctor, deciding Bringas at first, it was
the cheapest.

"Paquito and I get into a car, and there ...».

- No, you're not to go out. He will come.

- It does not come, woman. These potentates of science does not move from their home rather
than rulers or people visiting a lot of money.

- I tell you to come. I'm going down.

His Majesty will put four letters ...

- That sounds very wise. And if the Lady wants to add that this is a poor ... better better. God
bless you, honey.

And he came and saw Ridley, and his rough kindness infundiole encouragement and hope began to
lose. The ailment was not serious, but the healing would be slow. "Patience, lots of patience,
and exact compliance, escrupulosísimo what I prescribe. There is a bit of conjunctivitis,
it is necessary to combat readiness and energy. "

Poor, miserable Bringas! For the moment, bedding, diet, quiet, atropine.

Inaugurose with this sad life for the unfortunate Thiers.

Earned no longer take off band, then just drop saw, and gave him much pain, he turned to darkness,
in which His only consolation was to remember the words of Ridley and that heavenly promise
that farewell: "You see, you will see it has ever seen," meaning weight and fullness precious faculty
believe above all others of our body. See! ... But When God Almighty, when, Santa Lucia blessed?
Patience was not lacking in the poor man in that situation eagerly bent their minds to religious
contemplation and spent part of the lonely hours praying. His wife never left him, but when
any unwelcome visit forced him to, when afflicted with air entering Miracles, and calling apart,
regaled me with a couple of tears and caresses flattering ... Was no longer a Bathrooms think, unless
Bringas not be restored for the first days of August, which did not
seem likely.

Fish was the most constant friends of the honoree that tribulation family. One afternoon he
could speak alone with Rosalie in Gasparini, she said: "We are now entering an era difficulties,
which I do not know how we get out. " To which D. Manuel said with a burst Quixotic, offering
to help in all those difficulties of any kind were. This noble thought entered the mind of the lady
as a ray of heavenly light. He could have some support in the storms that will bring further life.
Had already behind it a place of retreat, a reserve for any critical event ... And looked around
If an arm, a shield ... Life offered flatter, more open ... "I'll look - I thought - that this friendship
and I honestly do not conflict. "

XXXI

Seeing her husband was so down and bloodied in Rosalia budded affection of other times; and
the esteem in which he always had depurábase of capricious malevolence to resurface large
and cordial, touching on reverence.

Entertained in the vain thought the good lady your life partner for many years, which, if satisfaction
had not provided self-love very much alive, had given no trouble. He remembered then that there
prosaic marriage and quiet, full of simple pleasures shortages and, if isolation seemed of little
value, valued in total memory offered a nice set. Al Bringas side had not enjoyed it or amenities,
or representation, nor pleasures, nor greatness, and estate, none of which was his by right
of its beauty and its being genuinely aristocratic, but instead, how calm and how sweet the days
passed without choking or traps, or creditors! Do not owe anything to anyone was the great principle
of the man walking, and he was so corny as honest and as happy as wretches. Surely if she had Fish
hit a man would be in position brighter ... "But God knows - thought very wisely - the agonies
that go in those houses where they always spent more than have. That must look closely and
pass it and feel it to know it well.

"

This is Rosalie, with the aggravation of her husband's bad morally and mentally approaching to
him, tightening the bonds of matrimony. The attraction of misery wrought this miracle, and
the habit of sharing all the quota of life, and in bad as in happy. And with what zeal he cared!
What his hands to heal so subtle! With what grace and Art poured the balm of tender words on
the spirit of the sick! He was so grateful, that never ceased to praise God for the good they
gave him, inspiring fellow that wonderful sense of conjugal duty. Sweetened intimate joys and penetrated
his sentence of religious zeal, believed that the care of his wife were faithful expression
of care divine. Only when she was killed, because of his duties, left her side; and each time
he called for the smallest thing, begging him to shorten as much
as possible their occupations to devote to it.

Throughout this time, Rosalie gave hand to sumptuary galas. I had no time nor tranquility of mind
to think in rags. These lay buried in the dresser drawers, waiting
better opportunity to show themselves.

Or she happened to be composed ... Good were the time to think about frills! Was it true luxury
boredom or devotion? Something single and otherwise. If it was self-denial, this came to present
themselves before the end of Mr. de Pez home to packing more prosaic
than one might imagine.

The only assumption that was retained to always have your best brace that he was not disrupting
the body. But her hair was primitive, and his robe induction could be studied all issues the government
of a poor house. One evening he had told D. Manuel: "I do not see you. I made a bogey. " And he had
replied: "That, and anyway, you are always beautiful ", she was grateful gallantry.

The weakness of the body flojedades necessarily bring the whole to the more regrettable. Prolonged
illness in humans mimics the effects of aging are comparable to children
and good Bringas was not spared the physical and moral infirmity.

The decline ignited in the heat tenderness, and tenderness resulted in some excitement cuddly.

"Daughter,
do not tell me you're a woman. I tell you you're an angel ... Look, so far no the house has more
will than mine. You've been a slave. From now on no will make your will. The slave will be me.
"

The first day of what we call the reign of Ridley, D. Francisco was brought to bed the money
box, to get himself, as usual, the daily expenditure. But well soon that tenderness mimosa,
or rather childish passivity that before I spoke, he inspired confidence I never had. "No need,
my dear, you bring the Cajoncillo. Take the key and out what you think is prudent. " The lady
did so. In what is not neglected after Bringas was to ask for the keys and keep them under
his pillow, because all the enthusiasm and even senile or infantile weakness has its limits.

Rosalie
could thus freely explore the hidden treasure. Stirred, told and retold all that was in the
double bottom, astonishment of flow stored there.

Her husband was very more than she suspected, was a capitalist. There were five tickets of four
thousand reais composing thousand dollars, and after a peak in small bills totaling three thousand
seven hundred. The five big bills were the most elegant booklet that the lady had seen his life.
In considering that, were revived and complaints rencorcillos different times had disturbed
his spirit ... Who that had deprived her to wear a new dress!

The owner of that sum was determined to wear his wife as a housekeeper for a cure! ... Oh,
what geek man! ... If, as he said, would henceforth be her true lady home precisábale vary in
temperament, be more demanding, and make economies the family a more suitable job for the dignity of the
same ... Save money that way, without obtaining any product it was not it silly? If at least give
it to interest or employed in any of the companies that distribute dividends ...!

The discovery of the treasure brought Rosalie's ideas of the circle
of modesty and self-denial that the disease had locked her husband.

This he said in a burst of enthusiasm: "When I get good, I'll buy a dress gro, and in winter,
if I'm right, you'll one of velvet. It should make yourself shine once, not with the gifts
of the Queen and her friends, but the product of my finances and my honest labor. "

And she began to think that if the treasure does not belong to him entirely, most of he should be
in your hands.

"I have enough private enough to have suffered shortages Now, holding, pass the drowning happened.
If you do not want to give it to me, and I will understand the consideration
you owe me.

" In this state of mind took her one morning Miracles, with such good fortune, it seemed that Providence
had made preparation for the blissful satisfaction Marquise. It happened that had not yet announced
this conclusion with sighs and groans imminent of disaster when decided
tone Rosalia said

"Do you me sign a promissory note promising to
return within a month the amount I give now?

Because the more friends, more formality.

"You give me an interest of two percent per month? Did you pay the six hundred added to those real?
... It is one thing friendship, my friend, and business ... I think you will not be offended
...».

I must not add to the Telleria said yes to everything sincere and ardent expressions. Do not believe
it would be like questioning the daylight.

"For these conditions will give you four thousand realitas" - said Rosalie with pretensions lender. "

Those
who have had the good fortune to see, really pray, pray in ecstatic figuration, the open sky and
his cohorts flying angels singing the praises of the Lord, do not get insurance a face more radiant
than put Milagros happy to hear that announcement. But ...

XXXII

There is no happiness that is not his but, and the happiness of the Marquise was that to complete
the sum was needed about five thousand ... Because yes, was awaiting a little story ... This was
irrelevant. With regard to interest both gave him two, four, six. "This is material, daughter,
and the more profit for you, the greater my satisfaction. " Rosalie hesitated a while, but
finally everything was settled to the satisfaction of both, and that same afternoon expanded and signed
the contract in the quartermaster, with all the necessary precautions to Isabelita who was sniffing
around, not aware of anything.

Milagros D. goodbye Francisco with the most cordial and sweet phrases he had spoken in your life.
"Oh, what a woman is you! God has sent one of his favorite archangels. Do not complain you from
their evil, my friend, because that is worthless, and soon healed.
Thank God, for those who have next to people like Rosalie, and can
receive calamities and to cope with value ...». Don Francisco conmovidísimo
held out his hand, hearing the frantic kisses smacking the Marquise
gave the beloved angel.

A different had obeyed the impulse to do
what he did. First, the desire to please friend encouraged her greatly.
Secondly, the idea often expressed by Bringas, that she could have
all had taken possession of his intellect and breeding in his other
ideas of dominance and authority. It was necessary to show with facts,
though they go through something the limits of prudence, which had
ceased to be a slave and he assumed his share of sovereignty in the
distribution of marital wealth. This is not only calmed his conscience
but considering that he did have money to put to revenue. The little-thing
would have no reason to complain if the five thousand returned to
the box with the increase concerned. Finally, the above might not
have sufficed to identify it the reckless action of the loan, if you
do not count on the safe withdrawal in the extreme case Bringas discovered
that it disapproved and, if not count on the evening offerings earlier
he had made friends with the house. Of all consciences let me have
those to deal with which have not been bewildered by the cares of life. I do not remember ever
to have met with a boy, while I was in slavery, who defended the slave system; but I have often
had boys to console me, with the hope that something would yet occur, by which I might be made
free. Over and over again, they have told me, that "they believed I had as good a right to
be free as they had;" and that "they did not believe God ever made any one to be a slave."
The reader will easily see, that such little conversations with my play fellows, had no tendency
to weaken my love of liberty, nor to render me contented with my condition as a slave.

When I was about thirteen years old, and had succeeded in learning to read, every increase
of knowledge, especially respecting the FREE STATES, added something to the almost intolerable
burden of the thought--I AM A SLAVE FOR LIFE. To my bondage I saw no end. It was a terrible
reality, and I shall never be able to tell how sadly that thought chafed my young spirit. Fortunately,
or unfortunately, about this time in my life, I had made enough money to buy what was then
a very popular school book, viz: the Columbian Orator. Your behavior
depends on my prudence. We finished!

- Everyone will meet its obligation.

- Abur! - And Pepe, walking on tiptoe, got into his room.

Tirso a while he stood alone in the room, pensive and motionless: the lamp, expiring, dismissed
Suddenly two or three sparks of the wick, and dry, the quake caused light on the wall convulsively
shaking it in the shadow of the priest, and then he, looking almost
felt for the door of her bedroom, lit a candle and, after praying
their prayers, lay down, but took a long time sleep.

The energy of his brother had completely baffled: Pepe was a better man than he imagined.

The
next morning, Dona Manuela, before going shopping, as usual, went
for a Pepe kiss, as he had dressed to leave for work.

- I'm going
to buy, bye, son.

- And to Mass, right, Mom?

She, smiling warmly, saying only:

- What's wrong with that?

- In that, nothing, but, hey, mama. Last night I had one clinging to Tirso, the thing had to happen,
and came.

I suppose you will have spoken of certain projects that attempted, on dad, you imagine the
effect produced. Told my brother, imponle sanity, because I am willing everything.

Tirso not fulfilled their threats, nor be altered again by then, the
quiet of the house; but both brothers realized that this quiet, violent
energy obtained by one and the apparent submission of another, was
not lasting peace, but a temporary truce.

XIX

Dear Pepe: Imagine how upset I'll be: four days since we've seen, and rabies to quarrel with you.
Silly, silly me, did you think you know I had not find your sorrows
to share? The guy you have said, surely the questions you did and
how I answered. I am convinced that all told you. You can not imagine
the grace I made her disinterest. Do you forgive me to bribe your
servers? I, however, will not forgive you your lack of candor.

This, however, was not all the fanaticism which I found in this Columbian Orator. I met there
one of Sheridan's mighty speeches, on the subject of Catholic Emancipation, Lord Chatham's
speech on the American war, and speeches by the great William Pitt and by Fox. These were all
choice documents to me, and I read them, over and over again, with an interest that was ever
increasing, because it was ever gaining in intelligence; for the more I read them, the better
I understood them. The reading of{124} these speeches added much to my limited stock of language,
and enabled me to give tongue to many interesting thoughts, which had frequently flashed through
my soul, and died away for want of utterance. The mighty power and heart-searching directness
of truth, penetrating even the heart of a slaveholder, compelling him to yield up his earthly
interests to the claims of eternal justice, were finely illustrated in the dialogue, just referred
to; and from the speeches of Sheridan, I got a bold and powerful denunciation of oppression,
and a most brilliant vindication of the rights of man. Here was, indeed, a noble acquisition.
If I ever wavered under the consideration, that the Almighty, in some way, ordained slavery,
and willed my enslavement for his own glory, I wavered no longer. I had now penetrated the
secret of all slavery and oppression, and had ascertained their true foundation to be in the
pride, the power and the avarice of man. 

And yes, chewing and getting more stronger hand in your pocket

"What a mess ... It's like that head out of cork.

Only you, you big silly make such grotesque, and only my wife likes ... You are the one to
the other. "

He retired from work that day D. Francisco more tired than ever. Saw double objects and his
head was so dizzy as if on board a ship. But he was confident that such unease would be temporary,
and welcomed the advancement and beautiful effect of the work. The angel was completely modeled
and with those incredible hair points. Willow protected with the tomb weeping branches, and
it was unfortunate that there were no green hair, as if such there was the illusion would be complete.
At the end nothing was missing and he was a model of perspective melancholy, so much so that
only those who had heart of rock could see it without feeling winning
pout.

There were still flowers from the floor and the entire first term, where Bringas was running late
to a broken and fallen columns and ruined temple with which the idea of ​​desolation was represented
the most perfect way.

In early June we saw some of this work completed, but there were still several small things, Sunflowers
little ones, big thoughts, not to mention a few butterflies sentimental black wings, perched
here and there, sipping the sweet Macassar in the calyxes of the flowers piliform. On the
same day the events occurred, which the artist was completely worth strange, but for this
reason it should not be forgotten here. And was that when approaching the day appointed for
their money back to Torres, Rosalie was so crestfallen, which could be believe, seeing that he had
stolen anything or inferred a huge offense. Calculations and more calculations made, disrupting
the brain, without actually solving the problem feared and negábanse numbers to please, giving
the figure I needed ... What an idea! Would come " Mr. Fish? Oh, if I called this door would
surely be heard, but did not dare. In addition, D. Manuel is going at the time to Archena baths (because
without a pair of annual fairings man was lost), and would not return until 20. The 12 is presented
Torres with his eyes of eggs imbued with a sweet hard stunned. It was the image of kindness, in
the event they are giving him stick. His smile made Rosalia cloying effect of a fluid miasmatic
seeping into her and made her sick.

And how impertinent nose girl, and how tiresome resobarse the skill
of the beard, as if to draw from it some substance!

Man guapín, Rosalie was always indifferent, it seemed then that a nice executioner presented with
the rope and Hopa.

XVIII

And it did not come little urgency to this!

... What a point! By day 14 without fault required that. But before I could be delayed even
a day or an hour because his honor was committed Mompous's house, and if that Rosalie could
not comply, would be pointed to request Mr Money Francisco.

"By God ... do not say such nonsense. Jesus! ... You have gone crazy, "stammered the Rosalia
shaking and upset. "

He returned to take their accounts for the hundredth time. Not even selling things that did
not want to sell, could raise the sum. Had brought the lights up some numbers, but some of
them I had spent the good lady to buy trinkets to make up to four children. If Miracles would have
returned those six hundred actual anticipated him to pay the jeweler ...! Yes, it was necessary
that they be returned. They are strictly ask. If art Devil, or rather by a miracle of His Divine
Majesty, Candida had some money ...! Candida five dollars owed Rosalie lent to turn a ticket
for a hundred crowns. Even those lost were real return to the fold. Using energy purposes, went
to the Marquise. Accident fatal! The Marquise was at a religious function, that costs with other
ladies. Ninth was a dedicated patron saint I do not know why, with Manifesto Season, Rosary, Sermon,
Ninth, Joys of the Holy, Holy God and Reserve. Went beyond Rosalia eager to see her friend that afternoon.
The street was full of smart cars. In the church, made a blaze of gold, with velvet curtains
cheap, paper borders golden spotlight thousand, huge bouquets of cloth and a flag that resembled
theater third order, there was such competition, it was very difficult to penetrate it. Rosalie
did open way through the elegant crowd, but could not get to where she was the Marchioness
which had been perched in the sanctuary, near the priests. He spent long, long time, during Rosalia
which sermon he heard half pathetic, piping, a stew of cliches sauce theatrical gesture, he
heard guttural cantorrios more or less, and finally did so late,
but so late that desperate to see the end of the long role, had to
leave without speaking Milagros.

The poor lady was a martyr for the intolerable methods of her husband, and not could delay his
return home, because if the food was not on the table when accurate, D. Francisco snorted
and said nasty things, such as "Daughter, I have died from weakness. Warns again, and eat alone.
"

The night passed very uneasy, and the next day, June 13, around midnight,
when was preparing to visit his friend, here presented is, startled,
saying the expression on his face that something extraordinary was
happening, and it will say so, not only plastic neglect it, but the
confusion of voices and other spasmodic symptoms.

Rosalia part of that shock when she heard him say:

"Ah, friend of my soul, what conflict I am! If you do not me out for the good ...».

- Me? - Said Bringas away, then realized it was a money problem like yours -. Just you come in
good time ... If you knew ... I was there.

- Home? ... I'll tell you what is going to be sorry for me, very sorry. Tomorrow I have dinner
dance, a feast of family, absolutely indispensable. I have given away invitations ... You'll see
what disappointment! Daughter, by God you give me a glass of water because I can not speak. I
have something here that my breath away ... (After swallowing a few mouthfuls of water.) To
avoid headaches, custom dinner at Bonelli. Yesterday I sent for him. I fix it easily, but that,
with all his impudence, I require that I have to pay three dinners that are owed. I rather
like, just imagine if I like you should ... Ah, believe you, my mariducho's fault that we live
this way ... But let what he said. What was I saying? You do not know how my head. Ah! In
view of the requirement Bonelli, sent this morning to Trouchín, the Arenal Street, which never
helped me nothing, I propose serve dinner tomorrow, I adjust, we agree, but the convicted Would
you believe?, With many courtesies and glibly tells me that if you do not pay in advance no dinner ...
This is already an insult. I've never been anything like it ... I'll tell you. Is The cabinets
are all about. Bonelli was undoubtedly to prevent and take Trouchín the story that I had three
dinners. It's a conspiracy against me, a plot ... While you look,
they were right, dear, "but I do fault I have?

That man incapable, my maridillo ...! As you say it is little. It is properly incalumniable ...
Yesterday I had to pay a account of his tailor, who had hung the bell on the front door ... That
You see my situation, advise me, indicate to any output.

Rosalia, with humble reasons, unable to compass told her friend that labyrinth, mostly when
she was in a similar predicament, and had one day to recover ... those hundred real ...

"Oh, yes, I remember it perfectly ... The day before I lay down on the purse to bring them you
... excuse me ... but before leaving home, was presented the collector of the Congregation with
the receipt of my share for the function of yesterday y. .. daughter of my soul, I had no choice
loosen ... By the way, yesterday I saw you in church, and I felt that there was a to let me
see some things. Bonitísima function, but you do not see how mess? The cucurbit went to church
with that loud of snuff-colored dress that seems a habit of the order of stagnation. The home
uniform. The San Salomó was also very noisy. I've seen in my life more pouf, and although they
say that the trend Fashion is increase, I think the church calls
for restraint on this.

Nothing I mean the bearing studs so great ... Why, and tail? ... As for me ... Have you looked
at me right? You could not ask for more simplicity ... But back to my suit, my dear. Did not
advise me you something?

Runs through me, for I have become like a fool. If I meet here tomorrow the question, I'm lost
... Believe me is to commit suicide. "

Out of curiosity, asked her friend Rosalia what I needed, and hearing
him say that about nine or rather ten thousand reais, put a grumpy
face the tribulation which increased the already Milagros so troubled.

"Ah, how little encouragement you give me ... And to make matters worse, yesterday afternoon I
was Eponine a scandal.

If what happens to me does not happen to anyone ... I have put some accounts ... of as loud ...
For a creature of two thousand reales!, And accoutrements of that
gown, just accoutrements, 1500!

... Is to kill ...».

"Ten thousand reais! - Rosalie muttered looking down and counting
the syllables like coins -.

With the fifth I would have enough.

"

- Say you, D. Milagros Francisco ...-- said with animation, suggesting that the blessed Bringas
must have savings.

- Shut up you by God! If you knew my husband said the other terrified ...-- -. These things take
him crazy.

- And Candida? ...

- Holy Mother!

- It could happen ... I forgot to tell you, expending three or four little things, I can have
four thousand. I only need six.

- Impossible to all impossibility.

- That Milagros Torres ...-- muttered,
my mouth was dry, the tongue stuck to her palate.

- Jesus!

Torres! ... Rosalie said what nonsense !...-- watching stand up to it, as a fantastic appearance,
the image of his creditor -. I do not know if I told you that morning before of the twelve
... Alas, it was crazy to buy that cape. You see ... What need I had these drownings?

- It's a bargain, daughter - said the Marchesa with that condescending tone and indulgent I knew
to take when it suited him -.

If I leave my conflict, such that you futesa so hurry, run to me.

(Going over to her friend and squeezing his arm.) Don Francisco should be very parné saved unproductive
money, ounce for ounce, a style palette. What a big delay! That's the country as it is, because
capital flows, because all the cash is in the coffers, with no benefit to anyone, not to the
possessor. D. Francisco is among those who believe that money must be raised cobwebs. In this
his significant your husband is like the locals rich. Why do not you suggest something? I pay
what I need ... means, with the interest due, and through a formal obligation. I do not want ...!

-
I doubt that Bringas ...

- (With heat.) Well, daughter has to have some influence you about it ... Well, no more missing.
Are you stupid? In saying, "man, for God's sake, that money gives us nothing." Y hard, hard, to
learn. Or do not have character ...? I thought that he consulted you all, and let himself
be dominated by who wins in intelligence and government ... Let's see, decide proposed. What this
says: if we fix the runs you piquillo my account. (Laughing) I consider as brokerage.

- I doubt that my husband ... Quia impossible ..!

But even impossible to believe what had happened to his ingenious friend, Rosalie pondered about
it. The same insuperable difficulty of the case drew its spirit, such as large problems captivate
and fascinate the above understandings. For a while nothing was heard in Gasparini louder than the sighs
of Hacking Pipaón and some of the Marchioness, which bronchi was
not in the best condition.

As the two friends were alone in the house; Bringas had not returned
from the office, or school children, could speak freely their troubles
without mystery of them.

Telleria turned to doze his proposal, strengthened with weighty reasons (oh, dead hands money
is the cause of backwardness of the nation!) and very cucas flattery:
but he persisted in considering Bringas proposal as one of the most
difficult and rugged that could be offered to the will human.

Only attack it was like climbing to the heights of heroism. In their own state followed the
two when he appeared Candida, very cheerful and plump.

He came to see His Majesty and Dona Tula, and later, had been in kitchens where the chef was determined
to make entrecotes accept three and a pair of partridges. "Things ...». Galland He was not
tired of gifts, and not to offend, she said, "Well, what I get on home."

"Then I'll send you a partridge and two entrecotes - Rosalie told whipping with his range -.
No, do not thank me ... If I do not have to prove.

A spare me meat ... Yesterday I shared between the neighbors a great
steak I ordered to bring the Plaza del Carmen, waiting have guests
... If you could see how grateful these poor people ...!

My house is the Charity. The day I moved in that room have to run through there many tears.
"

XIX

And then, taking their ideas to a very different field of charity, but also very interesting,
let's say that the letter is copied:

"Will I be able to tell you where and how and in what way could I
put a little money an amount I have left?

... That is a sure thing and a moderate intake ...».

The effect that these clauses were in the two friends was not as great as was expected. In Rosalie's
face painted indifferent incredulity, it was resolved soon after in alarm, remembering that the loan
of five dollars requested a month earlier by Candida was had a preamble like he had just heard.
Milagros, without confidence in what the Grande García said, suspected that there was some truth
in it, or whatever it is, was justified to the absurd as the desperate
grasps at straws.

"But tell me, Candida ... "That money will you have?".

- My daughter, do not be a material ... I have not exactly in his pocket, but as if I had ...
One of these days you have to bring me Muñoz and Sones ...

- (With dismay.) One of these days ... now.

- And I usually think things over time ... Frankly, I like to have
large sums at home, because even in this neighborhood are palatial
bad people ...

Without regard to projects of Candida rentier, Milagros
watched the dress. At that time, the illustrious widow began to decline
noticeably in her bearing and the cleaning and repair of their clothes,
but had not arrived, nor much, sorry extreme neglect that we have
known it later. 

The children entered school, and Rosalie was to
give them a snack.

"How cute is Isabelita!" - Said Milagros Candida,
and some say, are directed towards Columns, left alone with her bitter
grief to my wife the Marchioness. This could hear the chirping of
small, the voice of the mother riñéndoles for his impatience and kisses
smacking Candida gave them. Soon Rosalia appeared in Gasparini, and
Milagros was frowning and smiling at same time as when we can not
avoid the effects of one of these sets, comics might occur in the
saddest times.

"You see how funny - Rosalie said her friend's ear
-. I've said in the dining room, with much secret, do you favor to
overtake the other five dollars. "

Milagros smiled, as a patient
who makes an effort to distract. He soon fell again in that deep sadness
that the flattened like a consumptive fever. Passed through his mind
terrible launch of the next night, the guests arriving, filling the
halls, she dressed in her large pink satin skirt, enormous pouf and
lengthy tail, affecting joy and the problem still unresolved dinner.
Because in that night I could not get away with four trifles ... What
a shame! ... Rosalie saw her friend's eyes moistened by tears, and
tried to comfort her.

"That dissolute without conscience, the futility
...»-- was the only thing that happened. I was too
young to think of running away immediately; besides, I wished to learn how to write, before
going, as I might have occasion to write my own pass. I now not only had the hope of freedom,
but a foreshadowing of the means by which I might, some day, gain that inestimable boon. Meanwhile,
I resolved to add to my educational attainments the art of writing.

After this manner I began to learn to write: I was much in the ship yard--Master Hugh's, and
that of Durgan & Bailey--and I observed that the carpenters, after hewing and getting a piece
of timber ready for use, wrote on it the initials of the name of that part of the ship for
which it was intended. When, for instance, a piece of timber was ready for the starboard side,
it was marked with a capital "S." A piece for the larboard side was marked "L;" larboard forward,
"L. F.;" larboard aft, was marked "L. A.;" starboard aft, "S. A.;" and starboard forward "S.
F." I soon learned these letters, and for what they were placed on the timbers.

My work was now, to keep fire under the steam box, and to watch the ship yard while the carpenters
had gone to dinner. This interval gave me a fine opportunity for copying the letters named.
I soon astonished myself with the ease with which I made the letters; and the thought was soon
present, "if I can make four, I can make more." But having made these easily, when I met boys
about Bethel church, or any of our play-grounds, I entered the lists with them in the art of
writing, and would make the letters which I had been so fortunate as to learn, and ask them
to "beat that if they could." With playmates for my teachers, fences and pavements for my copy
books, and chalk for my pen and ink, I learned the art of writing. I, however, afterward adopted
various methods of improving my hand. The most successful, was copying the italics in Webster's
spelling book, until{134} I could make them all without looking on the book. By this time,
my little "Master Tommy" had grown to be a big boy, and had written over a number of copy books,
and brought them home. They had been shown to the neighbors, had elicited due praise, and were
now laid carefully away. Spending my time between the ship yard and house, I was as often the
lone keeper of the latter as of the former. When my mistress left me in charge of the house,
I had a grand time; I got Master Tommy's copy books and a pen and ink, and, in the ample spaces
between the lines, I wrote other lines, as nearly like his as possible. Distractions and inconsistencies
of Telleria could be translated as: "dear friend, you call another door. " What door?, What
the candida? Intentolo Rosalia, finding in the illustrious widow All the best, but damn did
happen to her manager had not brought even the collection of houses ... Then he had gotten into
some repair costs ... In short, there was no salvation in that quarter. After Providence came
across to Rosalia via sighed relief that Gonzalo Torres constant friend of the family, the which
so often visited them at the Palace and at home in the Costanilla.

Torres used to handle outside money, and sometimes possessed no small amount of which drew some
benefit during the brief possession of them. Taking advantage of the absence her husband, Rosalie
declarole sincerity so strongly as her trouble and the good Gonzalo reassured at the time. What soon
became the roses, to speak to the poetic, the haggard lady's face! ... Fortunately, Torres was in
possession of an amount that was Mompous and Bruil, but none could delay care delivery month.
If undertook Rosalia to repay the thousand and seven hundred reais in the period of thirty days, no
problem had facilitators. Instead, he was extremely happy ... A month!, What happiness! Ni
much time she needed to collect the amount, either with relentless squeezing savings the regular
budget, or selling some items that had already gone out of fashion ... Ah, Careful ... Bringas
absolute secret ...

Secure and able to meet Sobrino Hermanos, his conscience was discharged weighing horrible. No longer
would cut the breath in fear that the unfortunate collector appeared Store when Bringas was
in the house. Regained his appetite was lost and his nerves were calmed. Because, the truth, he found himself
in those days under the action of a spasmodic disorder simulated a severe anxiety, and it was
hard to prevent her husband call the family doctor.

He was getting the shawl to go to pay (as Torres brought the money that same later), he entered
Milan. What beauty came from and what stylish! ... "Look here ... I have taken this blue ribbon
to the bodice. Tone is very new and with a green iridescent ... Do you see you like change? ...
Rest a while and then we will go together. I bring my car ... Ah! If you see such beautiful
hats have received the Tuscan! There is one that is for model, divine, highly original, supernatural.
Just imagine ... a straw Florian Italy decorated with wild flowers and black velvet ... Here,
right next to, has a aigrette with black foot well placed, well ... Behind the black veil that
falls on the back ... But ask for him a pretty penny.

"

ROSALIA .--=( feeling a buzzing in his head-buzzing and represented,
with admirable power hallucination, the whole and all parts of the
property described hat.) = Although we have not Buy, pass by there
to see.

They left together and went into the car, waiting at the door of the Prince. Milagros chatting without
fatigue. Ocupose of the things he had seen, fabrics for summer had arrived Sobrino's shop Brothers
and projected works, in order of dress, counting not very abundant with resources that have reduced
her husband. Suddenly remembered they should pay the repair and alteration of a diamond pin at home
... What mischief!, he had forgotten his purse, and in that house and gave him credit and
wanted to apply, by some unsavory issue that had once, with the owner of it ... There was no
worry about such trifles. Rosalie had money.

"Ah, well ... is the same. I'll give to you tomorrow or ... Finally, when we meet. "

For a moment he stood perplexed and bewildered Thiers good lady, not knowing whether regret the
offer he had made, or if the service gracefully welcomed paid to her friend. But the human soul is an
inexhaustible source of remedies for their own ills, and the embarrassment of Rosalia courses
require a soft spot in his reasoning that flowed very timely, which had to cope with: "Pay half
of the account Sobrino, ensuring that the other half will without fail next month. Milagros I need
the thirty dollars The poor thing, and I still have something for the piece of scarf, for two
or three feathers of the hat Isabelita and pearl buttons. The truth, I can not do without them.
" Everything is served to literally, under this reasoning program
born in the shaking of a car, running from store to store, under the
influence of intoxicating intoxication of rags.

XII

D. Francisco, absorbed in the interest of his work, not a single point away from it, using
all the time that he was free employment rested.

With bad deal had been deleted evening stroll, a custom in the old, and his friend D. María José
Manuel Pez, seeing private who was paired in this hour of toilet comfort, it was so smugly to
Palace to keep the custom of the company Bringuística.

The journey from the Ministry of Palace, Damas nothing short step were sufficient field a healthy
exercise, and if it came with D. Francisco and his wife four laps for the magnificent terrace surrounding
the large courtyard, and had secured an appetite for medium mealtime. The most loving warnings were
always ineffective to wean Bringas their task while it lasted sunlight. Or beg him or reprimand
him, or that you see for dizziness, headache or blindness, it was possible to stand on the
feverish yet ordered progress of their work. Fish chatted with him a few moments of political
events, but usually Rosalie was with a walk on the terrace. That ride was quiet and very pleasing,
because cavity of the building stands on the terrace of the ravages of air, without prejudice ventilation.
The most pure mountain air rich is for City Hall and for domestic located away from the thick breath
of the Villa and in height so that neither the pigeons and sparrows enjoy healthier atmosphere
and more quickly renewed. A walk through this monumental site flattered lady's fantasy, reminiscent
of those funds bringing architectural Rubens Veronese, Vanloo other painters put into their
boxes, which will magnify the figures and give it a very aristocratic.

Fish and Rosalie Featured posed elegantly on that fund balustrades, moldings, archivolts and vases,
an assumption that, without thinking, they compelled to bring his good looks and even his way
to the majesty of the scene.

This fish was the right man could be seen, excellent employee model called high because it's up
large portion of alms in the division made by the State; man in his person and had such style
symbolized the sovereignty of the government and the venerable Fillers administration. Was extremely
courteous and highly cultured, pointless conversation and entertaining, able to make on any subject,
strange to go to his understanding clerical, paradoxical observation. He had spent his entire
life to retortero of politicians, neat and had knowledge of contemporary history, which was
composed of lips endless anecdotes. He had the scholarship of political jokes and driving parliamentary
phrases flow with amazing ease. Under this foliage hid a arid unbelief, atheism and faith principles
of fait accompli, infirmity very common in those who have raised the chests of Spanish politics,
governed by the case. Tanned man inside and out, incapable of enthusiasm for anything, his
face revealed Fish such repose, strangely enough, that of the saints who enjoy the bliss eternal.
Yes, the face of Pez said: "I have come to the fullness of time comfortable. I in my heart. " It
was the face that has been proposed not to get upset by anything or take things very seriously, which
is the same as solving the great problem of life. For him, the administration was a cover of barren
formulas created to cover the practical system of personal favor whose key is in the bribery
and recommendations.

Nobody knew serving so friends effectiveness as a fish, whence came the good man's opinion.
Please anyone as he knew to all, and even among the revolutionaries had many devotees.

His character went without hindrance to friendly face, without wrinkles, admirably preserved, as
some English faces weathered by the outdoors and exercise. Were fifty years that seemed a little
over forty, fifty decorated with gold whiskers and dark mustache with a slight mixture of
silver, clean, bright, declaring in its brightness are devoted a good little while on the toilet.
His eyes were Spanish net of such serenity and sweetness, they remembered those who knew Murillo
painting playing San Jose. If fish do not shave the chin and instead of frock coat and carried
a rod, would be the living image of the holy Patriarch as we have conveyed the painters. Those
eyes said anyone who watched: "I am the expression of the Spain asleep, beatific, which has to
be toy of events and so nothing gets to let her eat in peace, that does not work, hopes and
lives of all present the illusion of looking at the sky, with a blossoming
rod in his hand, which is submitted to all who want to send, wherever
it comes, and professes socialism meek that does not understand ideas,
or action, or anything that is not dreaming and digesting.

"

This gentleman very nearly dressed as a dandy. He gave joy to see their extraordinary cleanliness.
His clothes had the virtue of not ajarse or powder room and never fell over the body and paint.
Morning and evening, dressed fish in the same way, closed with cloth coat, pants that seemed released
the same day and glittering hat, without this dedication seemed concerned or reveal effort or discomfort.
As in the great stylists too seems natural lime easy correction it was like a well-learned carelessly.
Carried everywhere packaging office, and believe that coat, pants and hat were an integral part of
the office same, the Directorate of Administration, as they were
in a different order flyers, letterhead, the portrait of the Queen,
the velvet-lined chairs and bundles tied with red ribbons.

When he spoke, he heard with pleasure, and he also liked to hear, because it ran with eyes the
faces of his listeners to surprise the effect that they produced. His language had adapted to the
political style created between us by the press and the platform.

Nourished one wit at source of amplification, failed to express any
concept under fair and accurate, but that was always in triplicate.

Sample Va.

THIERS .--=( without looking away from his work.) = What general banishment?

FISH .-- To the extent that things have come, Don Francisco, is impossible, it is difficult
is very risky to venture any opinion.

The revolution of which we both laughed, that we both laughed, that
both we scoffed, going forward, undermines, is styling his way and
the only thing we want, the only thing we ask is that it is declared
real incompatibility, real struggle, real war to the death between
the same revolution and institutions, between new ideas and the Throne,
including the necessary reforms and the person of His Majesty.

XIII

Fish and Rosalie, as I said, went out to walk around the terrace. The Rubens Nymph, fleshy and round,
and the spiritual San Jose, in a frock coat and no rod of lilies, is sublimated on architectural
background that white stone that seems rude ivory. She drew the line its elegant gown by the
clean tiles together with asphalt, and he, with his left hand in your pocket, retrieved the
edge of his coat, triggering slightly to the right, holding a cane in half. Sometimes the noise
of the court attracted the attention of both and encroached upon the balustrade. It was the
car of the Infanta, who went for a walk, or the Minister of State who entered. Deteníanse at times
in front of the windows of the room Dona Tula, because from within familiar people greeted them
with expressive hands moving. And stopped to talk with Dona Antonia, the wardrobe, which drew
the blinds and watering their pots, and they joined a distinguished person in the neighborhood, Madame
Secretary del Rey, Sister Butler second, the inspector general with
his daughter, and walked together talking frivolously.

When they were entirely alone, the worthy officer used to rely Rosalia its domestic troubles, which
had lately come to disturb the happy serenity of his character.

Oh! The big fish was not happy in their married life. Ms. Fish, by name Carolina, raw of Lantiguas
(though wrongly stated in another story coming down from lush Pipaón tree), was delivered to devotion.
Which was once the same sweetness, He had become surly and intractable. All the angry and was always
quarreling. With so much fanfare and that moral perfection of religious mania, you could not
endure their features possessed of genius, taxation, inquisitorial or less his harsh censure of
the actions others. Spent months without her and her husband to change a single word. It was
the home and a constant challenge for the club and Brawls based on any nonsense. "If the battle
was only between her and me, - said fish - take him with patience - but little heat time here
involved with our children. " The poor girls are showing keen to follow his mother that way
of salvation ... Naturally, they were young and liked going to the theater and attend the
society. What scandals, suffocating, what whining by This incompatibility of worldly comfort
and religious duties! Not a day passed without there was some hubbub and syncope, which was necessary
to call the doctor and bring these and other drugs ... Fish tried to compromise, agree wills, but
could not nothing. Ultimately, it always sides with the poor girls, because she was mortified
see them praying over the bill and doing stupid penance. If they were very Christian and Catholic,
what drove the saints and martyrs make them point blank? For his part, D. Manuel religious
brake conceived it indispensable for the maintenance of society and order. Religion had always defended
and it seemed very well that governments protect her, chasing her detractors. Came to admit, as
indispensable in the scheme politician of his time, the hypocrisy
of the state, but private prudery will burst.

The most serious of all was the struggle Carolina with their sons. Little could not escape maternal custody
yet, and I was all day in church with her book in hand. But Joaquin, who was already twenty years
old, lawyer, philosopher, economist, writer, magazine, historian, poet, Theogonist, Athens, how could
submit to confession and communion every Sunday? Federico was also very early and made the Majabarata
articulejos. Big thunder burst when either said something that her mother seemed sacrilege.
Christ that was assembled! One day, eating, Carolina pulled the tablecloth, broken dishes, spilled
the contents of them and salt and wine, and shut himself in his room, where she cried for
three hours. A poor things Rosa and Josefa until last fall had dressed
in short, were forced to confess every month.

Innocents, what sins could have if you did not even have a boyfriend?

The worst thing was that the lady cavalier Pez missed a guilt of irreligion of children. Yes,
he was an atheist masked, a herejote, a rationalist, it was content to hear Mass. only on Sundays,
almost from the door, talking politics with D. Cucurbits Francisco. Believed to genuflect when
rising, kneeling and scrawl on the tissue chest and forehead the sign of the cross, was sufficient.
For that it was better to be Protestant. In all the time who had married had not been approached
even once the court of penance. His devotion had been purely decorative, like carrying a hatchet
procession and sit on the banks of choice when it consecrated a bishop ... Finally, with this nonsense
of his wife, was the poor fish, not water, but stifled and bored. Who knew he had gone to Carolina
in the scouring of mysticism, and it was not work Lantigua Serafinita her cousin, who enjoyed
the view of saint. Speaking in silver, a premium was a calamity. In the church could be seen daily
at six o'clock and Serafinita Carolina, and there were dispatched to their liking. At home, Mrs. Fish,
sometimes changing the style threatening by comparison, for model put their children under Luisito
Sudre, the Telleria, he was a saint in milk, and already existed in their pink meat lashes.
The poor fish will consistently said that looking into the mirror D. Juan de Lantigua, the great
Catholic, great scholar and writer, so pious in theory and in practice, it did nothing contrary dogma,
nor their Christianity was of the formula, but sincere and real brave and straight, who not ashamed
to meet with the Church and to sit three hours on his knees beside the pious. It was not like
fish, the whole herd as moderate, which makes religion a ladder to climb to high places, it was
not like those men who get rich with assets Clergy and then preach Catholicism in Congress to
fool the fools, like those men leading to Christ on the lips and Lucifer in the heart, and believe
that giving some small rooms for the pope already been met. Farce, comedy, abomination!

Finally, D. Manuel had taken home abhorrence, and was on it at least possible. The peace did not
exist for him only in the office, which did nothing but smoke and receive friends, and home of one
of these, and Bringas, for example. Oh, how I envied household peace D. Francisco and the sweet
harmony between the characters of both spouse! He had been happy in his time, but not anymore.
Et in Arcadia ego. He was an outcast, a banished, and asked him please to have affection and
even cuddle him, to console of the troubled life she led at home.

Pez had these things to Rosalia with great vehemence, and she listened with keenest interest
and pity. Chatting, chatting, just felt the passing of the hours, and when the deep the shaded
patio out slow, mixed in a wet fresquecillo, when sunlight is dilated in the heights and the sky
began to nail the pale stars, D. Francisco, leaving the laborious hair, rubbing his eyes appeared,
and took part in the conversation.

XIV

From Augustine's cousin moved to Bordeaux, Rosalia not going to the theater but later to time,
occupying towns of sick friends or those who are bored of repetition too much of a dramatic
piece. I do not remember if it was the Monday or Tuesday when Milagros had the grace to stay home.
D. Francisco went to these meetings with his wife, but felt so tired lately that Rosalia had to
go alone with Paquito. In May, the proximity examinations required the young discreet not to
abandon their studies, and then accompanied her mother to the door of the house Telleria, turning
to his fatigue and his books. Fish was in charge of carrying Mrs. Bringas the marital home at noon
or one night, and by the way, that from the first piece of the Atocha Street Palace not very long,
rarely leaving D. Manuel to sing the jeremiad of domestic disturbance. Every night, pitiable
recounted episodes, and able to move in the storms of compassion
Rosalia chest.

When this arrived home, and Don Francisco, tired eyes and head for reading two or three newspapers
after the work of the cenotaph, had gone to bed and dozed coughing and snoring away the hours
with others. After a tour of the nursery to see if they have enough clothes or Isabelita nightmare,
chatted a bit with Rosalia her husband, while he was dropping one by one their finery, their
skirts and corset that machine where their meat, imprisoned, very visible ways demanded freedom.
Although much had happy to go to the gatherings in Miracles, routine flatter her husband inspirábale concepts
something contrary to the truth, but rather it can be forgiven in
favor of trials beautifully exact about things and people was observed
by her in the halls of Telleria.

"Son, if you do not return, I will not further. It annoys me the gathering of miracles which no
you can imagine ... That's not for me. You see some things ...! Of course I laughed more ...!
Milagros poor, as is so confident with me, everything I know tells me his troubles as if I pass it. It
is a suffocating, and I do not know how that woman has a soul to receive people without possessing
means nothing. Tonight has not fuss over four, four rubbish ... Shame! Imagine saying that
the freeloaders will not go to those houses that to give them dinner ... Never have I seen
a woman over her chest. Had given the seven and still did not know how to fix the buffet. Sent
to the cafe ... is to laugh ... and would not fiarle twenty pounds of pasta. I do not know
where he got that sweet ham was all cuts and leftovers, and that boar's head that smelled of
waste ... Finally, sucks ... He had good wines, yes ... Who knows where it's been taken out,
and who is sucker that gave ... Apuradísima was poor, but how he hid ...! Do not believe,
happy ever after, everyone smiling, and when I went to was transformed and looked into a sea captain
commanding the maneuver in case of shipwreck. (Indignándose.) Ah, that Badulaque, zanganote
that the Marquis is to blame. Is committed to the eyes, and the day when Creditors throw up,
no shirt will wear. Poor Milagros is very good, is a soul from God, but we must recognize that
it is spendthrift. If they put thousand dollars in hand, it spends in a day like a hundred
reals. I give advice, preach it, we trace a plan, a method, but quia!, is useless. Sometimes
it seems reformed, but goes, goes through a store, see any rag, and my money goodbye ... loses
his wits, gets the fever ... I I mean, when I buy: "I jumped you will screw your head ..." And if
you saw ...! Children pitiful. Tonight I entered the room Leopoldito, and I say it looks like
a screen of a shoe shop site, the wall full of doodles stuck with wafers, scenes fights, cartoons
from newspapers ... in short, indecentísimo, and everything on the other hand, all stirred,
much smell of drugstore potions, because the guy is a little bit off; noveluchas of a peseta
instead of textbooks, whips and sticks in such numbers that would have to put store it; the
unmade bed, because it had risen to six in the evening ... There walked limping with broken boots,
begging food and sweets and meats peering that brought to pounce on them like a hungry ... Gustavo
is another matter. What Formica and how well educated! There he was arguing with men and throwing
a lot of rumbling word ... It seems to me a stuffed fraquito Scropp your premature baby, and when
he speaks, as well as when he walks, he seems to have been wound with a key ... Mary is what
is being beautiful. The Marquise does not present even to avoid the age, and give pain to see
that fixie as developed as ... Do not think, has more front than your mom ... see da pain stuck
in there playing with dolls, tangling with the issues raised or copying French.
 We were compelled either to beg,
or to steal, and we did both. I frankly confess, that while I hated everything like stealing,
as such, I nevertheless did not hesitate to take food, when I was hungry, wherever I could
find it. Nor was this practice the mere result of an unreasoning instinct; it was, in my case,
the result of a clear apprehension of the claims of morality. I weighed and considered the
matter closely, before I ventured to satisfy my hunger by such means. Considering that my labor
and person were the property of Master Thomas, and that I was by him deprived of the necessaries
of life necessaries obtained by my own labor--it was easy to deduce the right to supply myself
with what was my own. It was simply appropriating what was my own to the use of my master,
since the health and strength derived from such food were exerted in his service. To be sure,
this was stealing, according to the law and gospel I heard from St. Michael's pulpit; but I
had already begun to attach less importance to what dropped from that quarter, on that point,
while, as yet, I retained my reverence for religion. It was not always convenient to steal
from master, and the same reason why I might, innocently, steal from him, did not seem to justify
me in stealing from others. In the case of my master, it was only a question of removal--the
taking his meat out of one tub, and putting it into another; the ownership of the meat was
not affected by the transaction. At first, he owned it in the tub, and last, he owned it in
me. His meat house was not always open. There was a strict watch kept on that{148} point, and
the key was on a large bunch in Rowena's pocket. A great many times have we, poor creatures,
been severely pinched with hunger, when meat and bread have been moulding under the lock, while
the key was in the pocket of our mistress. More
Candida, with that authority that he knew clothed at all times serious, sent clear one of the skylights
to take free possession of her girls Telleria, Lantigua and Bringas. Démontrer lady! He threatened
to put out a stranger if all people not obeyed.

Curious spectacle was the Hall of Columns as seen from the roof. The table of the twelve poor
did not look very good, but that of the twelve old was in front and not a detail lost. What
a shame the unhappy with their merino dresses, their new shawls and the head scarves! Verse among
much pomp, served by the Queen herself, including that the asked a sad day before farthing
in the door of a church! ... No lifting his eyes table rather than to look astonished those
who served them. Some shed tears of embarrassment rather than gratitude, for its position among
the mighty of the land and to the charity of label that favored more was to humiliate that
pamper. If all effort of imagination would not be sufficient to represent Christ in tails, there
is no reasoning which can convince us that this comedy palace has nothing to do with Gospel.

The
plates were taken at the door, hands raised, for the straight people waiter made in this pious
occasion.

Forming chain, ladies and gentle men were going to the very hands of the Kings, who presented
them to the poor air of kindness and courtesy, the only sympathetic note in that picture theatrical
farce. But the unhappy not eat, if they were eating had a great hurry to see. Probably his
clumsy hands could not remember how it carries food to the mouth. Rations placed on the table, a
servant was caught them and put in two baskets that had every poor behind from his seat. Shortly afterwards,
when real people and the greatness left the room, out those with her basket, and the chambers
of the pastries were waiting innkeepers Madrid or other unique merchants to buy everything for
a few dollars.

The duration of the food, the gracious spectators did not stop his
talk talkative.

Mary Egyptian, would have liked to be down, with great dress tail, passing trays. One of the
Lantigua would venture to argue that this was a comedy misrepresented, and again only was fixed
in the luxury of costumes and uniforms.

- Look, look my mom. Do you see her dress peach? It is next to Mr. Fish, talking with him.

- Yes ... now look at the ceiling ... Well know we're here. And D. Francisco also see, there
... along the steward of the week. Next to my mom ...

- What a beautiful marquise with mauve skirt and cloak!

... Ah, Dona Tula Dona Tula ... if you look up, if we look ... Here we are ...

- Each ceremony of this is costing my aunt many headaches and much trouble, because know the
recommendations it receives ... For twenty-four poor, there are three
hundred recommendations.

Every day letters and the Marchioness recaditos or countess. Daughter ...!, they seem to go to
give a big target.

- Tell me, girl - said with disgust Candida sovereign - that yesterday and today I have left
live. Tomasa, the camera girl, my neighbor, was in charge of washing the twelve elders such poor and
change their smelly rags for clothes that have been today. Poor women! It is the second water
that falls on your life and be the first if they had not baptized. Oh, girls! ... What scene
this morning! Believe, have spent a vat of cologne ... I wanted to help a little, because it seemed
to meet something that our Lord commands us Jesus Christ.

If not for me, not just scrubbing all morning ... Speaking truthfully, if I were poor and I
bring to this ceremony was to acknowledge not all, because frankly, passing the shock and discomfort
of being so washed, not offset by what they provide.

The funny chickens, whose tender age had much value the spiritual and imaginative, not understand
these practical reasons the experienced Dona Candida, and all were own, nice and appropriate
to double majesty of Religion and the Throne ...

Isabelita Bringas was a sickly child, weak, spirit, and watched it predispositions epilepsy. His
sleep was often disturbed by distressing nightmares, followed by vomiting and seizures, and sometimes
lacking this symptom, the bad early manifested a more alarming. He would like lela and took
too long to understand things, completely missing Infant liveliness. It could not be nagging,
and at school the teacher had orders not impose any punishment or require her application and
work. If during the day witnessed something to excite their sensitivity or had cases before
her pitiful, at night reproduced at all in his troubled sleep. This is compounded when excess
in food or by poor condition of this, the stomach's digestive work of the poor child was over
With few forces. That Thursday, Dona Tula splendidly fed her friends. The girl was docked Bringas
a bowl of milk, which he liked, but it dearly paid the poor, as did a quarter-hour that had
been lying when he was thrust fever and delirium, and began to look and feel with horrible
blunders all incidents, people and things of that day so busy that had so much fun. Repeated
games the terrace, saw the girls all, greatly disfigured, and Candida as a major black pastor
who guarded the flock again attended the ceremony of food poor, peering through a hole in the skylight,
and animated figures of the roof, removing out their paws to scare the curious ... Then he heard playing
real progress. Was that Queen ascended to the terrace? No, appeared through the door of the ladies
step mom, grabbed Pez's arm, and his dad giving him the Marquise de Telleria. What came dragging
pretty those queues that certainly had more than one league! ... And they, how well packaged
and what stiff! ... Came to rest and take refreshment at Dona Tula, to accompany more late
to the whole Court Lady and the visit of Tabernacles ... For all the gates Palacio top of
several liveries appeared much blue and red cloth, much gold braid and silver, tricorn infinite
... Raving again, he saw the shining city and glazed a thousand colorful. Surely it was a city
of dolls, but what a doll! ... By various sides white wigs out, and no door opened into the
recesses of the second floor without give way to a beautiful wax figure, tow or porcelain, and
all ran down the corridors shouting "it's time ...». Crossed on the stairs coming up with gallon
gallon down ... All the dolls were in a hurry. In this he forgot one thing, one another, a
buckle, a pen, a lanyard. Some called their women so that they achieve something, and all repeated,
"when ...!». After swirling down the main staircase. In the courtyard, the yeomen writhed with
coachmen and footmen, and was like a big pot that boiled human members of many colors, twisting
to the action of heat ... His mom and dad came back again ... Well, they were hermosotes! But
much nicer would your dad when hiciese Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. King was hard at it, and
had promised to give him a uniform with all the accessories of the sword, spurs and more. Guapín
What would his father with his white coat, all white! ... At this point, the poor she was
completely soaked his being on an idea of ​​whiteness, at the same time an obstruction horrible embarrassed,
as if things reproducing his brain, dolls and palace were contained within his tiny stomach. With
agonizing convulsions threw it all out and contained the rave, and felt a relief ...! His mother
had jumped from the bed to go to help her. Isabelita clearly heard, and awakened, the loving
voice saying: "It's over, darling, that's nothing. "

IX

The beauty of miracles had not yet reached the twilight in which
we featured in the sad story of his son for years 75 to 78, but moved
away and enough of the meridian of life.

The restoration procedure used with rare skill still not denounced themselves same as those plasters
marred by the poor condition of the building to which they apply. The time defending his wit,
his elegance, his refined taste in clothing gear and sympathy inspire those who knew not trying
to close.

All these qualities equally subjugated the spirit of Rosalía Bringas,
but what stood out including the most tyrannical was the exquisite
taste in fashion rags.

This gift for her friend was like the sun shining Bringas which could not face watching to face without
dazzling. Because in that estimate had the authority of the Marchioness in these treaties,
which did not dare have an opinion that was not a true reflection of the August proclaimed by
her. All doubts about a color or form of dress were cut with a word of Miracles. What is said
was already legal body for any question that occurs later, as not only authorizing legislation
but his teaching by example, dressing in a spotless, the de Bringas, which at this time in our
history was passionate greatly by the dresses, rose to Milagros in his soul a veritable altar. Garcia's
widow Grande Rosalie captivated with its prestigious historical figure. Respetábala this as the gods
of a dead religion, but Milagros had it in the predicament of living dogmas and the gods in power.
Nobody in the world, even Bringas, was on the ascendant Pipaón as large as Miracles. The woman,
authoritarian and somewhat rude to peers and lower became timid in the presence of his idol,
who was also his teacher.

Agustin Caballero freebies and assignment of all the finery she had bought for wedding, Rosalie awoke
the passion of the dress.

His former modesty that most had virtue of necessity, was subjected to a test that did not come
out victorious. In another time, the wisdom of Thiers was able to curb the appetite of luxury,
making us believe all that did not exist when the only positive in this was the inability to
satisfy them. It is the primary event in human history and the eternal case, the case where
order of fragility. While there was no evidence the fruit forbidden by God that household, all going
well. But the apple was bitten, but the devil take the form of snake here ruin or other animal,
and goodbye my modesty. After having released so many beautiful costumes, how resigned to return
to the old rags never change no longer fashionable? This could not be. He had been blessed Augustine,
generously and without hesitation, the corrupter his cousin, had been the serpent in good faith
that got him in the head the most dangerous vanities that can hollow out the brain of a woman.
The gifts were the fruit whose sweetness took his innocence, and because of them an angel
with a sword of satin that I threw her paradise on your Bringas had it so secure. Nothing, nothing
... hard to believe that what Dona Eva is so remote. Say what you will, had to spend yesterday,
as it is for chilly and throbbing that event. Appear to have brought the papers last night.

As
his wife disapproved Bringas several dresses and expenses in finery and ornaments, she affected
to despise the news, but bells were always covered by reforms rags combining and interpreting
more or less freely what brought the figurines.

When Milagros was going to spend time with her, if Bringas was in the office, chatting at
home, venting each in his way, the passion that dominated them both.

X

But if the holy man was in his hollow window, plunged into the microcosm
of the work hair, the ladies were kept in the Carrion, and there were
dispatched to their liking without witnesses.

Rosalie pulled the dresser drawers gently to make noise, drew skirts, bodies pending reform,
pieces of cloth cut or cut, strips of velvet and silk, and putting it all on a sofa, on chairs,
trunks or soil if necessary, starting a feverish advice on what should be done to achieve the best
and most striking effect in of distinction. These councils had no end, and if you take minutes
of them offer an encyclopedic record of this curious womanly passion in the world does more
damage that revolutions. The two spoke quietly so as not found out Bringas, and was its rapid whisper,
drowned, vehement, sometimes indicating indecision and surprise, sometimes enthusiasm of a happy
thought. French words seeking to qualify this conference is taking off the fabric of our language,
but even if it stuck with pins, I have to hold for the exotic language rags castiza not lose
its brilliance.

Looking .--=( ROSALIA a fashion plate.) = To tell the truth, I do not understand this. I do
not know how have to unite behind the coat tails of French guard.

MIRACLES .--=( With a stunning, which gradually overcomes his great
trial.) = Let aside figurines.

Slavishly follow leads to the affected and loud. Begin by the choice of fabric. Do you choose you
the hint of white muslin scarf? Then the coat can not be adopted.

ROSALIA .--=( With determination.) = No; choose resolutely gros icing,
ash color pink.

Nephew told me that I will return the envelope. The icing gros puts me to twenty-four real.

Meditating
.--=( MIRACLES.) = Good, because if you look at the achievements icing, I would skirt adorned
four leaflets about four inches, let's see?, no, five or six, putting
him on the edge a narrow bias emerging green glaze ... Huh?

ROSALIA .--=( contemplating on ecstasy what is still not an abstraction.)
= Very good ... And the body?

MIRACLES .--=( Taking a half-body modeling and working with their hands on the fabric lapels and
skirts.) = The French guard coat will open in heart, with flaps, and closes on the side of
the stem with three or four green buttons ... here. The skirts ... Do you understand me?, Open
in front ... well ... showing the liner, which is green as the flap, and join those laps back
with recessed ... = (The Queen, throwing back her hands, cups her own dress in that part prominentísima,
where returns have to meet of the coat-tails.) = Is whole you ... It is cute. I said that the
lining This jacket is green and carries gros on the verge of a ruche of ribbon around the same
as the flyers ... How are you? Oh, do not forget that this suit is needed t well plegadita batiste,
Valenciennes lace folded in the neck ... holgaditos fists, holgaditos; to fall on the wrists.

ROSALIA .-- Oh ... t I have two or three classes ...

MIRACLES .-- I've seen that has come from Paris to San Salomó Pilar
food to suit and theater ... = (With aesthetic emotion, rolling his
eyes.) = What costume!

Divine Thing ...!

ROSALIA .--=( With eager interest.) = What is it?

MIRACLES .-- pink satin skirt, touching the floor, adorned with a lace-covered steering wheel. How
very chic! On it are eight black velvet ribbons.

ROSALIA .-- And puffs?

MIRACLES .-- Four orders. Then, on the skirt fits waist = (Uniting word Descriptive mime hands
in their own size.) = do you understand? ... fits the Cutting a garment waist ... In doing
this, and falls around here, forming a caught behind a big pouf.

= (In enthusiasm.) = How original!

Caught below the tail largely extend the same studs in the skirt, but what a well thought out!
It is sublime!

... See you ... well ... here ... in such a way ... corresponding
with them only for a retroussé ... Is means that the mantle has a
flap whose peaks are here ... under the pouf ... Do you understand
you, dear?

ROSALIA .--=( astounded.) = Yes ..

I understand ... I see ... Will be precious ...

MIRACLES .--=( superbly with a gesture expressing the successful placement of what he describes.) = Large
loop on puffs of satin ... It's a wonderful effect.

ROSALIA .--=( assimilating everything you hear.) = "And the body?

MIRACLES .-- Very low, with the shoulder straps fasten through ties ... But beware: these ties
have not fallen ... The shirt is a novelty ...!, studs silk ribbons TIGHT past velvet dots. Long
sleeves ...

Removing and putting .--=( ROSALIA fabrics and pieces for a better comparison.) = I have an
idea for this dress shirt. If I choose to end the ash color pink ... = (Stopping pensive.) =
me decide what I'm clumsy! The figurine ... = (Collecting all in shock and quickly.) = I think
I feel Bringas. They are an ordeal these openly ...

MIRACLES .--=( helping to keep all hastily.) = Yes, I feel his little cough. Oh, friend, your
husband seems to Customs, so that is pursuing the rags ... Hide contraband.

Rosalia were happy times for those passing through the Marquise discussing the form and manner
to fix his clothes. But the greatest joy it was to accompany her friend to stores though sorrows
not going to buy many good things he saw. Weather they would not feel it. Milagros was made to show everything
in the store, stirring, comparing; the sudden passing whim to cold disdain; haggling, and
concluded by acquiring different things cargábanle the amount in your account. Rosalia, if something
bought, after much thought and cruising around money, paid always tocateja. Their purchases
were generally not that patchwork, outdated or fabric pieces to make matches with the good
she was at home, and recast the old giving sheen and representation of novelty.

But one day he saw at the home of a mantle Sobrino Hermanos ... What piece, what apple of Eve! The
passion of the collector in the presence of a rare specimen, the enthusiasm of the hunter to
view of a brave and stout res give us no idea of ​​this great fondness wipe in certain women.
Rosalia you were the eyes behind the superb garment, when the kind trade-dependent taught an
assortment of them, piling on the counter as if they were empty bags. Timidly asked the price
but were afraid to haggle.

The enormity terrified cost almost as much as it seduced splendid piece, in which the velvet
bright cloth and trimmings combined pilgrimage. At home he could not remove imagination, all
day and all night, the happy mantle, and thereby snatched his blood
burning desire, which feared an erysipelas ataquillo if not sated.

Again Milagros to stores the next day, with no intention of entering the Sobrino, where temptation
was great, but the Devil arranged for them to be, and here displayed
again on the counter white boxes, those glossy cardboard chests which
they are filed women's dreams.

The clerk took them out one by one, forming black stack. The preferred appeared with its elegant
shape and luxurious trimmings, in which black lightning bead, trembling in plush, confirmed
all that the poets have said mantle night. Rosalie had to feel cold in the chest, burning in
the temples, and their shoulders Nerves suggested so true to the
sense of touch and weight of the mat, he believed and carry on.

-
Buy it you ... by God! - Milagros said her friend in a manner so suggestive
that Sobrino dependent and it could not but support a concept as sensible.

Why what is to be deprived of an article that falls so well?

And when the shopkeepers moved away a bit in the direction of another group of parishioners,
the Marchioness catechesis followed her friend to this whisper

- Do not deprive you buy if you like ... and indeed is very cheap ... Just come you with me, that
does not need to pay now. I have here a lot of credit. No you will pass the bill until within
a few months, into the summer, and perhaps year-end.

The long term idea was hesitant to Rosalia, tilting all its spirit-side Purchase ... Actually,
1700 was not exorbitant real for her and easier it would gather,
if you will light selling some things that no longer wanted to be,
if in addition economized, sparing with patience and perseverance
the daily expenditure of the house. The worst thing was that Bringas
was not to authorize such a considerable expense which was not absolutely
necessary.

Other times she had made herself his polkas and shawls,
borrowing one for the model. Buying the tackle on the rise in Santa
Cruz, joining pieces, hiding patches, obtained satisfactory results
through hard work and little money. But how could compare the pobreterías
made for her with that brilliant model come from Paris? ... Bringas
not allow luxury that certainly had to look Asian, and that the thing
happened, it was necessary fool ... No, no, not determined.
Like some horse breakers, noted for their skill, who ride the best horses in the country without
expense, Mr. Covey could have under him, the most fiery bloods of the neighborhood, for the
simple reward of returning them to their owners, well broken. Added to the natural fitness
of Mr. Covey for the duties of his profession, he was said to "enjoy religion," and was as
strict in the cultivation of piety, as he was in the cultivation of his farm. I was made aware
of his character by some who had been under his hand; and while I could not look forward to
going to him with any pleasure, I was glad to get away from St. Michael's. I was sure of getting
enough to eat at Covey's, even if I suffered in other respects. This, to a hungry man, is not
a prospect to be regarded with indifference.

CHAPTER XV. Covey, the Negro Breaker

JOURNEY TO MY NEW MASTER'S--MEDITATIONS BY THE WAY--VIEW OF COVEY'S RESIDENCE--THE FAMILY--MY
AWKWARDNESS AS A FIELD HAND--A CRUEL BEATING--WHY IT WAS GIVEN--DESCRIPTION OF COVEY--FIRST
ADVENTURE AT OX DRIVING--HAIR BREADTH ESCAPES--OX AND MAN ALIKE PROPERTY--COVEY'S MANNER OF
PROCEEDING TO WHIP--HARD LABOR BETTER THAN THE WHIP FOR BREAKING DOWN THE SPIRIT--CUNNING AND
TRICKERY OF COVEY--FAMILY WORSHIP--SHOCKING CONTEMPT FOR CHASTITY--I AM BROKEN DOWN--GREAT
MENTAL AGITATION IN CONTRASTING THE FREEDOM OF THE SHIPS WITH HIS OWN SLAVERY--ANGUISH BEYOND
DESCRIPTION.

The morning of the first of January, 1834, with its chilling wind and pinching frost, quite
in harmony with the winter in my own mind, found me, with my little bundle of clothing on the
end of a stick, swung across my shoulder, on the main road, bending my way toward Covey's,
whither I had been imperiously ordered by Master Thomas. The latter had been as good as his
word, and had committed me, without reserve, to the mastery of Mr. Edward Covey. Eight or ten
years had now passed since I had been taken from my grandmother's cabin, in Tuckahoe; and these
years, for the most part, I had spent in Baltimore, where--as the reader has already seen--I
was treated with comparative tenderness. I was now about to sound profounder depths in slave
life. The rigors of a field, less tolerable than the field of battle, awaited me. My new master
was notorious for his fierce and savage disposition, and my only consolation in going to live{160}
with him was, the certainty of finding him precisely as represented by common fame. There was
neither joy in my heart, nor elasticity in my step, as I started in search of the tyrant's
home. Starvation made me glad to leave Thomas Auld's, and the cruel lash made me dread to go
to Covey's. Escape was impossible; so, heavy and sad, I paced the seven miles, which separated
Covey's house from St. Michael's--thinking much by the solitary way--averse to my condition;
but thinking was all I could do. Like a fish in a net, allowed to play for a time, I was now
drawn rapidly to the shore, secured at all points. "I am," thought I, "but the sport of a power
which makes no account, either of my welfare or of my happiness. By a law which I can clearly
comprehend, but cannot evade nor resist, I am ruthlessly snatched from the hearth of a fond
grandmother, and hurried away to the home of a mysterious 'old master;' again I am removed
from there, to a master in Baltimore; thence am I snatched away to the Eastern Shore, to be
valued with the beasts of the field, and, with them, divided and set apart for a possessor;
then I am sent back to Baltimore; and by the time I have formed new attachments, and have begun
to hope that no more rude shocks shall touch me, a difference arises between brothers, and
I am again broken up, and sent to St. Michael's; and now, from the latter place, I am footing
my way to the home of a new master, where, I am given to understand, that, like a wild young
working animal, I am to be broken to the yoke of a bitter and life-long bondage." But
no, he indignantly rejected all domestic caliph thought of losing sight of the Villa and Court,
speaking pests and lost fools who spend the summer with borrowed money, and who spend three
months here room pittance for the pleasure of living a few days in inns making mistakes and
prominence to what they feed on them.

That double roughness that was mentioned above went slowly softening. Bringas was not intolerant
in a superlative degree, and though he was, knew to sacrifice the conjugal peace somewhere their
economic dogmas. The explanations he gave Rosalie makeshift class did not satisfy him completely,
but with a good faith effort known The great economist admit some of them. The faith of his religion
commanded you believe marriage something inexplicable, and believed it. If Rosalie had not passed
away, peace, after that transient alteration would have made a solid king at home, but did
not know the Pipaón and restraint, and the habit of secretly circumvent the rules of the Order
was bringuística and deeply rooted in his soul. Proporcionábale this habit, as well as the satisfactions
of vanity, a hidden pleasure. Who had so long been a slave, why ever was not to your liking?
Each of those actions wrong and illegal caressed the soul before and after smoking. Consciousness
knew how to draw, no one knows where, a thousand sophistries that justify all fully. "Quite a few hardships
I've had ... Why, perhaps not worthy I another position? ... You will have to get used to me a
little more liberated ... And ultimately After all, I look for the honor of the family ...».

What
most troubled his mind in those early days of solitude and heat was
the need to return the money in the casket.

Milagros had given him everything. Where do you get what was missing? Instantly she remembered
Torres, and since I had the opportunity to do so, made him a discrete indication. "He had,
what a pity! If a friend had ... Finally, the next day response. " Our friend was not baked the
bread to know the answer Torres, because every time I thought next disaster, which would be
great, strong and inevitable, since Bringas register their treasure. Fortunately or by special
intervention of the saints who invoked the Pipaón not yet had happened to the good man lift
the top ceiling. But when he did ...! And it was not worth the discretion of papers with rude
art imitating tickets, because I saw the mouse, albeit poorly, and it was impossible to touch was
relying only to the tonnage of the box. On tenterhooks the lady was all day 31 and part of
the immediate Torres gave up hope remedy. She began making it difficult, considering what had
worked to understand the convenience of the loan to his friend. Which was a certain Torquemada,
a man who did not your money without collateral. On that occasion, however, in deference to
Torres, would not require the husband's signature on the contract, because the lady was enough
... I could not do the loan more than a month, date extended, and giving four thousand pieces
of the note would four thousand five hundred. Ah, the four hundred thousand were deducted
brokerage real ...

Rosalie saw the heavens opened when Torres gave him the news, and
all it seemed little revenue and brokerage, for the great favor that
he did.

With three 1800 actual would have enough for their purpose, and you still have more than enough
about six dollars for something unforeseen occur. Everything would be fixed the next day August
2.

And the time running out, and the danger was imminent, as discussed by this phrase Bringas
copied verbatim:

"Daughter, I am sending Golfín account and will have to pay it after tomorrow 3. He leaves 4,
as I have said today. I shudder when I think of meat this man will take me by man of means.
How much will I? Can you think of yourself? I've thought about it all night, and I had nightmares
as Isabelita ... And today I said a phrase I Golfín got chills ... What I say, you're losing
me with the sheen loud that you see ... Well look that makes me laugh ... when you do not know if
we will be wrong with the doctor, that I say ... so, with that cheeky twang ... "Mr. D. Francisco,
yesterday saw his wife out of Mass San Ginés twelve ... Ever so elegant !...». So you will be happy
elegance knife that this man is going to mow your neck.

"

At half past ten the other day, while Don Francisco and the whole family was often in ride on the Cuesta
de la Vega, the operation was performed. Usurious appeared with accuracy, a fixed time, Torres
and Torquemada. This was a middle-aged man, graying beard shaved four days, dark and a clerical air.
Invariable practice was to ask him by the family to make your greeting, and spoke the words
apart and put between paragraphs asthma breaks, so that he could not hear but feel contaminated
obstructions in the emission of breath. Accompanied his tiresome speeches slow Lift the right
arm, forming with the index finger and thumb a kind of donut to put it to his partner before
his eyes, as an object of veneration. The visit was brief. The only part of the contract to
repair was made Rosalia concerning the time a month, which seemed too short, but Torquemada said he
could not extend it. "In early September had to ... give a bond in the County ... Provincial,
because presented to the auction ... Hospitals meat. While Pensáralo ... lady not have believed
it if possible ... refund at the time ... agreed, the loan ... not be verified. " In all it agreed
the lady, attentive only to leave the conflict of the day, took money, signed, and the two friends
parted, leaving expressions for the owner home to one of them who did not know. Remained the
Pipaón thrilled, and thought only on how to enter in the money pit. A little difficulty occurred,
and that was that not having a ticket of 400 scudi, but several small, had to procure a of those.
If the bills were otherwise, but the amount was the same, the cominero be called misleading.
With the pretext of making a visit out in the afternoon, frightened to death, suspecting her husband
whenever he pleased, while she was away, recording the Treasury. But a good angel watching over her,
nothing happened during the time spent doing the unusual exchange small bills for large one.
The money changer in the street looked at Carmen some wonder. At night, the delicate operation to
replenish the amount embezzled was made with all happiness.

Rarely had he felt so nervous my friend Bringas as in the moments
leading up on arrival Golfín account.

At about ten o'clock on day 3, he sent a message Paquito verbal, begging the doctor promptly
send her note attendance fees care, and would be half past eleven when the boy returned home, bringing
a letter. Bringas not breathing while her trembling hand tore the envelope and unfolded the paper.
Rosalia waiting also eager curiosity ... Eight thousand pieces! Reading this sum was perplexed Bringas,
wavering between joy and sorrow, as if the amount seemed excessive, on the other hand, fears that
were absurdly large, calm down before the true figure. There sometimes believed that the bill would
not lower than twelve or sixteen thousand pieces, and this suspicion will put out of it, others
conceived it not exceed four thousand. The party had actually the difference between these two
sums illusory, and finally came to comfort economist with arguments of Don Hermogenes school,
saying that if eight thousand reais were a lot of money compared to four, were relatively little
sixteen ... A further reason his Don Hermogenes that dominated the tumult of ideas at that time
arithmetic boiling in his brain, and that was that Ridley, as the recommended sick of the Queen,
having had no been nothing ...

XXXVIII

"But anyway, I agree.

I have not gone wrong, for I have come to my eyes. The first is health and health first sight.
And the truth is that this murderer has cured me well. Eight realitas thousand! It is quite
possible - he added with a sigh and feeling annoyed slightly - which, if not been for your elegance,
the shotgun would not have happened four thousand ...».

He took the money, he put a card very fine and very polite, thanking the learned doctor admirable for
his assistance, and all, letter and notes, oh sweet treasures of his soul, was introduced Gorgeous
in an envelope, of the office. Paquito was to take the second message. If Bringas sadly saw
the expatriation of his beloved banknotes, on the other hand felt the deep satisfaction and experience
of pay. This pleasure is only given to people a lot arrangement that to save money on saving
feelings it produces, and of these, they are content to enjoy the
most pure and spiritual.

Glided after this day with tedious slowness, the month of August, the month Madrid is Madrid,
but a solitary pan. In those days there was more theater summer circus of Price, with its seemingly
clows horses and that made all nights the same graces. The historic Prado was the only place of
solace, and in his twilight the love and conversation groups spent their time in conversations
more or less boring heat with defending abanicazos and sips of cool water. The locals that spend
the summer at the Villa are the real outcasts, outlaws, and his only
consolation ie drinking the best water in the world.

In his horrible boredom, dislike the Pipaón to go to the Prado, because I was reviewing this
as of misery and vulgarity. He had used many times the vexed formula-explanation of exile: "We took
a house in San Sebastian, pore ...»; Bringas disease and tired of it, dodging the chances
of repeating. At night and some people Bringas of the few in the city had been, they would get seats
on the terrace, and were North side of a group that lacked animation. Candida never failed. Completed
Mrs. gang of Montero de Espinosa, the two heads of office, that of an officer the secretary,
the director of the Royal Tables, the head of Wardrobe del Rey. Males attending the few that
there were lots, and were class lower, but the summer is very democratizing, and my dear Bringas,
longingly of society, not disdain to alternate, at a gathering in the open, with goalkeepers
Banda and Glass, with Storage Manager, with the aide of Silver, with two lockers, people all
six thousand reais down. These used to join a kitchen helper, who enjoyed fourteen thousand,
and some Saleta usher, who saw nine thousand. At these gatherings there was talk heat had done
for the day, the Court had already left the farm for Lequeitio, and other minutiae of personal and
household. On the third floor and in the spaces squares mode cut the length of the corridors,
streets, social gatherings were also formed office of porters, maids, sweepers and people coming
up out of stables. In the corresponding site large bars overlooking the Plaza de Oriente, on the ledge, the
strike lasted all evening with great entertainment, laughter, guitar playing and a soft drink
horchata strains. Doña Candida trilled against these disorders, because he could not close my eyes
all night, and threatened offenders to report them to the inspector general.

In the morning the whole family down to the Manzanares, where they bathed and Alfonsin Isabelita.
Dad had brought back to light denim suit, and with this, and the straw hat seemed he had just
come from Havana. Sheltered from light for very dark glasses, his eyes healed quickly, thanks
to the timely completion of the treatment plan that had Golfín left. The morning air and the
joy of the resort will put in a good mood, and constantly asserted that if the fools who will
be known establishments Jeronimos, Cypress, the Rainbow, the Esmeralda and the Andalusia, the
win would not have fixed migration. Paquito also threw intrepid wave of those little dirty
seas, sandwiched between mats, and swimming was a beauty, standing on the bottom. A Alfonsin was
necessary to beat him out, and she entered only to force. Five returning slowly small appetite for
ostrich, D. Francisco very happy and purposes lunch not to offend. To lower the river, Bringas had
to overcome the repugnance what inspired him. Just for the sake of her children she was able
to make that sacrifice. Le disgust gave water and bathers, all people more or less. I could not
look without horror septa mat, more appropriate to threaten the decency to keep it safe, and
Regular urchins shouting him so much nerves.

In the afternoon, almost dusk, would come down to Madrid to visit
a friend or to around known stores.

These had very few people. Luenga curtain kept in the local atmosphere less heat than the
street, and this darkness, as the idleness invited to the employees to sleep on pieces of cloth.
Occasionally found home for Sobrino Hermanos to some lady behind, some banished like her. New edition
the famous formula: "We took a house in San Sebastian, but ...». The other would say with commendable
frankness: "We hope to trains flights of September."

As in those days were shopkeepers hand over hand, to show entreteníanse
Mrs different fabrics and things on a whim.

"This will be much in the fall ... This is now range, because it is the fashion of the season. "
These phrases seemed to come from the folds of parts to be unfolded. The principal, who was preparing
to make the usual trip to Paris, urged to buy something, and she fell into temptation, sometimes
because I had some real bargains, others because the genre he entered through his right eye, lighting
all the fires of his passion Trappist, and could not fail to satisfy, on pain of suffering long,
the desire to purchase. Oh! The martyrdom of the summer had to compensate in next fall, dressed as
God commanded, her husband liked it or not. Was intended a new dress made of velvet for winter
and one of the most graceful canopy, new and elegant. At Young children dress like princes.
Ya, ya see the bobbin with Who was ... Thinking about these and other plans, slowly walked
the streets again home, he stopped at the shop windows of fashion and jewelry, and made a thousand
calculations the more or less remote chance of having something very valuable and rich he saw.
Sadness of Madrid in this period increased his sorrow. The calm of a few streets over hours
heat, the melancholy cry of those who proclaim horchatas and lemonade, the slow pace of the
panting horses, the doors of shops with many long hooded canopies, most are for folded to rejoice
that the spirits of those who also sit on your skin the effect of a high temperature and in spirit
from the beaches nostalgia. Preceded by wind storms dirty dust nerves horribly excited him, and
his only pleasure in witnessing was to see weather forecasts denials Bringas, which from the
sky clouding, said: "see how cool this afternoon." What had to cool ...! On the contrary, twice
the heat.

If you ever went out at night, heavy and suffocating atmosphere of the first hour This put
her in a devilish mood, let alone thinking how happy were those who at that when they were walking
in the Zurriola.

All of Madrid seemed ordinary, profane, a town lugarón more boorish people and sow the world.
When I saw the inhabitants of the most popular possessed of the sidewalks, their shirt-sleeves,
they too lightly, the children half naked toying with the stream, believed to be in a town of
Moors, as the idea I had of African cities. Up early and bathed in their own home, not wanting to stoop
to be a river nymph as pedestrian and pretentious as Mr. de Manzanares. In the early hours of
the day, open wide the balcony of the house, which gave West, came a little cool, and the
body and the spirit of the lady received some consolation. When I went to have a stroll through
the shops, the mortified by different odors doors out in the crowded streets, the smell of humanity
and stews. Louvered goodbye basements in some places a wave of freshness that's invited to
stop, but in those basements where there were kitchens, the fog was so disgusting that impelled toward
stream. He saw with delight the hoses, feeling eager to get a shower in their own meat, but
then it appeared from the ground a suffocating vapor, fumes mixing anything balsamic, which forced
her to revive the pace. The dogs drank from dirty puddles formed by the spray irrigation and
then refugiábanse in the shade, such as street vendors, tired of preaching goat shoes, tubes,
all real, lace, guide rail, whistles and pots artificial carbon economy ... During those hours in
that horrible and annoying station, only the flies and Bringas were happy.

XXXIX

It was, yes, the day of San Lorenzo when they received a letter that both of them stumped and just
as stunned.

Who does he ever come to meet the wonderful, this item life that
the ancients represented by appearances of angels, gods and spirits?

In our age wonder there as in the past, only the Angels have changed name and figure, and never
enter the keyhole. The extraordinary thing that my dear friends surprised her solitude, Augustine
was a letter from Knight. Both of them believed that the very specter of Indian generous they
were put forward. Speaking in the plural, they said to have taken a house in Arcachon, and
knowing that Bringas and kids suited to breathe fresh air and saline, were invited to spend
a month there. Offering was as cordial as explicit. The house was very large, with gardens and a
thousand comforts. Messrs. Rosalia would be staying in style and treated like royalty, without
them having to do expense of any kind ... "Amparo and I - the letter said in conclusion - we
are delighted for you to accept. "

Rosalie's first impulse was to hate and spite ... Daring to invite a respectable family ...! "That's
to be gloss alternating with us ... That is to get through decent people appearing in our company
... In short, they want us to be the honored flag covering contraband
... Are not you angry?

Because this is an insult. "

D. Francis was so busy untangling the awful mess of ideas that the letter put together in his
mind, had not yet had time to be outraged.

She continued chewing his wrath, and the storm clouds that erupted in her brain, bright lightning
that said "Basin!". Are booming in this word, chic and friendly even if it was issued nose,
was as involved a world of sleek satisfaction. Go to France, find station in San Sebastian
or San Juan de Luz a few Spanish families known and say, after the first greetings, "I will
Basin", was how to confess relational the Eternal Father. In thinking this, a puff of smoke came
balsamic Heart lady, pervaded his whole chest and he went up to the nose, giving it a very
lively and recessed itching considerably. Finally Bringas brain after a laboriosísimo delivery,
gave birth to this idea:

- Did they married? ...

- Marry! ... do not believe ... Well, little would have ballyhooed ... No, live like animals ...
It is indecent that we invite to live with him. For what? ... Distinctions are not there already
between people, no morality? They believe that we have so little shame in them ...!

- What a pity they are not married! - Economist murmured looking at her thumbs were still facing
each other, as wary of joining -. Because if they lived as God intended
... You see what proportion.

Free tickets, free home, free food! ...

The idea of ​​humble Amparo and be his guest and owe a big favor,
revolted pride the Pipaón ...

- You'd be able to accept - he said -.

I can not stoop to that.

- No, I do not ... Is saying ... Take, for example - stammered Bringas, even more perplexing -.
And we have reason to ensure that there are married.

- Marry or
not ... Do you think it is worth that silly ...?, who have been fed
leftovers our house ...

- Oh, my dear, do not ski, and who remembers
that?

The world will soon forget these things. When you have money you do not ask if you have never eaten
soup silly. Just imagine, in Arcachon nobody will know us or them or us ... Not that I want to
go. On the contrary. I will reply thanking you ...

Such a refusal would put back in the eyes of the lady the ideal prospect of a journey that popular
site for recreation. You move
merrily before the gentle gale, and I sadly before the bloody whip! You are freedom's swift-winged
angels, that fly around the world; I am confined in bands of iron! O, that I were free! O,
that I were on one of your gallant decks, and under your protecting wing! Alas! betwixt me{171}
and you the turbid waters roll. Go on, go on. O that I could also go! Could I but swim! If
I could fly! O, why was I born a man, of whom to make a brute! The glad ship is gone; she hides
in the dim distance. I am left in the hottest hell of unending slavery. O God, save me! God,
deliver me! Let me be free! Is there any God? Why am I a slave? I will run away. I will not
stand it. Get caught, or get clear, I'll try it. I had as well die with ague as with fever.
I have only one life to lose. I had as well be killed running as die standing. Only think of
it; one hundred miles straight north, and I am free! Try it? Yes! God helping me, I will. It
cannot be that I shall live and die a slave. I will take to the water. This very bay shall
yet bear me into freedom. The steamboats steered in a north-east coast from North Point. This is from you to me, and the first thing you have to ignore is
Bringas ... Within the trust, friendship and pure honest, I can offer you I have left and you
take what you need without compromising the dignity of either. "

They followed this phrase of a more romantic than financial, in which the unfortunate Mr. expressed
once again experiencing the comfort his aching soul breathing the atmosphere that house, and
discharging the burden of his sorrows in the forgiving person holding and first place in their
hearts and their thoughts. Rosalie left the window with upset head. Would have gladly been
there a couple of hours listening to those rhetorical, in its view, were as debt arrears of tribute
that the world had to pay with it.

Some days passed without noticing Bringas sensible move in condition. Golfín cruelly tormented him
three times a week, passing by the eyelids a wet brush silver nitrate, then another brush
dipped in a solution of common salt. Our friend see the stars with this, and needed all the strength
of his spirit and his entire dignity of man not to be bawling like a child. By applying compresses
cold water soothed her pain. Some time after the fire was on welfare, and it was felt better
and Golfín grandly praised. After ten or twelve days with this system, the wise eye ensured
that all the good lord in August would be much improved, and that September healing would be
complete and radical. The patient had such faith in the words of that distinguished teacher, did not doubt
the accuracy of the forecast. After 20, cauterization, was done as copper sulfate, was less
painful, and the patient could be some times without a bandage on
the darker room, but focus attention on anything.

The hyperbolic praise D. Francisco had to take her as Ridley's hand another order of ideas, and
frowning, scowling put. "When I think little story that I will make this Santa Lucia with his coat
- he said - I tremble meat. He I heal the face, but I will draw an eye from his pocket ... Not
that I spare, being of the precious treasure of sight, not that I
feel give all my savings, if need be; but it is, my dear, that this
marvel is going to leave without a shirt.

"

While they stood to both, husband and wife, the renowned specialists have always into account,
their fee request, the fate of the patient. A rich, you open a potentate carcass, yes, but
when it comes to a sad employee or any person of humble position, humanizing and able to adapt
to reality. Rosalie knew of a family (those of precisely Reed), who had led Golfín little to
the removal of a cyst followed by a slow and difficult to cure. Sign in these ideas of distributive
justice, applied aching mankind, the great Thiers, when Ridley was present, never stopped stunned
well studied with lamentations of their fate. The good man is crying so much that very nearly
was like asking for a handout: "Oh, Mr. D. Theodore, my life will bless you for well I do,
and more will bless you for my children for me because those poor not have to eat if I have
eyes to see! ... Oh, D. Theodore of my soul ... cure me soon so you can get to work, because
if this goes on, goodbye family! ... We are in a horrible lag because of my illness. In the
Administration I have reduced the salary to half, and as I do not see you soon ... What a future!
... And do not tell me. I do not care finish my days in a hospital,
but these poor children ... these pieces of my heart ...».

XXXIII

Mal these ideas were consistent with that Ridley was the establishment of the position and gentlemen
Rosalia, as many times as he had seen the happy couple in theaters, on field trips and public
places, very well dressed one and another, as was also seen walking Rosalia Castellana drive
in the Marquise de Telleria of Fúcar or Santa Barbara and even thought he found it in a meeting
elegant, competing in galas and stiffness with people of higher rank, supposed to give value
to these social cues that D. Francis was a man of revenue, or at least one of those officials
who can remove policy of the juice in vain want others to make the hard, dry work area. But
that Ridley was a little naive in worldly affairs, and as he had
spent most of his life abroad, knew bad our customs and live this
specialty Madrid, which elsewhere would be called Mysteries, but here
are no secret.

As Bringas was entering box, warned his wife that weakened those abductions conjugal affection so
vividly attacked him in the dismal days of his illness. Observed her that such exaggerations
of love got along poorly with the hope of remedy, and when This had the advantage over the disappointment,
the child senile soboncito crying and regained the conditions real manly character. On the
spot, that's you be the lady the slave house and I turned out to be lip service, sick cuddle
irrelevant. Since my man could govern alone and spend hours without suffering, though deprived
of sight, Gasparini in his chair as he had entered as a whole and inspect hormiguilla to provide
for and learn about the innards of the house ... Rosalia, not to hear, let him alone Paquito
or Isabelita with most of the day, and claiming occupations, occurred long encerronas in the Camon,
where he again began to operate Emilia amid a sea of ​​rags and tapes,
whose choppy waves came to the door.

But the economist, anxious to show his authority at every turn, come
mandábala his presence, and there, with gestures and looks not with
inexorable judge, made public display (this used to be Torres or some
other friend) domestic sovereignty.

"I smell a stew of sugar. What is this? The girl told me this morning was great package brought
from the store ... Why did not I noticed this ?...».

Rosalie answered awkwardly eat that day in the house Mr. Fish and the host should not be treated
as Candidita, who was given half bun dessert and two dried figs.

"But, my dear, you should be thrown into the fire a bushel of cinnamon ... Is the house stinks
... If I were good, would not these things well. Surely you've made custard for an army ... Do
not even think of anything. To ask the chef how he did such a thing, he'll have sent fact
... And let's see: What is the sound of scissors that I felt all
day today?

... Would I do that, and what brings you here the loafer tasks Emilia
... What is it, to the Marchesa dresses?

This story is much that we shop here a dressmaker for your honor ... And tell me, what clothes
you've done to children, was struck yesterday in the Plaza de Oriente? ".

- Drawing attention!

- Yes, calling attention ... by well-dressed ... Thankfully, that's why. Ridley told me this
morning: "I saw yesterday in the Prado to their children so elegant you ...». Look closely, So
elegant! Believe it, my daughter, this palabrilla known me very badly and I have traversed.
What we think of this good man, when you see that our children go
out there facts lambs a raffle, as the richest people?

... Think whatever nonsense ... I figured some of this myself, because yesterday, in a little while
I unravel, I saw the girl Autumn was wearing very thin stockings. Where did that come from? ...
And he has, Why not remove them to enter the house? ... What is this? What happens here? ...
From this we deal when I see clearly and without pain, that God will be soon.

With these Andromina, Rosalie was, it is easy to suppose, given to demons. He sought to appease
with subtle explanations of everything, but his genius did not come
fully achieve the desired Finally, because of suspicion of the extraordinary
good economist and large their knowledge of things and domestic arts.

A single lady unburdened her heart oppressed, speaking mutely a phrase angry, bitter: "Cursed
cominero, when did I prove that I deserve? ... Do not ever understand a woman like me has to
cost more than a housekeeper? ... Do not you understand, why, Nonito, tooth fairy? Well, I
can I will understand. "

Making plans of gradual emancipation, and studied sentences that was soon to express their final attempt
to break that bondage silly and ridiculous, but all came to their minds land when considering
the huge embarrassment that would befall her if the Bobito discovered the exploration made
in the false bottom of a treasure chest. Christ Father, how was going to get! ... Big lack was
her role to remove that portion of the marital fortune, because although conceived it all
his own, should not take it without consent of their own tooth fairy ... But more was his mistake
to believe that such a man could have jokes that nature. The apology on the occasion of the event
was conceptualized as reasonable seemed to him as vain and unbecoming
of a serious person.

The motives for which it was antojáronsele without any basis, and powerfully argued his conscience.
No, I could not wait her husband felt the need. Gave him a strong dismay at the thought that
he discovered, and was indispensable in place to replace the ill-fated number, six thousand pieces,
he had taken five thousand for a thousand to perform miracles and chandeliers and other trifles.

The
need for this return is imposed so his spirit, no longer thought of nothing thing. He had the strength
of the note and word of the Marquise. This reassured on 22, saying: "Everything is arranged. Can you
neglect. " But meanwhile, Rosalia Black went off, expecting every moment a disaster and run all
sorts of industries and machinations to avoid it. Until then Bobito persisted in the good habit
to give his wife the keys to her chest sacase of money.

But one afternoon antójasele back to their old ways and make the fateful Cajoncillo, and opens
and begins to fondle him that within had ... Oh, God, what my trance,
what time!

The color Pipaón it was and another was coming. Lela and terror was
impedíale make a decision.

"You ... always messing ... You ignore what it says D. Theodore ... What a man ... Dame the case
here. "

- Stand back, calamity - Bringas said defend his treasure with strong gesture.

He told the hundreds of gold one by one, hit two ounces, the old clock that had been his father,
a chain and medallion ancient ... As nothing was missing, there was no danger while standard
was not the double bottom ... Rosalie felt compelled to shout "burning the house!" or other similar
outrage, but did not dare because it was present Paquito. And flexible cominero hands stroked
the part where the top ceiling rose. Rosalia invoked all the saints, all the Virgin, the Blessed
Trinity, and still thinks it made a promise to Santa Rita if he pulled the sake of trouble. But
when D. Francisco got the nail in the wood huequecillo, was in his
mind a change of intention must have been a miracle ... Withdrawing
his fingers closed the casket.

Rosalia turned his soul the body, and his lungs breathed again.

He had been in a trice ... Surely it was wrong by the imagination of her husband's idea, not
even the suspicion of embezzlement, and although it was reviewing tickets just for fun, on this
occasion he did God knows why. Perhaps all those invocations that Ms. made the Saints were
well received, and an angel tooth fairy inspired the idea of ​​leaving for another time counting
their savings.

XXXIV

But Pipaón not had all along until they saw him save the casket, put it in your site carefully, as
it gets in the cradle a sleeping child, and turn the key to the drawer. Only then raised his mind
to heaven in thanksgiving for the favor he had just grant. But what did not happen that day
by special divine intervention could well be in another. Saints are not always the same mood.
In case the second time seemed to him to record the double bottom, ran the industrious lady a discretion
which, in apparently postponed the conflict as it came to replacing resolutely avert money.
Imagine, then, placed in the box a few pieces of paper the size of the bills, and if he could
find equal role in the quality of the pasta, so no different touch, cheating was easy, because
her husband was not to see it with your fingers ... Stood to work, and searched and examined how
much paper in the house.

Finally, in the table Paquito found one that it seemed very similar, the flexibility and consistency,
which employed Bank on their tickets.

He received this assurance after careful comparison work enters the various kinds of paper
and a real hundred tickets remained. To refine imitation, lacking give the patina of use,
that sweetness is sticky passage through many hands of tellers and collectors, by the lavish
and by the of the greedy. Rosalia submitted the pieces to a series of operations equivalent to
rattle of notes in public circulation.

- What are you looking here, girl? - Isabelita angrily said he was,
as usual, to put his nose at all -.

Go to accompany dad, who is alone.

Carrion shut himself in to avoid indiscretions, and there crumpled paper, leaving him a ball.
Then he stretched, ironed it with the palm of the hand, until the repeated squeeze gave the
desired flexibility. I missed that sticky skin that Tickets are true, but how to get this? It
seemed impossible, though his hands were well prepared for the object. Croquettes had done
in the kitchen, and had been careful not to wash their hands so they could print something on
paper of that soil to which no idealist, to my knowledge, has yet
sulky.

When he thought he had worked hard, wanted to test his work. Distrust Entrábale and said, "I
do not know what is this role that no other matches it. I think not cheating. " And his fingers
made a study of touch on the real and sham bill. "Suppose I do not see ... Suppose I put this
forward and I try to differentiate between legitimate the ... Oh, no doubt about it. ...». Immediately
known And a sigh is discouraged therefore, that very nearly had to
give up the hoax ... "No, no - thought then -.

When is in secret, the difference is more noticeable, but not being in the secret ... I'll put in
the double bottom, and God will. See beyond. "

On the evening of that day, when Brinker took the casket, the lady had her papers prepared to
make them act appropriately in case the cominero opened the double bottom. But not open it.
Then Rosalie, to prevent the hassle of going to the table, took off from the Cajoncillo hands,
and in the short time that he use to put in place, he knew enter the vile papers that, when pass this
magazine, should respond by who had gone elsewhere. Of course, that workaround was very dangerous,
and suited to accelerate the final demand for payment of the loan Milagros.

The next day was July 25, the day of Santiago, pulled the Heat in a horrible manner. Bringas
was in shirtsleeves and Rosalie, with a very light muslin robe, never stopped fanning, cursing at every
moment of the climate of Madrid and that exposure to West Bringas had chosen for your home.
Cominero And had the nerve to say that liked the heat, which was very healthy and that he pitied
the fools that were out! That Santiago day of the great economist had announced solemnly and
firmly to all family would not go to bathroom, which was Rosalia more sulfur than the heat.
Prisoner in Madrid during the dog days, when all relationships had migrated! The upper town
palate was almost deserted. The Queen had gone to Lequeitio, and she Dona Tula Dona Antonia,
the largest and most splendid part of the high bondage. Miracles and Mr. Fish were also preparing for
the journey. It would, therefore, the poor girl alone, without further friendship Torres,
Candida and the clerks and little people who lived on the third floor ... Her excitement was
such that all day did not say a quiet word and all that mouth of his August out were harsh,
unpleasant, threatening. Paquito was lying on a mat reading novels and newspapers. Alfonsin tangled
as usual, insensitive to heat, but with breeches open at the front and back, showing the pink flesh and
drawing fresco all I want out. Isabelita not bear the temperature as well as his brother. Pale,
haggard and unable to anything, he threw himself on the chairs and floor, with a feverish slumber,
stretching endlessly searching for the bodies to rub hard and cold against them. Forgotten your wrists,
did not like at all, did nothing but watch what was happening at home, which was quite unusual
that day. Don Francisco decided that make a gazpacho for dinner. He could do better than anyone,
and in other times people in the kitchen with gathered sleeves, and
made a gazpacho that was scrumptious thing.

But at that time can not go to the kitchen, gave its provisions from the cabinet. Isabelita
was the telegraph that transmitted, lazy, and every moment came and went with these parties
culinary, "says piquéis two onions into the bowl ... that put no more than a tomato, or clean
their nuggets ... He says good bits cortéis bread ... and that you put some garlic ... Echéis says
no a lot of water and has more vinegar oil ... That you put two cucumbers if they are small,
and also you to take pepper ... well as a means thimble.

At night the poor girl had a voracious appetite, and although his father said that no gazpacho
had been well, she liked it a lot, and larger volumes ration could. When bed, the weight of infant
sleep impedíale feel the difficulties of the Digestion farrago that it had introduced in his
stomach. His nerves were unruly and brain, as if it were compressed between two forces failure
of the dream action and action nervous and started work with extravagant tricks, playing everything
for the day had acted on it directly through the senses. In his horrific nightmare, Isabel Milagros
seen entering and talk in secret with her mother. The two got into the Carrion, and there were
a little while counting money and talking. Then came Mr. Fish, who was a gentleman unfriendly,
and a devil with a pin of saffron and green pants. He and his dad Policy spoke about rogues
saying that large would cut off their heads all people, and that Madrid would be by a river
of blood. The same river of blood wrapped little then red waves, your mother and Mr. Fish
himself, when speaking in La Salette, she saying that there were already toilets, and he: "I
can not stop me now more, because my girls are very impatient. " After Mr. de Pez got all blue flames
poured from the eyes, and to give the girl a kiss burned. Then he caught on his puéstole Alfonsin
knees saying, "But man, do not you ashamed to go teaching ...». To which Alfonsin quarts answer as
usual asking ... Later, when he was no stranger at home, his father
had been angry about some things that her mother replied. His father
had told him: "You are a spender," and it had gotten very angry at
the Carrion ... After had entered another visit. It was Mr. de Vargas,
the cashier of the Administration, the office his dad. Talking, talking,
Vargas had told his father: "My dear D. Francisco, Mayor has mandated
that from next month is not paid you more than half the salary. " All my outward relations were against me; I must stay here
and starve (I was already hungry) or go home to Covey's, and have my flesh torn to pieces,
and my spirit humbled under the cruel lash of Covey. This was the painful alternative presented
to me. The day was long and irksome. My physical condition was deplorable. I was weak, from
the toils of the previous day, and from the want of{182} food and rest; and had been so little
concerned about my appearance, that I had not yet washed the blood from my garments. I was
an object of horror, even to myself. Life, in Baltimore, when most oppressive, was a paradise
to this. What had I done, what had my parents done, that such a life as this should be mine?
That day, in the woods, I would have exchanged my manhood for the brutehood of an ox.

Night came. I was still in the woods, unresolved what to do. Hunger had not yet pinched me
to the point of going home, and I laid myself down in the leaves to rest; for I had been watching
for hunters all day, but not being molested during the day, I expected no disturbance during
the night. I had come to the conclusion that Covey relied upon hunger to drive me home; and
in this I was quite correct--the facts showed that he had made no effort to catch me, since
morning. That would run all right. The country did not think the country
did not act, the country was an idiot. It was therefore necessary that the State should think
and work for him, because only State was smart. As this could not be done, Pez was reflected
in his spirit always sad and concerned that sovereign indifference of all things. We felt superior
his contemporaries, at least looked more, something better discerned, and as he could not take
to reality, hence their phlegmatic calm. Mentally comforting stroking his principles, amid the
general confusion. To watch in fantasy the regeneration of Spain, eyes from the corruption of
morals, of that contempt of all laws which was rife ... Oh, happy fish will be assessed with
the deposit of principles that had in your body. She loved the pure moral rectitude inflexible,
and his conscience was indemnified of the outrages he saw everywhere ... Would to God that
this ideal should not depart from its soul ... So he was not vanish at the touch of such rascals,
like God ...

I do not know the time that no deviation between that second and a
discreet tap like me Dona Candida resulted in the knee ...

"Are you
distracted?" - He said.

- No, no, Slovakia, lady ... I was listening
to Don Manuel, who ...

- If D. Manuel has come out to the terrace.

Serafinita Lantigua is telling the death of her husband.

I am horrified ...

- Oh, me too ... horripiladísimo.

XXVIII

Indolent wandered the terrace, as if they were long, Fish, Rosalie and sister of the mayor. This
was the home of the sommelier, and the elegant couple was left alone ... D. Poor Manuel was truly
pitiful. Religious monomania and his wife came to so annoying end could not bear it ... "What
do you think?, I hear both Serafinita incocoraba the story, so old and resobado of their hardships,
I was hoping to run away ... That Canturri voice choir and those sighs of funeral my nerves
... I I am religious and believe that the Church commands, but these people who sleep with
God God rises and I feel in my stomach. Serafinita That is what has brains sucked my poor Carolina,
is the author of my misery and loathing I have my own home ... Oh, my dear, you do not know
what the disease is so sad the horror of home ... Fortunately you do not know ... I would be
gone all day, and apparently there ... Insensibly get used to regard as home ownership the my
friend's house, and not a moment I thought the comparison is between the heat friendly of dry cold
here and there ... I am a man who can not live without love. It gives me as necessary as air.
Without it choking me, I die. Where I find, my store har And there I was ...».

Isabelita and Alfonsin ran past. Iban suffocation, sweaty, so much had struggled on the third floor
gallery with Irene and the girls from the chef. "Child, how are you !...-- said Rosalia, arresting the
girl -. Your face is like a cooked crab ... Now run air ... Get home, do not constipated ... And
this rogue ...? Do you see how it comes?, All broken and made an Adam. Look what your knees ...
If you put an iron suit as well as break ...».

"How funny barbie!

Skin is the devil ... This will be a man "- said kissing fish, and
also kissing the girl.

- Dame rooms - said little cheeky.

- Do you
see what rascal?

... Boy! ... What is it? ... Pay no attention. Has a bad habit ask for rooms to everyone. I do not
know where to have learned such tricks. It's a laugh ... A Later I took them they saw His Majesty
... I have not spent more embarrassment in my life! There was no way to make them speak a word
of a sudden, this rascal is planted, look at Queen with the most shameful thing in the world
and extending their manocita ... "Give me quarters'. His Majesty laughed.

- Well, sir early, making rooms.

- What do you do? If they want to buy crap ... This fool does not ask, but when they are given
the shot. Do not think that is spendthrift.

Quia!

Everything is saved in his piggy bank and already has a capital. This leaves ...

- Sale Dad ...

- Wow, a home that you enfriáis here ... I sweat, my child ... Here
I go away.

Four jumps were on the door step Cáceres, and there they went to home. Fish gave a sigh. Rosalie
brought with him a medium pink crushed, olorosísima, introduced in which the nose cup from time
to time, as if to suck once all The aroma contained therein. This flower was worthy cover
nose so pretty.

"For you - Pez said returning to his theme quejumbrón - will at last put out of your home that
... I'm so sticky and impertinent. "

She must answer that there was no use to remove someone, and he, brightening,
he apologized their attachment to the Bringas family ... Deprive the
comfort of such diseases would have been a cruelty and in the vernacular,
the attraction ... Yes, this was the word, the focus of Attraction
... "I find it is both my friend and my friend incomparable.

You he understands me better and no one. It particular, the day I can not change two words you think
I'm missing something, seem to have no juice to drink the roots of life appears to be dried sap
...».

Fish pulled toward the poetic and philosophical, and Rosalia, hearing him with bulging of vanity
and nose, crushed against the rose, whose fragrance enveloped them both off.

"This irresistible sympathy is stronger than me. Ban you come and see how it dies a consecrated
life in the family once, and always serve the country ..., will you the most damage you can
do to a man ... without benefit to anyone ...».

She should not be very unfriendly, because the other expressed his
desire to see more often ... When the poor Bringas be cured, why were
not to be frequently and so they could speak with some freedom ...?

Still had much to say, but it was not possible to extend the short walk. Arriving at the door
of the house, went Isabelita to meet his mother with innocent glee yelling: "Dad sees Daddy is! ".
Rosalie and Fish hastily entered, possessed of such good news joy
and D. saw Francisco who was walking at full length in the band raised
Gasparini, gesturing, so nervous and excited that seemed insane.

"Just a little sting, a little pain ... But all I see ... To you,
dear fish, I meet younger ... Well my wife has taken fifteen years
... For the life of the coat eleven thousand virgins ...!

I am overjoyed ... Nothing but a red border on the objects, nothing more ... clarity offends
me a bit ... Matter of a few days ... Hold me, wife, hugging all
...».

- Do not sing victory, victory songs soon - Rosalie said, suddenly
smitten by a sad thought amidst their joy -.

Should we fear a relapse ... To be you, I do not I would remove the bandage.

- What is this? - Said the doctor, which came without warning -.

"Jarana have? What raids are those, Bringas friend? The band ... It should not be trusted yet.

-
They never should. A little more patience, man. Then the bathrooms ...

- What bathrooms? ... I'm not going to bathroom - leaving Thiers said to the band by the authorized
doctor's hands -. I do not need. Do not give me potatoes.

- We'll see - the doctor said kindly -. Now to jail again. I can not escape you ahead of time,
it is possible that the prison is stretched more than usual. Let well, we very well, and if we
arrive slowly.

The evening light with which our beloved Thiers had the immense pleasure of testing the restoration
of their optical functions are slowly fading.

Finally, the room was lit only by the glow that the sun had left
in the sky behind the house Field, and he was as strong as the flame
of a fire.

Rosalie wanted to strike a light, but Bringas jumped sharply with
the observation that the light is not needed at all ... "That is,
bulb for heat ASEM us ... Excuse me, Mr. D. Manuel, but I think we
are better in the dark ... Paquito, opens up the window.

That between air, air, air ...».

Soon after, Bringas, tired of hearing the stories university told her that her son, said aloud:
"Mr. Fish ... Is not it? ".

"Not" - Paquito observed.

- Rosalie!

- Mom! - Calling the young man shouted.

A bit later, Rosalie. His stately figure, white ghost among the shadows a mystery drama brought
to the lonely room where the father and son were, surrounded by darkness and invisible.

"Has gone D. Manuel? ".

- No, it's on the balcony of La Salette, looking ... I feel I can
not see ... contemplating the radiance that has left the sun to the
west ... It is as if half the world is burning.

- Go, do not let
him alone ... Today I made a small hint about the rise of the child
and I do not think I took wrong.

Said one to me smelled see themselves ... Oh, do not forget that a quarter to nine we have for dinner.

At
that hour bye Pez, and Rosalia, exchanging his gallant trapillo gown for another and flat shoes
for a shoe sole, hemp, began to have dinner.

He complained a severe headache and would not take more than a bit of stew. Her husband begged
was collected, the more she "had enough to do so early to bed ...». Alas, the Dona Tula gathering
and you talk that talk of Fish and Serafinita, habíanle set their head like a drum ... Then
D. Manuel was able to give headaches to the rooster of the Passion
the mantra of his regrets.

It was already so their calamities that Job would stay very small.

-
Finally, the daughter, lie down to rest from all this drivel ... Needs
to be heard with patience Fish all you want to tell us, because ...
you see what he says.

We are your shoulder to cry on, and here comes the poor to relieve their pains.

Rosalie finally did what her husband told. Lifted the cloth, were turned off lights, and Paquito
manager to give your dad taking drugs later, the head of the illustrious lady sought rest
on the pillows. The dream, however, came later, after a long period of brooding failure.

XXIX

The silver candlesticks ... the risk that her husband had discovered early on that a trip to Peñaranda
de Bracamonte ... a way to avoid this ... Mr. Fish, the ideal ... Oh, what a man so extraordinary
and fascinating! What elevation view, what superiority! ... To say that he was capable, if he
left, to organize an administrative system with eighty and four Directorates-General, is that
I could give him this sovereign head ... And what delicacy and refinement of manners, which chivalrous
generosity! ... Surely, if it looked at any choke, would come to help her with that fish delicacy
gallant Bringas neither knew nor had ever shown at any time, even when he was her suitor, or
in the days of the honeymoon, past Navalcarnero ... What had been so ordinary dye his whole life
long! Until the people chosen for the inauguration was horribly marriage uneducated, unfriendly
and contrary to any notion of good taste ... Well she remembered the lady of that lugarón of
the inn in which there was not a comfortable chair to sit on, from the smell to cattle and straw,
this wine knowing fish and chops knowing those leather ... Then the pedestrian Bringas did not
speak more than vulgar things. In Madrid, the day before marriage, was not a man to spend six
rooms in a bouquet of roses to smell ... You Navalcarnero had given a botijito, and had to walk
along the grain, allowing pick poppies that loses its leaves at once. She liked very little
of the field and the only thing I would Indeed hunting was tolerable, but Bringas was afraid
of the shots, and having been in Once the mayor VENATORIA campaign, nearly killed the mayor
himself. He was a man of such poor aim that it would not even the wind ... Back in Madrid, had
begun that Unregulated married life, oppressed, made up of hardships and hypocrisies, a comedy domestic
day and night, between the methodical and routine running of the pennies and hours. She submitted
a vulgar man, had come to learn their role and represented cold like a machine without realizing
what he did. Doll that made the mother of four children one of whom died in infancy. She loved them
dearly, and thanks this, the deep appreciation grew that the doll had come to inspire ... Wanted
that had lived and the health, the faithful wife would follow him,
making his role with that skill he had given many years of hypocrisy.

But for himself ardently longed more than life and salad; wanted some, a little even he had
ever had, freedom, in and out, if only because figuratively, in that
narrow embarrassing.

Because I was in earnest, envied the beggars, as these, the bulk
that are enjoying it freely, as she ...

Venciola sleep.

Not even felt the weight of the mattress leaning Bringas. Upon awakening, the first thought of
the illustrious lady was for prisoners chandeliers.

- What are you feeling?

- I think - said the husband with a deep sigh - not as good as I expected. I awake since four. I've
heard every hour, half and quarter. Itches, pain, and the idea of ​​receiving the light in
your eyes I am horrified.

Steps in the morning in great uncertainty until the doctor came. This was discouraged and somewhat
perplexed, hesitating on the medical reasons that explain the decline of poor disease Thiers.
Was it a result of some excess in the food ...? Was it an effect of belladonna and disappear
attenuating the medication?

Was it ...? In a word, convenient return to rest, not impatient, safeguard eyes absolutely
light, and since no bear to stay in bed, the chair should not move or deal with anything or
have gathering in the room ... The sadness with my good friend heard these requirements is
not for said. See, see? - Told his wife excessively nose swelling -. Behold what bags to you,
to want to heal in two days.

I've been telling you, and you ... If you a boy ...

Abatidísimo, the unfortunate man did not say a word. The whole day was in the chair, hands folded,
turning thumbs on each other. His wife and son comforted with loving words, the more he did
not give a party, and how that pain was exacerbated verbal palliatives. In the afternoon, the
intelligent fish, talking to Rosalie's case, said with much tact:

- I do not know how the first day you did not call an eye doctor ... This gentleman (for the
doctor) seems to me that I understand both eyes like a mole.

- So I said I - the lady replied, trying to express in eloquent grimace and lift shoulder the
squalor of her husband -.

But you Vayalar Bringas with these ideas. Says no, the eye doctors will not take more than money
... Not that he lacked. Has its economies ... but did not decide to spend it for their health but
in the last moment, when disease and say: "Your money or your sight."

Very funny he did to D. Manuel picturesque interpretation of the greed of his friend and talking
to him later, he suggested the idea to consult a specialist in diseases eyes. This time the
patient received no bad indication. Discouraged and impatient, felt that their economies well worth
a ray of light, only saying: "Let what you want to. "

At night, Milagros was to accompany his fellow in rags. Here, as there were no seen from the
previous week, I thought already solved the financial problem that put the Marchioness so distressed
in the last days of June. Frankly, I believed him. But both Rosalia as having the honor of
writing these lines, he noted with surprise that the aristocrat's face shone not happy those flashes
of expression that are safe Recently victory. Indeed, Telleria soon
declare their little affair was not solved but postponed.

By dint of entreaties he obtained an extension until October 10.

Ran July 7, and only took three days.

For all the saints in heaven, do you love her friend, begged him ...!

Rosalie put her finger in her mouth, recommending discretion. Was around Isabelita and this
girl had the ugly habit of having everything he heard.

It was a repeater, and its presence was forced to be very careful, because then he could not
wait to go with the story to his dad. Days before he had the good lord made you laugh with this
accusation innocent "Dad, says D. Manuel I go out to you ... in which
I keep all the rooms they give me.

"

XXX

Which earned him an affectionate squeeze and a kiss from his dad wanted.

And that night, feeling it enter her room, called her and sat on his lap. "Does your Mom ...?».

-
It's in the Saleta with Marquise - said the girl, who spoke with clarity and speed -. He told
me to come back here. The Marquise was crying because we are 7.

"We
are 7 - had said the Pipaón Milagros, clasping her hands and made
a shame - and if by day 10 I could not meet ...! I will give a stroke
... You do not know how my head. "

It had been locked, and the solitude
of the room, without light, because the master of the house was frantic
favor of obscurantism in all its manifestations, the lady sore expatiated
at home and squandered the treasure of your pain, manifesting in a
thousand ways to florida inspiration elegiac ... The day he was unfriendly.
He liked the night to prey upon the contemplation of his sentence.
Looking at the stars, she thought she felt inexplicable comfort ...
Stars like that promised something flattering, or launched into the
interior of his soul a spark metal ... It is very pilgrim kinship
with gold stars coined ... The poor do not had no hope in anything
or anyone but his girlfriend ... She had received save her ... How?
That really could not say.

The reader will be glad to know why, after I had so grievously offended Mr. Covey, he did not
have me taken in hand by the authorities; indeed, why the law of Maryland, which assigns hanging
to the slave who resists his master, was not put in force against me; at any rate, why I was
not taken up, as is usual in such cases, and publicly whipped, for an example to other slaves,
and as a means of deterring me from committing the same offense again. I confess, that the
easy manner in which I got off, for a long time, a surprise to me, and I cannot, even now,
fully explain the cause.

The only explanation I can venture to suggest, is the fact, that Covey was, probably, ashamed
to have it known and confessed that he had been mastered by a boy of sixteen. Mr. Covey enjoyed
the unbounded and very valuable reputation, of being a first rate overseer and Negro breaker.
By means of this reputation, he was able to procure his hands for very trifling compensation,
and with very great ease. His interest and his pride mutually suggested the wisdom of passing
the matter by, in silence. The story that he had undertaken to whip a lad, and had been resisted,
was, of itself, sufficient to damage him; for his bearing should, in the estimation of slaveholders,
be of that imperial order that should make such an occurrence impossible. I judge from these
circumstances, that Covey deemed it best to{192} give me the go-by. It is, perhaps, not altogether
creditable to my natural temper, that, after this conflict with Mr. Covey, I did, at times,
purposely aim to provoke him to an attack, by refusing to keep with the other hands in the
field, but I could never bully him to another battle. I had made up my mind to do him serious
damage, if he ever again attempted to lay violent hands on me.

           Hereditary bondmen, know ye not
           Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow?

CHAPTER XVIII. New Relations and Duties

CHANGE OF MASTERS--BENEFITS DERIVED BY THE CHANGE--FAME OF THE FIGHT WITH COVEY--RECKLESS UNCONCERN--MY
ABHORRENCE OF SLAVERY--ABILITY TO READ A CAUSE OF PREJUDICE--THE HOLIDAYS--HOW SPENT--SHARP
HIT AT SLAVERY--EFFECTS OF HOLIDAYS--A DEVICE OF SLAVERY--DIFFERENCE BETWEEN COVEY AND FREELAND--AN
IRRELIGIOUS MASTER PREFERRED TO A RELIGIOUS ONE--CATALOGUE OF FLOGGABLE OFFENSES--HARD LIFE
AT COVEY'S USEFUL--IMPROVED CONDITION NOT FOLLOWED BY CONTENTMENT--CONGENIAL SOCIETY AT FREELAND'S--SABBATH
SCHOOL INSTITUTED--SECRECY NECESSARY--AFFECTIONATE RELATIONS OF TUTOR AND PUPILS--CONFIDENCE
AND FRIENDSHIP AMONG SLAVES--I DECLINE PUBLISHING PARTICULARS OF CONVERSATIONS WITH MY FRIENDS--SLAVERY
THE INVITER OF VENGEANCE.

My term of actual service to Mr. Edward Covey ended on Christmas day, 1834. I gladly left the
snakish Covey, although he was now as gentle as a lamb. My home for the year 1835 was already
secured--my next master was already selected. There is always more or less excitement about
the matter of changing hands, but I had become somewhat reckless. I cared very little into
whose hands I fell--I meant to fight my way. Despite of Covey, too, the report got abroad,
that I was hard to whip; that I was guilty of kicking back; that though generally a good tempered
Negro, I sometimes "got the devil in me." These sayings were rife in Talbot county, and they
distinguished me among my servile brethren. Slaves, generally, will fight each other, and die
at each other's hands; but there are few who are not held in awe by a white man. Trained from
the cradle up, to think and{194} feel that their masters are superior, and invested with a
sort of sacredness, there are few who can outgrow or rise above the control which that sentiment
exercises. I had now got free from it, and the thing was known. One bad sheep will spoil a
whole flock. Among the slaves, I was a bad sheep. I hated slavery, slaveholders, and all pertaining
to them; and I did not fail to inspire others with the same feeling, wherever and whenever
opportunity was presented. This made me a marked lad among the slaves, and a suspected one
among the slaveholders. A knowledge of my ability to read and write, got pretty widely spread,
which was very much against me. 

Suddenly saw the face of the dead placed in profile, with an eye that he twisted into graceful and
malignantly, like Eye of the morning was to look at his mistress while developing mysterious
dances in Asian housing.

Ulysses turned his attention to the temple pale ghost, tickled by the silky caress of their loops.
There he had his best kisses, kisses of tenderness and gratitude ... But soft skin, that seemed
made of camellia petals, his eyes darkened. It was green dark and dripping blood ... So I
had seen him again ... And he remembered with regret Barcelona its punch ... Then he started
with a deep hole, angular contour, equal to a star. It was the revolver bullet, the coup de grace that
gave an end to his troubles of execution.

Poor Freya, implacable warrior Crazy Battle of the Sexes!

... He had spent his life hating men and need to live, making everything possible and getting
it wrong reciprocity of them sad, until finally coming to perish at his hands.

Could not end otherwise. A men's right hand had opened the hole through which escaped the last
bubble of their existence ... The captain, seeing the pain profile with purple his temple,
he thought with horror that never get erased from his memory the
mournful vision.

The ghost would shrink, making it invisible, to deceive and then re-emerge in all its hours of
thoughtful solitude, was to embitter their sleepless nights, chasing
through years as well as remorse.

Fortunately, the impositions of real life were repelled in the days
following these sad memories.

"Well nobody is - said inside his usual energetic man authoritarianism to send men -. What would
you have made you to be part of the court which sentenced? ... Like the others. Think of those
who have died for it! ... Remember what Tony said! "

A letter from his former second, received at the same time as the champion of Freya, spoke of the
great crimes that aggression was conducting underwater in the Mediterranean.

Some

of them came to be known by the castaways managed to reach shore after long hours of fighting
or were picked up by other vessels. Most were ignored in the mystery of the waves. Were torpedoing
"without trace", ships that were to fund with all crew and passengers, and only months after
leaving a glimpse of a part of the tragedy, when deposited in the sea surf many bodies of identification
impossible without paper, without a human face.

Almost every week watching some of these findings Toni funeral.

Fishermen Dawn saw the tossing corpses on the beach, where water dies on sand resting a few seconds
in moist soil, to be caught by a wave then stronger. Finally, embedded in the ground behind him,
remaining motionless while fleeing their clothes and their flesh swarms of small fish back to
sea in search of new grass. The police discovered the mutilated bodies on the rocks in attitudes
tragic with glazed eyes almost out of their orbits.

Many of them were recognized as soldiers by revealing an old tattered uniform or the fixed identity
labels on their wrists. Belonged to France. The people of the coast spoke of the transport had been
torpedoed coming from Algiers ... And mixed with the Men find women's
bodies were distorted by swelling, to the point that only a few details
could guess your age: mothers who had arched her arms as if saved
with a last effort the missing child, girls whose shame Virgin had
been breached by the sea, showing their bare legs, swollen, greenish
with deep bites of fish butchers.

The marina expansion until the body was thrown a child a few years without a head.

It was more horrible, depending on Toni, watch this show from the
ground than going on a ship.

The sailing can not see the ultimate consequences of the torpedoes as well as those living
on the edge, receiving as a gift this continuous wave sending victims.

The pilot ended his letter with the usual prayers, "Why do you insist on follow the sea? ... Want
a vengeance that is impossible.

If you are a single man, and your enemies are millions ... You're going to die if you persist
in defying it. You know I look a long time, and do not always get get rid of them. Remember
what people are saying: "Whoever loves danger ...!» Lands; again with your wife or come with us.
So rich life on land could lead !...»

For a few hours, Ferragut was of the opinion Toni. His determination necessarily reckless was
to end badly. The enemy knew him, watched him, there were many before him, that lived alone
in his ship with a crew of men of different nationalities. No cry his death, apart from the few who
loved him.

Not belong to any of the people at war: Corsair was kind of impossible to attack. Fewer still,
a merchant who was transport under a neutral flag.

This flag does not fool anyone. His enemies knew ship, searching harder than if it originated
from allied navies.

In their own country, many people who sympathized with the Germanic Empires happily held disappearance
the Mare Nostrum and their captain.

Freya's death had affected his mind more than he imagined. Funeral was foreboding, perhaps his
next trip would last.

"You're going to die! - Shouted in his mind an anguished voice -. You will die very soon if
not you retire the sea. "

And the most unusual for this advice was Ferragut gave it the voice of the crazy adventures, threw
him on the dangers for the sake of challenge, which made him go to
Freya even after knowing their vile profession.

Instead, the voice of sanity, always cautious and measured, was now
quiet heroic, speaking the same as a man of peace who believes their
commitments over his life.

"Quiet, Ferragut, you sold your ship with your person and you have given millions. Must meet
As promised, although it will be there ... The Mare Nostrum can not surf without a Spanish
captain. If you abandon it, you'll have to find another captain. Flee in fear and put it on your
site to a man who defies death to keep his family. Gloriosa feat! ... You, meanwhile, will be on
land, rich and secure ... What are you going to do on land, coward?

"

Their selfishness does not know what to answer to that question. He remembered the existence
of bourgeois antipathy back in Barcelona, ​​before acquiring the steam. He was a man of action,
and could only live engaged in risky ventures.

I was going to get bored on the ground, and at the same time be considered diminished, waived,
as that descend to a lower status in a country of hierarchies.

The master of life novel was going to be become a homeowner, without knowing other struggles
those held with his tenants. Perhaps, to escape a life vulgar, devoted his fortune to navigation,
the only business he knew well. Shipping would be acquiring new boats, and little by little, by
the need to monitor them closely, would eventually resuming their trips ... Why leave, then,
the Mare Nostrum?

He felt that was made inside a deep moral revolution to ask in anguish what they had done before.

It
seemed a desert all their previous existence. He had lived without knowing why or Why, piling
dangers and adventures just for the sake of victory. Neither knew with certainty what they had wanted
before.

If it was money, had flocked to his hands in recent months with an abundance exorbitant ... I had
it, and it was therefore not happy. As to professional glory, could not wanting it more. His
name was famous throughout the Spanish Mediterranean, even the toughest
sailors confessed and intractable merit.

"Floats !...» But Ferragut grimaced at the thought of him. I had known, and did not want to
find it again. Soft love a good partner, capable of illuminating the latter part of his life
with a discrete birth, had lost forever. The other passionate, sensuous, romantic, giving life
to the rough interest conflicts and contrast, had left him unwilling to restart.

Fatherhood, stronger and more durable than love, could have filled the rest of his days, had not
killed her son ... He was the revenge, the hard task of returning evil to the that much harm
had been done, but was too weak to fight them all! ... It was so small and selfish this purpose
compared to other enthusiasms that dragged to slaughter in those moments to great masses of
men! ...

While thinking this, he heard a phrase not remember where, perhaps formed waste readings of
old, began to sing in his brain: "A life without ideals is worth
living.

"

Ferragut nodded mutely. It was true: to live is needed ideal. But where to find it? ...

Suddenly saw Toni's report as well as he sought to express his confused thoughts. With all his
credulity and nonsense, now regarded as superior to him. Was an ideal his own way, is worried
more than their egos: men wanted for what considered good.

And he defended his convictions with all the mystical enthusiasm that History tried to impose
a belief, with the faith of the warriors of the Cross and the Prophet, with the tenacity of the
inquisitors and the Jacobins.

The man of reason, was only able to mock the generous and selfless
enthusiasm of other men, finding immediately turn skinny, lack of
adaptation to the realities of the moment ... What right have laughed
at his pilot, who was a believer and dreaming, with the purity of
a child in a free and happy humanity?

... What could oppose him to the faith, apart from their stupid jokes? ...

Life appeared in a new light, as something serious and mysterious that required a toll stress
tribute to all beings who pass through it, leaving behind him the cradle and the grave as an
inn bearing terminal.

Never mind that the ideal seems false. Where is the real truth and unique? ... Who can prove
that there is not an illusion? ...

The need was to believe in something, have hope. The crowds had not
moved to ever momentum and critical reasoning.

Only later when someone was throwing born in these illusions and hopes. Philosophers could
search in vain for the truth to light their reasoning. The rest of the men always prefer the ideals
chimeras, which Mobile morph into powerful action.

All religions crumbled after suffering a cold examination, yet producing saints and martyrs,
the true moral supermen. All revolutions were defective and ineffective to be subject to scientific
review, and yet had engendered individual's greatest heroes, the most amazing mass movements of
history.

"Believe! ... Dream! - Still singing in his mind the mysterious voice -. Having an ideal !...»

No
one could live, like the corpses of wealthy pharaohs, in a luxurious tomb, anointed perfumes,
surrounded by everything you need for food and sleep. Born, grow, procreate and die was not enough
to form a story: all the animals doing the same.

Man must add something else that only he possesses: the ability to imagine the future ... Dream!
Al illusions heritage bequeathed by the previous men had to add a new illusion or an effort to
make it.

Ferragut recognized that in normal times would have come to death as he had lived, following a
humdrum existence and uniform. But the violent changes of environment raised dormant personalities
in all of us, in memory of our ancestors, around a central character and awake, which is the
only one that has existed before.

The world was at war. Half of Europe's men clashed with the other half battlefields. Both sides
had a mystical ideal, affirming with violence and bloodshed, as they had done all the crowds driven
by religious certainty or revolutionary accepted as the only truth ...

But the sailor recognized a profound difference in the two struggling masses of this. One placed their
hopes in the past, trying to rejuvenate the sovereignty of force, the divinity of war, and adapt
to modern life.

The other crowd preparing for the future, dreaming a world of free democracies, nations at peace,
tolerance and without jealousy.

When coupled to this new environment, Ferragut felt born inside ideas and aspirations that may
come from an ancestral heritage.

Believed to be listening to his uncle when Triton described the shock of men with men North and
South to take ownership for Amphitrite blue layer. He was a Mediterranean, and the nation on the
edge of which was born lost interest in the fate of the world was not to remain indifferent.

Should
continue where it was. As Toni said Latino and Mediterranean civilization at now accepted
as great truths.

It may not be correct to be examined by reason, but worth as much as the certainties of others.

Was
to continue his seafaring life with new enthusiasm.

His faith, ideal, illusions that make them heroes. Duration of the war, would make his own way,
serving as assistant to the fighters, carrying everything needed for the fight. He looked with
more respect to the sailors under his command, simple people who had given their blood without
words, without reasoning.

When peace comes, why not retire from the sea. Much remained to be done. Start then a trade war,
the bitter rivalry to conquer the markets of nations American youth. Bold and big plans were
outlined in his brain. In this war as time was leader.

He dreamed of creating a fleet of steamers that arrived to the shores Pacific, wanted to make
a contribution to the rebirth of the race victory he had discovered most of the planet.

His new faith made him more friend to the cook of the ship, feeling the pull of immovable illusions.
Occasionally amused consulted on the future fate of the steam would
whether the submarine was fearful.

- Do not worry - said Caragol -.

We have good guards. Which put before us is lost.

And his captain showed the prints and postcards stuck on the walls of the kitchen.

Ferragut received an order from tomorrow. For the moment, went to Gibraltar to collect the burden
of a steamer was unable to follow your navigation. Strait may hiciesen
Salonica course again.

Never took a trip with so much joy the captain of Mare Nostrum. Believed to ground forever
the memory of that woman to be executed, whose body he saw in his sleep many nights. Of all the past,
all he wanted to transplant to his new existence was the image of
your child.

I was going to live henceforth concentrate their aspirations and
their hopes in the mission that had been imposed.

It took the ship directly from Marseille after San Antonio, far from
any coast, the solitudes of the Mediterranean, bypassing the Gulf
of Lion.

One day, at dusk, the crew saw blue mountains in the distance: the island de Mallorca. At night
he crept along the dark horizon headlights Ibiza and Formentera. As the sun rises, a splash
of pink vertical, equal to a language fire, appeared on the line of the sea. It was the high
mountains of Monge, the promontory Ferrario of the ancients. At the foot of steep cliffs was
the people's grandparents Ulysses the house where he had spent the best time of their childhood.
Just had to see it from afar Marsilia Greeks, Mediterranean desert
explorers, arriving on their ships jumping horses foam and wood.

All the rest of the day left the Mare Nostrum almost stuck to the coast. The captain knew this
sea ​​or a lake if your property.

Took the steam for insufficient funds, finding the reefs so close to the surface, it seemed
a miracle that the ship does not crash into them. Only a couple of yards were between the
keel and submerged rocks. Then the golden water took a dark tone, and steam continued their
advance on enormous depths.

The autumn sun reddened the yellow mountains of the coast, dry and fragrant, covered brave herbal
perfumes that spread long distances.

In all folds Coast - small inlets, dry beds of streams between two peaks or notches - arose
clusters of white settlement.

Ferragut looked at the people from their grandparents.

Toni was there, maybe they looked to move from the door of your home, perhaps recognizing the ship
with surprise and emotion.

A French officer with Ulysses still on the bridge, admiring the beauty
of the day and the sea.

Not a cloud in the sky was blue all up and down, with no other alteration
to the fringes foam in the outgoing combing the sea and the restless
sun gold forming a wide path on the water.

Trisco a flock of dolphins around the ship and processions of the divine ocean.

- If you always were and the sea - said the captain - what a delight to be a sailor!

The crew watched from the rail to the people of earth to run and join,
attracted the novelty of a passing steamer reach of their voices.

In all the highlights of coast arose a tower flat and reddish, the last vestige of the ancient Mediterranean
war.

Accustomed to the rough shores of the ocean and its eternal surf,
sailors Breton admired the easy navigation almost touching the coast,
its inhabitants see the size of ants.

Directed by another ship captain would have been dangerous to surf so close. But Ferragut laughing,
making gloomy indications that the officers were on the bridge, to better highlight their job
security. Indicated the pitfalls in the background. Here we had lost an Italian ocean liner that
was going to Buenos Aires ... beyond a sailboat four clubs had run aground, losing its cargo ...
He knew by inches water could be among the treacherous rocks and
the keel of his ship.

Sought to fund more disturbing predilection.

Were in the danger zone of the Mediterranean where German submarines
were still waiting for the French and English trains they were sailing
in the shelter of the Spanish coast.

Obstacles to the coast were submerged for him the best defense against
unseen attacks.

Fading behind him was the promontory Ferrario, until it is but a shadow in horizon. Paraded before the
steam along the coast of the Marina, then, Cape Huertas, the distant port of Alicante and Santa
Pola Cape.

At nightfall, the Mare Nostrum was off Cape Palos, and had to sail offshore to fold, leaving Cartagena
the distance. From here would southwesterly to Cape Gata, which begins to narrow the Mediterranean,
forming a narrow funnel. Then would to Almeria and Malaga, reaching to Gibraltar the next day.

-
This is where hope is often the enemy - Ferragut said to one of the
officers -.

If you do not have a bad match before the night, we will complete our trip perfectly.

The ship was off the coast, no longer make out the sea floor. Only bow to the back remained
visible protrusion out, emerging as an island.

Caragol appeared with a tray on which two cups of steaming coffee.

Would not yield to any scullion the honor of serving the master when he was on the bridge.

-
What do you think your trip? - Ferragut said cheerfully before drinking
-.

Will we get it? ...

The chef made a gesture of contempt, as if the Germans could see him.

-
Nothing will happen I am sure of it ... We who watch over us, y. ..

It was interrupted in these statements. The tray slipped from his
hands, and staggered like a drunkard, to crush his abdomen against
the railing of the bridge. "Christ of Grao !...»

A Ferragut also
dropped the glass in her mouth, and the French officer, sitting in
a bank, almost doubled over the knees. The helmsman had to grab at
the wheel a twitch of surprise and terror.

The whole ship shuddered
from keel to tip of the cap, the bow at the helm, with a shudder mortal,
as if invisible tongs had just lock it in the race.

The captain tried
to explain this accident. "We stuck - he said -, a hurdle that no
I know, something that is not in the cards ... "

But he had not spent
one second when something came to be added to this clash, belying
Ferragut assumptions. The bright blue sky and crumpled under the blow
of thunder. Near the bow there was a column of smoke, expanding gases,
vapors yellow and caps, rising through its center, fan-shaped jet
black objects, wood broken pieces of sheet metal, swollen strings
that dissolved into ashes.

Ulysses and did not hesitate. Just received
a torpedazo. Her anxious eyes were scattered on the water.

- There!
... There! - Said extending a hand.

His eyes had just discovered
the ocean slight trace of a periscope that no one could see.

He got
off the bridge, or rather, let it roll down the ladder, running aft.

-
There! ... There!

The three gunners were next to the cannon, calm
and phlegmatic, clapping a hand to eyes to better see the point of
almost invisible to them by their captain ...

None of them noticed
the inclination to start taking the cover slowly. Introduced the first
bullet in the chamber, while the pointer was trying to distinguish
that small black stick lost in the water ripples.

The ship returned
to suffer another shock as tough as the previous. All he groaned with
a shudder dying. The plates were shaking, losing the cohesion that
made them one piece. The screws and bolts shaking pulse jumped to
general. A second crater opened in the middle of the ship, taking
this time in the range of human limbs shredded blast.

Captain guessed
that resistance was futile. His feet seemed to tell the cataclysm
that developed under them: the invading liquid with sparkling whirlwind
space moo between keel and deck, destroying the metal screens, breaking
down the gates security, cluttering objects, dragging all the violence
of a flood with the blow of a dam that breaks. The cavity filled with
air, floating and light, was about to become a lead coffin and water,
going to the fund.

The stern gun launched the first shot. A Ferragut
the boom seemed ironic. No as he realized the condition of the ship.

-
To the boats! "- Shouted -. Everyone to the boats!

Steam was leaning
at an alarming rate, while the men obeyed this order without losing
his composure.

A desperate shake shook the roof. They had settled the question, that slavery is right, and, by that standard,
they determined that Sabbath schools are wrong. To be sure, they were Protestant, and held
to the great Protestant right of every man to "search the scriptures" for himself; but, then,
to all general rules, there are exceptions. How convenient! What crimes may not be committed
under the doctrine of the last remark. But, my dear, class leading Methodist brethren, did
not condescend to give me a reason for breaking up the Sabbath school at St. Michael's; it
was enough that they had determined upon its destruction. I am, however, digressing.

After getting the school cleverly into operation, the second time holding it in the woods,
behind the barn, and in the shade of trees--I succeeded in inducing a free colored man, who
lived several miles from our house, to permit me to hold my school in a room at his house.
He, very kindly, gave me this liberty; but he incurred much peril in doing so, for the assemblage
was an unlawful one. I shall not mention, here, the name of this man; for it might, even now,
subject him to persecution, although the offenses were committed more than twenty years ago.
I had, at one time, more than forty scholars, all of the right sort; and many of them succeeded
in learning to read. I have met several slaves from Maryland, who were once my scholars; and
who obtained their freedom, I doubt not, partly in consequence of the ideas imparted to them
in that school. Seeing the
giant, thrusting his hand a second time on the web, took out his beloved, he shouted Hardness:

-
Be careful, monster!

... Poor Popito maybe he will die.

Edwin looked in amazement at the delicate young man who, unable to
keep up, just lie on the wood of the stern, while Ra-Ra held his head,
kneeling.

Great God!

... Miss Margaret Haynes, by another name Popito had clothes stained with blood. His face was
pale by a deadly pallor. His lips were blue now, and humility painful eyes seemed to be enlarged.

With
an accent of bitterness, as if the giant had to blame for the injury received by his beloved
Ra-Ra was explaining everything that happened since he left prison. To fall to the bottom
of Pocket heard groans painful to see how sweet Popito then dripped blood. One of the many arrows
directed at the man-mountain, to dig into the cloth jacket, had reached its peak. Ra-Ra immediately
jumped at the opening to warn the giant, but he, instead of listening to, hit him with one finger,
knocking him back on the body of the wounded girl. So the two had been long suffering the
most horrible of tortures in that bag shut stirred continuously by movements made by the giant to
fend off the flying machine, to cast off the boat to flood the artillery
of the pygmies and to fight to the end with the two enemy ships.

It was extraordinary that Popito lived yet. He had bandaged the wound with pieces of torn fabric
his dress, and trembled at the thought that the delicate young may
be unable to withstand so much suffering.

- You have to blame, gentleman.

Why not let us in our homeland? Why us brought here, making us their
slaves?

Edwin launched his own miniature a sneer.

- Would you live now if I had left in your country? ... Did not need me to defend The three
of us should be free? ...

And convinced that Ra-Ra, being equal to him, could only say stupid things when I was angry, dispensed
with him to deal only with Popito.

Could Miss Margaret was to die when he had saved? ... Go back impossible, in the land of pygmies
only death awaited them. The best thing was going to meet the giants its kind, for that poor
girl back to health. He thought that ships of Fleet, warned by the government, and at this hour
sail to hunt, and it was necessary pass the barrier as soon as the gods.

Gillespie returned again to the oars, rowing with a wonderful force that would have been considered
capable days. It seemed that fatigue is something that his body could not know. Supernatural
also believed that the day is prolonged beyond its limits ordinary. The sun shone on the horizon
still. Took hours and hours paddling, without their arms become fatigued and without the daytime
star descended toward the sea.

Popito, to stay out of his confinement, breathing the salt air seemed to revive. She smiled sweetly,
with her head resting on one knee in Ra-Ra. His eyes were fixed on his eyes, that looked vertically.
Then, shaking hands, walking both her looks and mysterious and terrible
that sea unfrequented by humans of species.

They passed a rock covered with sea plants, which had only Gillespie have given twenty paces.

-
Here is my glorious buried Grandfather - Ra-Ra said.

The sea was rippling with long waves they did head to the boat and would have constituted a storm
surge of ships the square of the Rising Sun. The two lovers watched with horror the huge movement
of the ship.

- Attention, children! - Said Gillespie -. Let us pass the barrier called the gods, and breakers
we shake a little.

He folded his jacket over the stern and put in the folds at the two pygmies. Then continued
paddling standing and staring at the line of reefs, for spinning
alleys to time open boiling foam on it.

The boat over the waves rose and fell again, playing several times
with her keel obstacles invisible.

The shocks to be completed behind the line of underwater rocks, and sea ​​of ​​dark blue and
deep spread without limits on the bow of the boat.

- We enter the world of the Mountain Men - shouted gleefully Gillespie.

After

these words, immediately became night, and Edwin suddenly felt all
fatigue had made efforts.

She reached into her basket of provisions which seemed more exquisite, depositing fistfuls of
his jacket to the two lovers eat refugees in their folds. He also ate after lying down at the
bottom of the boat to sleep.

Could not explain how sleep under his control kept him so many hours.

When he awoke, the sun was high, but it was not the caress of light
caustic who returned to the life.

Screams that seemed to come from far away, punctuated by tears, were the real why did you leave
your slumber incomprehensible. Ra-Ra was called.

- Gentleman, Popito is dying! ... It perhaps is dead!

Gillespie stood to hear this terrible news. Could Miss Margaret could die? ...

He saw it lying between two folds of the cloth of his jacket, his head on a curl Fluffy had prepared
and her lover that serve as a pillow. He was whiter than the day before, as if he had lost all the blood
from his body. He opened his eyes again to close them after looking repeatedly to Ra-Ra and
the giant.

- Oh, Miss Margaret! - Pleaded Edwin -. Does not die. What will I
do in the world if you leave me?

...

And poor colossus in his voice had the same desperate tone of pygmy
Ra-Ra.

As if it needs to look more closely, ran a hand gently under the body of Popito and also put
on the palm to his weeping partner, not to deprive him for a moment the presence of his beloved.

Sitting
in the middle of the boat remained a long time with the right hand
near the eyes, looking the group formed by the two pygmies in love.

Ra-Ra, kneeling beside her, took her hand, opened by speaking anxiously
to eyes again, and believing that when it was closed forever.

- Oh,
brother of my dreams!

Mother of my joys! Can you hear me? ... Do not die, I do not want you die. There are still happy
for us many suns and many moons of love. The Gentleman-Mountain will lead to his country, and
the wives of the giants feel astonishment at seeing so beautiful. For the queens of that land
will take glory asleep on his chest, then no no jewel that can compare
in beauty with you.

Can you hear me ... di ... hear me?

And the giant, with his hoarse voice, he joined the lament caressing, repeating monotonously

-
Do not you die, Miss Margaret .... Do not die!

Ra-Ra suddenly screamed almost feminine:

- Do not answer me .... He is dead! ... Is dead ...

It was. Long ago he spoke, not that she seemed to hear him. His last smile had assets, becoming
a cold and gloomy face.

Ra-Ra picked up one of the arms of his beloved, and the arm fell back with the inertia of death.
He opened his eyelids, and could only find a balloon glassy and tarnished,
which all light had fled.

- He's dead, gentleman! - Cried like a
child crying.

And the gentleman sat with his head down, staring at his hand, whose palm had developed the
tragic love of his life.

He spent a long time ... A lot! Ra-Ra, lying beside the body and hugged him, cried and cried
incessantly.

Gillespie remained motionless, without making any expression of pain, considering useless the
externalization of his sentence, because it had an "other self" to shed their own busy tears.

At
nightfall, a strong desire to Edwin output activity of this inertia.

A gentleman should be the body of the woman he loved more than a
painful contemplation.

He thought of his American cemeteries, green, noisy, abundant flowers and butterflies real gardens
that serve as meeting place for lovers and to bring out their graves
between Fresh groves on the edge of streams that glide under bridges
rustic.

Be there built in one of these walks, with her smile seems to mock the fear spring to death, a
graceful monument to deposit to Popito, and visit every afternoon
carrying a bouquet of flowers.

But here, at sea, so far from inhabited land by men of his kind!

...

He thought he saw that the adorable body of Miss Margaret began to decompose. Maybe it was illusion
their eyes, but the marble pallor seemed to have a tone dark green,
with stripes denouncing the internal rot.

It was better not to witness the breakdown material and hopelessness of this body worshiped. In
addition, his duty was to bury him immediately at sea, and could
not do on land.

Same time he took his fingers's body and body Popito Ra-Ra, depositing
back on the jacket.

Then he rummages among the items piled in the boat after registration by the sailors of the
squadron of the Rising Sun, and found a small box of cigars that
he had taken from his cabin to occur bombing packet.

The Pygmies had left empty after taking the six columns of grass
pressed, dark and spicy contained within, as high as their bodies.

This box was going to be the coffin of the sweet Popito.

Beginning to sunset, when Gillespie went to the stern with the box
in his right hand.

Ra-Ra, as if sensing the danger, stood up, and look at the hand of the giant guessed intent, desperate
voice shouting:

- Not!

... Not!

Then, realizing that resistance would be useless against the colossal
forces, appealed to the appeal:

- Leave it here, gentleman.

Why it from me? That tomb you want to give is so great Is so cool!

... You are good, gentleman, you always protected me. Heed my supplications.

But the giant him back with the back of one of his hands, then taking the corpse for deposit in
the box.

I was going to close the lid, when Ra-Ra pounced on it.

- Metam to
me too - he said -.

Popito where I go I go. Us have sworn many times. Why is determined to separate us? ...

The hand of the giant returned to repel, while two tears were falling from their eyes Gillespie, falling
inside the box.

Slowly closed the lid, returning with a pressure of her fingers penetrate the studs to make in their
old holes.

And had hidden the sun, leaving the horizon a red bar between floating vapors dull gold.

Two other huge drops of tears came to fall on the deck of makeshift
coffin.

Meanwhile, Ra-Ra launched continuous wailing, equal to the howls of
a little beast wound far away ... far away ....

- Bye, Margaret!
- Edwin murmured.

And taking one arm out of the boat, dropped the cigar box.

Floated on water for a moment, then went to the bottom under the weight of someone who had just
to throw over it.

Was Ra-Ra, who had jumped off the boat to embrace the coffin, disappearing with him.

And Edwin Gillespie, as if afraid of being alone, in obedience to
a superior and mysterious he pushed with irresistible force, he imitated
to Ra-Ra, also rushing headlong into the sea.

XVI

Where the man-mountain longer giant ended its journey

Was involved in sticky darkness. A force pulling him voraciously, sucking. Thus it was down
to the lower regions, where the darkness was even more dense.

I struggle desperately to feel the first pangs of asphyxiation, while providing furious kick in the
liquid environment.

I was certain I was going to drown, and this communicated it to his strength renewed vigor.

-
Do not want to die, I must not die! - Was said Edwin.

Vital egoism had seized him, erasing the emotional sadness of a moment before. No longer remember
the sweet Popito or Ra-Ra, suicide for love. This pygmy could kill, owned his life, and he did
not intend to deny the right to dispose of it.

But the Gentleman-Mountain not understand under what grounds should imitate the other, only because
seemed like a person resembles a miniature portrait of him.

As the young American wanted to prolong his life, he waved his arms and legs, not really knowing
if the pit was still absorbing it or if I could go back little by
little toward the surface.

His desire was to finish as soon as possible this floating life and
abnormal, which his body had to fight against natural laws, working
desperately to free himself the gravitational pulls.

Only aspired to find a foothold, something solid you can grab with your hands.

So vehement was this desire that did not take into account the size
of the object. A bottle closed just a floating cap would be sufficient
to sustain his body. The essential thing was to find grip.

And then
his right hand felt the hard contact of a polished wood and firm.

He
grabbed her with the tension of going to die, the oppressed as if
to embed their fingers in the venous and compact surface. Then she
stuck to her other hand and, leaning in this bra, was bringing his
entire body.

So great was the violence of the effort, the wood creaked,
scattering sound breaking through the liquid environment and sticky.

Little
by little he put his head out of the water and saw that it had closed
the night. But the gloom night was interrupted by the glow of a red
sun rays whose blood seemed fluid.

The sun was on her head, and instinctively
turned his eyes to see. It was just an electric bulb protected by
a concave glass.

Stunned by this discovery, he closed his eyes to
condense their senses and appreciate around him without silly spooky.
The fact that the sun suddenly became in an electric lamp made him
suspect that he was asleep or the descent into the abyss oceanic had
disturbed his mental faculties.

She opened her eyes, just look in
front of him. The first thing he saw was his feet resting on something
that was above the ground, then looked at the ground, which Wood was
clean and bright, with tight junctions, and beyond, as a last term,
a railing coated canvas exterior painted white. On this rail opened
a mysterious darkness seemed to breathe the salty breath of the infinite.

He
felt pain in his hands, owing to the tenacity with which they were
clinging to the object providential he had served as a support in
his agony of drowning.

Gillespie's eyes still open wrong, followed
the length of one of his arms, looking for hands to find the end grabs
a butter-colored wood, polished and bright. This wood is not affected
in a way that was unknown to Edwin. 

After examining the hesitation
of understanding still unclear, finally discovered it was the arm
of a chair. Once this discovery, everything else was easy for him,
his powers awoke instantly, helping each other.

He realized he was
sitting in a chair with legs extended. Then he sat, releasing the
wooden arm that left you hear a new complaint of breach to be free
the desperate oppression. Was quickly recognized the true aspect of
all that around him. The red sun was nothing more than an electric
lamp that illuminate the bridge walk from a steamer.

Gillespie was
quick to recognize the ship. What was he doing there? ... Who brought
him? ... Wanted take a leg off the couch, and his foot struck something
sliding on wood launching a whisper, as rubbing with paper.

By moving
his head he saw a fallen book, which had its back up, boasting in
his cap a man in coat color to the old legs in the form of a bar,
and passing between them an army of Pygmies.

            I thought I heard them say,
            There were lions in the way,
            I don't expect to Star
                    Much longer here.

            Run to Jesus--shun the danger--
             I don't expect to stay
                    Much longer here.

was a favorite air, and had a double meaning. In the lips of some, it meant the expectation
of a speedy summons to a world of spirits; but, in the lips of our company, it simply meant,
a speedy pilgrimage toward a free state, and deliverance from all the evils and dangers of slavery.

I had succeeded in winning to my (what slaveholders would call wicked) scheme, a company of
five young men, the very flower of the neighborhood, each one of whom would have commanded
one thousand dollars in the home market. At New Orleans, they would have brought fifteen hundred
dollars a piece, and, perhaps, more. The names of our party were as follows: Henry Harris;
John Harris, brother to Henry; Sandy Jenkins, of root memory; Charles Roberts, and Henry Bailey.
I was the youngest, but one, of the party. I had, however, the advantage of them all, in experience,
and in a knowledge of letters. This gave me great influence over them. 

Sometimes going to see how marching repairs to your ship, excellent excuse for download in someone's
bad mood. Other morning she went into the garden on the banks of Chiaia by same places that
had stepped up going with Freya. Expected her to appear at any moment. All around him was something
about her. Trees and benches, sidewalks and electric chandeliers, knew it perfectly well, for
being in the usual way.

To be convinced that waited in vain one last illusion made him turn
his eyes toward the Aquarium white palace.

Freya had told him. Often entertained for hours contemplating life of marine life. And Ferragut blinked
rapidly passing the heated garden sunshine to the gloom of a wet galleries, no other lights than
the lowered daylight inside the aquarium, took to light through the
glass of water and a mysterious tone, green dye and diffuse the deep
sea.

This visit made him pass the time pleasantly. Arose in his old memory readings now asserted by
direct vision. He was not sailing the sea without worrying of what exists below the keel. He
had wanted to know the mysteries of the vast palace The ceiling blue
circulated, dedicated to the study of oceanography, the most recent
science.

To take their first steps in the Aquarium, the Navy immediately imagined depth with unequal
divisions that have split the scan. Along the shores called littoral zone, where rivers flow,
crowd nurturer substances the pulse of tides and currents and underwater vegetation grow. This
area was of the great catches, and reached two hundred meters deep, depth at which lost sun.
Beyond the light stopped, the plants disappeared, and with them herbivores.

The

submarine slope, soft to this limit, stressed, descending rapidly to the ocean depths, and this
part of the sea - almost all of the ocean - vast body of water no lights, no waves, no tides,
no currents, no oscillations of temperature, was the call abyssal plain.

On the coast, water, waved, salinity changed depending on the distance rivers. The rocks and
funds were covered with green vegetation that was near the surface and would cast a shadow, until
the dark red and yellow bronze and walked away light. In this ocean paradise, nutrients and light
water bacteria-laden Food and microscopic life unfolded with exuberance. Despite continuous
attacks fisherman, marine herds remained intact through procreation infinite.

The fauna of the abyssal depths, where the lack of light makes it
impossible for all vegetation was necessarily carnivorous.

The weak people devoured the waste and dead animals descended from the surface. The strong turn
nourished with concentrated substances small butchers.

The bottom of the ocean, monotonous desert sand or clay, the product
of sediment hundreds centuries, offered from time to time an oasis
of rare vegetation.

These forests arose Life as spots where the surface currents meeting rained a mana of tiny corpses.
Twisted plants and limestone, hard as stone, were not plants: they were animals. Its leaves,
tentacles inert and traitors, suddenly shrank. Its flowers, hungry mouths, bent over the dam,
sipping their greedy suckers.

A fantastic light passing through this world with colorful bursts
of utter gloom.

Was animal light produced by living organisms.

In the abyssal depths were very few blind beings, against the opinion of the vulgar, imagines that
almost all eyes lacking their distance from the sun. The filaments of the carnivorous trees
were garlands of lamps, the eyes of hunting animals, balloons electric; the insignificant
bacteria, photogenic glands, and they all opened or closed their fluorescent switches according
to need of the hour, sometimes to pursue and eat, others to remain hidden in the darkness.

Animals,
plants, immobile as stars, surrounded by a circle of their mouths
fierce rays, and the tiny beings irresistibly felt pushed toward them,
the same as butterflies flying towards the lamp and sea birds collide
with the beacon.

None of the lights of the earth could be compared to the nether world.

All fires artifice paled before the splendor of organic varieties.

Polypary living branches of the eyes of the beasts, until the mud strewn with items bright jets
emitted phosphoric sparks beams whose splendors opened and closed incessantly. And these lights
were going in degree for many different colors: purple, purple, red, orange, blue and especially
green. The giant octopus lit to sense the proximity of a victim and soles livid, waving his
arms deadly hitch.

All deep-sea creatures were the organ of sight enormously developed in order to capture even
the weakest rays of light. Many were bulging eyes and huge. Others were detached from the body,
at the end of two tentacles cylindrical like telescopes.

Those who were blind and did not produce glare offset this inferiority development tactile organ. Their
antennae and fins, were prolonged beyond measure in the dark. The strands of her body, long hair rich in
nerve endings, instantly distinguished coveted prey or the enemy
in ambush.

The abyss abyssal had two floors or roofs. At the top was the so-called neritic the ocean surface,
clear and bright, far from any coast.

Next came the area pelagic, much deeper, in which fish reside incessant movement, capable to
live without resting in the background.

The carcasses of animals that neritic and swim between two waters were a living direct and indirect
impacts of abyssal fauna. Fragile beings teeth and slow speed, poor armed for the conquest of the
live prey, fed with drops of rain food material. The great swimmers, armed with formidable jaws
and stomachs elastic and immense, they preferred the vicissitudes
of the struggle, persecution of hunting living and devour - devour
the earth and carnivores to herbivores - to all small and waste-eating
plankton.

This word, recent scientific invention, to Captain Ferragut was the most humble and interesting of
all the characters of the ocean.

Plankton is the life that floats in clumps loose or forming clouds through the neritic area, descending
to the depths abyssal.

Wherever he went was the animation plankton living animals grouped in tight colonies. Salt
water pure and clear under certain light rays showed numerous small bodies, restless as the
spirals of dust dancing in a sunbeam. These transparent beings, microscopic algae mixed with
embryonic mucus were plankton. In its mass dense and less visible to the naked eye floating
siphonophores, garlands of individuals united by a transparent thread, fragile, delicate and bright
as Bohemian crystal. Other agencies were also subtle form of small glass torpedoes. The sum of
all the materials floating on the sea albuminurie condensed in these
clouds nutritious adding to them the living animal secretions, waste
of their bodies bodies dragged through the rivers, the blades of grass
eating algae.

When the plankton, to random impulses or following mysterious attractions crowding would at some
point along the coast, fish boiled in water with amazing fertility. The coastal populations are
growing larger, the sea was filled with candles, the tables were
more affluent industries arose, opened factories and money circulating
in the sea, drawn inside by trade in fishery and canning.

If capriciously withdrew plankton, paddling to another coastal marine herds migrated behind
the living meadows and blue plain was empty as a desert damn. Fleets of boats remained dry, closed
shops, no longer smoked the pot, the horses of the gendarmerie charged
into the crowd Protestant and starving, shouted opposition in the
Chambers and the newspapers were responsible for everything the government.

This

powder fed to animal and plant species more numerous, so they in turn served grass to the great swimmers
armed with teeth.

The whale, the most voluminous of the ocean inhabitants, closed this destructive cycle in which devour
one another to live. The peaceful and toothless giant kept his body only plankton, absorbing
tons. Imperceptible and crystal manna fed his body lay tower, circulating under the oily purple
rivers of blood hot.

The transparency of planktonic creatures evoked the memory of the colors Ferragut wonderful inhabitants
of the sea, exactly adjusted to the needs of conservation. The species living in the area were,
in general, blue back and silver belly. In this way they could escape the sight of the enemy. Its
light color, as seen from the depth of darkness, mingled with bright white sheet surface. Sardines
swimming in banks, could go unnoticed thanks to their backs and blue
water, being freed from the fish and birds that hunt.

Living at depths where light never penetrates, pelagic animals ignored the need be transparent or
blue as the surface neritic beings. Some were opaque and colorless, other tan and black, were
of the most superb die, whose splendor human brushes desperate, unable to imitate. A gorgeous red
was the basis of this coloration, gradually descending to pale pink, violet, amber, to miss in
the iris of pearl milk and polychrome vagorosa trembling and nacre of molluscs. The eyes of certain
fish, placed at the end of rods separated from the body, glowing like diamonds on the ends of a double
pin. Outgoing glands, warts, the windings dorsal coloration took
jewelry.

But precious minerals on earth are dead they need the light beam to exist at short sputtering. The
animated jewels of the ocean, fish and coral, glowed own colors that were reflections of their vitality.
Its green, its pink, its bright yellow, their iris metallic inks
forever juicy wet painted by a patent, could not survive in the atmospheric
world.

Some of these beings were capable of a powerful mimicry that made them confused with inanimate
objects, or spend a few moments for the full range of colors. Some, of nervous activity, was immobilized
and cowering, filled with rough, taking the pitch dark rocks. Others in anger or love fever,
were covered with stripes and trembling spots, spreading his clouds epidermis different with each
of their tremors. Cuttlefish and squid, to be pursued, were made invisible in a cloud, as The
charming books of chivalry, muddying the water with the ink stored
in their glands.

Ferragut was moving between the two vertical rows of tanks of the Aquarium, showcases rocks
with a thick glass that left everything in sight inside. These two clear walls and bright,
they received fire from the sun by the upper part, scattered green
mirror the shadows of the corridors.

When driving, the visitors took a livid pallor, and if they went for a submarine canyon.

The calm water of the ponds was barely visible. Behind the glass seemed to exist only a wonderful
atmosphere, a sleep environment, which beings floating up and down color. Bubbles his breath
was all that betrayed the presence of liquid. On top of these cages water, the luminous atmosphere
was shocked by a steady stream of transparent powder.

Seawater was injected air, which renewed the conditions of existence of Aquarium guests.

Viewing these sleeves exhilarating master, admired the blue water force on nurturer he had spent
most of its existence.

The land lost its pride when compared with the vast water.

In the ocean had pointed the first signs of life, then continuing on its evolutionary cycle the
mountains, also emerged from their midst. If the earth was the mother of the man, the sea was
her grandmother.

The number of land animals was negligible compared with that of the sea. On the ground - much smaller
than the ocean - beings occupy only the surface soil and atmospheric layer a few meters. Birds
and insects rarely go back in their flights.

At sea, the animals are scattered at all levels of its thickness, may have many miles deep, multiplied
by thousands and thousands of miles extension. Infinite number of beings beyond all calculation
to swim continuously on every floor of its waters. The earth is a surface, a plane, and the sea
is a volume.

The vast mass of water - three times saltier than the birth of the
planet, owing to evaporation millennial declined without absorbing
liquid components - keeping, scrambled with chlorides, copper, nickel,
iron, zinc, lead, and even the gold from of reefs to global boiling
agglomerated on the ocean floor, and mass not are more than minor
veins tentacles the mountain, with its gold-bearing sands carried
by rivers.

Silver was also dissolved in the water. Ferragut knew for certain calculations that silver floating
in the ocean could rise to the enormous pyramids of Egypt.

The men who had thought about the exploitation of these mineral riches were withdrawing their
chimera. Were so diluted that it was impossible to use. Knew ocean beings better recognize its
presence, filtering it through your body to renew and coloring their
bodies.

Copper accumulated in his blood, the gold and silver were discovered in tissues of animals, plants, the
phosphorus was absorbed by the sponges, lead and zinc, by wrack.

All were removed from the waste water of some dissolved metal fragments as imponderably small,
that no chemical process quite grasp. Washed lime carbonates torn by rivers to the coast or
to many species were used for construction of their shells, skeletons,
shells and conch.

Corals, filtering water through their flabby bodies and mucous, solidified their hard skeletons,
to convert to final habitable islands.

Beings floating bewildering diversity, ramp or around Ferragut coleaban were nothing more than
ocean water. Fish, water made flesh, and the animals mucous, water as gelatin; polyphenos crustaceans
and water, transformed into stone.

Looked at one of the ponds a landscape that seemed from another planet, great and small at the
same time, like a forest seen in a diorama. It was a palm emerging among rocks; but the rocks
were merely pebbles, and sea palm annelids, simple worms that were
kept in vertical immobility.

Her body kept ringing in a leathery tube that protected them, and this trunk rectilinear throwing
ivory color, as a supplier of arms, tentacles shifting which allow them to breathe and eat.

Gifted
with a rare sensitivity, sufficient passage of a cloud with the sun to contrajesen inside the tubes,
leaving them without their colorful capital, such as palms lopped. Then slowly and cautiously,
they arose again the brush through the opening animated its pods,
floating in the water with eager anticipation.

All these trees and flowers, animals was a voracious microscopic
mechanical when the victim was left by its tentacles to attract The
contorted branches smooth, closed, pulling the slender tower secreted
by himself, digested conquest.

Other ponds attracted attention after the seaman.

Slipping on rocks, introduced in caves, half buried in slumber sand,
all the various and tumultuous nation of crustaceans moving their
cutting tools and tentacular Japanese armor shone, a dyed red almost
black, as if you keep the dried blood from a distant combat, others
in fresh scarlet, the same as if reflected in its hardness the first
fires of dawn.

The fiery lobster - the homard, ruler of the rich tables - rested on the scissors their forelegs,
powerful weapon as a double battle-ax. The locust jump with agility on the rocks using the
hooks on their legs, tools of war and nutrition. His nearest relative sea cicada, animal clumsy
and slow, remained in corners, covered with mud and seaweed, in a stillness that made him confused
with stones. And around these giants, red as a democracy used to suffer from time then the attack of
the strong, swimming swarms of shrimp and prawns. Their movements were loose and funny, so
refined sensitivity that the slightest agitation made them give huge
jumps.

Ulysses thought slavery had imposed nature of these animals showed them beautiful defensive shell.

Battleships
were born, and growth were forced repeatedly to change armor. Moved Leather, like reptiles,
but these, being cylindrical, could perform the operation as easily as a leg that leaves the
media. Crustaceans were to draw from its shell, which was beginning to crack, the multiple mechanisms
of its members and its appendages: the legs, antennae, thick claws, slow and dangerous operation,
which many seemed torn by their own efforts. Then, naked and helpless, had expected to be formed
a new skin to turn from becoming armor. And this in the midst of a hostile environment surrounded
by hungry beasts, large and small, who felt the pull of its rich meat and no other defense
that the concealment.

Among the swarm of small crustaceans that moved in the sand, hunting, feeding or fighting with fierce
tangle of legs, looking for observers to be bizarre and extravagant the paguro, Bernardo dubbed
the Hermit. It was a shell that moved straight as a tower on some
crab legs, crown having at the hair of a sea anemone.

The comic appearance was composed of three different animals, one over another, or rather of
two living beings in the middle wearing a coffin. The paguro born with back devoid of armor: an excellent
bite, tender and tasty, for hungry fish. The need to defend a shell made him seek to save
the weak part of your body. If a house was empty for this species is appropriate. Otherwise,
ate the resident, introduced after the pearly shelter later, armed
with two legs hooked.

Not sufficient to paguro their weak defensive precautions.

Need to be offensive to live; inspire respect for eating monsters, especially the octopus, looking
for prey of your breasts and hairy legs, leaning out for locomotion outside the tower.

A sea anemone came to look at the top limestone: at times came to be five or six. No relationship
existed between the body and bodies paguro above. They were simple partners, mutual interest. Animals,
plants and stinging nettles all monsters without armor fleeing from the venom of stinging organs, the
strands of her hair burned like needles of fire. Thus, the humble paguro inspired terror to
the giant beasts depth, carrying on the back its tower crowned with formidable batteries. Anemones,
for his part, thanked the pasease incessantly from one side to another, placing them in contact with
all kinds of animals. They could eat more easily and her sisters still in the rock. They had
to wait, like them, the food came casually to their tentacles.

Also, always floated to its heights any remains of the prey was below crafty crab in his wandering
impunity.

Ferragut, moving from one pond to another, provided the gradation of the mentally diverse orders
of marine fauna, from the original sketch the perfect body.

Mediterranean sponges swam in the early days of his birth - when they
were as pinheads - vibrating movements.

Then stood motionless, straining water by the cells and corridors of their tissues, protecting
their soft flesh with a ruffling spicules, calcareous needles and spicy, with which strung and
immobilize fish serving them food waste into putrefaction.
Deployed by thousands of sea nettles stinging their strings, projecting
a poison stunned the victim and made her fall into the corolla, mouth
and anus simultaneously. A voracious without limits, seized, locked
in stone, of larger fish to them, and presenting danger shrank so,
it was difficult to see.
Had these passes been found, they would have been point blank proof against us, and would have
confirmed all the statements of our betrayer. Thanks to the resistance of Henry, the excitement
produced by the scuffle drew all attention in that direction, and I succeeded in flinging my
pass, unobserved, into the fire. The confusion attendant upon the scuffle, and the apprehension
of further trouble, perhaps, led our captors to forego, for the present, any search for "those
protections" which Frederick was said to have written for his companions; so we were not yet
convicted of the purpose to run away; and it was evident that there was some doubt, on the
part of all, whether we had been guilty of such a purpose.{227}

Just as we were all completely tied, and about ready to start toward St. Michael's, and thence
to jail, Mrs. Betsey Freeland (mother to William, who was very much attached--after the southern
fashion--to Henry and John, they having been reared from childhood in her house) came to the
kitchen door, with her hands full of biscuits--for we had not had time to take our breakfast
that morning--and divided them between Henry and John. This done, the lady made the following
parting address to me, looking and pointing her bony finger at me. "You devil! you yellow devil!
It was you that put it into the heads of Henry and John to run away. But for you, you long
legged yellow devil, Henry and John would never have thought of running away." I gave the lady
a look, which called forth a scream of mingled wrath and terror, as she slammed the kitchen
door, and went in, leaving me, with the rest, in hands as harsh as her own broken voice.

Could the kind reader have been quietly riding along the main road to or from Easton, that
morning, his eye would have met a painful sight. He would have seen five young men, guilty
of no crime, save that of preferring liberty to a life of bondage, drawn along the public highway--firmly
bound together--tramping through dust and heat, bare-footed and bare-headed--fastened to three
strong horses, whose riders were armed to the teeth, with pistols and daggers--on their way
to prison, like felons, and suffering every possible insult from the crowds of idle, vulgar
people, who clustered around, and heartlessly made their failure the occasion for all manner
of ribaldry and sport. As I looked upon this crowd of vile persons, and saw myself and friends
thus assailed and persecuted, I could not help seeing the fulfillment of Sandy's dream. I was
in the hands of moral vultures, and firmly held in their sharp talons, and was hurried away
toward Easton, in a south-easterly direction, amid the jeers of new birds of the same feather,
through every neighborhood we passed. It seemed to me (and this shows the good understanding
between the slaveholders and their allies) that every body we met knew{228} the cause of our
arrest, and were out, awaiting our passing by, to feast their vindictive eyes on our misery
and to gloat over our ruin. Some said, I ought to be hanged, and others, I ought to be burnt,
others, I ought to have the "hide" taken from my back; while no one gave us a kind word or
sympathizing look, except the poor slaves, who were lifting their heavy hoes, and who cautiously
glanced at us through the post-and-rail fences, behind which they were at work. Our sufferings,
that morning, can be more easily imagined than described. Our hopes were all blasted, at a
blow. The cruel injustice, the victorious crime, and the helplessness of innocence, led me
to ask, in my ignorance and weakness "Where now is the God of justice and mercy? And why have
these wicked men the power thus to trample upon our rights, and to insult our feelings?" And
yet, in the next moment, came the consoling thought, "The day of oppressor will come at last."
Of one thing I could be glad--not one of my dear friends, upon whom I had brought this great
calamity, either by word or look, reproached me for having led them into it. We were a band
of brothers, and never dearer to each other than now. The thought which gave us the most pain,
was the probable separation which would now take place, in case we were sold off to the far
south, as we were likely to be. While the constables were looking forward, Henry and I, being
fastened together, could occasionally exchange a word, without being observed by the kidnappers
who had us in charge. 

The cook did not allow criticism and protest. This miracle was undeniable. He had seen their
eyes when they were good, he had seen an old painting of the monastery Puig, and all appeared
in the table with the relief of the truth: the galley, the king, Peixoto and the Virgin at the
top giving the order.

The breeze lifted the skirt of the narrator, popping his abdomen split
into two hemispheres by the tightness of one button.

- Uncle Caragol,
which escapes! - Warned a mocking voice.

The holy man with the calm seraphic smile which looks beyond the pomp
and vanities of existence.

- Let: no longer flies.

And began the story of another miracle.

Ferragut assimilated these exaltations lightly cook his clothes at all times. Burning inside
a fire incessantly renewed. On foggy days up to the bridge with a smoking drinking glasses he
called calentets. Nothing better for men who were to to spend long hours outdoors in stationary
surveillance. It was coffee mixed with rum cane, but in unequal proportions,
with more alcohol than the black liquid.

Toni quickly drank all the vessels offered. The captain refused, demanding black coffee.

His sobriety was the old sailor, the sobriety of the father Ulysses, who mixed wine with water
in all its libations. The gods did not love the old sea spirits. Amphitrite and the Nereids only
accepted on their altars fruits of the earth, sacrifices pigeons, libations of milk. Perhaps
because of this the Mediterranean coast, following a concern hereditary drunkenness saw the lowest
of the recesses.

Those who were not really drunk sober avoided like the sailors of other seas, hiding the roughness
of the alcoholic beverage or coffee with sugar.

Caragol was drunk in charge of all the "warm" despised by the captain, others who are engaged himself
in the mystery of the kitchen.

On hot days tailored refresquets, and these "soft" were large vessels, half water, half sugar
cane on a thick bed of sugar mixture that fulminant posing without gradations, from the vulgar
an angelic serenity to drunkenness.

The master scolded him when he saw her eyes swollen and red.

I was going to go blind ... But he was not moved to the threat. Needed to hold his own way prosperity
of the ship. And this prosperity, the most interesting to him was able to abuse the oil and
sugarcane, without fear of recrimination at the time of the audit.
Grao Christ, which lasted forever War!

...

The third trip of South America to Europe came to finish the Mare Nostrum in Naples wheat and
hides where he landed. A collision at the entrance of the harbor with a ship-hospital Englishman
who went to the Dardanelles dented its stern, also breaking a fin of the propeller.

Toni roared with impatience to learn that they would have to stay
close to a month in forced immobility.

Italy had not yet intervened in the war, but his defensive precautions
monopolized all naval industries.

It was not possible before the repair. Ferragut cash figure for their business this waste of time.
We expect valuable freight in Marseilles and Barcelona. But trying to calm himself and placate his
mate, repeated many times:

- England will indemnify ... The English are generous.

And to numb his impatience, was moved to the ground.

Naples does not look like much when compared to other famous Italian
cities.

Its true beauty was the huge gulf between hills of orange and pine trees, with a second frame
of mountains, one of which extended over the eternal blue sky, its summit of volcanic vapors.

The
village was scarce in famous buildings.

The monarchs of Naples had been more than often foreigners residing far and ruled by proxy. The
best streets, palaces, monumental fountains, came from the Spanish viceroys. A sovereign source
mixed. Carlos III, Castilian Neapolitan by birth and heart, had the best of the city. His enthusiasm
constructor old neighborhoods still embellished with similar works which had risen to years
later in Spain to take his throne.

After admiring the statues in the Greek museums and the objects unearthed that revealed the intimate
life of the ancients, Ulises ran tortuous arteries and often bleak popular neighborhoods.

Were steep streets, forming landings, flanked by narrow houses and
towering.

All holes had balconies, and a railing at the front were stretched strings, buntings clothes of
different colors to dry. Fertility Neapolitan crowd was boiling these streets. Around the outdoor
kitchens crowded customers eating boiled macaroni feet or pieces of meat.

Advertised vendors hawking their wares with similar melodic ballads to, and down to meet him
balconies topped by castles strings. The haggling and shopping were from the bottom of the street-ditch
to the seventh floor. In contrast, herds of goats rose winding stairs with the agility of habit,
to be left empty the udder all plateaus.

Marinela springs attracted the captain for his "color" of the Mediterranean port. The unit Italian
had knocked down and rebuilt much, but still left standing several rows of houses, low ceiling,
pink or white façade, green doors and the floor under more advanced the top, serving to support
a gallery with wooden balustrades. Everything in them was not was
carpentry brick thick, equal to the work of the shipwrights.

Iron there was no land in these buildings they remembered the ship sailing. The pieces were as dark
cabin. Through the windows were large sea shells on the comfortable, paint pictures depicting hard
and childish frigates, multicolored shells brought from distant seas.

These homes were repeated in all ports of the Mediterranean, as if they were the work of the same
hand. Ferragut had seen a boy in the Grao of Valencia, and still found them in Barceloneta, in
the suburbs of Marseille, in the old Nice, on the island ports Western navies in the African coast
occupied by Maltese and Sicilian.

On the village aligned along the Marinela, the churches of Naples
domes protruding and towers with glazed tiles, green and yellow.

More than Christian churches roofs seemed auction of oriental baths.

Lazaron there was no longer barefoot and red cap, but the crowd - clad as all port workers - are
still crowded around the poster defaced that was a crime, a prodigious miracle or a specific,
listening in silence the story the narrator or the charlatan. The old popular reciters declaimed
with heroic gesticulations Tasso's epic octaves. Accompanied by harps and violins sounded the
last romance that Naples had become fashionable in the world. The positions of the scattered
ostricarios perfume dead organic wave.

Around them, the empty shells of oysters out against mud the rounds of his pearly lime.

Next to the former Captain of the Port - palace of Charles III, white and blue with an image of the
Immaculate Conception - the cars were crowded landing.

Ferragut the same thing was that years before, with their original hybrid shots. The rods were occupied
by an ox white, lustrous, with huge horns and wide, an animal similar to those contained in religious
ceremonies of the ancients. To his right was towing a horse, his left a big ass and lean. And this
triple and discordant coupling was repeated in all stationary cars
to ships along the docks or flipping their heavy wheels the slope
that leads to the upper town.

A few days later, the captain felt fatigued and bustle of Naples. In the cafes of Toledo Street and
the Gallery of Umberto I had to defend some boys troubling with low-cut vest, tie wing and felt a
little lopsided on the locks, proposed that quietly organized recreational events unheard of foreigners.

Pretty
had also seen the paintings and household objects unearthed from ancient cities. The secret cabinet
lewdness ended by irritating.

It seemed an inverted recess look so childish fantasies of sculpture and painting as a character
having the phallus Main ...

One morning I took the train, and then skirting the smoking mountain of Vesuvius, passing between
Pink villages surrounded by vineyards, dropped in a season: Pompeii.

Hotels and restaurants, in mournful solitude the guides came like a swarm of wasps suddenly awakened.
They lamented the war, which had cut the flow of travelers. He was perhaps the only one who was
coming in all day. "Lord, at any price !...» But the sailor continued. Always, remembering Pompeii,
had made the desire to return to see her alone, all alone, to receive a direct impression of ancient
life.

His first visit was seventeen years before, when I was piloting a glider Catalan anchored in the
port of Naples, using the cheap price of a Sunday. All had been confused in a group that pushed
and stepped on by listening to the guide more closely.

Leading the expedition was a young priest and elegant, a Roman Bishop Dress silk, and with
him two foreign ladies and goons that were planted on higher ground having their skirts lifted for
fear of some geckos that snaked among the ruins. Ferragut, with the humility of wonder, it was
always down, seeing all the means of his legs. "Ay! Twenty years
!...»

Then, when he heard of Pompeii, is checked in his memory an image overlay "Very beautiful, very
interesting." He saw the streets palaces, temples, but secondly, as a fund vanished, while highlighting
first-line four magnificent legs, a slender shafts human colonnade lined black silk that was
transparently the white meat.

The loneliness so often desired for his second visit he was met. The Dead City had no other noise than
the flutter of insects on the plants, who began to wear spring, and
reptiles running around invisible under layers of ivy.

At the Herculaneum Gate, the guardian of small museum Ferragut let alone consider the emptied
of secular bodies: several Pompeii plaster in the attitude of terror that death had surprised
them.

He did not leave the chair to bother with explanations; barely looked up from the day before him.
I absorbed the news of Rome, intrigues of German diplomats, the possibility that Italy entered the
war.

Then in the empty streets, the sailor stumbled with the same concern. Echoed their steps under
the sunlight with a sound equal to that of the hollow underground
tombs.

When stopped, the silence was reborn, "a silence of two thousand years", he thought Ferragut. Y
in the old silent voices sounded far with the violence of a bitter argument. Were guards and employees
of the excavations, which, deprived of work, gesticulating and insulted in their seats twenty centuries,
deeply alienated by the patriotic enthusiasm or the fear of the horrors of war.

Ferragut, with the plane in hand, went to these groups, no one should
rise to guide.

For two hours might believe a neighbor of the ancient Pompeii was left alone in the city on a holiday
dedicated to the gods countryside. His gaze went up the extreme end of the straight streets,
without running into people or things to be reminded modern times.

Pompeii seemed smaller in this solitude. It was a narrow crossing paths with high sidewalks paved
with polygonal blocks of lava blue. In the interstices formed fertility laces tight spring grass
dotted with flowers. Ancient carriages, the that there was not dust, had opened with deep wheel
ruts in the pavement. In all the moments he was a public fountain with a mask he had thrown
your mouth water.

Certain red signs advertising the walls were verified in the early elections of the current era:
mayor candidates or of diunviro recommending that voters Pompeii. Phallus wielded doors to ward
off the evil eye, others a couple of coiled snakes, symbol of family
life.

In the corners of the streets, a Latin line engraving the wall begging the passer to refrain
from dirty outbursts. Were still living in the walls stucco cartoons and puppets, designed
by Cesar urchins century.

The houses were built at the light on a floor which had happened the
tremors, until the arrival of the final catastrophe.

They only had brick or cement the ground floor. The others were of wood, and had been devoured
by the volcanic fire, leaving only stairs.

In this city, funny, friendly and easy life, more Greek than Roman, all lower floors plebeian houses
had been occupied by small shops. Were stores with the door the same size as the establishment:
caves square, equal to those of the Arab souks, that show to its
farthest corners of the buyer arrested in the street.

Many kept even your stone countertops and earthen jars. The buildings had no particular facade.
Its outer walls were smooth, unaffordable, with the odd lattice skylight and high, as in the palaces
of the East. The door was like a gate to escape; whole life was turned inward, flowing wealth and
magnificence to the yard central, adorned with pools, statues and flower beds.

The marble was rare. The columns, constructed of brick, were covered with stucco offered to
the paint surface. Pompeii was a city polychrome. All columns, red
or yellow, were capitals of different colors.

Predominated in the walls the black patent leather with red and amber, occupying its center a small
table, over often erotic. In the friezes and newts rode love between rustic and maritime emblems.

Tired
of your trip through the dead city, Ferragut sat on a stone bench between the ruins of a temple.
I looked at the plane put on their knees, sipping titles that had
been designated the most interesting buildings on account of a mosaic
or of a painting village of Diomede, home of Meleager, Adonis wounded,
the Labyrinth of the Faun Black Wall.

The street names were not less interesting: by the Baths, via of the Tombs, route of Plenty, Theaters
pathway.

The sound of footsteps roused her head to sea. Two women march preceded by a guide. They were
walking tall and strong. Had their faces veiled hat and a larger veil crossed behind his back,
sustained by the arms by way of a shawl.

Ferragut guessed a major difference in the ages of the two. The thickest covert was moving heaviness.
His step was alive, but rested on the floor with your feet some authority bulky widely shoes
with low heels. The younger, tall and slender walking small bounds, like a bird that only knows
how to fly, strutting on the steep heels.

The two watched with concern to this man who suddenly emerged from
the ruins.

Showed air worried and fearful of going to a prohibited place or meditate wrongdoing. His first
impulse was to retreat, but continued to guide his way unmoved, and eventually follow.

Ferragut smiled. I knew where they were going. The lane of the brothels was next. The Guardian
open a door, leaving after watching, with dramatic anxiety, as if set out its pleased to use
this for a tip.

And the two ladies were going to see some paintings fuzzy showing how there is nothing new
and original in this world: yellow figures and naked, the same at first glance, no other news
that the exaggerated bulge sex differential.

Half an hour later, Ulysses left his bench with tired eyes and severe immobility the ruins. In
the streets of the Spa again visited the house of the tragic poet, then Pansa admired, the largest and
most luxurious of the city.

This Pansa had undoubtedly been the most ostentatious bourgeois Pompeii. Your home occupied
an entire island. The xystos, garden attached to the house, had been replanted with vegetation
Greek cypresses and laurels among pictures of roses and violets.

By following the outer wall of the garden, Ferragut found the two
ladies.

Cotemplaban the flowers through the bars of a door. The younger English expressed his admiration by a
swaying his purple roses around the pedestal of an old faun.

Ulysses felt an irresistible desire to be bold and gallant. He wanted interest to the two foreign
theatrical tribute.

He felt the need to draw attention something dashing and daring Spanish waving to all far
from home.

With an agile climber masts, saved from a jump the garden wall. The two ladies gave a cry of
surprise, as if to witness something unprecedented.

This boldness appeared subvert the ideas of the oldest, accustomed to life in disciplined people
who respect hard all prohibitions. His first impulse was to escape, to avoid being complicated
in the bombing of the unknown. But a few footsteps stopped.

The most Young smiled, looking at the wall, and reappear on it Captain, almost clapped with enthusiasm,
as if to hold a risky kind of gymnastics.

The British navy believed them, and spoke their language to deliver both wearing pink in hand.
There were flowers and all, born in a land equal to the other lands,
but under the ancient walls, the vicinity of the stalls and the house
built tavern by Pansa time of the first Caesars, were given the same
interest as if they were roses two thousand years, miraculously preserved.

The

largest and most luxuriant gave it to her, and she accepted it, smiling, as something that belonged
without question. His partner, once the first impression of the gift, showed impatience to
get away from this stranger. "Thanks ... thank you! "and pushed the other, had not yet finished
his smile, the two abruptly walking away. A corner adorned with a
fountain hide them from the few steps.

When Odysseus, after a light lunch in the restaurant Diomedes, came
running to the station, the train was to depart.

He wanted to see Salerno, famous in the Middle Ages for their physicians and navigators, and
then the crumbling temples of Paestum. Going up in the first car who found the way, he seemed
to see the veils of the two women disappeared behind a door that closed.

In Salerno station returned to descry occupying a hired carriage that was lost in a nearby street.
Then in the rest of the afternoon, he met with them necessarily, by the attraction experienced
by travelers in a small town.

They met at the port, mortally threatened by the movable bar sand were in the gardens near the
sea, near the monument Pisicane, the romantic Duke St. John, a precursor
of Garibaldi, who died in his youth for the freedom of Italy.

The girl smiled to find. His companion went ahead, his eyes wandering, wanting ignore their
presence.

At night they saw shorter distance. They lived in the
same hotel, same accommodation to all the small ports with excellent
food and unclean rooms. Its tables were close, and Ferragut, after
a greeting coldly replied, he beheld the two ladies, who spoke little
and quietly, fearing to be heard by a neighbor.

On seeing the older
with the free face veil, suffered no disappointment. Your enemy maybe
in another time would have disturbed the peace of men, but could continue
hostile gestures with impunity and hosters: Captain did not think
so sad.

Should be more than forty years. Its abundant bore some fresh
meat, work on care and gymnastic exercises. Instead, his face, white
skin, transparent yellowish subcutaneous flood, which seemed formed
with waves saved.

On the old hair, a red hue, artificial curls piled
hiding baldness and gray hair. Her eyes, green, had the opacity of
bovine eyes calmly when were free of myopic glasses. But just these
crystals mounted in gold were interposed between it and the outside
world, the two took a sharp drop glaucous punch people and objects.
Sometimes scattered around a vacuum haughty, icy, similar to the circle
draw a sword.

The girl was less grim. Seemed to smile with the corners
of his eyes, while half Ferragut her back, thanking his admiration
moving and searching. She wore her hair in disarray, as a woman who
is not afraid of the indiscretions of her hair and let it emerge fuses
under his hat winding with all his rebellious nature. At present, the slaveholders blind them to this competition, by keeping alive their
prejudice against the slaves, as men--not against them as slaves. They appeal to their pride,
often denouncing emancipation, as tending to place the white man, on an equality with Negroes,
and, by this means, they succeed in drawing off the minds of the poor whites from the real
fact, that, by the rich slave-master, they are already regarded as but a single remove from
equality with the slave. The impression is cunningly made, that slavery is the only power that
can prevent the laboring white man from falling to the level of the slave's poverty and degradation.
To make this enmity deep and broad, between the slave and the poor white man, the latter is
allowed to abuse and whip the former, without hinderance. But--as I have suggested--this state
of facts prevails mostly in the country. In the city of Baltimore, there are not unfrequent
murmurs, that educating the slaves to be mechanics may, in the end, give slavemasters power
to dispense with the services of the poor white man altogether. But, with characteristic dread
of offending the slaveholders, these poor, white mechanics in Mr. Gardiner's ship-yard--instead
of applying the natural, honest remedy for the apprehended evil, and objecting at once to work
there by the side of slaves--made a cowardly attack upon the free colored mechanics, saying
they were eating the bread which should be eaten by American freemen, and swearing that they
would not work with them. The feeling was, really, against having their labor brought into
competition with that of the colored people at all; but it was too much to strike directly
at the interest of the slaveholders; and, therefore proving their servility and cowardice they
dealt their blows on the poor, colored freeman, and aimed to prevent him from serving himself,
in the evening of life, with the trade{241} with which he had served his master, during the
more vigorous portion of his days. Had they succeeded in driving the black freemen out of the
ship-yard, they would have determined also upon the removal of the black slaves. The feeling
was very bitter toward all colored people in Baltimore, about this time (1836), and they--free
and slave suffered all manner of insult and wrong.

Until a very little before I went there, white and black ship carpenters worked side by side,
in the ship yards of Mr. Gardiner, Mr. Duncan, Mr. Walter Price, and Mr. Robb. Nobody seemed
to see any impropriety in it. To outward seeming, all hands were well satisfied. Some of the
blacks were first rate workmen, and were given jobs requiring highest skill. He gave his blood for the whole world was free and disappear
all monarchies.

- Me bato by France, because it is the country of the great Revolution. His past history did not
matter: for kings and we have ours.

But as of July 14, which is from France I consider myself and all
men.

He paused a few seconds, looking for a more specific statement:

- Beat me, captain, Danton and Hoche.

Ferragut saw in his mind the white mane of Michelet and Lamartine romantic toupee on a double
pedestal of volumes containing the history-poem of the Revolution.

- Beat me also for France - he finally said - it is the home of Victor Hugo.

Republican Ulysses sensed that twenty years had to keep a notebook in his backpack, written
in pencil, full of verses.

The South American, accustomed to the disputes of his two companions, his fingernails black with
the melancholy despair of a prophet who contemplates his homeland
in ruins.

Blanes, son of bourgeois admired him for his origin.

The day of mobilization had been in Paris to sign volunteer riding a car fifty horses. He and his
driver got ready together. Then he would grant his luxury vehicle.

He had wanted to be a soldier because all the youth of his club left for the war. In addition,
he was flattered that he devoted his last lover tears of admiration
and awe seeing uniform.

I felt the need to move to all the ladies who had danced the tango
with him until last week.

Moreover, the millions of his grandfather 'Galician', something gnawed by his father Creole, were
falling apart in your hands.

- It takes too long, Captain.

At first he had believed in a six-month war. The bullets he cared little, how terrible Scale was,
not moving the clothes, deprived of the daily bath. If he had guessed it ...

And he summed up his enthusiasm with this statement:

- Me bato by France because it is a country chic.

Only in Paris are well dressed women. These German, however much they do, will always be a regular.

No
need to add more, everything was said.

The three recalled the months of hell suffered recently in the Dardanelles,
in an area won six miles with the bayonet.

A rain of bullets fell incessantly on them. Had to live underground like moles, and even then, they
reached the outbreak of large shells.

In this tongue of land before Troy, which had slipped remote history humanity, shovels, opening
the trenches, faced with the most rare finds. A day, Blanes and his companions had brought
to light vases, figurines and dishes that they had thirty centuries. Repulsive softness cut again exhaling
a stench unbearable. Were opening trenches on a piece of land that
had served as a cemetery to the Turks.

Bellies swollen split apart under the blades, juices spilling its putrefaction. The need the
guard had forced the Legion to live with his face to the level of the bodies poking at the coalface
of disturbed soil.

- The dead were like truffles on a cake - said the South American -. I had to stay a whole day
with my nose touching the guts of a Turk died two weeks before ... No, war is not chic, captain,
though talk of heroism and sublime things in newspapers and books.

Ulysses wanted to see again to the "three musketeers" before from Thessaloniki, but the battalion
had raised their field, located many miles inland, opposite the first
Bulgarian lines.

Blanes enthusiast and fired his rifle against the murderers of Roger de Flor.

In mid-November came the Mare Nostrum Marseille.

Its captain always experienced some admiration to round the Cape Croisette, watching the bow
opened to a vast Maritime curve.

In the center of it, a steep hill and moved towards the sea naked, holding at its peak the basilica
and the square tower of Our Lady of the Guard.

Marseille was the metropolis of the Mediterranean, the port terminal for all boaters mare nostrum.
In the bay, from short waves rose several islands yellowish stripes foam, and one novel robust
towers Chateau d'If.

Everyone from Ferragut to the last sailors, looked like something out of city was hovering at
the bottom of the bay, its forests of masts and buildings crowding gray, over which shone the
Byzantine domes of the new cathedral. Around Marseille Chamber opened a dry bare heights, colored
brightly by the sun Provence. The towns and villages dotting these
slopes white and fortified towns, "Villas" of delight from the merchants
of the city.

Beyond the semicircle, the horizon was enclosed by an amphitheater of rough, dark mountains.

In
previous trips, the sight of the giant Virgin golden, shining like a spear of fire on top of
Our Lady of the Guard, spreading the joy on the bridge ship.

- Marseille, Toni! - Said the captain merrily -. Invites you to a home bouillabaisse Pascal.

And
Toni contracted the hairy face of gluttony smile seeing in advance
the famous restaurant port, halls smelling of twilight to seafood
and spicy sauces, and on the table the deep dish of fish with a delicious
broth tinged with saffron.

But now Odysseus had lost his vigorous joy of life. Eyes gazed upon the city loving but sad. Was
seen disembarking the last time, ill, without a will, stunned by
the tragic death of his son.

The Mare Nostrum came to the mouth of the old port, taking his right batteries Faro. The old
port was the most interesting memories of the former Marseille. Penetrated as a Water Knife in
the bowels of the settlement, the city extended their docks. Was a square to the huge water that
flowed all the streets, but their area was negligible for maritime
traffic, and eight new ports coming to cover the entire northern shore
of the bay.

An endless rubble, a wall longer than the city, stretched parallel to the sea, and space between the
bank and this obstacle, which required to froth and roar to the waves,
extending the eight large ports, communicating with each other from
the so-called de la Joliette, which was accessible to as far Stake.

Latter still dragged inland by the great underground channel which connects to the city the
Rhone.

Ferragut had been anchored in this series of coats of marine and even the whole earth of all ages.
Beside huge ocean liners the venerable swinging their dicks tartans
and some Greek ships, heavy and archaic forms, which were reminiscent
of the fleet described in the Iliad.

In its Circular Quay all Mediterranean men: mainland Greeks and islands Levantine coast of Asia,
Spanish, Italians, Algerians, Moroccans, Egyptians. Many kept their original costumes, and
clothing to the wide diversity joined language, some mysterious and almost lost. Attracted by the
confusion as oral, the French themselves forgot their language, speaking the dialect of Marseille,
which preserves traces Indelible Greek origin.

Mare nostrum crossed the outer harbor, the docks of Joliette, that of Lazareto, sliding slowly
through the steps of communication between groups of pedestrians and cars waiting restoration
of open steel swing bridges to its bow. Then went to anchor Arenc in the dock, near the docks.

When Ferragut could land, he realized the great transformation experienced by this port during the war.

The
traffic there was peacetime. Gender were not an infinite variety,
as usual.

At the docks just piled cargoes, monotonous and uniform, food or war material.

Gone were also the legions of downloaders. All were in the trenches. The banks were swept now by
women, and downloads the effected detachments Senegalese sharpshooters. Shivered with cold
in winter and sunny days hunched as dying in the rain or the breath
of the mistral.

Working with the red cap draft on the ears, and lower high in their tasks were rushing to put
their hands in their pockets cape. These black vocal groups formed around a bundle or a piece four
men had moved in ordinary time, and the passage of a woman or of a vehicle I was neglecting work,
turning their faces to hell with a childlike curiosity.

The download crowded into the main docks for the same items: wheat, much wheat and sulfur and saltpeter
for the composition of explosive materials.

In other halls were lined to thousands of pairs of gray wheels, hold guns and trucks, the big
boxes as houses containing planes, the steel parts that serve as scaffolding to the heavy artillery;
crates of rifles and cartridges, huge packages of canned food and sanitary materials; all
the equipment of the army that fought at the remote end of the Mediterranean.

Several platoons of men preceded and followed by bayonets marched from one port to another with
rhythmic step.

German prisoners were smiling and happy in spite of the captive still wearing their uniforms
of green cabbage, with a round hat on his head sheared. Iban to work inside the vessels, loading
or unloading the material to be used for the extermination of his countrymen and friends.

In the docks, the vapors showed extremely enlarged.

On arrival only stood on the dock a few feet of rail, but now that its cargo was stacked on land,
seemed like enormous strengths. Two thirds of the town hidden in the sea were always exposed,
showing the red piping on its belly. Only her keel was kept in water. The top third, which was
visible above the waterline in Ordinary Time was now a simple cornice crowned the long black
wall purple. Sticks and fireplaces, dwarfed by this transformation, seemed to belong to another
smaller vessel.

All these peaceful merchant steamers and carried a gun in the stern
to get rid of underwater pirates.

England and France had mobilized their tramps, vagabonds their boats, and began to give them means
of defense. Some were unable to mount the gun on a fixed carriage, and wore a piece of land
artillery, his mouth hovering between wheels nailed to the deck.

The captain, in all his walks, he was attracted by the famous Cannebière, via sucking that sucks
the whole activity of Marseille.

Some days, a fresh wind in her violent swirling dust and papers. The waiters in the cafes lashed
the big awning as if they were the sails of a ship. Mistral was approaching, and every owner of
established order to meet the maneuver the ice storm that turns tables, grabs seats and takes everything
that is not insured with marine mooring.

Ferragut thought he saw on the famous Marseilles an anteroom of Thessaloniki. The same types
East Army circulated by their sidewalks, khaki-clad British, Canadian and Australians raised
brimmed hats, large and slender Asian Indian, copper-skinned and beard in a fan; shooters Senegalese,
a black patent leather handles Annamese, round face and yellow, with triangle eyes. Trucks
constantly passing dark guided by soldiers, cars full of officers, mule trains from of Spain
that was to be shipped to the East, and live scattered trotting behind her smell sharp and brave
block.

The old port Ferragut attracted by its antiquity, almost as remote as the first navigation Mediterranean.
In this place of water sandwiched between their poor houses were anchored ships as early Phoenicians,
looking succeeded by migrants from Asia Minor Focea, sailors Greeks
fleeing the Persian invasion.

The bare limestone hills and immediate the port is covered with houses, and thus was born Marsalia,
which was to be centuries later the Lady of the Mediterranean.

His daring sailors down along the Spanish coast, and founded cities
that were centers of civilization to the rude Iberians and Marsalia
it was for the warlike Gauls.

Ferragut, going to the palace of the bag, threw a glance at the statues of the two Eutymenes great
navigators and Pyteas Marseille.

They were the remotest grandparents navigation Mediterranean, the first masters known from history
that it had transposed the columns Hercules, rushing across the Atlantic
mysterious.

One had explored the coasts of Senegal, the other was up more than Ireland and the Orkneys.

The ancient Greek city had been supplanted by others for many centuries. Venice Genoa and Barcelona
were in humble dependence. But when they fell and we will send it's time to prosperity, that prosperity
was accompanied by all the advantages of the time present. He had invented the steam engine,
and ships could easily save Gades Strait obstacle without having to wait weeks to 'sit violence
stream sent across the Atlantic.

He was born on industrialism, and factories thrown inside the rail, recently installed, a wave
of products that fleets were transported to all the peoples of the Mediterranean. Finally, to be
opened the Isthmus of Suez, the city unfolded a prodigious way, becoming an international port,
by contacting the whole earth, multiplying its docks, giant folds where flocks came to agglomerate
as ships of all flags.

The old port, boxed in the city, changing their appearance according
to the hours and the state atmosphere.

In the morning calm was a yellowish green and smelled faintly of water decomposed organic water,
water animal. The oysters and sea urchins positions established in Spring seemed sprinkled with
this water infused seafood.

The days of strong wind, all he was becoming an earthy green and opaque, forming short waves
and continuous, with a slightly yellowish foam. Ships began to dance, creaking under bus pull
straps. Among their helmets and the vertical surface of the springs are formed piles of garbage
restless fish bite down and pecked up by the seagulls.

In the mouth, near the strong venerable St. John and St. Nicholas, the shuttle lifted the two
pillars of steel truss and the bridge that links straight, forming a home triumph.

Armed boats patrolled the surrounding waters came to rest in this historic dock surrounded by
cafes, shops, warehouses, domes and bell towers.

Ferragut saw the fast torpedo boats, wafer-thin walls, dancing at the slightest ripple on their
moorings of twisted steel. Examined the "chaluteros' makeshift military vessels, steamers robust and
short, built for fishing in the bow carrying a gun snap shot. All of these smaller vessels, painted
a metallic gray to blend with the color of water, entered the harbor and out like sentinels
are replaced.

Standing guard on the high seas, beyond the rocky, deserted islands that enclose the bay Marseille,
approaching vessels to recognize their nationality, running at full steam smoke in their hair horizontal
to the point where they hoped to catch the periscope the hidden enemy
between two stools.

There was bad weather that scares them or they fall asleep ... Kept in a storm in sight of the
coast, jumping from wave to wave, with its fragile Boat built to be arrows, and only when other
colleagues were coming to replace them returning to the old port, to rest a few hours at the entrance
of the Cannebière.

The streets of the right bank appealed to Ferragut. Marseille were the former, which there
are still some ruined palaces of the merchants and owners of other centuries. In these narrow
roads, slopes and unclean living prostitution and sad daubed all maritime city.

Jammed in the neighborhood the warriors of the different French Africa,
driven by race and burning desire to get even with the big crunch
surfeits Muslim countries where women live in seclusion jealous.

On every corner there Moroccan infantry groups recently landed or convalescing from his wounds,
soldiers young people with red hats and long coats of yellow mustard. The Zouaves from Algiers
talking with them in a Spanish peppered with Arabic and French.

Black teenagers who served stokers on the ship moves through the steep streets with haunting
eyes glow as prepare a mass kidnapping.

Were lost under the doors, with a stiffness priestly Moors serious riders, dragging the white
alquicel tied at the head like a ball of crisp white, or the purple robe of acute hood, which
gave them the aspect of bearded Red Friars.

Between hospital discharge and the new battle awaiting them in the trenches of the North these warriors
come from distant countries to fight and die sun looking for the strong consolation of women. His
arms had been impatient with a fierce tug of skeletal females and macabre and they appeared
swollen by a false strength, due to bad moods.

Some had the disproportion embryonic fetuses with huge heads serving emaciated bodies to finish.
Other advancing his poor emaciated logs on legs pachyderm wide and
round.

The cash-strapped soldiers looked on with envy and hunger to the women stationed at the gates:
creatures of luxury and excitement, with kilts urinated full of sequins, high boots and yellow
stockings.

The captain was on the summits of these streets, stopping to appreciate the harsh contrast between
them and terminal view. Almost all came down to the old port, with a trail sewage stream in half
jumping from stone to stone.

It was dark as pipes telescope, and the end of their stinking trenches occupied by the deformed
Mujeri is opened a wide rift in light blue. White sailboats were anchored at the end of slope,
a piece of sheet water and the houses opposite the pier, dwarfed
by distance.

In other appeared as the background the mountain of Our Lady of the Guard Basilica with its
sharp and brilliant final statue, resembling a golden flame still and tortuous. Sometimes,
a shortstop, to enter the old port, slipped by mouth of one of these
dark lanes as if it were to the lens of a telescope.

Feeling fatigued the ocean by the smell and squalor of the old districts vicious, returned to
the city center, walking under the trees of the avenues of Meilhan or between flower stalls of Coso
Belz.

One evening, while waiting for the tram at the Cannebière surrounded by other people, again
head with the feeling that someone was looking behind him.

Indeed, he saw a man behind him on the curb, an elegant lady dressed,
clean-shaven, appeared to an Englishman in appearance careful of his
person.

This gentleman had stopped impelled by surprise, as if he had recognized Ferragut.

They exchanged glances of the two, but it awakened no echo in the memory of Captain ... I could
not remember this man. I was almost sure of not having ever seen.

His face shave its metallic-gray eyes, his elegant stiffness, said nothing to his memory. Perhaps
the suffered an unknown error.

This was to be, judging by how quickly separated his gaze from Ferragut, away hastily.

The captain did not give importance to this meeting.

I had forgotten to get on the tram, but minutes later resurfaced in his memory, a new light.
The face of English is presented in his imagination with a relief different from reality. He saw more
clearly that somewhat dim glow of the lamps of the Cannebière ... Passed with indifference their
facial features, in fact, had seen for the first time. But the eyes! ... He knew perfectly those
eyes had met many times with his family. Where? ... When? ...

Accompanied him to his ship the memory of this man as an obsession, unable to make their memory
of a reply to your questions. Then, when viewed in the camera with Toni Stern and the third
officer, returned to forget.

In the following days to go ashore,
its invariably experienced the same memory phenomenon. He was the
captain of the city, forgetting that individual, but on entering the
Cannebière immediately arose in his brain that memory, followed by
an inexplicable anxiety.

"Where is now my English? - Thought -. Where
you've seen before? ... Because there is no doubt we know! "

He looked
curiously from this moment, to all the passersby, and sometimes rushed
step to examine some who resembled him in the back. One evening she
thought she recognized hire a coach whose horse was going to live
trot Prado Avenue, but when he wanted to keep the vehicle on a street
was gone immediately.

The days passed and finally the captain missed
the meeting. Other matters more real and immediate was concerned.
His ship was ready, would be sent to England to carry ammunition for
the army of the East.

The morning of his departure down to the ground
not wanting to get to downtown.

In a street of the docks had a barber
shop frequented by the Spanish captains. Chat quaint barber, born
in Cartagena, the color plates fixed on the wall representing bullfights,
Madrid newspapers left in the rubber couches and a guitar in a corner
of this store did a bit of Spain for the homeless in the Mediterranean.

Ferragut,
before leaving, wanted to give their beards to clipping the master
verbose. When one hour, could leave the barbershop, pulling to the
endless bounces owner, followed by a wide street between two rows
of docks, solitary and silent.

Steel sliding doors were locked and
sealed. Warehouses, empty sound cathedral-like ships, even the strong
odors exhaled from the genres that had kept peacetime: vanilla, cinnamon,
rolls of leather, nitrates and phosphates for chemical fertilizers.
Did not see across the street but a man coming toward him with his
back to the dock. Between the two long walls of bricks came the pier
in the background, with mountains of goods, squares of black boots,
wagons and carts. Beyond were the hulls of ships, sustaining a forest
of poles and chimneys, and ultimately the yellow wall pier the sky
outside and freshly washed by rain, with a herd of placid white puffs
as silky rams.

The man who returned to the harbor and walked with
his eyes fixed on Ferragut stopped suddenly, turning on his heel and
returned to the dock ... This move aroused the curiosity Captain,
sharpening your senses. "Lay out no plans for
the future," said he. "If you behave yourself properly, I will take care of you." Now, kind
and considerate as this offer was, it failed to soothe me into repose. In spite of Master Thomas,
and, I may say, in spite of myself, also, I continued to think, and worse still, to think almost
exclusively about the injustice and wickedness of slavery. No effort of mine or of his could
silence this trouble-giving thought, or change my purpose to run away.

About two months after applying to Master Thomas for the privilege of hiring my time, I applied
to Master Hugh for the same liberty, supposing him to be unacquainted with the fact that I
had made a similar application to Master Thomas, and had been refused. My boldness in making
this request, fairly astounded him at the first. He gazed at me in amazement. But I had many
good reasons for pressing the matter; and, after listening to them awhile, he did not absolutely
refuse, but told me he would think of it. Here, then, was a gleam of hope. Once master of my
own time, I felt sure that I could make, over and above my obligation to him, a dollar or two
every week. Some slaves have made enough, in this way, to purchase their freedom. It is a sharp
spur to industry; and some of the most enterprising colored men in Baltimore hire themselves
in this way. After mature reflection--as I must suppose it was Master Hugh granted me the privilege
in question, on the following terms: I was to be allowed all my time; to make all bargains
for work; to find my own employment, and to collect my own wages; and,{254} in return for this
liberty, I was required, or obliged, to pay him three dollars at the end of each week, and
to board and clothe myself, and buy my own calking tools. A failure in any of these particulars
would put an end to my privilege. This was a hard bargain. It seemed there was rained
ash on the immobility of things.

People offered the same aspect of neglect and decay. Ulysses met the poet skinny and yellow,
deep in an armchair, his beard white luenga, one eye almost closed and Another huge open.
Upon seeing the ocean, broad chest, strong man, tan, Labarta is began to mourn a child hiccups,
as if crying on the misery of human illusions, on the deceptive brevity
of life that needs the waves of constant renewal.

More work still cost Ferragut recognize a lady that was small and cramped with the poet. His skeleton
hung flaccid fat tissues, like rags of past luxury. The head was small, her face wrinkling
had the wintry apples, plums, of all fruits that contract and mummified, losing their liquid.
"Doña Pepa !...» The tuteaban old couple now in the presence of Ulysses, with the quiet amorality
of those who are close to death and forget the fears and scruples
of a life that is crumbling behind him.

The ocean seen in this physical misery the sad end of an absurd diet, happy and childish candy
serve as the basis of nutrition, the major rice-dish daily watermelon
and melon filling in between meals, ice cream served in cups enormous,
spreading the perfume of honeyed snow.

They both spoke sigh of illnesses, who judged incomprehensible, attributing to ignorance of doctors.
Consumption was suddenly attacking the people of the countries abundant. His life was smelted in
a blast of liquid sugar ... And yet guessed Ferragut the disobedience
of the old couple to the disciplines of the regime, its concealment
Child tricks to please their own fruits and syrups, the charm of its
existence.

The interview was short. The captain had to return to Grao, where he waited his transatlantic soon
to sail for South America.

The poet cried again, kissing his godson.

I would not see more to this giant that seemed to repel their weak hugs with the bellows of
his breath.

- Odysseus, my son ... Valencia always thinking ... Make for it all
you can ... And you know.

Always Valencia!

What he vowed all the poet, not understanding what was expected of
him Valencia, ocean simple wandering the seas.

Labarta wanted to accompany him to the door, but sank into his chair,
obedient to the despotism of his loving companion, who feared for
him major catastrophes.

Poor Dona Pepa!

... Ferragut felt like to laugh and to mourn when receiving a kiss from his mouth wrinkled,
whose hair had become spikes. It was a kiss that recalls old beauty in contact with a handsome, a
barren woman kiss caressing the child might have.

- The unfortunate Carmelo!

... Do not write, and do not read ... Ay! What will become of me? ...

He spoke of the decline of his poet with pity of a strong and healthy.

Is terrified to think about the years he could survive his master. Who look, not looked upon
herself.

A year later, the captain found in Port Said, at the back of the Philippines, a letter his godfather.
Doña Pepa had died, and Labarta, shaking his tearful stupor of its doldrums, the long goodbye with
a song.

Ulysses spent the eyes of the newspaper clipping was within the letter containing the last verses
of the poet. They were verses in Castilian. Bad! ... After that, it was undoubtedly his approaching
end.

He had no opportunity to see him again: he died while traveling.

Upon landing in Barcelona his mother gave him a letter written almost in agony. "Valencia, my son
always Valencia!"

And after repeating several times this recommendation, let him know it was his heir.

The books, statues, all the glorious memories Labarta, went to Barcelona
for decorate the house of the sailor.

Telemachus could entertain the small breaking the old crowns troubadour, tearing pictures of volumes,
with the unconsciousness of a spirited child who his father is far away and was exposed to
two ladies who adore him. Furthermore, the poet left his godson an old house in Valencia, more
land and a certain amount in marketable securities. Total: thirty thousand dollars.

The other guardian of his childhood, the strong Triton, remained insensitive
to the passage of time.

Ferragut met him several times, on arriving at Barcelona, ​​installed
in your home, in dull hostility Dona Cristina, dedicating to Ribbon
and her son a part of the care that was previously only Ulysses.

Steven wanted the little house knew the great-grandparents.

- Did I leave it? ... You know that back in the Navy men are strong
as bronze.

You really leave me?

...

He doubted his influence with the angry gesture of soft Dona Cristina. "Trusting his grandson the
Triton, that instills the love of maritime adventure, like Ulysses?

... Behind blue devil!

The doctor wandered bewildered through the port of Barcelona ... Too much noise, too much movement.
He walked proudly beside Odysseus, making the adventures of his years of ocean tramp and cosmopolitan.
Saw in him the greatest Ferragut: sea man his grandparents, but with capacity; adventurous
of all the oceans as he had been but with a place on the bridge, coated conferring absolute command
responsibility and danger.

To re-embark Ulysses Triton retreating to their domains.

- Next time - said to console to leave without the child of his nephew.

And a few months later he reappeared, bigger and bigger, uglier, more tanned, with a smile silent words
before exploding in Ulysses, the same as a thundercloud burst in thunder.

Back from a trip to the Black Sea, Mrs Cristina said her son:

- Your uncle is dead.

The pious Christian lady lamented the disappearance of his brother,
spend their prayers, but he insisted with some cruelty in the story
of his sad end.

I could not forgive its fatal intervention in the fate of Ulysses.

Had died as he lived, at sea, victim for his temerity, without confession, as well as a pagan.

Another
legacy that fell on Ferragut ... His uncle had been released to swim on a sunny morning winter,
and had not returned. The older of the coastline explained to her how the accident: a fainting,
a collision with the rocks. The Dotor was still strong, but the years do not pass without
leaving footprint. Some believed in a fight with a "pot head" or other carnivorous fish which
hunt in the Mediterranean waters. In vain the fishermen took their boats for all incoming and
outgoing angularity of the promontory, exploring the dark caves and
low funds crystalline transparency.

Nobody could find the corpse of Triton.

Ferragut remembered the procession of Aphrodite that the doctor had described so often in the summer
nights in the distance watching the headlights.

Perhaps he had encountered the joyous procession of the Nereids, by binding to it forever.

This
absurd assumption that Ulysses made mentally, incredulous, sad smile,
repeated at the same time just thinking of many people from the Navy.

They refused to believe in his death. A sorcerer does not drown. Down would have found something
very interesting and when tired of living in the green depths swam back to his house.

No, the Dotor not dead.

And for many years, women who followed the coast at dusk quickened
their pace, crossing to distinguish in the dark waters a tree or a
package of seaweed.

They feared that arise from Triton soon, bearded, lewd, dripping, returning from his foray by the
mysterious depths of the sea.

IV

FREYA

The name of Ulises Ferragut began to be famous among the captains of the Spanish ports. Nautical
adventures from the time it came through very little in this popularity. Most of them had braved
greatest dangers, and if he liked, was the instinctive respect Men
who feel strong and simple with an intelligence that considered superior.

No other reading than his career, spoke with awe of the many books Ferragut filled the cabin,
many of them on matters that seemed mysterious. Some even made inaccurate statements to complement
the prestige of his comrade:

- He knows a lot ... In addition to ocean, is a lawyer.

The consideration of his fortune contributed equally to the appreciation. It was a major shareholder
to the shipping company that provided services. Calculated with proud peers exaggerated the wealth
of his mother, tasándola in millions.

Find friends all vessel flying the Spanish flag at the stern, no matter
what its port of origin and the regionalism of his crew.

All he wanted: the Basque captains, sober words, rude and familiarity confianzudo; Asturian
and Galician masters, lovesick and wasteful, that belie its character greed and sadness inland, the
masters in Andalusia, which seem to lead in its funny language reflects
the white light Cádiz and its wines, the captain of Valencia, to talk
politics on the bridge, imagining what could be the future Marine
Republic; Masters of Catalonia and Mallorca, who know the business
as thoroughly as their owners.

Whenever I connected the need to defend their rights, immediately thought Ulysses. None wrote
like him.

The old drivers coming from below, seamen who began his career in
the boats Coastal and barely fit their expertise to the handling of
books, Ferragut spoke proudly

- They say that people are gross sea
... There you have to Don Luis, who is one of us.

They can ask whatever they want ... A wise!

The name of Odysseus made them hesitate. I thought nickname, and not wanting to incur a lack
respect, had finally transformed into Don Luis.

For some, the only defect Ferragut was his good luck. He still had not lost a ship commanded by him. And
all good sailing ocean without rest should be history of these misfortunes to be a full captain.
Only the farmers do not lose ships.

When his mother died, Odysseus was undecided about the future, not
knowing whether to continue his seafaring life or take a brand new
one.

His relatives in Barcelona, ​​merchants agile understanding for evaluation of a fortune, which
amounted to the notary had left and his wife, and adding Labarta and the doctor, just shy of
one million pesetas ... And a man with so much money going to continue
living the same as a poor captain needs salary to maintain his family?

...

His cousin Joaquin Blanes, owner of a knitwear factory, he repeatedly urged to follow their example.
Should stay on the ground and use their capital in Catalan industry. Ulysses was in the country,
by his mother and being born in the neighboring land of Valencia. Needed men of wealth and power
to intervene in government. Blanes was regionalist policy with the enthusiasm of a bourgeois
who is released into fictional adventures.

Tape did not say a word as to her spouse. She was the daughter of a sailor and had accepted be
the wife of another. Also, understand marriage according to family tradition: absolute mistress
women inside the house, but reliant on foreign affairs Lord's will, the warrior, household head,
not allowing thoughts or objections on their actions.

Ulysses was adopted for himself the decision to leave the seafaring life. Worked by the suggestions
of his cousins, he needed only a little dispute with one of the directors shipowner's house to
offer his resignation, no one could get him to back the requests and explanations of the other
associates.

In the first months of his earthly existence, missed the despairing immobility things. The world
was a disagreeable stiffness and hardness. He felt something akin to a principle faint to see
that everything was still where he left him, without allowing the
lower back and forth, the slightest fantasy dynamics.

In the morning, the half-opening his eyes, he felt the sweet sensation of freedom irresponsibly.
Nothing with the fate of the house. The lives of those who slept on the other floors, above and
below it, were not entrusted to their supervision ... But a few days did he needed something
that was one of the greatest satisfactions of his life: the will
of power, like remote.

Two maids came embarrassed to air their voices and peals of ringing. This was all for he who
had sent dozens of hard rough men that instilled terror down ports.

No one consulted him now, while at sea all sought his advice and often needed to disrupt your
sleep. The house could exist without his daily visit from the caves to the roof, going to the
last tap.

Women who did the cleaning in the morning he was forced to take refuge in the office with their land
broom. Not was allowed to comment, could not extend an arm gallon,
same as when scolded the barefoot and bare-chested grumetería, demanding
that the cover is clean as lounge. He felt dwarfed, exonerated. I
thought of Hercules dressed as a woman, spinning her distaff. The
love of family had made him renounce his life of a mighty man.

Only
the treatment of his wife, who surrounded himself with assiduous care,
as if to compensate with that of the long separation, he made the
situation bearable. And she was satisfied his conscience by making
father "earth", worrying about her son, who began to prepare to join
the Institute, reviewing their books, helping in the understanding
of texts.

But these pleasures were not long lasting. Bored him family
gatherings at home and in their relatives, conversations with uncles,
cousins ​​and nephews on earnings and businesses or on the defects
of centralized tyranny. According to them, all the calamities of heaven
and earth came from Madrid. The governor of the province was the "consul
of Spain. "

These merchants only interrupted their criticism in religious
silence to hear the music Wagner struck on the piano by the children
of the family. A friend sang tenor Lohengrin in Catalan. The enthusiasm
was the most excited to roar: "The hymn ... the anthem! " There was
no mistaking. For them there was only one hymn. And accompanied with
a Canturri softly to the liturgical music of The Harvesters.

Ulises
recalled with nostalgia his life transatlantic commander: a life wide,
worldwide, incessant and varied horizons, cosmopolitan crowd. It looked
stopped on covered by groups of smart girls who asked new dances in
the week. Out his passage fluttering white skirts, veils that flowed
like colored clouds, laughter and trills Spanish speakers in a music
that seemed to set in, all the playful noise of a cage Tropic bird.
Former presidents of the Republic - general or doctors who came
to rest to Europe - we had on the bridge, with a serious Napoleon,
the main facts of his story. Men business, to go to America, he hoped
his great plans: rivers changed from river, rail through the jungle,
learned monstrous electric forces cascades of several kilometers wide,
the desert cities vomited in a few weeks; all the wonders of a world
in puberty, you want to conceive as her young imagination. It was
the demiurge of small floating world, provided he pleases of joy and
love.

In the hot afternoons of the Line, was enough to give an order
to shake the torpor brutish of things and beings. "Let the music up
and serve refreshments." The master is to him a stern
and flinty reality, but the state is little more than a dream. He has been accustomed to regard
every white man as the friend of his master, and every colored man as more or less under the
control of his master's friends--the white people. The least you thought it would head contemptuously, not hello, if you happen to see
off the press! I do not mean by this greeting, but do not know what you can when a woman knows
how to love. I wish I was rich! I was not only free from slavery, but I was free from home, as well.
The reader{265} will easily see that I had something more than the simple fact of being free
to think of, in this extremity.

I kept my secret as long as I could, and at last was forced to go in search of an honest man--a
man sufficiently human not to betray me into the hands of slave-catchers. I was not a bad reader
of the human face, nor long in selecting the right man, when once compelled to disclose the
facts of my condition to some one.

I found my man in the person of one who said his name was Stewart. He was a sailor, warm-hearted
and generous, and he listened to my story with a brother's interest. I told him I was running
for my freedom--knew not where to go--money almost gone--was hungry--thought it unsafe to go
the shipyards for work, and needed a friend. Stewart promptly put me in the way of getting
out of my trouble. He took me to his house, and went in search of the late David Ruggles, who
was then the secretary of the New York Vigilance Committee, and a very active man in all anti-slavery
works. Once in the hands of Mr. Ruggles, I was comparatively safe. I was hidden with Mr. Ruggles
several days. In the meantime, my intended wife, Anna, came on from Baltimore--to whom I had
written, informing her of my safe arrival at New York--and, in the presence of Mrs. Mitchell
and Mr. Ruggles, we were married, by Rev. James W. C. Pennington.

Mr. Ruggles [7] was the first officer on the under-ground railroad with whom I met after reaching
the north, and, indeed, the first of whom I ever heard anything. Learning that I was a calker
by trade, he promptly decided that New Bedford was the proper{266} place to send me. "Many
ships," said he, "are there fitted out for the whaling business, and you may there find work
at your trade, and make a good living." Thus, in one fortnight after my flight from Maryland,
I was safe in New Bedford, regularly entered upon the exercise of the rights, responsibilities,
and duties of a freeman.

I may mention a little circumstance which annoyed me on reaching New Bedford. In case of attack submarine,
transport carrying guns could come off the line and help patrol armed vessels, giving face to the
enemy. The others should continue its way quietly without worrying about the assault. If the
ship that was ahead or astern was torpedoed had to stop to give assistance. The torpedo and "chaluteros"
be responsible for to save the shipwrecked, whether it was possible. The duty of transportation
was always going forward, blind and deaf, without leaving the training, without stopping, to drive
to the port terminal the fortune he had in his heart.

This march in convoys, imposed by the submarine warfare, was a throwback to the life of the
seas. Ferragut recalled the fleets to sail from other centuries, escorted by ships line, following
its course through ceaseless battles, the voyages of the galleons remote of the Indies, leaving
Sevilla to arrive in flocks to the shores of the New World.

The double row of black helmets with plumes of smoke moved gently in the days bonanza. When the
day was gray, foaming sea, the sky low and hazy atmosphere are spread and reared like a herd
of lambs dark and frightened. The guardians of convoy, three small boats in full swing, they
were the mastiffs guards these cattle ocean, preceding it to scan the horizon, leaving behind him
or marching to their sides in order to keep training. Its lightness and speed made them give
prodigious leaps over the waves. A ribbon of smoke curled to continue its double fireplaces. His
bow, when it was hidden, expelling foam falls, rising to show the beginning of the keel.

At night they sailed all the Halls: A simple lantern to bow to notice marching front and a
rear to indicate the path to the next. These lights were barely visible wan. Suddenly, the boat
had to turn the machine back and ask for direction, seeing that grew larger in the dark silhouette
of the vessel. A few minutes of carelessness, and entered by the stern with a deadly espolonazo.
Al amenguar the march, the captain looked irked back, fearing to turn collide with it still in
line.

They thought of the invisible underwater. Now and then gunshots rang. The escort the convoy pulled
and pulled, going from side to side with agile developments. The enemy had fled, as wolves howl
before the watchful dogs. At other times it was a false alarm, and
wounded with guns, steel whip water in the desert.

There was an annoying enemy that storm that disrupts the convoys, more frightening than torpedoes.
The fog was thick and white as albumin, which fell on the ships, making them sail into blind
in broad daylight, filling unnecessary space siren roars, leaving see the water that sustained
no other boats nearby, which could leave a time to another of the blurry atmosphere, announcing
his appearance with a shock and a big crunch, mortal. So the sailors had to march for days, and when
they finally got rid of this shroud, breathing with the satisfaction of waking up from a nightmare,
another wall Cinderella and nebulous advancing on the water, wrapping
them back into night.

The brave men and serene vowed to see the bar closing endless horizon haze.

Such trips were not like Ferragut. Irritated him straight up like a soldier, having to adapt to
the speed of ships negligible.

Will be even more enraged obliged to obey the commander of the convoy, which was often an old
sailor character authoritarian.

Because of this, one of the arrivals to Marseilles to the maritime authorities said their determination
not to sail more so. They had enough four expeditions. Were good for masters fearful, unable to leave
port if they did not in sight an escort of destroyers, whose crews,
the slightest incident, intended to lay the boats into the water,
taking refuge on the coast.

He felt safer going alone, trusting to his skill, no other help than his deep knowledge of the routes
of the Mediterranean.

The request was granted. He owned the ship, and feared losing their cooperation when scarce both
the means of transport. In addition, the Mare Nostrum, for its speed, deserved to be employed
addition, special services and prompt.

It was in Marseille a few weeks waiting for a shipment of shells, and stroll as always the
Mediterranean capital. The afternoons were spent on the terrace of a cafe in the Cannebière.
The Von Kramer remember sometimes arose in his memory. "Do you have shot ?...» wanted know, but
its findings were not very successful. Councils of war avoided the publicity for their acts of justice.
A dealer friend of Ferragut Marseille remembered that, some months
before, had been executed a German spy caught in the harbor.

Three lines in the newspapers just realizing his death. It was said an official ... And Marseille
went on to talk of war news, while Ulysses thought the run could be none other than Von Kramer.

On
the same afternoon he met. Marched down the Rue Saint-Ferreol, looking storefronts, the cries
of various drivers of cars and cars that do not succeeded at passing their vehicles on the narrow,
crowded road caught his eye. Saw in a carriage to a blonde woman with her back to him, accompanied
by two naval officers English. Freya immediately thought ... His hat, his suit, all he could
distinguish of person, not remembered at all to the other. And yet, when he left the car, no
he came to see the face of this unknown, the image of the adventurous
persisted in his memory.

Finally ended up getting angry with himself, owing to the absurd similarity was found no reason.
How could this English Freya who was with two officers? ... How German refugees in Barcelona
could slip in France, where it was clearly known military police?

... Still irritated him the suspicion that this was like a rest the old love, which made him
see Freya throughout blond woman.

At nine o'clock the next day, when the captain dressed in his cabin
for go ashore, Toni opened the door.

His gesture was gloomy and shy at the same time, as if to give bad news.

- That is there - he said laconically.

Ferragut looked at him quizzically ... Who was "that »?...

- Who will it be?

... The Naples! The blonde demon who brings disgrace!

... Let's see if that witch still leaves us a few weeks, like last
time.

He apologized, as if she had a foul in the service. The vessel was attached to the dock by a walkway
and all he could enter.

The pilot was an enemy of these moorings, which left free passage to the curious and importunate.
When he realized the visit, lady was already in the deck near the cameras. He remembered well the
way of living: wanted to go ahead, but he had made the stop as he
came Caragol to warn Captain.

- Christ! - He murmured -.

Christ! ...

And his surprise, surprise, was not allowed to launch another exclamation.

Then

angry.

- Cast it! ... That the two men grab and put in the dock, even by
main force.

But Toni hesitated, not daring to enforce such orders, and the impetuous Ferragut launched outside
the cabin for himself what he had commanded.

As he passed the hall, someone came at the same time by the side of the deck. Was Caragol trying
to block the way to a woman, but she, mocking their short-sighted eyes, was slipping little
by little from his body and the wooden partition.

To see the captain, Freya ran towards him extending her arms.

- You! - Joyful voice said -. Knew you were here, in spite of these
men claimed Otherwise ... Heart told me ... Good morning, Odysseus!

Caragol turned his eyes toward the spot where he guessed the presence of the second, as if imploring
forgiveness.

With females could not enforce any order ... Toni, meanwhile, seemed embarrassed by this woman
who looked hostile.

The two disappeared. Ferragut could not figure out how the leak was, but he was glad it. He feared
that the new arrival in his presence allude to things of the past.

Long time was watching her. He had thought to recognize back the day before, and now I was sure
I would have gone on with indifference at her head. In fact, Was the same two officers who
accompanied the British? ... He seemed much higher than another, with a thinness that made clear his
skin, giving it a sickly transparency.

The nose was prominent and sharp, his eyes sunken in circles shining blackish their watersheds.

These
eyes began to look to the master humble and pleading.

- You! - Ulises
exclaimed in surprise -.

You! ... What are you doing here? ...

Freya spoke with a shyness servant. Yes, it was she who had known the day before long before
he turned, forming immediately in order to come in search of him. He could hit like last time they
met, she was willing to suffer all ... But with him!

- Save me, Ulysses, take me with you ... I ask this more painfully than in Barcelona.

- How you doing here? ...

She understood the captain's astonishment at finding in enemy territory, the concern felt by
him to see a spy on his ship.

He looked around to be convinced that they were alone, and spoke softly. The doctor had sent
to France to "work" in the ports. He alone could reveal the secret.

Ulysses was indignant at this confidence.

- Go away! - Said in an angry voice -. All I hear from you ... I do not care what's yours, no
I want to know ... Out! Why am I looking for?

But she did not seem disposed to do his bidding.

Instead of leaving, he fell with disappointment in one of the couches of the camera.

- I came - he said - to beg you to save me. I beg you seen ... I'm going to die; I guess my end
is near if you do not me a helping hand, I feel the vengeance of
the mine ... Keep me, Odysseus!

Do not let me return to earth: I have fears ... So I feel safe here,
at your side!

...

Fear, indeed, reflected in her eyes, remembering the last months of
his life Barcelona.

- The doctor is my enemy ... She protected me
so much at one time, leaving me as something old that must be abolished.

I have the certainty that I have condemned in the top ...

He shuddered, remembering the anger of the doctor when, at the back of one of his trips, learned
of the death of his faithful Karl. Captain Ferragut was for her a kind of demon invulnerable
and victorious, it escapes all dangers, killing the servers good cause. First, Von Kramer, now,
Karl ... Like I needed someone to vent his anger, Freya had taken responsibility for all the
misfortunes. For she knew the captain and had mixed in the affairs of "service".

The desire for revenge made her smile at the awesome lady with a fierce
expression.

The Spanish sailor was noted in high place. Precise orders had been given against him. "As
to !...» accomplices Freya are undoubtedly among these accomplices, for daring Ferragut to defend
recalling the tragic death of her son for not doing choir those who
wanted to exterminate them.

Weeks later, the angry doctor had been kind and smiling, as in another
time.

"My dear, it is to give you a tour of France. We need an agent we are aware of movement from
ports of exit and entry of ships to our submersible know where to wait. Marine officers are
gallant, and a woman beautiful may win her affection.

"

She had tried to disobey. Go to France, where his works were known
before of war!

... Back to the danger when they had become accustomed to life in safe neutrals! ... But their
attempts to resist were never carried out. Lacked will: the "service" had become an automaton.

-
And here I am suspecting that maybe marched to death, but to fulfill
the orders that receipt, striving to be enjoyable and thus delay the
fulfillment of his revenge ... I'm like a condemned man who knows
he is going to die and try to be necessary to take a few month sentence.

-
How did you come in France? - Asked him, ignoring his accent painful.

Freya shrugged. In his office is easily changed nationality. It was now public of a Republic
of America. The doctor had given him the necessary papers to crossing the border.

- But here - he continued - I have more secure than in a prison. I have been given the means to enter,
and they alone can make me leave. I am completely in their power.

What will you do to me? ...

The terror had suggested at times desperate resolutions.

Wanted to complain to itself, to appear before the French authorities
telling his story, letting them know the secrets of that era possessed.

But he was afraid of his past: there were many evils I have been doing against this country. Perhaps
the spare his life taking into account the spontaneity of his act, but the prison, the prison with
his hair cut, dressed in rough serge, condemned to silence, perhaps
suffering hunger and cold, he inspired a repulsion invincible ...
No: before death.

He continued his life of espionage, a blind eye to the future, living in the moment This, avoiding
thinking, considering happy when I saw a few days ahead security.

Ferragut encounter with Marseille on a street had revived, giving new hope.

- Get me out of here, keep me with you.

In your ship in the world I can live forgotten, as if dead ... And if you dislike my presence, take
me away from France, let me in a distant country.

Wanted out of this isolation in enemy territory having to obey their superiors, like a caged
animal that receives punctures through the bars. The fear had presentiment of his approaching
death.

- I do not want to die, Ulises! ... I'm not even old to die. I love my body, I am the first my love,
and I am terrified to think that I can be shot.

Went through their eyes a reflection phosphoric teeth chattering collided with terror.

- Do not want to die - repeated -. There are times when I guess I follow and surround me ... Such
Once I have known and await the moment of surprise in the middle of work ... Help me: make me
out of here, my death is certain. I have done so much damage! ...

He paused, as if calculating all the crimes of his former life.

-
The doctor - he went - with patriotic enthusiasm, which inflames to
continue their jobs.

I lack your faith: I am German and I am disgusted to be a spy ... I feel ashamed considering my current
life, I think every night in the outcome of my abominable works; employment calculation can
give to my listings and my reports, I see ships torpedoed ... How many beings have died because
of me? I have visions of my conscience torments me. Save me!

... I can not. I feel a terrible fear. I have so much to atone! ...

She had risen gradually from the couch, and would seek protection
Ferragut towards him arms outstretched, while humble and caressing,
by a desire for seduction which prevailed over all his actions.

-
Let! - Shouted the ocean -.

Do not come closer ... Do not touch me!

He felt the same anger that had made him end his interview brutal
Barcelona.

Was irritated the tenacity of this adventure, which, after tragic influence in his life, wanted
engage it again.

But a cold feeling of restraint and compassion made him speak with
some kindness.

If he needed money to flee, he would give it without any haggling.

Could set the figure, the captain was ready to satisfy all your desires, but nothing to live
together.

We would a large sum to secure his future and not see it.

Freya made a gesture of protest, while the marine regretted his generosity
... Why favor to a woman who reminded him of the death of his son?

... What was common between the two?

... Naples vile sick love had paid with their misfortune ... That each follow his destiny belonged
to different worlds ... Was I going to have to defend lifetime of this female sticky?

Apart from this, I was not sure he really say now ... Everything about her was false. Even certainly
knew his real name and his past life ...

- Go away! - Roared menacingly -.

Leave me alone!

He extended his powerful paws to her seeing that refused to obey.

Would raise soil with rough stretch, to take as a slight burden off camera, off the ship,
throwing away the same as if it were a regret.

But an invincible repugnance inspired this body abundant temptations: he was afraid his contact, wanted
to escape the power of his flesh surprises ... In addition, he was
not going to mistreat at every meeting, as a professional scoundrel
who mix love and bumps.

Remembered sadly its violence in Barcelona.

And as Freya, instead of leaving, he dropped back on the couch with a discouragement seemed
to defy his anger, was he who fled to end the interview.

Entered his cabin, slamming the door shut. This flight took her to it its inertia. He wanted to follow
a young panther jump, but his hands struck the obstacle just immobilized,
while still sounding inside keys and locks.

Desperately hit the door. His fists were injured in unsuccessful pushing.

- Ulysses, open!

... Listen!

In vain he cried as if she gave an order, exasperated at not seeing obeyed. His anger was stirred
powerless against the unyielding strength of wood.

Suddenly he began to mourn. Was softened his will to feel weak and helpless as an abandoned
child. All his life seemed to concentrate on her tears and her voice pleading.

Run your fingers through the door, feeling the moldings, sliding on the painted surfaces, as
if you fumble a crack, a hole, which allowed him to reach the man
I was on the other side.

Instinctively bent his knees, hitting the mouth to the opening of
the lock.

- Owner mine! - A voice murmured beggar -.

Breakthrough! ... Do not forsake me. I think to death if you do not save me.

Ferragut heard, and to escape her moan was away to the back of the
cabin.

Then opened the round window that looked out on the deck and ordered to a sailor who seek to
second.

- Don Antonio!

Antonio! - Shouted several voices throughout the ship.

Toni arrived, sticking his face into the arena to get angry complaints of his captain. "Why what
had been left alone with this woman? ... Should immediately remove
the vessel, although were subjected to violence ... He commanded.
"

The pilot walked away with a bewildered air, scratching his beard
the same as if just received difficult to execute a warrant.

- Save
me, my love - still moaning imploring whisper -. Forget who I am ...
Think Only in Naples ... in which met in Pompeii ... Remember happiness
he alone, of the times I swore never to leave ... You are a gentleman!

He
paused voice. Ferragut heard footsteps on the other side of the door.
Toni fulfill your orders.

But the appeal again to resume a few moments,
concentrated, persistent, attentive only his desire to flout the new
obstacles that came to stand between her and the captain.

- Whether
you hate me? ... Remember the happiness you say, you yourself swore
you'd never been so fortunate. I can rise again the past. You do not
know what I can to make you sweet existence ... And want to miss!
...

There was a crash at the door, a touch of bodies pushing an anti-rub
wood.

Toni had entered, followed by Caragol.

- There's enough, ma'am
- "His voice was grim, to hide his emotion -. Did not realize that
the captain did not want to see? ... Do not you see that is clogging?
... We ... Up!

He tried to help him up, separating the mouth of the
lock, but was repelled with Freya easily to the strong ocean. It seemed
lacking in strength, no courage to repeat his tough action. It was
fearful the beauty of this woman was still shaken by the contact of
firm that just touch curves during the short fight. Her virtue had
been sleepy the torment of a resurrection without object. "Ah, no!
... Operated by other ejecting. "

- Ulysses, throw me! - She cried
again hitting his face to the lock -. And you, my love, allow it?
... So what do you love me? ...

After this desperate appeal was silent
a moment. The door remained motionless behind her did not seem to
be any living being.

- Goodbye - continued quietly, his throat swelling
with sobs -. I do not see ... I am going to die soon: heart tells
me ... I will die for you! ... Maybe someday cry thinking you could
save.

Someone had stepped in to start your rebel Freya immobility.
Was Caragol requested by imploring eyes of the pilot.

His big hands
helps her up, without her repeated protests that he had repeated Toni.
Due and shedding tears, seemed to submit to parental help and advice
Cook.

- Up, good lady! - Said Caragol -. A little encouragement and
do not cry ... To everything there is comfort in this world.

Swollen
right hand locked in her two hands, and passing the other arm around
her waist, the directing was little by little to the departure lounge.

-
Believe in God - he said -. Why look for the captain, who is back
in his land to his wife own? ... Other men there that are free, and
you can communicate with them without falling in mortal sin.

Freya
was not listening. Near the door was still the head, initiating a
reverse to the captain's cabin.

- Ulises! ... Ulises! - Screamed.

-
Believe in God, madam - Caragol said again, while pushing with your
flabby belly and his hairy chest.

A charitable purpose filled his
mind. Had a remedy for pain of this woman beautiful, that desperation
had become more interesting.

- Come on, lady ... Trust me, my child.
On reaching the deck, was leading into his domain. Freya sat in
the kitchen, no know with certainty where he was. He saw through her
tears to this old obese, goodness priests, going from one side to
another to collect bottles and mixing liquids, stirring spoon in a
glass with a merry jingle.

- Drink without fear ... There is anger
that resists to this medicine.

The chef offered him a glass, and
she, shocked, drank and drank, his face contracting by alcoholic strength
of the liquid. Still crying, while savoring mouth a thick sweetness.
Her tears were falling in the brew that slid between his lips. Thus sought
out, and thus invited, I was induced to speak out the feelings inspired by the occasion, and
the fresh recollection of the scenes through which I had passed as a slave. My speech on this
occasion is about the only one I ever made, of which I do not remember a single connected sentence.
It was{279 EXTRAORDINARY SPEECH OF MR. GARRISON} with the utmost difficulty that I could stand
erect, or that I could command and articulate two words without hesitation and stammering.
I trembled in every limb. I am not sure that my embarrassment was not the most effective part
of my speech, if speech it could be called. There is only lust in the flesh: is there
in spirit. And if divine spiritualism, evil does not stop him, and more unfortunately common
and frequent.

Now, I understand that this devilish spiritualism, not divine, is
what sets us apart nature and its innocent love.

Although I acknowledge gullible, largely benign, wanting to forgive him everything, I will
declare Here is a confidence thing.

In my view, even the devil himself and lost no seduces us so suddenly and without further ado.
It would keep it very well: you would not mind none.

The devil is founded at the beginning something reasonable takes us good terms and roads, until
we reached a certain point, where and, very gently, start the damned of God leading us enamored
by shortcuts, and so we lost and we lost.

In the case of spiritualism, to which we refer, it is clear that the principles are not bad
and foundations. Nature did much for the man, but the spirit has been supplemented natural work, making
it more suitable, more beautiful, more useful and more suited to our needs and aspirations.
The man, the weaker and more helpless than the lamb, the spirit, become blacksmith and fireworks,
has given weapons and forces a thousand times greater than the lion, the man, more naked Chow,
spirit, become a weaver, a tailor, a shoemaker and hat, he has dressed the most gorgeous costumes
peacock, the hummingbird and parrot; man, little smarter than the mole or the owl in point
of view, the spirit, become a manufacturer of telescopes, has provided him with more penetrating
view of the eagle, the man never would have done naturally and instinctively something were worth
half hive, the spirit become an architect, taught him to build castles proud, slender towers, enormous
pyramids, columns, graceful, comfortable homes, cathedrals, theaters, and in addition, cities wonderful,
the man who in the state of wild nature is prone to eating their similar, and that gave, and
still often given away in some regions, with rough acorns with grasshoppers crushed or raw fish
and rotting, the spirit, become a chef, artistically prepared dishes will welcome up to the eye,
and makes an act remember him most as he has in common with the animal is a solemn, white tie
and decorations, where they may celebrate the most momentous triumphs of religion, science,
philosophy and politics, the man, in short, that after sin means, and the state of nature and
no longer grace, must have been nearly as ugly as monkey, and dirtier than the pig, and most
pestiferous to the skunk, the spirit, become braces, a fisherman of sponges, a manufacturer
of toilets in civilization to put it a word, has made clean, fragrant,
clean and quite nice to be a model Minerva and Jupiter of Phidias,
the Vatican Apollo and the Venus de Milo and Medicis.

It would be no end to the referring here to go he has done in the spirit to complete, beautify
and glorify the work of nature.

So, a rule of thumb, it can be ensured, without fear of being exaggerated, that even the things
that seem natural, nature, although under review, has made Six-party one, and the spirit of man has
the other five. Could, for example, feeding our globe, in a state
of mere nature, two hundred million people?

I fear that no. Thus there is, what they say, because I have not counted, 1,200 million, then
one billion are sons of art, pure creation of the mind, a product of our fertile wit.

Let us, therefore, that one-sixth of all there, and perhaps much to, has given him nature has gifted.
The other five sixths have cost a lot of work to the spirit. And this work of the spirit, this
supplement to nature is what has value and price and measured and plotted and moves under the round
shape of coins or making the trace of a filthy vile papers are called
bills, which, as well as discs or ingots of metal, come to be incarnation
of the spirit, the subtle and lively and circulating of its value,
the imperishable essence of his secular work accumulated.

So far things are going well, but here the devil, as they say, starts screw up. Spiritualism
and excites leads us to love, to adore about this embodiment, or
better expressed, the metallization empapelación and spirit. For this
spiritualism and not by Christianity, the natural disdain: Do not
feel all the beauty of spring. During the first three or four
months, my speeches were almost exclusively made up of narrations of my own personal experience
as a slave. "Let us have the facts," said the people. So also said Friend George Foster, who
always wished to pin me down to my simple narrative. "Give us the facts," said Collins, "we
will take care of the philosophy." Just here arose some embarrassment. He could afford this luxury. It would be like
a huge yacht, ready to do due to his taste or convenience, and providing the same time high
profits. Maybe your child to become a manager of shipping company, the over the years become
the first ship in a huge fleet.

He knew all the ports in the world, all roads of traffic, and would know to guess the locations
devoid of vessels, which are paid higher rates.

Until now had been a brave employee and blind. I was about to start his life operator of the sea.

Two
months later he wrote from England saying he had bought the Fingal, steam-mail Three thousand
tons, which made the twice weekly service between London and port
Scotland.

Ulysses enthused by the cheapness of its acquisition. The property was Fingal a Scottish captain,
who, notwithstanding his long illness, he would not ever give up
command died on board his ship.

The heirs, landsmen, tired from a long waiting, eager to get rid of it at any price.

When the new owner entered the aft lounge, surrounded by cabins - only habitable place in this
cargo ship - the memories of the deceased came to his step. In the plans for the entrepuertas were
painted the heroes of the Iliad Scotland: the bard Ossian and his harp; Malvina round of the
arms and loose tresses of gold, the mustachioed warriors, with helmets
fins and protruding biceps, which were given knives in their shields,
waking the echoes of green lakes.

A soft, deep armchair opened its arms to a stove. They had spent the last years, the owner of
the vessel, heart sick with swollen legs, running from seat on a course that was repeated every
week, through fog, through winter waves that ripped chunks of ice crept to the icebergs. Near the
stove there was a piano, and on its cover a pile of yellowed by time scores: The sleepwalker
Lucia Tosti romances, Neapolitan songs, easy and graceful melodies which spread the old strings
of the instrument with the fragile and crystalline timbre of a music box. The poor sailor
legs of stone tended his sick heart into the sea of ​​light. This music raised up among the misty
skies Sorrento hills, covered with orange and lemon trees, the coast
of Sicily, scented by burning plant.

Ferragut manned the ship with friendly people. His second was a pilot
who had begun his career on fishing boats. It was the same people
of the grandparents of Ulysses, and he remembered the Dotor with respect
and admiration.

It is not probable that any open attempt to secure me as a slave could have succeeded, further
than the obtainment, by my master, of the money value of my bones and sinews. 

Ulysses protested vigorously. No: he desired that his vessel was never reassembled; estimated with
anguish the days remaining. If need be, leave him, staying forever in Naples.

- What do I have to do in Naples? - Interrupted Freya -. I am a bird of passage here, which same
as you. We met in the seas of the other hemisphere, and we have to rediscover in Italy. Next time,
if we meet again, will be in Japan, Canada, on Cape ... Keep going, amorous shark, and let me
go mine. Imagine that we are two ships are in a calm, miracles, exchange greetings, wish for
good luck, and then each away by his side, perhaps never to be seen ever.

Ferragut shook his head. That could not be, he was not resigned to losing seen again.

- Men! - She went on, more and more irritated -. Everyone can imagine that things must be according
to their whims. "Because I want you, you should be mine ..." What if I do not want? ... What
if I do not suffer the need to be loved? ... I can not live in freedom, no other love than
I am by myself? ...

Considered a disgrace to be a woman. The men inspired envy for their independence. Could stand
aside and refrain from wearing life passions, and nobody come to intrude on his retirement. Les
was lawful to go everywhere, to travel the world without her steps
lead behind a trail of applicants.

- You are nice to me, Captain.

The other day I was glad to meet you: it was an appearance of past. I saw in you the joy of my
youth starting to leave and melancholy of certain memories ... And yet, I'll end by hate: I
hear you, Argonaut heavy? ... I abhor because it serves to friend, because only you know about the
same thing, because it is a character novel, a Latino, maybe interesting for other women, but unbearable
for me.

His face contorted with a gesture of contempt and pity. "Ah, Latinos !...»

- All are the same, Spanish, Italian, French. All were born to the same thing. Just found a desirable
woman to believe neglect of duty if they ask for your love and what
comes next ... Can not a man and a woman just be friends?

Could not you be a good comrade and treat him as a partner?

Ferragut
protested vigorously. No, I could not.
Thus, the painful liability to be returned again to slavery, which haunted me by day, and troubled
my dreams by night, proved to be a necessary step in the path of knowledge and usefulness. Do you understand? Do not answer me. Dad suffer an emotion
that perhaps cost him his life ... and could olvidárseme you're my brother.

- Each one does his duty as understood.

- Yes?

For date and warned: the Holy Viaticum, the rogue has the farolón and you ... I throw down
the stairs.

- We'll see!

Pepe, overcoming his anger, he tried to speak calmly and, feeling cold blood Tirso boasted that,
wanted to show equal serenity.

- I was afraid this scene, but I will not dodge it ... When you come to Madrid, and climbing
you entered the railway station Santa Maria, staying there a long time, without any rush to
meet your parents, because it appears that they do not know him, I guessed what would be your
fanaticism, but I never imagined that followed the fight. Then, given your background and seeing
hidden live at home as a criminal, I suspect that had come to Madrid for business that were not
yours ... Remember, except the first exit at twilight made the afternoon
of the day you came only after many days you venture out into the
Street, after two or three visits to the gentleman who came to see
you, when you know I was already fulfilled your mission. You see I've
followed step by step. I noticed your effort not to speak to us of
certain things, because I loathe our ideas about politics war and
trabucaires priests, and, finally, I have endured your mom to turn
tricks and what you intend to quarrel Miller and Leo ... In short,
I know you thoroughly. The Hutchinson Family, celebrated vocalists--fellow-passengers--often
came to my rude forecastle deck, and sung their sweetest songs, enlivening the place with eloquent
music, as well as spirited conversation, during the voyage. In two days after leaving Boston,
one part of the ship was about as free to me as another. My fellow-passengers not only visited
me, but invited me to visit them, on the saloon deck. My visits there, however, were but seldom.
I preferred to live within my privileges, and keep upon my own premises. I found this quite
as much in accordance with good policy, as with my own feelings. "Hello." For them it was as if she had to leave the sun hours before did not count.
And the notary, honeyed voice, extending his reply: "Good morning, Monsieur le Marquis." "Good
morning, Mr. Baron." Their relationship went no further, but felt by the nobles Ferragut characters
sympathy felt by patrons of an establishment, accustomed to look for years with affectionate
eyes, but without crossing more than a greeting.

His son Ulysses was bored in the dark and nearly deserted church, following the monotonous incidents
of a sung mass. The sun's rays slanting golden jets coming from the top lighting spirals of dust,
flies and moths, made him think nostalgically of the green spots of the orchard, the white
spots of the villages, black plumes pass, with fumes and the triple row of convexities blue foam
topped that came to rid with rhythmic rumble on the beach bronze
color.

When left to shine embroidered layers of the three priests of the altar and appeared another
priest in the pulpit, black and white, Ulysses turned his sight to a side chapel. The sermon
he posed for a half hour of imaginative efforts populated drowsiness. The first thing your eyes
looking in the chapel of Santa Barbara was stuck in an ark high wall,
a painted wooden tomb, without ornament that this inscription: Here
Dona Constanza lies Augusta, Empress of Greece.

The name of Greece had the power to excite the imagination of the child. Also his godfather, Labarta
lawyer, poet laureate, could not repeat the name without a fervent contraction passing over
his beard between channels and a new light in his eyes. Sometimes, the mysterious power of the
name was juxtaposed a new mystery dark and harrowing interest: Byzantium. How lady augusta,
remote sovereign countries and dreamy magnificence had come to leave
their bones in a gloomy chapel of Valencia, in a similar cabinet The
men who scraps and junk in the attic of the notary?

...

One day, after Mass, Don Esteban had told her story quickly. She was the daughter Frederick
II of Swabia, a Hohenstaufen, emperor of Germany, but estimated at over the crown of Sicily. He
had been in the palaces of Palermo - real ruzafa their Oriental gardens - an existence of pagan and
sage, surrounded by poets and scientists (Jews, Muslims and Christians) of Bayadere, alchemists
and ferocious Saracens guards. Legislators and jurists of ancient Rome, writing at the same time the
first verses in Italian. His life was a continuous battle with the Popes, who launched excommunication
against him on excommunication. For peace was crossed and marched to the conquest of Jerusalem.
But Saladin, another philosopher of the same class, he would quickly agreed with his colleague
Christian. The possession of a small town surrounded by wastelands and a non-empty grave worth of
men was slaughtered for centuries. The Saracen king betrayed him Jerusalem gracefully, and
the Pope again excommunicated Frederick for having conquered Holy
Land without bloodshed.

- It was a great man - muttered Don Esteban
-.

Admittedly it was a great man ...

She said shyly, feeling his enthusiasm for that remote epoch force him to make this concession to an enemy
of the Church. He shuddered at the thought of the book blasphemous, nobody had seen, but whose
paternity attributed Rome the emperor Sicilian especially that of the three impostors, in which Federico
measured by the same yardstick to Moses, Jesus and Muhammad. This writer was crowned the earliest
period of history: the first in full thirteenth century had dared
to appeal the trial of public opinion in their manifestos against
Rome.

Her daughter had married a Byzantine emperor, John Dukas Vatatzes, the famous "Vatacio" when he
was fifty and she fourteen. It was a natural daughter, standing then, as most of their offspring:
a product of his harem free, which mingled beauties Saracen and Italian marquis. And the poor
girl, married to "Vatacio the Heretic" by a parent needed alliances, had lived many years in
the East with all the pomp of a basilisa wrapped in stiff embroidered vestments depicting scenes
of the holy books, causeway purple boots worn in the soles golden
eagles, ultimate symbol of majesty Rome.

Had prevailed at Nicaea first refuge of the Greek emperors while Constantinople was held by the
Crusaders, who founded a dynasty America, then, when dead Vatacio, the bold Michael Palaeologus
reconquered Constantinople, the imperial widow looked requested this adventurous victorious. For
several years resisted his claims, obtaining at last that his brother Manfred, the new king
of Sicily, was returned to his homeland. Frederick had dead Manfredo facing the troops and to the
cross pontifical French had Popes offering up rude Charles of Anjou the crown of Sicily. The
poor Empress Greek arrived in time to receive the news of the death of his brother in battle and
follow the flight of his sister and his nephews.

All shelter in Lucera dei Pagani, castle defended by the Saracens in the service of Frederick,
the only faithful to his memory.

The castle fell into the hands of the warriors of the Church, and the wife of Manfredo was conducted
to a prison where his life was extinguished shortly thereafter. Darkness swallowed the last remains
of the cursed family in Rome. Death hovered around the basilisa. All perished: his brother
Manfred, his brother and poetic Encio unfortunate hero of many songs. His nephew, the chivalrous
Coradin was going to die later in the executioner's ax while trying
to defend their rights.

As the Eastern Empress posed no danger to Anjou dynasty, the winner let her follow his destiny
alone and helpless, like a Princess of Shakespeare.

Widow of Emperor John Dukas, was the lordship of three major villages of Anatolia, with an income
of three thousand besants of fine gold. But this income away, never came. And almost alms embarked
on a boat that was heading to the scented shores of the Gulf of Valencia. His niece Constance,
daughter of Manfred, was married to the Infante Don Pedro of Aragon,
son Don Jaime.

The Valencia basilisa settled in newly conquered. His nephew's future Pedro III, speaking on
the government's old age by his father, offered states; but tired of a life of adventure, preferring
to enter the convent of Santa Barbara.

Federico glorious last representative, she and her niece Constance passed to Peter III the rights
to Sicily, and severe and persistent the Aragonese monarch claimed years later, seizing the island
after the famous Sicilian Vespers. The poor lived empress until the next century in the poverty
of a newly founded monastery, recalling the adventures its sad fate,
seeing in imagination the palace next to the gold mosaics Lake Nicaea,
the gardens where Vatacio wanted to die under a tent of purple, massive
walls of Constantinople, the domes of Hagia Sophia, with its hieratic
theories Basilian saints and crowned.

Of all his travels and splendid fortunes had retained only a stone, only luggage that accompanied
the jump on the beach in Valencia. It was a fragment of a rock Nicodemia which flowed miraculous
water for the baptism of Santa Barbara. The notary showed his son the sacred boulder embedded
on a pool of holy water.

In the same chapel was the tomb of another princess, daughter of basileus Theodore Lascaris,
who had come to meet his aunt in the distant exile.

Ulysses, while admiring the historical knowledge of his father, welcomed them with some ingratitude.

-
My sponsor me explain this better ... My sponsor knows best.

When I looked at the Chapel of Santa Barbara during the Mass, his eyes avoided the funereal
chest. Repugnance inspired him to think of the bones to dust. That Dona Constanza did not exist. The one
that interested him was the other, which was a little beyond, painted in a small square. Doña
Constanza had leprosy - a disease that in those days did not forgive to the empresses - and Santa
Barbara miraculously cured his devotion. To perpetuate this event, there was Santa Barbara in the
table, dressed with a wide skirt and lantern sleeves slashed, the same as a fifteenth century
lady, and his feet the peasant costume with basilisa Valencia and heavy jewelry. Esteban said
in vain that this picture was painted centuries later the death of
the empress.

The child's imagination contemptuously jumped on these objections. It had been Dona Constanza,
as appeared on the canvas, fair-haired and big eyes black, nice weekend, a little full of meat,
as befits a woman accustomed to drag royal robes and accessed only by devotion to disguise as a
peasant.

The image of the Empress thought filled her child.

At night, when I felt fear in bed, struck by the enormity of the room that served as his bedroom,
it is sufficient to sovereign memory of Byzantium to immediately
forget their concerns and the thousand noises strange the old building.

"Doña Constanza !...» fell asleep hugging the pillow, as if this was the head of the basilisa.
Her eyes were closed the eyes of the royal black Mrs., and maternal love.

All women, the approach to it, taking some of that other who slept six centuries on top of a wall.

When
her mother, Dona Cristina sweet and pale, left for a moment their work and gave a kiss, he
saw something in her smile of the Empress. When Visanteta, a servant of the garden, brown eyes blackberry
and burning skin, thin strip or helped him to wake him to bring to
school, Ulises tended arms around her with sudden enthusiasm, as if
drunk on perfume and modest vigorous animal that breathed the girl.

"Visanteta! ... Oh, and thought !...» Visanteta Dona Constanza. So should smell the empresses
so it should be the touch of her skin.

Mysterious and incomprehensible tremors through your body as light
vapors, as weak slime bubbles sleeping on the bottom of all children
and goes back to the surface fermentation of youth.

His father guessed a part of this imaginative life to see their games and readings.

- Ah, comedian! ... Ah, historiero! ... Are equal to your sponsor.

He said this with an ambiguous smile in just entering his contempt for the ideals useless and his respect
for artists, a similar respect to the veneration felt by the mad Arab, seeing in his dementia a
gift from God.

Doña Cristina was anxious that this only son, the subject of pampering and care as a crown prince was
a priest. Seeing the first mass sing! ... Then canon, then archbishop. Who knows if, when she
did not exist, other women admire him preceded by a cross of gold,
dragging red mantle of cardinal-archbishop, surrounded by a staff
of surplices, and envy to the mother who had given birth to this church
magnate!

...

To guide the passions of her son had set up a church in one of the rooms useless the mansion. The Ulysses
classmates came in the afternoon free, attracted twice by the charm of "playing to the priests'
and by the generous meal prepared Cristina Dona to make happy to
all the parish clergy.

The ceremony started by the furious ringing of bells mounted on a classroom door. Customers of the
notary, sitting on the ground floor waiting for the papers they had just scribbling scribes haste,
raised his head in amazement.

The metallic clatter that shook the building, which seemed full of quiet corners, and moved the street
why only now and then a carriage passed.

While some lit candles and unfolded the sacred altar linens with exquisite lace, designed by Dona
Cristina, the son and his closest friends to it were of the view the faithful, covering himself
with dawns and golden vestments, placing caps on their heads funny. The mother, who watched
from behind a door, had to make efforts to not go and eat kisses to Ulysses. With what grace genuflecting
imitated the gestures and the chief priest! ...

So far everything was going perfectly. Belted out the three officiating next to the pyramid lights,
and the choir of the faithful responded from the back of the room shaking with impatience. Suddenly
came the protest, schism, heresy. They had done a lot of chaplains those on the altar. Should give the
vestments to those watching, that, in his turn, exercised the sacred ministry. This was the
treaty. But the clergy resisted the dispossession with the pride and majesty of acquired rights,
and pulled the impious hands holy garments, profaning up ripping. Screams, kicks, pictures and
candles on the floor, scandal and abomination, as if he had been
born the Antichrist.

The wisdom of putting Ulysses end to the fighting. "If we were to play the porch ?...»

The porch was the vast attic of the mansion.

Everyone accepted with enthusiasm. Gone is the church! And like a flock of birds flew up the stairs,
on a multicolored tile steps rings under chipped paint showing the red brick paste. Valencian
potters eighteenth century were decorated with Berber and Christian galleys, birds from nearby
Albufera, wig white hunters who offered flowers at a farmer, fruit of all kinds and spirited riding
horses and riders half his body to houses and trees barely reached the knees of the horse.

The
vocal group was spread on the top floor as the most horrendous invasions
in history.

Cats and rats alike fled to the corners. The birds, scared, darting out through the skylights in the
ceiling.

Poor notary! ... Never had returned empty-handed when he was called out of town the confidence of
wealthy peasants, unable to believe that no other legal science be yours. It was the time that
the antique dealers had not discovered even the rich Valencia, where people dressed in silk
popular for centuries, and furniture, clothing and pots seemed imbued with the light of the sun
always the same, blue atmosphere always calm.

Don Esteban, who felt obliged to be antique in his capacity as individuals of several companies
regional home was filling with the remains of past peoples acquired
or that spontaneously offered her customers.

There was already wall space for pictures, no space in their rooms for furniture. Thus new acquisitions
taking the road the porch, provisionally, pending final installation. Years later, when to leave the
profession could build a medieval castle - all that medieval possible - on the shores of the
Marina, near the village where he was born, put each object in a place worthy of its importance.

What the notary was leaving in the first floor rooms appeared mysteriously in the attic, as if
he had left legs. Cristina and her servants, forced to live in constant battle with dust and cobwebs
of a building that was crumbling little little, felt a fierce hatred against the old things.

Above were not possible disputes and battles of the boys because of
lack of costumes.

They had more to sink your hands on any of the bunkers that throbbed with a dull crackling woodworm,
whose iron, lace and lace, wood unpins. Some brandished sprats pearl cuffs or long sword, then
wrapped in layers of crimson silk obscured by time. Others threw in brocade bedspreads venerable
shoulders, skirts a peasant with thick gold flowers, farthingales of rich fabric that crackled
like paper.

When tired of comedians to imitate the loud clash of swords and fall of death Ulysses and other
lovers of the proposed action game "thieves and sheriffs." Thieves could not be dressed with
rich fabrics, uniforms should be modest. And stirring heaps dull-colored rags that seem burlap.
In various spots of the fabric you guessed legs, arms, heads, metallic-green
foliage.

Don Esteban had found these broken pieces and by farmers to cover jars oil used as blankets
or mules to work.

Tapestries were copied pieces of cardboard of Titian and Rubens. The notary kept only for historical
respect. Tapestry then lacked merit, as all things that abound. Valencia had closets in their
stores dozens of pieces of the same class, and upon reaching the feast of Corpus covered fences
them bare ground in the streets followed by the procession.

Other times, Ulises repeated the same game with the title "Indians
and conquerors."

There found in the piles of books stored by your father a volume that recounted, to two columns,
with many woodcuts, the voyages of Columbus, Hernán wars Cortes, Pizarro's exploits.

This book influenced the rest of his life. Many times, being a man, found his image lurks at the
bottom of their actions and desires. In fact, I had only read some excerpts. For him the prints
were interesting, more worthy of their admiration for all boxes the attic.

With the tip of his sword drawn in the ground line, like Pizarro on the island of Gallo to their peers
discouraged, ready to abandon the conquest. "May all good Castilian pass this line ... "And the good
Castilian - a dozen urchins with long layers and brands, whose grip they came to the mouth -
came to rally around the leader, imitating the heroic gestures of the conqueror. Then came the
battle cry: "Sus, to Indians!

"

It was agreed that the Indians had fled: for that were wrapped in a piece modestly tapestry and
carried on the head rooster feathers.

But fleeing traitor and be on vargueños, tables and chairs, pyramids, they started to shoot
volumes against their persecutors. Books venerable golden skin with soft, white folios of
parchment, opened the fall on the ground, breaking his ribs, scattering a shower of pages printed
or handwritten of yellowing prints, as if we release the blood and
guts, tired of living.

The scandal of these wars of conquest brought the intervention of Dona Cristina. Did not want
to support more devils screaming preferred the adventures of the
attic to the mystical delights of the abandoned chapel.

The Indians were the most worthy of execration. To compensate for the humility their role with new
splendor, had finally put his scissors sinners in tapestries whole, cut several vestments so they fall
over the chest-head hero or goddess.

Ulysses, to be without partners, found a new charm to life in the
attic.

Silence timber popping town and animals running around invisible, unexplained drop a picture or
a few books stacked, made him taste a sense of fear and mystery night
under the sun streams coming through the skylights.

In this solitude
was better. Could populate his whim. Troubled him beings real, the
unwelcome noises wake of a beautiful dream. The loft was a world several
centuries, which belonged entirely and folded them all fantasies.

Tucked
away in a box without a lid, he did swing, imitating the roaring mouth
of the storm. It was a caravel, a galleon, a ship, as he had seen
in old books, candles lions and painted crucifixes, a castle in the
stern and a figurehead carved in the forward, sinking into the waves
to reappear dripping.

The hood, pushing force, approached the coast
to pick a carved chest, the Gulf triangular Two comfortable, the soft
beach bales of cloth. And the sailor, followed by a crew as numerous
as unreal, jumped ashore rapier in hand, climbing a mountain of books,
they were the Andes, and several volumes with the boring of an old
spear tip for planting his standard. Why was not to be conqueror?
...

Came to his memory unnecessarily fragments of conversation between
his godfather and father, as which everything was known on the surface
of the earth. Great surprise was{295} expressed by American
newspapers, north and south, during my stay in Great Britain, that a person so illiterate and
insignificant as myself could awaken an interest so marked in England. These papers were not
the only parties surprised. I was myself not far behind them in surprise. But the very contempt
and scorn, the systematic and extravagant disparagement of which I was the object, served,
perhaps, to magnify my few merits, and to render me of some account, whether deserving or not.
A man is sometimes made great, by the greatness of the abuse a portion of mankind may think
proper to heap upon him. Whether I was of as much consequence as the English papers made me
out to be, or not, it was easily seen, in England, that I could not be the ignorant and worthless
creature, some of the American papers would have them believe I was. Men, in their senses,
do not take bowie-knives to kill mosquitoes, nor pistols to shoot flies; and the American passengers
who thought proper to get up a mob to silence me, on board the "Cambria," took the most effective
method of telling the British public that I had something to say.

But to the second circumstance, namely, the position of the Free Church of Scotland, with the
great Doctors Chalmers, Cunningham, and Candlish at its head. That church, with its leaders,
put it out of the power of the Scotch people to ask the old question, which we in the north
have often most wickedly asked--"What have we to do with slavery?" That church had taken the
price of blood into its treasury, with which to build free churches, and to pay free church
ministers for preaching the gospel; and, worse still, when honest John Murray, of Bowlien Bay--now
gone to his reward in heaven--with William Smeal, Andrew Paton, Frederick Card, and other sterling
anti-slavery men in Glasgow, denounced the transaction as disgraceful and shocking to the religious
sentiment of Scotland, this church, through its leading divines, instead of repenting and seeking
to mend the mistake into which it had fallen, made it a flagrant sin, by undertaking to defend,
in the name of God and the bible, the principle not only{296} of taking the money of slave-dealers
to build churches, but of holding fellowship with the holders and traffickers in human flesh. 

In order to fix the witch of the mourning picture in the living memory of Mary of Regla could
not be more appropriate occasion, and so it was, then repeated in a whisper, step behind its
protective: - The girl Adela! Adela girl!, Beyond comparison in its mind the face of it with
the youngest of his love.

As the butcher hear the refrain, said in a tone of repression:

- Ah!

That nine no Nama Adel, Sesil Nama.

Better to keep quiet, she thought the rule and said no word, but stood
his ground, for As he continued to believe that singular resemblance
between the girl and the mourning of the house across the street from
the firehouse, whose description saved for the first opportunity.

Even the two p.m. walked the black wandering the city streets and in the part time butcher achieved
silver reducing the effects had on the board. For popularly called the gate of the Wall, came
to Alameda and sat on a seat stone, protected by a leafy tree, between
the old café in Athens and the statue Carlos III.

A dirty canvas bag whose mouth was collected with a string, and wore Genoveva within, removed and
counted to twelve dollars in Seville ESP, and means royal silver of which, net of seven, more
or less cost of goods traded, played down a net gain of five dollars. No knowledge of the numbers required
to make account, and no more convincing argument to prove the remuneration
of that industry.

Convinced it was decided to adopt Maria de Regla.

He spoke after what she said about her husband, wound he had received in quarrel, by that same
neighborhood, and its disappearance from the day before Christmas Eve. Then Genevieve recalled
having heard from Malanga, who by that time had a tan that covered found badly wounded at the entrance
to Broad Street. This species was confirmed in all the forklift truck parts water carrier,
who just before his evil son, it will be recalled, passed by and not stopped because he judged
the wounded died. Malanga prisoner in jail, no Suddenly it was easy to figure out who it was
or what had become the dark hurt, but Mary Rule was convinced he
could not be other than Dionysus, and was proposed to exploit in all
scope so precious data.

At this point in the conversation of two women, went on horseback
in front of them, and through the center of Campus Martius, in the
direction of the roadway of San Luis Gonzaga, the young black military,
we have talked several times.

- Tonda!, "Said Genevieve indicating
his companion.

Without being able to help, gave him their views heart sank Mary Rule. It is believed that see
Dionysius the clutches of intrepid young man who wore sable, that the law protected them and
the prestige of his many heroic acts of courage for almost invulnerable. He got standing for some
obscure impulse, he took a few steps in the direction he wore when he lost of sight behind
the dust cloud kicked up by the feet of his swift horse on the distant
road, back to the seat and fell speechless with his astonished friend. The occasion was great, the
men great, and great speeches were expected from them.

In addition to the outside pressure upon Doctors Cunningham and Candlish, there was wavering
in their own ranks. The conscience of the church itself was not at ease. A dissatisfaction
with the position of the church touching slavery, was sensibly manifest among the members,
and something must be done to counteract this untoward influence. The great Dr. Chalmers was
in feeble health, at the time. His most potent eloquence could not now be summoned to Cannon
Mills, as formerly. He whose voice was able to rend asunder and dash down the granite walls
of the established church of Scotland, and to lead a host in solemn procession from it, as
from a doomed city, was now old and enfeebled. Besides, he had said his word on this very question;
and his word had not silenced the clamor without, nor stilled{298} the anxious heavings within.
The occasion was momentous, and felt to be so. The church was in a perilous condition. I do not understand how you can live here.

In a given these withdrawals to the Navy was determined to be Ulysses. Beginning the summer,
the boy was free from school for three months, and the notary, who could not get away from the city, vacationing
with his family on the beach of Cabañal, cut ditches smelly negligible beside the sea. The
little peaky and weak showing for his studies and thoughts.

His uncle would make him strong and agile as a dolphin. And at the expense of rude obstinacy, could
wrest Dona Cristina.

The first thing he admired Ulysses entered the doctor's house were three frigates that adorned the
ceiling of the dining room, three wonderful boats, which were not lacking sailing, pulley, rope
and anchor, and they could take to the seas at any time with a crew of Lilliputian.

Were the work of his grandfather Ferragut pattern. Eager to free his two children from bondage
marine long centuries weighed on the family, had sent to the University
of Valencia for them to be lords of land inside.

The eldest, Stephen, just ended his career obtained a notary in Catalonia. The youngest, Antonio, became
a doctor for not antagonizing the old but once achieved the title, came to serve on an ocean liner.
His father had closed the door of the sea, and he came through the window.

Aging pattern was completely alone. I took care of their property, a few vineyards staggered
on the coast, within sight of the house. He was in frequent correspondence with his son the notary.
Now and then came a letter from the child, the favorite, from distant countries only knew by
reputation the old sailor Mediterranean.

And the large inertia in the shade of her bower, against the bright blue sea, the building entertain
their little ships. All were large-size frigates and daring sails. So he consoled the pattern
of not sending in his life but heavy and robust lutes, equal to the ships of other centuries,
in which Cette came to wearing or carrying prohibited items in Gibraltar and the coast of Africa.

Ulises
soon realize the popularity rarely enjoyed Dotor his uncle, a popular composed of the most antagonistic
elements.

The people were smiling when talking about him as if he they had to be mad, but these smiles
only dared to unfold when he was away, because Everyone inspired some fear. At the same time
admired him as a local glory.

There Run all the seas, and also had his strength, his disorderly
and boisterous force, terror and pride of their neighbors.

The guys went for the test on the strength of his fists pressing with the crew of ships English that
came to load raisins, evoked the name of the physician as a consolation if defeat.

- If you were here Dotor!

... Half a dozen Englishmen are few for him.

There was no powerful company, and it was crazy, that does not believe
him capable.

Inspired the faith of the saints and masters miraculous bold. In some calm winter mornings and sunny,
people ran to the shore, looking forward to the lonely sea. Veterans warming themselves around the sun,
next to the boats in dry, to tend his eyes, accustomed to the survey of enlarged horizons,
we could see an almost imperceptible, a grain of sand dancing to the whim of the waves.

All issued to cry out their guesses.

It was a buoy or a piece of mast, remains a distant shipwreck. For women it was a drowned corpse
floating the swelling was the same that a skin, having spent many days between two water ...

Suddenly came an assumption that everyone flummoxed. "If you will Dotor!" Long silence ... The
wooden piece took the form of a head, the body was moved. Many came to distinguish bubbling foam
around its breast, advancing like a bow, and vigorous blades from his arms ... Yes it was the
Dotor! Lend to each other the old glasses to recognize their beards deep in the water, his
face contorted with the effort or dilated by snorting.

And the bank stepped Dotor dry, naked and shameless serenely like a god, shaking hands among men,
while women screamed taking the apron to a single eye, terrified and admired at the time of
his suspension monstrosity that scattered at every step a spray of droplets.

All the ends of headland inspired him the desire to bend to swim like dolphins; all bays and
inlets need to measure them with their arms, as an owner who doubts of the measurement and correcting
others to assert their right of possession. He was a human vessel that had been cut with the bottom
of his heart the swirling foam on the rocks and Pacific waters, sizzling
at the bottom of pearly fish between branches and drifting stars like
flowers.

He had sat down to rest on the black rocks with algae kilts his head sticking out or the sink, to the
caprice of the wave, waiting for the night and the ship coming to break blind as a shell. Had penetrated
the same as a marine reptile in certain caves of the coast glacial lakes, dormant illuminated
by mysterious openings, where the atmosphere is black and transparent
water, the swimmer has the bust of ebony and glass legs.

In the During these swimming ate every living creature that was glued to the rocks or moving
antennas and arms. The friction of the big fish fleeing cowards, with violence projectile,
made him laugh.

In the night hours passed before the boats of his grandfather, Ulysses heard of Peje Nicolao,
a man-fish from the Strait of Messina, cited by Cervantes and other authors, who lived in the
remaining water from the alms of the vessels. His uncle was some relative of Peje Nicolao.
Sometimes mentioned to some Greek, to see her lover, went to swim all night the Hellespont. And he knew
the Dardanelles, wanted to return there as a mere passenger, for
that was not a poet named Lord Byron had only imitated the legendary
voyage.

The books in his house, the charts stuck on the walls, the bottles and jars full of sea animals
and plants, and most of all it tastes, which clashed with the customs of their neighbors had given
him a reputation as a mysterious sage, a Warlock prestige.

All who were healthy you were crazy, but I just felt some grief in health, breathing the same faith
that the poor women who stayed at home long hours of Doctor, seeing his boat in the distance, hoping
to return from the sea to teach children patients who had been in
arms.

On the other doctors had the merit of not receiving their services; rather, many patients came from
his home with coins in their hands.

The Dotor was rich, the richest in the country, and he did not know what to do with your money.
Daily her servant - an old woman who had served his father and known to his mother - got their
hands fisheries necessary to the maintenance of the two, with a royal generosity. The Triton, which
had hoisted his sail at dawn, landed before eleven, and the purple bay lobster on the embers,
spreading a sweet perfume, the bubbling pot, thickening the broth with fat succulent of the Scorpid,
sang the oil in the pan, covering the pink skin the mullet, creaking
under the knife urchins and clams, shedding their pulp still alive
in the boiling of the pot.

Furthermore, in the corral a cow bellowing filled udders and dozens
of hens cackling relentless fertility.

The flour kneaded by the servant and coffee thick as mud was all acquired Triton with their
money. If you wanted a bottle of rum to the back of a swimming was to use their content rubs.

Once a year the money coming through their doors. The girls spread vintage by the steps of his
vines, cut the clusters of small and tight grain. Then tended to dry in sheds called riurraus.
This produced fine passes, preferred by the British for making their
puddings.

The sale was certain: the North Sea ships came to look. And the Triton, seeing in their hands
five or six thousand pesetas, was perplexed, wondering inwardly what can a man with so much money.

-
All this is yours - said his nephew to show the house.

Also own the boat, books and antique furniture, in which was concealed drawers Costume candid
money that attracted attention.

Despite being proclaimed master of all around him, a loving and harsh
despotism weighed on Ulysses.

His mother was far away, that good lady who shut the windows his step and not let him leave without
having tied the scarf to the accompaniment of kisses.

When sleeping better, thinking that he still had many hours a night,
he felt aroused leg by a violent jerk.

His uncle could not play otherwise. "Up, boy!" In vainly protested, with the profound sleepiness
of his youth ... Was or was not the 'cat' in I had the boat captain and unique medical crew?
...

The claws of the uncle standing exposed to the salty air puffs that went in the window. The sea
was dark and veiled by a slight haze. The last stars shone with flashes of surprise, ready to flee.
In the leaden horizon opened a rift, reddening at times, like a wound to which the blood flowing.
Downstairs in the kitchen, steaming coffee between two cookies as a sailor. The 'cat' of ships loaded
with several empty baskets.

Front marched him as a warrior pattern of the waves, taking the oars
on his shoulder.

Your feet marked in the sand a fast track. Behind them, the people began to awaken. About the
dark waters glided like shrouds the sails of the fishermen fleeing offshore.

Two vigorous strokes separated the small dock his boat rocks. After going through the edges
unleashing the candle, preparing the strings, making the boat lying on an edge under their iron
plants. Canvas squeaky and swelled up with white convexity. "You we are, now to run. "

The water began to sing, sliding on both sides of the bow. Between this and the edge the candle could
be seen a piece of black sea and slowly appear on its edge, a big box red. The brow became a
cap, then in one hemisphere, then in an Arabic arch strangled down until he finally took off from
the liquid mass as well as a pump, flashes of fire pouring. The gray clouds were bloodied, the
rocks of the costs began to shine like copper mirrors.

Were extinguished by the recent land stars. A swarm of fish coleaba fire to the bow, forming
a triangle with the vertex on the horizon. The foam was pink mounds, as if his white reflecting
a submarine eruption.

- Bon dia! - Ulysses shouted the doctor, busy warming his hands, numbed by the wind.

And touched by the childlike joy of dawn, threw his bass voice across the sea silence, sometimes
singing sentimental ballads heard in his youth to a soprano zarzuela
dressed boy, repeating the Salome in Valencian other fishermen the
sea, invented songs while pulling the nets, which were met Random
indecent words rhyme.

In certain corners of the subsiding coast sailing, leaving the boat without another slow rotation
movement around the anchor rope.

Looking Ulysses space obscured by the shadow of the hull, the bottom
was so immediate, believed that almost reach the tip of his paddle.

The rocks were like glass. In the interstices and hollows, the plants were agitated with animal
life and the animals were immobility of plants and stones.

The boat seemed to float in the air and through the atmosphere liquid wrapped into the world
of the abyss were down hooks, and a swarm of fish coleaba swimming and to meet death.

It was a fire crackling yellow, blue loin, pink fins. Out of caves silver and mercury vibrant as lightning,
while others swam slowly, pot-bellied, nearly round, with a coat
of gold flakes.

The slopes were crawling crustaceans on its double row of legs, attracted by the novelty that
altered the deadly calm of the underwater depths, where all pursue and devour their turn to be devoured.
Close surface floating jellyfish, umbrellas living in a white opal, with edge circular red
or purple brown. Under her leadership stirring gelatinous filament hank which serves for locomotion,
nutrition and love.

One had only to pull the lines and a new dam fell into the boat.

The baskets were filling.

The Newt and his nephew had just tired of this fishery for easy ... The sun was next to the
top of its curve, every ripple marina was taking a piece of strip gold that started the blue
immensity. The wood of the boat seemed to burn.

- We have earned our wages - said the Triton looking at the sky and then to the baskets -. Now a little
cleaning.

And stripping off his clothes and threw into the sea. Ulysses looked down through the center
of foam ring open with your body. Now he realized the depth of this
world fantastic, composed of glassy rocks, plants, animals and animal-stones.

The brown body swimmer took, to descend, the transparency of the porcelain.

Blue glass appeared: pasta infused with a statue of Venetian mirror, that would break just touch
the bottom.

He walked as a god of the deep, pulling up plants, chasing with their hands flashes of vermilion
and gold that were hidden in the crevices of the rocks.

Minutes passed intact, was going to stay down forever, not rise. The boy thought with concern
the possibility of having to guide the boat to the coast alone. Suddenly, the body glass is
colored white with green, growing and growing. Then going to be dark coppery and appeared on
the surface giving the swimmer's head snorts, raising his arms, offering their entire crop to a small
submarine.

- Now you - commanded in an imperious tone.

Their attempts were futile resistance.

The guy with the worst insult words or induced him with promises of security. Certainly did
not know if it was he who threw water or if the boat tore the claw of a doctor. After the first
shock, experienced printing somewhat reminiscent forgotten. Swam instinctively, guessing what
should done before advised by your teacher. Woke up inside the ancestral experience a number of sailors
who had fought with the sea and sometimes stayed forever in her womb.

The memory of what existed beyond the softness struck by his feet caused him to lose Suddenly
her composure. Imagination pulled him with the grief of a cannon ball.

- Dude ... Uncle!

And he clung convulsively to the harsh island and
smiling bearded muscle. Uncle emerged still, as if nailed to the bottom
feet of stone. They were equal to nearby promontory darkened and cooled
the water with its shade of ebony.

So passed the morning, dedicated
to fishing and swimming. Then in the afternoon, were the expeditions
to walk along the cliffs of the coast.

The same Dotor knew the heights
of the promontory that its depths. For paths wild goat climbed to
the summit, from which you could see the island of Ibiza. In sunrise,
the distant land like a flame Balearic pink emerging from the waves.
Other times they walked almost to water level. The Triton was his
nephew caves forgotten which was introduced in the Mediterranean with
slow undulations. Blocks were like maritime where they could anchor
the ship, hidden from all eyes. There had been hiding often their
galleys of Barbary, to fall unexpectedly on a nearby town.

In one
of these caves, on a base of cliffs, Ulysses saw a lot of bales.

-
Come on - said Dotor -. Each man makes his living as he can.

When
faced with the lone police officer supported overlooking the sea in
his gun, doctor offered him a cigarette or gave him advice if he was
sick. Poor men! So wrong paid! ... But his sympathies went to the
other, the enemies of the law. He was the son of sea, and the Mediterranean,
heroes and sailors all had something of pirates or smugglers. The
Phoenicians, who spread their sailing the earliest works of civilization,
charged for this service by filling their boats abducted women, rich
and good portability.

Piracy and smuggling were the historical past
of all people who visited Ulysses piled under cover of a hill crowned
by a lighthouse, open others the concavity of the bay dotted with
islands with waists of foam. The old churches were battlements and
loopholes in the walls beside the doors, and firing shotguns culebrinas.


About four years ago, upon a reconsideration of the whole subject, I became convinced that
there was no necessity for dissolving the "union between the northern and southern states;"
that to seek this dissolution was no part of my duty as an abolitionist; that to abstain from
voting, was to refuse to exercise a legitimate and powerful means for abolishing slavery; and
that the constitution of the United States not only contained no guarantees in favor of slavery,
but, on the contrary, it is, in its letter and spirit, an anti-slavery instrument, demanding
the abolition of slavery as a condition of its own existence, as the supreme law of the land.

Here was a radical change in my opinions, and in the action logically resulting from that change.
To those with whom I had been in agreement and in sympathy, I was now in opposition. What they
held to be a great and important truth, I now looked upon as a dangerous error. A very painful,
and yet a very natural, thing now happened. Those who could not see any honest reasons for
changing their views, as I had done, could not easily see any such reasons for my change, and
the common punishment of apostates was mine.

The opinions first entertained were naturally derived and honestly entertained, and I trust
that my present opinions have the same claims to respect. Brought directly, when I escaped
from slavery, into contact with a class of abolitionists regarding the{308} constitution as
a slaveholding instrument, and finding their views supported by the united and entire history
of every department of the government, it is not strange that I assumed the constitution to
be just what their interpretation made it. I was bound, not only by their superior knowledge,
to take their opinions as the true ones, in respect to the subject, but also because I had
no means of showing their unsoundness. Know well thy soul, and to me Endangered
go there. Save me! Take me with you! ...

As he stood before him, was enough to raise their hands to put them
on his shoulders, starting the beginning of a hug.

Ferragut remained insensible to the touch. His immobility repelled these appeals. Freya had lot
of running around the world through outrageous adventures, and know
books on their own effort, no need to complicate their tangled again.

The story that had just report was not for him but a tissue of deceit.

- All wrong! - Said dully -.

I do not believe, do not believe ever ... Each time we meet I tell a new story ... Who are
you? When you say the truth, the whole truth of a time?

... Liar!

She, insensible to the insults, speaking of his future remained painfully, as if saw surrounded
by mysterious dangers.

- Where to go if you leave me? ... If I stay in Spain, continued under the domination of doctor.
I can not return to the Empires where I spent my life, all roads are closed and those lands reborn
my slavery ... I can not go to France or England, I have fear of my past. Any of my previous achievements
would be enough to shoot me: no deserve less ... In addition, it
inspires me fear the vengeance of mine.

I know the procedures the 'service' when you need to get rid of an agent who is uncomfortable
in enemy territory.

He himself complaint: voluntarily committed a blunder, makes some
documents are lost, sends a compromising letter with false address,
to fall into the hands of the authorities the country.

What if you do not I help? ... Where can I elite group? ...

Ulysses was decided to reply, pity on his despair. The world is big: I could go to live in a republic
of America.

She did not accept the advice. I had thought the same, but was afraid of the future uncertain.

-
I'm poor, I have little money to pay my trip ... The "service" pays well at first. Then, as we have insurance
because of our past, gives only enough to live with some relief. What am I going to, do in those
lands?

... Should I spend the rest of my life sold in exchange of bread? ... I do not want: rather die!

The desperate assertion of poverty Ferragut smiled mockingly. He looked at the collar Pearl eternally
admirable pad lying on his chest, the thick emerald their ears, coldly brilliant crackled in
his hands. She guessed his thoughts, and the idea of ​​selling these gems he produced a major
concern to the terrors that inspired him the future.

- You do not know what this means to me - he said -. It is my uniform, my shield, the pass I
can hold on in the world of my youth. Women who own the land we jewelry
need to continue on unimpeded.

Hotel managers humanize and smile at his brilliance. The possessor does not inspire confidence,
although late in the bill of the week ... Employees borders gallant display: no passport more powerful.
Haughty ladies soften its sparkle at the hour of tea halls where one does not know anyone ... What
I have suffered to get them! ... Arrostraría hunger before selling them. With them is one: can
a person does not have a coin in your pocket and go where they enter the richest, living as they ...

Not
accept the advice. It was as if a hungry soldier offered him their weapons in enemy territory in exchange
for bread. Once satisfied the need, would be prisoner would degraded, equaling the miserable
hours before receiving their shots.

Her face all the dangers and sufferings rather than shed the helmet and shield as symbols
of their superior stock.

The suit over a year, the booties fatigued underwear with tears poorly made, not saddened in difficult
times. The important thing was to have a hat fashion and keep the fur coat, collar of pearls, emeralds,
diamonds, whole armor honorable and glorious, in which he wanted to die.

His eyes seemed to take pity on the ignorance of the ocean, who dared to propose such absurd.

-
It is impossible, Ulises ... Take me with you. In the sea where I can live more safely. Submarines
I'm not afraid.

People imagine they are numerous and tight as paving stones, but
only a ship in a thousand get their attacks ... In addition, you fear
nothing: if our fate is to perish at sea, we would die together.

It was insinuating, seductive, moving his hands on his shoulders, pulling her neck with a passion
that amounted to an embrace. Her mouth spoke, approached the the ocean. Bow lips caress round
initiating a kiss.

- So bad you would live with Freya? ... Do not you remember because of our past? ... Is it
that now I am another?

Ulises remember, indeed, the past, and began to recognize that this
memory was too vivo.

They came to him as distant melodies and voluptuous half-forgotten, bursts of good-smelling meat,
arousing their sexual memory. The contact of the hidden curves, warm and firm, which is pressed
against your chest without losing the turgid hardness, evoked in
Ferragut imagination of a dizzying array of love scenes.

Chastity observed recent times on account of his painful worries
tormented him now as a punishment.

She, who was this revolution with cunning eyes, guessing its contractions face, winning smile,
pressing her face to his. I was sure of his power ... And reproduced Aquarium kiss, that kiss
that shook the back of the ocean, causing hesitation on her legs.

But when he handed over to the suction dominating abandonment, was
repelled, shot manotón by a brutal, like the punch that was thrown
onto the cushions to beginning of the interview.

Someone had come between the two, notwithstanding they were embraced
closely.

The captain, who began to lose consciousness of their actions, as well as a castaway, descending
and down through the layers to vibrant an unalloyed pleasure, suddenly
saw your face Stephen deceased, with glazed eyes fixed on him.

Beyond just saw a picture sad Vanish: Tape weeping as if her tears were the only ones that
could fall on the torn corpse of the child.

- Ah, no! ... No!

The same was stunned by her voice. It was a wounded beast roar, a howl of despair dry writhing
in torment.

Freya, staggering under the rough push, he again tried to approach it, link to back in his
arms, repeating his urgent kiss.

- My love! ... My love ...

Could not continue. The tremendous hand returned to repel it, but so violently, that came to
give head against the cushions of the couch.

Shook the door with a rude jerk that it opened its two sheets at once, making the latch lock.

The
woman, tenacious in their desires, got up quickly, regardless of
the pain of the fall.

Its lightness will only serve to see how they could escape after
picking mechanically Ferragut his hat.

- Ulises!

... Ulises! ...

Ulysses was in the street, while in the small hall had just wobble,
breaking then on the floor with loud grinding, various earthenware
that had hooked and displaced the fugitive in his blind exit.

Sitting in the front of the outdoor feel, revived in his memory hazards Freya he had announced.
Explored the street with a hostile glance ... "No!" His desire was found with the enemies of the woman
who spoke to vent the anger was against himself. I was embarrassed and furious at his temporary
weakness, which almost had resumed the old life.

In the succeeding days repeatedly agreed the band of refugees was due to the doctor. When found
in the Germanic-looking pedestrians streets, looked straight through the eyes of challenge.
Would any of them responsible for killing him?

... Then went ahead, repented of his provocative, sure they were merchants of South America,
apothecaries or employees of the Bank, undecided between returning to their homes across the
ocean or wait Barcelona triumph of their Emperor always immediate.

Finally, the captain finally laugh at the recommendations of Freya.

"Lying from you! ... Inventions for the interest and take her with me. Oh, liar! "

One morning, when he stepped on the deck of his steam, Tony approached
him with a mysterious air.

His face had one, pale ash.

When they were in the aft lounge, the second spoke softly, looking around him.

The previous night had dropped to the ground for the theater. All literary tastes Toni and aesthetic
emotions focused on the zarzuela. Men of talent had not have invented anything better. It was
pulling out the hum that animated his long stays on the bridge. In addition, there was the women's
chorus, brilliantly dressed, with legs free; the sopranos abundant
in meat and scantily clad, a parade of pink tights, voluptuous curves
that cheered the imagination of the sailor, not to forget the duties
of fidelity.

At one o'clock in the morning, when he returned to the vessel docks lonely, had tried assassinate
him. He thought he saw people who were hiding behind a pile of goods
to hear his steps.

After three blasts rang out, three revolver shots. A bullet whistled through one ear.

- And as I was unarmed, ran. Fortunately, the ship was close, almost
next to the bow.

I just had to take a few breaks to get me in on the steam iron ... And no more shots.

Ferragut was silent. He too was pale, but with surprise and anger.
Then ads were true Freya!

...

He would not pretend disbelief or displayed reckless and contemptuous
of danger when Toni continued talking.

- Ojo, Ulises!

... I have thought much about this event. The shots were not for me. What do I have enemies?
Who would want evil to a poor pilot who does not see any one? ... Beware! You may know where it comes
from this: you treat many people.

The captain guessed he thought of the adventures of Naples and shameful that proposition kept a secret,
relating all the night assault. But neither his voice nor his eyes justified such suspicions,
and Ferragut chose not take notice of what was happening.

- Does anyone know what happened?

Toni shrugged. "No ..." He had gotten into the steam, soothing to
the dog board, barking furiously.

The man had heard the shooting guard, imagining were from a bout of sailors. In addition, he's
only interested in what happens after Grilled linking the dock with
the ship.

- You have not given part to the authority?

...

The second was shocked to hear this question, with the pride of the Mediterranean, never remember
the authority in times of danger and only trust your defense to the
skill of your hand.

"Have you had anything by an informer ?...»

Intended to do what the men are men. Thereafter, go armed at all hours while he was in Barcelona.
Woe to him who throw it on him, if not hurt him! ... And winking one eye, showed his captain
what he called "the tool."

The pilot is repugnant to him guns, toys, crazy and noisy, problematic results. He loved the
blow in silence, the knife, extended his hand with an affection ancestral that seemed to evoke
the blink of the axes of approach used by their ancestors.

With loving gentleness drew a knife from his waist English acquired
at the time was Boats pattern: a bright sheet reproduced the faces
that stared, pointed stiletto sharp and razor sharp.

Maybe soon makes use of his "tool." Remembering some individuals in days before slowly walking
along the pier looking at the ship, watching them that were entering and out. If it sees them
again, he would throw out of steam to say two words.

- Do nothing
- ordered Ferragut -.

I'll take care of it.

All day he was worried by the news. Walking through Barcelona, ​​provocative eyes looked few passersby
seemed to German. He joined the onslaught of a character owner indignation is struck in your
home. The three shots were for him, and he was a Spanish and the
Boches were afraid to attack in their own land.

What audacity! ...

Several times he took the right hand to the back of his pants, playing an extended package
and metallic.

Expected the evening to perform a certain idea which had been established between the eyebrows
like a nail painful. While not undertake would not be quiet.

The voice of good counsel protested, "Do not do crazy things, Ferragut, do not look for the enemy,
not provoke. Defend yourself from anything else. "

But his reckless arrogance that made him embark on ships destined for shipwreck and pushed him into
danger for the sake of beating, he shouted higher than prudence.

"In my country !...-- stated mentally -. Wanting to kill me when I'm on my land ... I will make
them see I am a Spanish ... "

He knew the port bar mentioned by Freya. Two of her crew had been given new reports. His parishioners
were poor Germans, who drank in abundance.

Someone paid for them, and on specific days to be allowed to invite
patterns of fishing boats and port homeless.

A gramophone sounded continuously launching high-pitched singing
that concurrent chanted loudly.

When news of the war received favorable to Empires Germanic, redoubled the songs and the glass
until midnight and the music box sour not rest a moment. On the walls
were portraits of William II and several his generals.

The bar owner, a German fat legs, square head, with hair hard brush and mustache hanging answered
to the nickname of Hindenburg.

Marine smiled at the thought of the possibility of putting them under your desk Hindenburg ...
I wanted to see this place, where they often had sounded his name.

In the evening, his steps led him to the bar, with an irresistible urge to be joking of all the
counsels of prudence.

The glass door resisted his nervous hand, perhaps because the latch driving too hard, and the
captain ended up kicking open at its lower part, made of wood.

Glass almost flew the momentum of this coup, brutal.

Superb post! ... Saw much smoke, pierced by three red stars electric lamps had just turned on,
and men who had their backs or in front of him around several tables. The Gramophone snuffle like
an old toothless.

Hindenburg appeared behind the counter, bare-chested, with sleeves rolled up on his arms and legs
bulky.

- I am the Captain Ulysses Ferragut.

The voice that said it had a power similar to the magic words of oriental tales, left on hold
the life of a whole city, being immobile people and objects in the
attitude that surprised the powerful spell.

There was a stunned silence. Those who were beginning to head back attracted by the noise the
door did not continue its motion which were kept his eyes front fixed on him that went: eyes
wide with surprise, as if they could not believe what they saw. The gramophone suddenly stopped. Hindenburg,
who was cleaning a glass, was with his hands still, without removing the napkin from the crystal
cavity.

Ferragut was to sit next to an empty table, his back against the wall. A servant Only the establishment,
came to find out what he wanted, Mr. He was an Andalusian small and lively, that his wanderings had
brought him to Barcelona.

Served with indifference to customers, without being interested in their words and hymns. "The
did not get into politics." Accustomed to the facilities people happy and feisty, she guessed
the man who comes to "build rage" and wanted to tame your smiling and obsequious attitude.

The sailor spoke loudly.

I knew at that greasy spoon appointed him frequently and were many who wanted to see him. Could
give them the message that Captain Ferragut was there, at his disposal.

- So be it - said the Andalusian.

And he went to the counter, bringing a little while a bottle and a glass.

In vain Ulysses was set on occupying the adjacent mesas.

Some stood still, presenting the back, others had their eyes down and spoke softly, with a
whisper of mystery.

Two or three of them crossed at last his eyes with the Captain. In the pupils had a brightness of
the rising anger. Dizzy's first surprise, seemed ready to rise, falling on the newcomer. But someone
who had his back seemed to dominate with his orders in whispers, and he obeyed the order, lowering
his eyes to follow an attitude inhibited.

Ulysses soon tired of this silence. Beginning to find something ridiculous
attitude of the tamer. I did not know who to contact in a place where
all shunned his looks and his touch. In the next table was a newspaper
with pictures, and seized him, turning their leaves. Was printed in
German, but he pretended to read with great interest.

He had laid
aside, freeing the hip on which rested the gun. His hand feigning
distraction, walked along to the opening of the pocket, ready to arm
themselves in case attack. Soon he was sorry for this position too
confident. Iban to fall on him, exploiting his reading. But pride
made him stand still, so that could not guess your concern.

Then
he laughed in a defiant, as if reading in something that caused Germanic
illustration their taunts. He still did not seem so, and raised his
eyes to look with curiosity aggressive portraits adorning the walls.

Then
he could realize the great transformation that had just taken place
in the bar. Almost Parishioners had marched silently during the reading.
There were only four Drunk, wet-eyed, who drank with relish, caring
only for content its vessels. Hindenburg, back to back a strong clientele,
the counter reading a newspaper night. Andalusia, sitting at the back,
smiled at the captain. "What a guy !...» Held inside a land that had
put to flight shouting drinkers and brutal that bothered him so much
other afternoons.

Ulises consulted his watch: half past seven. He
had already frightened to all those people who inspired Freya terror.
What was left to do there? ... Paid and left.

The night had closed.
Under the light beams passing electric trams and cars into the city.
Following the arcades of old buildings neighbors groups of workers
marched port of maritime facilities. Barcelona, ​​dazzling glow, appealed
to the crowd. The dock, black and lonely, is peopled with dim little
lights on top of the masts.

Ferragut hesitated between going to dinner
at his home or at a restaurant on the Rambla. Then suspected that
some of the greasy spoon fugitives could be near him, ready to follow
him. Spread their looks in vain: he could not recognize anyone in
the groups that were waiting for the tram reading newspapers or talking.

Suddenly
experienced a desire to see Toni. Uncle Caragol you improvise something
to eat while on its second adventure of the bar. In addition, it seemed
a fitting end to his deed offer the enemy, if his followers, the favorable
opportunity to attack the desert springs. The demon of pride was blowing
in his ears: "So you will see that no afraid. "

And he went boldly
into the harbor, passing over railroad tracks, outlining the stores
long walls, getting through mountains of merchandise. First found
small groups went to the city, then couples, then single individuals,
the final one: absolute solitude.

The reflectors traced in large
roundels on purple ground. Beyond lay the darkness, cut silhouettes
of ebony, which sometimes were ships and other alleys bales, hills
of coal. The black water reflected the snakes red and green lights
ships. A prolonged transatlantic cargo operations in the glow of their
reflectors electrical, standing on the gloom with the animation of
a Venetian festival.

From time to time a man walking slowly entered
the circle of a hearth, shining the barrel of his rifle. Others were
watching as the heaps of downloads. Were port police and guards.

Captain
suddenly felt a notice from your instinct. We were ... He stopped
in the shade attached to a bunch of bales, and saw men advancing in
a different direction, passing quickly along the edge of the red stain
of a light bulb to avoid being under the rain light.

I was beyond
recognition, and in spite of this, he was sure they were the enemies
seen in the bar. Why, I believe
if a man should brand his horse in this country--burn the initials of his name into any of
his cattle, and publish the ferocious deed here--that the united execrations of Christians
in Britain would descend upon him. Yet in the United States, human beings are thus branded.

The slave-dealer boldly publishes his infamous acts to the world. Of all things that have been
said of slavery to which exception has been taken by slaveholders, this, the charge of cruelty,
stands foremost, and yet there is no charge capable of clearer demonstration, than that of
the most barbarous inhumanity on the part of the slaveholders toward their slaves. And all
this is necessary; it is necessary to resort to these cruelties, in order to make the slave
a slave, and to keep him a slave. Why, my experience all goes to prove the truth of what you
will call a marvelous proposition, that the better you treat a slave, the more you destroy
his value as a slave, and enhance the probability of his eluding the grasp of the slaveholder;
the more kindly you treat him, the more wretched you make him, while you keep him in the condition
of a slave. My experience, I say, confirms the truth of this proposition. When I was treated
exceedingly ill; when my back was being scourged daily; when I was whipped within an inch of
my life--life was all I cared for. "Spare my life," was my continual prayer. When I was looking
for the blow about to be inflicted upon my head, I was not thinking of my liberty; it was my
life. But, as soon as the blow was not to be feared, then came the longing for liberty. If
a slave has a bad master, his ambition is to get a better; when he gets a better, he aspires
to have the best; and when he gets the best, he aspires to be his own master. But the slave
must be brutalized to keep him as a slave. This inland sea had learned men the art of sailing.
Everyone looked to the waves rather than the sky. Along the way were blue reached the wonders
of life and their entrails were born the gods. The Phoenicians - Jews stuck to sailors - abandoned
their cities in the Mediterranean fornix, to spread mysterious knowledge of Egypt and Asian monarchies
along all the edges the inland sea. Then I replaced the Greeks of the maritime republics.

To Ferragut, the highest honor in Athens was a democracy have been sailors. Citizens served the country
as rowers. All his great men were naval officers.

- Themistocles and Pericles - added - were squad leaders, who ruled
after sending ships his country.

So the Greek civilization had spread and become immortal, rather than shrink and disappear
fruitless, as other inland. Then, Rome, Rome Earth, not to die under the superiority of Semitic
sailors of Carthage, had to teach rowing management and fighting the waves to the farmers
of Latium, hardened legionnaires cheeks the cheeks of the helmet,
they did not know how to move on stage slippery feet iron masters
of the world.

Mare nostrum deities inspired the doctor a loving devotion. Knew they had not existed, but thought
of them as poetic fantasies of natural forces.

The ancient world knew only in the immense ocean hypothesis, giving it the form of a belt water
around the earth. Ocean was an ancient god of long beards and horned head living in an underwater
cave with his wife and his three hundred Tethys Oceanides daughters.

Argonaut No one dared to get in contact with these divine mysteries. Only Aeschylus grave had
dared to represent the oceanic green and dark virgins crying around the rock where Prometheus
was chained.

Other deities were those of the more affordable inland sea, whose borders were settled the opulent
cities of the Syrian coast, the Egyptian cities, which sent sparks into Greece ritual of their
civilization, the Hellenic cities, homes for fire that melted clear
all knowledge, giving them a way to eternal Rome, mistress of the
world, Carthage, the bold geographical discoveries, Marseille, he
did participate to Western Europe civilization of the Greeks, poured
it down the coast from factory to factory, to Straits of Gades.

A brother of the oceanic, wise Nereus, reigned in the deep Mediterranean. This son of Ocean
was blue beard and green eyes, with bundles of reeds in marine eyebrows and chest. Fifty of his
daughters, the Nereids, took their orders through waves or fiddling around ships, sending the
faces of the rowers raised foam her arms. But the sons of Time, to beat the Giants, divided the
world playing it to the lot.

Zeus was the owner of the land, the fateful Hades reigned in the depths Pluto and Neptune ruled
the blue plains.

Nereus, dispossessed monarch, fled to a cave Hellenic sea, to live the calm life the philosopher,
giving advice to men, and Poseidon was installed in the palaces of pearl with their white steeds
bronze helmets and manes of gold.

His loving eyes were fixed on the fifty princesses Mediterranean, the Nereids, who took names of the
colors and aspects of the waves: the Glauca, the Green, the Quick,
the Melosa ... "Nymphs of the green depths of fresh faces and button
rose-scented virgin that you take the forms of all the monsters that
fed the sea, "sang the national anthem in orfeico Greek shore.

And Poseidon to distinguish between all the mermaid of the foam, the white Amphitrite, who
refused to accept his love.

I knew the new god. The coasts were populated by cyclops like Polyphemus, monsters frightful,
the product of their copulations with Olympic goddesses and mortals.

A dolphin complacent running errands back and forth between Poseidon and the Nereid, until, given
by the eloquence of this pimp wave jumping, accepted Amphitrite be wife of the god, and the Mediterranean
seemed to take on new beauty.

She was the looming dawn pink fingers of the vast space between the
sky and sea; noon when numbing warm waters under a cloak of gold restless,
the bifurcated foam tongue licking both sides of the bow rustling,
the wind full of aromas swells the sail like a sigh of virgin kiss
numb the merciful that he drowned, without anger and without resistance,
before falling into the abyss.

Her husband - Poseidon on the Greek coast and Neptune in Latin - woke storms while riding in his car.
The helmets of bronze horses created with their trampling waves to
swallow ships.

Newts of his entourage threw their shells the roaring air to chop down the masts like reeds.

Oh,
mother Amphitrite! ... Ferragut the same as if you described what had happened before his eyes. Sometimes,
when I swam around the headlands, as primitive man, feeling surrounded by the blind force of natural
powers, he had believed to see the goddess emptying between two rocks,
with all their smiling train, after having rested in a sea cave.

A pearly shell was his coach and six dolphins pulling it with trappings of purple coral. Newts,
their children, held the reins. The nymphs, his sisters, beaten the sea with scaly tails, craning
their trunks wrapped in the magnificent woman a green hair, whose loops protruded the tops
of the breasts with a trembling drop at the apex. White gulls and pigeons cooing and flapping
Aphrodite on cuddling and lovemaking in this kindred delivered to the serene immortal incest, privilege
of the gods. And she, the Queen, watched them from your mobile nude throne crown of pearls and phosphorescent
stars drawn from the bottom of their domains, white as the cloud-white sail, white as foam, with
no change in its morning glory a wet pink blush, like the varnish on the shells, that colored
his mouth and calcañares, the final petal of her breasts and her belly button convex, pearly
sea smoothness, which erased the traces of motherhood with the same speed that the circles in the
blue water.

The whole history of European man - forty centuries of wars, migrations and collisions races
- the doctor explained by the desire to have this sea of ​​harmonious
framework, to enjoy transparency of its atmosphere and vitality of
its light.

Northern men, who need the burning log and booze to defend his life from the jaws of the cold, they
thought at all hours in the Mediterranean shores. All their movements were peaceful or warlike
to descend from the shores of the sea ice to the shores of the warm sea. Craved the possession
of the fields where the sacred olive AC severe with his old cheerful vineyard stretches where
pine and cypress dome rises its minaret. Wanted snow dream under the endless fragrant orange
groves; owning sheltered valleys where the myrtle and jasmine perfume the salt air; of volcanoes
dumb rocks allowed to grow among the aloes and cactus, mountains of its white marble edges down to
the bottom of the sea and refract the African heat emitted from the
opposite shore.

A North invasions had answered the South defensive wars coming up
Central Europe.

And history will continue with the same ebb and flow of waves human fighting men thousands of years
to master or maintain blue glass Amphitrite.

The Mediterranean peoples were to Ferragut the aristocracy of humanity. The powerful Climate had
tempered man as anywhere else on the planet, giving it a dry strength resistant. Tanned and bronzed
by the sun and deep absorption of energy from the environment, his sailors went to the state
of metal. Northern men were stronger, but less robust, less acclimated to the ocean Catalan, Provencal,
Genoese and Greek.

The Mediterranean sailors were established in every land as if it were their home. On this
sea was where the man had developed their highest energies. Ancient Greece had become steel human
flesh.

An accurate likeness of landscapes and races close to the two coasts. The mountains and flowers on
both sides were identical. Catalan, Provencal and Italian South were more like the inhabitants
of the African coast and the Greek islands with Mexican nationals who lived behind him inland.
This fraternity has been shown instinctively in the ancient war. The Barbary pirates, Genoese
and Spanish sailors and the Knights of Malta were slaughtered relentless
on the decks of the galleys, and be conquerors respected the prisoner's
life, treating cavalierly.

Barbarossa Admiral of eighty-four, called "my brother" to Doria, his eternal rival, who had
about ninety. The grand master of Malta's hand shook Dragut terrible to see him captive.

The Mediterranean man, fixed on the banks that were born, accept all changes History, like shellfish
attached to endure the storms rock. For him, only important thing was not to lose sight of the
blue sea.

Spanish, beating the oar in Liburna Roman, Christian, Saracen ships manned in the Middle Ages,
a subject of Carlos V, passed, by a random warrior from the galleys of the cross to those of
the crescent, and came to be reis Algiers, wealthy sea captain, making his name famous renegade.

The
inhabitants of the coast of Valencia were the Moors in Andalusia, in the eighth century, to bring
the war to the bottom of the Mediterranean and seized the island of Crete, naming Heraklion.
From this nest of pirates were the terror of Byzantium, taking by assault Salonica and sold as slaves
to patricians and most leading ladies of the Empire.

Years later, when displaced from returning to its shores Candia home, adventurers Valencia created
a population in a fertile valley, giving the name of the remote island, which was transformed
Gandia.

All types of human force had emerged from the Mediterranean race, thin, sharp and dry such as chert,
doing good and doing evil always great, with the exaggeration of burning an unknown nature and
extent of the double jump to the greatest extremes of generosity.

Ulysses was the father of all, the hero wise and prudent, and at the same time malicious and
complicated. So was the old Cadmus, with his turban and beard of Phoenician ringed large sea
​​robber, who was spreading, of wrongdoing in wrongdoing, the art
of writing and the first notions of trade.

In one of its islands Hannibal was born, and twenty centuries later, in another one, the son of a
short of litigation lawyer embarked for France, no other baggage than a poor standard cadet,
to Napoleon's famous name.

On the waves had sailed Roger de Lauria, knight errant of the plains maritime which sought to dress
the fish with the colors of Aragon.

A visionary of obscure origin, named Columbus, recognized for his country to the Republic of
Genoa. A smuggler of costs Liguria was becoming Massena, the beloved quarterback of Victoria.
And the last character this breed of heroes Mediterranean was lost in the fabulous times was a
sailor Nice, simple and romantic, a warrior of all oceans and all continents, called Garibaldi,
heroic tenor cast on his century reflection of his red shirt, repeating on the remote coast
of Marsala epic of the Argonauts.

Ferragut summed up the merits and faults of men of his race. Some had been bandits and other saints,
but none mediocre. Their companies were much more daring and thoughtful
practical.

When engaged in the business, while serving to civilization. In them, the hero and the merchant were
so united, it was impossible to tell where it ended one and start another. They were pirates
and cruel, but the navigators of the seas Hazy, imitating the Mediterranean discoveries in other
continents, did not display sweetest and loyal.

After these talks was Ulysses greater esteem for the old pots and blurred figures that adorned
the bedroom of his uncle.

Objects were spewed by the sea, covered jars of mollusk shells, for a burial centuries underwater.
The deep waters of these ornaments were carved stone with strangers arabesques that made them
think about art from another planet. And scrambled with pots that had kept the wine and fresh
water from a capsized Liburna had hardened pieces of rope by diatomaceous limestone anchor
whose iron grip was broken in red foil.

Several statuettes corroded by salt inspired as much admiration as the boy frigates grandfather.
He laughed and trembled at these biremes Kabir from the Phoenician or Carthaginian grotesque
and terrible gods who contracted their covers with a wave of lust and ferocity.

Some of the marine divinities, muscular and bearded, had an air of kinship with his uncle. This
was to be at certain times. Ulysses had heard some conversations fishermen. Also saw the rush
of women, their eyes of concern when were with the doctor in an isolated
spot along the coast.

Only the presence of nephew was easing back to them and contain their step.

The sea went mad from time to time with a burst of fury love.

Poseidon was emerging unexpectedly on the banks to turn goddesses
and mortals. Females were running scared, as are the princesses painted
Greek vessels, surprised as you wash your clothes, by the appearance
of a newt in heat. She hated the love between four walls. Nature needed
free as a background for your pleasure, the pursuit and assault, as
in the times primitive felt her feet touch the dead while stirring
wave on its prey Roar of passion, like a sea monster.

Some nights,
at the hour when the fog began to pierce the shadows with their nascent
first stab of fire, he felt melancholy, and ignoring the difference
in age, spoke his nephew as if it were a co-browsing.

He regretted
not having married ... Already have a son like Ulysses. The power I exert now is something like the power
that is exerted by the man at the end of the lever; my influence now is just in proportion
to the distance that I am from the United States. My exposure of slavery abroad will tell more
upon the hearts and consciences of slaveholders, than if I was attacking them in America; for
almost every paper that I now receive from the United States, comes teeming with statements
about this fugitive Negro, calling him a "glib-tongued scoundrel," and saying that he is running
out against the institutions and people of America. I deny the charge that I am saying a word
against the institutions of America,{327} or the people, as such. What I have to say is against
slavery and slaveholders. I feel at liberty to speak on this subject. I have on my back the
marks of the lash; I have four sisters and one brother now under the galling chain. I feel
it my duty to cry aloud and spare not. I am not averse to having the good opinion of my fellow
creatures. I am not averse to being kindly regarded by all men; but I am bound, even at the
hazard of making a large class of religionists in this country hate me, oppose me, and malign
me as they have done--I am bound by the prayers, and tears, and entreaties of three millions
of kneeling bondsmen, to have no compromise with men who are in any shape or form connected
with the slaveholders of America. I expose slavery in this country, because to expose it is
to kill it. Slavery is one of those monsters of darkness to whom the light of truth is death.
Expose slavery, and it dies. 

Remember the ocean's imperfect vision of ocean inhabitants. Despite his bulging eyes and mobile, allowing
them to see ahead and behind them, their visual power only covered short distances. The splendors
of butterfly you saw them could not appreciate nature. As the patient colorblind, they ignored all the
colors and only knew the differences clarity.

An absolute silence accompanied his incomplete view. Slavery shrinks from the light; it hateth the light,
neither cometh to the light, lest its deeds should be reproved. To tear off the mask from this
abominable system, to expose it to the light of heaven, aye, to the heat of the sun, that it
may burn and wither it out of existence, is my object in coming to this country. I want the
slaveholder surrounded, as by a wall of anti-slavery fire, so that he may see the condemnation
of himself and his system glaring down in letters of light. I want him to feel that he has
no sympathy in England, Scotland, or Ireland; that he has none in Canada, none in Mexico, none
among the poor wild Indians; that the voice of the civilized, aye, and savage world is against
him. I would have condemnation blaze down upon him in every direction, till, stunned and overwhelmed
with shame and confusion, he is compelled to let go the grasp he holds upon the persons of
his victims, and restore them to their long-lost rights.

Dr. Campbell's Reply

From Rev. Dr. Campbell's brilliant reply we extract the following: FREDERICK DOUGLASS, "the
beast of burden," the portion of "goods and chattels," the representative of three millions
of men, has been raised{328} up! A spy subjected to military justice was accused of having worked in the
supply of German submarines.

- How about that, Captain? ...

Ulysses hesitated, watching the ocean serious face framed by a gray beard. This man inspired
confidence. Could respond negatively to such questions, it would be difficult German prove his allegations,
but chose to tell the truth, with the simplicity of that no attempt
to disguise his guilt, describing as it had been awkward blind passion,
dragged by the artifices of an adventurous love.

- Women!

... Ah, women! - Murmured the French commander with a melancholy smile, as a judge who does
not lose sight of human weakness and has participated in them.

However, the offense was important Ferragut. Had helped the implementation of attack submarine
in the Mediterranean ... But when the Spanish captain had been told how it one of the first victims,
how his son had died in the torpedoing of the Californian, the judge
seemed unmoved, looking with eyes less severe.

Then recounted his meeting with the spy in the port of Marseilles.

- I have sworn - he finally said - to dedicate my ship and my life
to cause all the damage they can to the murderers of my son ... I
claim this man for revenge.

I recognize that my love Blindness dragged me to a crime I will never forget. I'm fairly punished
with the death of my son ... but no matter: that men also sentence me.

The head was in deep thought with his head in one hand and his elbow on the table. Ferragut knew
military justice, prompt, intuitive, passionate, attentive to feelings
just have value in other courts, judging by the movements of consciousness
rather than the letter of the law, and capable of shooting a man with
the same promptness that used to release him.

When the judge's eyes turned to look at him, had a warm light. Had been guilty not for money or
for treason, but a woman mad. Who has not had in its history something like that? ... "Ah,
women!"

Repeated the Frenchman, as though the most terrible lament of slavery ... But rather sorry he
had suffered the loss of his son. In addition, to him they owed the discovery and arrest of
an important spy.

- Hand, Captain - finally said, as he held out his right hand -. Everything we've talked lies
between the two: it's like a confession.

I shall take it to the council of war ... Follow you provide your services to our cause.

And Ferragut saw no more troubled by the issue of Marseille. Maybe you watched quietly and not
lost sight until fully convinced of his innocence. But this surveillance sensed he never felt
rushed nor discomfort.

In the third journey to Salonika, the captain saw him once from afar, greeting him with grave
smile. And knew no more of the spy.

In return, the Mare Nostrum in Barcelona anchored to charge for the
Serbian army cloth and other industrial goods needed by the troops
of the East.

This trip did not Ferragut by the profit motive. Emotional interest pulled him ... Needed to see
a tape, feeling in his soul sprouting the past.

The image of the wife came in his memory alive and attractive, as in the early days of their marriage.
It was a resurrection of the old love: it was impossible ... But remorse is made her look idealized
by distance, with all its qualities as a woman sweet and modest, and the continuing memory was
taking the form of an amorous desire.

I wanted to restore the cordial relations of the past, be forgiven all the past; she did not look
at him with hatred, believing responsible for the death of his son.

In fact it was the only woman who had loved him sincerely, as she could love, soft landing and exaggerations
of passion, the tranquility of a partner.

The other did not exist. Were a troop of shades that hardly marked in his memory as colorblind spectra
of visible contour, but without color. As to the latter, that Freya had the misfortune since
before its passage ... I hated how the captain! I wanted to meet her restore some of the damage
he had done! ...

On seeing his wife, Ulysses fancied that he had not elapsed. He found the same thing that starting
with the two nieces sitting at his feet, making endless lace subtle on the cylindrical mattress
leaning on their knees.

The only new arrival of the captain to the house of monastic quiet was that Don Pedro abstained
from your visit.

Tape welcomed her husband with a pale smile.

This smile could be glimpsed in the work of time. I kept thinking of his son at all hours,
but with a resignation that dried her tears and allowed him to continue the slow mechanism of
its existence.

Also wanted to erase their bad words, inspired by the pain: the memory of that scene of rebellion
that had raised as an angry prosecution against the father. And Ferragut, for a few days, thought live
the same as years ago when he had not yet bought the mare nostrum, and planning to stay ground
forever. Tape attending him and obeyed as it should a Christian wife. His words and actions reveal
a desire to forget, be nice.

But something was missing that had made sweet the past. Ulysses, impetuous man, unable to sanity
next to a woman, won in the evening, the exercise of their rights.

A sense of sadness and shame was the forced end of his touch.

His wife came out of them as of an ordeal: resigned because his duty required it, but with
a wave of revulsion bad concealed.

The warmth of his youth could not be resurrected. The memory of the child is embedded between
the two, leaving only in thought for a short voluptuous desire ... So would forever!

He returned to wait with impatience for the time away from Barcelona. In fact, the house and was
not his.

As much as the wife would strive always stand between both the irremediable past. His fate was
to live on a ship, spend the rest of his days on the waves, as Damn Captain Dutch legend, until
came to redeem a pale virgin shrouded in black veils: death.

As the vapor leaving office walked around town, visiting her cousins ​​manufacturers or remain
as an unemployed, in the cafes. Tried his current human Las Ramblas, where the children were
confused and picturesque country and disparate with contributions
by war.

Ferragut first thing he noticed was the visible decline of German refugees.

Months earlier had found everywhere, filling the hotels, seizing the cafes in the streets flaunting
their green hats and open-necked shirts, they were to be recognized
immediately.

The Germans, with colorful costumes and outrageous, is to be kissed, shouted and screamed. The
Germanic language, Catalan and confused with Castilian, seemed to belong to the country. In the
mountain roads and rows were guys went bare-chested, bare-headed, stick in hand and a backpack alpine
to the back, entertain your leisure with pleasure trips were perhaps at the same time of foresight
study.

All of them came from the other hemisphere. Were Germans in America, especially Brazil, Argentina and
Chile, which had sought to return to his country in the first moments
war, becoming isolated in Barcelona, ​​unable to continue his journey,
for fear of cruises French and English who were guarding the Mediterranean.

At

first no one had wanted to worry about installation in this strange land. All thronged to the view
of the sea, hoping to be the first to embark soon was opened for them the way of navigation.

The
war was going to be very short, very short! The Kaiser and his irresistible armies needed only
six months to enforce the law to all Europe. Germanic families enriched by trade had stayed in
hotels. The poor people working in the New World as agriculturists or shop clerks are quartered
in a slaughterhouse on the outskirts. Some who were musicians had acquired old instruments
and were wandering street musicians, begging alms with roars from town to town.

But the months passed, the war dragged on, and no one could descry his term. Each was a growing number
of those taking up arms against imperialism medieval Berlin. And the German refugees, finally convinced
that the wait would be long, were scattered the interior of the country, seeking a wider and
cheaper there.

Those who lived luxury hotels were about to settle in "villas" and the surrounding houses, the poor,
tired Ranch slaughterhouse, were attached to work on public works from the inside.

There were still many in Barcelona, ​​meeting in some breweries to
read newspapers from their homeland and speak darkly of the work of
war.

Ferragut recognized them immediately to find them on the Rambla. Merchants were established
long years in the country, which boasted of Catalans with the ease
of adaptation liar of his race.

Others came from America and were linked with Barcelona by Freemasonry trade and patriotic
interest. But they were all Germans, and that was enough for the captain immediately remembered her
son, imagining bloody revenge. Wanted sometimes have on your arm the blind forces of nature
to remove at one stroke to these enemies. It bothered her to see them installed on their land,
having to pass them daily, without protest and without aggression,
respecting them because the law demanded it.

Liked in the mornings to run on the Rambla to the positions of the
flower.

Could walk between two walls that kept fresh flowers still in their petals the morning dew. Each
iron table was a pyramid with all the tints of the iris and all the fragrances can develop
the land.

Began the good season.

The ancient trees of the Rambla is covered with leaves, and its fronds Thousands of birds were
screaming infant with the tenacity of the cicadas deafening, chasing
trunk in the trunk, dropping on the crowd that ran below the almost
forgotten fluid from his loose bowels.

The captain, looking at the ladies with a blanket that came in search
of a bunch, I fancied the scent of her flesh fresh from morning sleep
and refreshed by this garden setting.

In Ferragut, the desire of women predominated over all emotions.

No situation, by distressing it was, left him insensitive to the attractive female.

One morning, moving slowly through the crowd, he noticed that he was a woman. Several sometimes
cut him off smiling, looking for a pretext to start a conversation. Such insistence could not
boast. It was a female in her forties, prominent chest and legs loose, a Cook with the basket on his
arm, like many others who passed through the Rambla de las Flores
to join a branch to the daily grocery shopping.

Realizing that the ocean was not moved with their smiles and looks of your eyes clear, stood before
him, speaking in Catalan.

- Is it you, and forgive, a sea captain who is called Mr. Ulysses? ...

Conversation ensued. The cook, convinced that he was, went on with
smiling mystery.

A very beautiful lady wanted to see him ... And he gave the signs of a "tower" located at the
foot of Tibidabo, on a newly built neighborhood.

Could make your visit to the three p.m..

- Come, sir - he added with a look of sweet promise -. You will not regret the trip.

All questions were useless. The woman refused to say more. All he could glimpse in his evasiveness
was that the person who sent it had spread to see the captain.

When the messenger was away wished to follow, but the fat godmother
repeatedly returned head.

His cunning was used to evade persecution, and without Ferragut could be account of how his death
was, slipped between the groups near the Plaza Catalunya.

"Do not go," was the first thing that Odysseus said to be alone.

I knew what it meant to this invitation. He recalled a number of ancient and unspeakable friends
I had in Barcelona: women who had met at other times, including two trips without any passion
for his eager curiosity hobo news. Perhaps one of them I had seen on the Rambla, sent to this intermediate
to resume old relationships.

The captain should enjoy a reputation for rich, now everyone would
comment on the formidable business done by the owners of ships.

"Do not go," he again said with energy. Considered an unnecessary inconvenience to go to this
interview mercenary to find the smile of a familiar face and forgotten.

But the insistence of memory and the same tenacity with which he repeated
his pledge not to go his appointment began to be suspected Ferragut
could well be that it was to her.

After lunch his will faltered. I did not know what to do during the afternoon. His only distraction
was to visit his cousins ​​in their desks or walking along the Rambla.

Why not go? ... Such Once he was wrong, and the interview was interesting.

Anyway, had recourse to retire after a brief conversation about the
past ... His curiosity was aroused by the mystery.

And at three in the later took a tram, which led to the new neighborhood is to walk Tibidabo.

The merchant class had covered these areas with an architectural flowering
daughter legitimate fantasy.

Shopkeepers and manufacturers wanted a house of pleasure - called "tower" traditionally - to
rest on Sundays and at the same time flaunt their prosperity. He had Gothic, Arabic, Greek and
Persian. The most patriotic inspiration to be trusted certain architects who had invented
a Catalan art, with warheads, battlements and crowns of count. These medieval crowns, which were
repeated up to the tops of the lamps, was the eternal subject of
an industrial city decorative little given to dreams and harsh for
profit.

Ferragut walked down an empty street between two rows of fresh trees
transplant, began to give his first lug.

I looked at the facade of the "towers" made of blocks cement imitating
the old stone forts, or with tiles depicting landscapes dreamy, silly
flowers, blue nymphs.

When leaving the tram had adopted a resolution. Just wanted to see the house outside. Maybe this
will help you discover who the woman. Then go ahead.

But on arriving at the "tower" whose number stored in his memory and
stop a few seconds before derrick its feudal architecture, which was
present a similar interior to the halls of the breweries, saw that
the door opened, she appeared in the same woman who had spoken in
the Rambla de las Flores.

- Between you, captain.

And the captain could not resist the mischievous eyes and smile terceril of the cook.

It was seen in a sort of similar to the front hall, with alabaster imitation Gothic fireplace oak,
large porcelain jars, pipes, rods and size of old weapons decorating
walls.

Several pictures of modern paintings playing with these alternating
Munich ornaments.

Opposite the fireplace, William II sported one of the innumerable uniform among rutilancias splendid
golden frame.

The house seemed deserted. Thick curtains, soft carpets, devouring all the noise. Gone was
the heavy introducer with the lightness of an immaterial being, and swallowed the wall. The
ocean began to feel uneasy in this loneliness that seemed hostile,
looking staring at the portrait of the Kaiser ... And he was not carrying
weapons!

Resubmitted the smiling woman with the same silent slip.

- Come in, Mr. Ulysses.

Had opened a door, and Ferragut, going forward, felt that this door closed behind him.

The first thing he saw was a window, wider than tall, with stained glass. A Valkyrie it galloped, his spear
held high and her hair floating on a black horse expelling fire from
their nostrils.

A diffuse light discerned glazed wall tapestries and Deep floral couch cushions.

A woman emerged from the sunken fluffiness of the bed, jumping with arms Ferragut His drive was
extended so violent that he hits the captain's chest. Before that the female embrace shut on
him, he saw a sighing mouth, teeth hungry; watery eyes with emotion, a smile was a grimace,
a mixture of love and concern painful.

- You! ... You! - He stammered, backing away.

Legs trembled with
the thrill of surprise, a cold wave ran his back.

- Ulises! - Sighed
the woman, trying to cover it again with his arms.

- You! ... You!
- Returned to repeat the ocean in a hollow voice.

It was Freya.

Certainly
did not know what mysterious force dictated his gesture. It was perhaps
the voice of the good tips, speaking in his brain at critical moments
and now he had lost his sanity ... Instantly saw the sea, a ship that
exploded and shattered his son.

- Ah ... this!

Strong arm raised
with clenched fist as a club. The voice of caution was giving orders:
"Hard! ... None of punches. This female is a gun. "And as if hit the
enemy was a man, without hesitation, without mercy, focusing on the
fist all his soul.

His hatred and the memory of Germany's aggressive
media made him start a second blow, fearing an attack from it, trying
to avert it before they undertake ... But his arm was raised.

- Ah
...

The woman had thrown a child moaning, swaying, turning on his
feet, arms Throughout the body, without any attempt at defense ...
It was from one side to another, as well as if you were drunk. His
knees buckled and fell with the softness of a package of clothes,
colliding head first with the drive arm of a place of oak, going after,
rebound, to rest on the cushions of the couch. The rest of the body
was like a rag on the carpet.

There was a long silence, interrupted
from time to time by groans of pain. Freya moaning eyes closed, without
departing from its inertia.

The sailor, scowling, wrinkled with rage,
with tragic ugliness, remained motionless, staring grimly female to
fall. I was satisfied with his brutality, was a timely relief, breathing
better. At the same time I felt shame. "What have you done, cowardly
?...» For the first time in its existence had hit a woman.

His right
hand was sore to the eye level. One of his fingers bled. Maybe had
caught on her earrings, perhaps he had torn a lost pin on his chest.
He sucked the blood of the deep scratch and then forget this wound
to continue watching the body lying at his feet.

Little by little
accustomed to the dim light of the room. Saw and all objects clearly.
Freya covered his eyes with a look that blended the hatred and remorse.

The
head, buried in the pad, had a painful profile. She seemed much older,
as if his age would have doubled with tears. The brutal coup had done
away with funeral flapping its wonderful freshness and youth. His
eyes were half open an aura of momentary wrinkles, the nose had taken
the pale edging of the dying. The hull of her hair, broken under the
punch, spread on brown and wavy meshes. Something black forming snaking
tendrils of silk cushion. It is an outrage upon
the soul, a war upon the immortal spirit, and one for which you must give account at the bar
of our common Father and Creator.{336}

The responsibility which you have assumed in this regard is truly awful, and how you could
stagger under it these many years is marvelous. Your mind must have become darkened, your heart
hardened, your conscience seared and petrified, or you would have long since thrown off the
accursed load, and sought relief at the hands of a sin-forgiving God. How, let me ask, would
you look upon me, were I, some dark night, in company with a band of hardened villains, to
enter the precincts of your elegant dwelling, and seize the person of your own lovely daughter,
Amanda, and carry her off from your family, friends, and all the loved ones of her youth--make
her my slave--compel her to work, and I take her wages--place her name on my ledger as property--disregard
her personal rights--fetter the powers of her immortal soul by denying her the right and privilege
of learning to read and write--feed her coarsely--clothe her scantily, and whip her on the
naked back occasionally; more, and still more horrible, leave her unprotected--a degraded victim
to the brutal lust of fiendish overseers, who would pollute, blight, and blast her fair soul--rob
her of all dignity--destroy her virtue, and annihilate in her person all the graces that adorn
the character of virtuous womanhood? I ask, how would you regard me, if such were my conduct?
Oh! the vocabulary of the damned would not afford a word sufficiently infernal to express your
idea of my God-provoking wickedness. Yet, sir, your treatment of my beloved sisters is in all
essential points precisely like the case I have now supposed. Damning as would be such a deed
on my part, it would be no more so than that which you have committed against me and my sisters.

I will now bring this letter to a close; you shall hear from me again unless you let me hear
from you. I intend to make use of you as a weapon with which to assail the system of slavery--as
a means of concentrating public attention on the system, and deepening the horror of trafficking
in the souls and bodies of men. I shall make use of you as a means of exposing the character
of the American church and clergy--and as a means of bringing this guilty nation, with yourself,
to repentance. In doing this, I entertain no malice toward you personally. There is no roof
under which you would be more safe than mine, and there is nothing in my house which you might
need for your comfort, which I would not readily grant. Indeed, I should esteem it a privilege
to set you an example as to how mankind ought to treat each other.

        I am your fellow-man, but not your slave.

THE NATURE OF SLAVERY. Ignore if the
sentence has been fulfilled, but we're going to shoot from one moment to another, and everyone
in our world know that you are the real author of his misfortune.

It is frightening to think about the hatred accumulated by this fact and the next revenge.
The name Ferragut in Berlin was being given special attention, in all nations of the earth repeated
it at the time the civil battalions of men and women engaged in Germanic work for the victory.
The submarine commanders spent reports of his ship and himself.

He had dared to attack the greatest empire on earth, he, a man just
a simple merchant captain, depriving the kaiser of one of its most
valuable servers.

- What have you done, Ulysses?

... What have you done? - Said again.

And Ferragut finally recognize this voice a genuine interest in his person, a great fear the
dangers that he felt threatened.

- Here in your country, you will achieve his revenge. Flee! I do not know where you go to see
free of them, but believe me ... Run!

The sailor left his contemptuous indifference. The anger took a shine to your look hostile. Was
shocked to think that those aliens were chasing him at home: it was
as if attacked him in his own home.

National pride has increased his anger.

- Let them come! - He said -. I like to see them today.

And looked around, clenching his fists, as if they were to emerge from the walls these adversaries
countless unknown.

- I too begin to consider as an enemy - the woman continued -.

I do not say, because between us is a matter of course hide the thoughts, but I guess in the
cold around me ... The doctor knows that I love you as before, notwithstanding the anger that
she feels against you. The others talk about your 'treason', and I protest, because I can not tolerate
this lie ... Why traitor? ... You're not ours, you're a parent who craves revenge. Traitors
all of us: me, you complicate a fatal adventure; them I pushed you to take advantage of your
services.

Life in Naples resurfaced in his memory, and felt the need to explain their actions.

- You have not been able to understand me, unaware of the truth ...
When I found you on the road Paestum were to me a thing of the past,
a piece of my youth, the time only vaguely knew the doctor and I had
not yet committed in the service of "information"

... At first I entertained love your enthusiasm. Represented an interesting fun your attentions
to the Spanish, waiting outside the hotel to lay siege to your promises and oaths. I was bored
while waiting enforced in Naples. You, on your part, you looked also Forced to wait, and looking
at me a break nice ... One day I realized I true interests, as no man had interested me ... I guessed
that he would to love.

- Lies ... Lie! - Ferragut voice murmured to the woman down spiteful.

- Say what you want, but that was ... Love as the place and time. To meet in Another time,
we would have been just a few hours, following each his way, not no desire to love. Belong to
different worlds ... But we were detained in same country, possessed of the tedium of waiting,
and what should be ... was. I tell the whole truth: If you knew what it cost me rehuirte! ... In the
morning, first thing in the room hotel, my first move was to look through the curtains to convince
me to expect on the street. "There's my flirt, there's my boyfriend." Perhaps you had not slept
well thinking me. And I felt my soul remade, a soul than twenty years, enthusiastic and naive girl
... My first impulse was to go down to join you, Staying within the shores of the Gulf, as
two lovers of romance ... Then came reflection.

My past is collapsing in my memory as an old bell that emerges from a tower. I had forgotten the past,
and falling, I stunned with the sound field, vibrant memories. "Poor man ... What a world of
compromises and tangles am going to put him!

... No! No! "And you ran away with gimmicks naughty schoolgirl, leaving the hotel when you you
were away for a few moments, sometimes turning a corner the very moment you were going to turn
our eyes ... Just let me address, cool and ironic, when I could not get rid of your meeting, and then
the doctor's house, talking about you every moment, laughing with her romantic attentions
of these.

Ferragut heard grim, but with an increasingly concentrated attention. Sensed the explanation
many incomprehensible acts. A curtain was going to run in his past, seeing everything under a new
light.

- The doctor laughed, but then my jokes claimed the same thing: "You're falling in love That
man, that Don José're interested. Care, Carmen! "And the strange thing was that it seemed my crush
evil, being the enemy of every passion that does not work directly to our work ... Telling the truth:
I was in love. I recognized him the morning when I had the urge to go the Aquarium. Had many
days without seeing you, living outside the hotel, home of the doctor, for not run into my flirt.
And this morning I got very sad, with a fixed, 'Poor Captain! ... Let us give a little happiness.
"She was sick that day ... Sick of you! now I understand. We were at the Aquarium, and I was
the one you kissed, while I wanted the extermination of men ... Of all men, except you!

Paused, raising his eyes towards him to appreciate the effect of his words.

- Remember our lunch in the restaurant of the Vomero, remember how I begged you walked away, leaving
me to my destination.

Foresaw the future, guess who was going to tell you the fatal. How could join straight and honest
life like yours with my adventurous existence of mixed shameful in
so many commitments?

... But I loved you. I wanted to save my departure, and at the same time I was afraid of not
seeing you again. The night that irritates me with the fury of your desires, and I defended myself
stupidly, as if you were a stranger, concentrating on yourself hatred I inspire all men, that
night I cried to see me alone in my bed. I cried thinking that I'd lost forever, and at the
same time I felt satisfied, because then you get rid of my influence ... Then came Von Kramer.
We needed a boat and a man. The Dr. spoke, proud of their insight that you had to guess a usable
force. I gave the order to go for yours, again take possession of your will. My first impulse
was refusing, thinking about your future. But the sacrifice was sweet, the selfish drives our
Actions ... And I looked! The rest you know.

He paused, leaving thoughtfully, as if drink at this period of his memories, the most pleasure
of his existence.

- When you go in the schooner - continued moments later - I knew what that meant in my life.
What lack I did! ... The doctor was concerned about events in Italy. I just thought counting
the days, finding that passed more slowly than others. One .. two ... three. "My beloved ocean,
my love shark, is about to come ... Going to get! "And what became suddenly, when we thought
even further, was the hit of the war, roughly separating. Dr. cursing the Italians thinking in
Germany, I cursed them thinking of you, seeing obliged to follow
my friend, to make the flight in two hours, for fear of the wrath
of mob ... My only satisfaction was to learn that we came to Spain.

The doctor promised to do great things here ... I thought I was nowhere easier to return to find
...

He had joined a little. His hands touched the knees of Ferragut. I wanted to hug to them, and
he dared not do so for fear that repelled him, shading his tragic inertia allowing him to
listen.

- While in Bilbao I knew about the torpedoing of the Californian and the death of your son ...
No I will tell you this, I cried, I cried a lot, hiding from the doctor. Since then, the hatred.
Held the event, from indifferent about your name. You no longer existed for her: she could
not use you ... I cried for you, your son, who did not know, and also for me, thinking my guilt.
Since that day I'm another woman ... Then we came to Barcelona, ​​and I spent months and months
waiting for this moment.

The old passion reflected in her eyes. A humble gesture of love beautified her face bruised by
the blow.

- We stayed in this house, which is a German electrician
friend of the doctor.

When she was traveling, leaving me free, my rides were provided to the port. Expect to see
your vessel.

My eyes were sympathetic to the sea, thinking she saw something in
all of them your person ... "One day will come", I said to myself.

You know that love is selfish. I came to forget the death of your son ... Besides, I'm not the real
culprit: the others are. I have been deceived just like you ... "He will come and be happy again
..."

Oh! If you could talk this room ... This couch on which I dreamed so many times ... Whenever a
managed flowers in that vase, I had the illusion that you were going
to get, whenever I embellished with a little toilet, I figured it
was for you ... Lived in your country, and it was natural that you
arrive.

Suddenly, the paradise on his head went up in smoke. We received the news I do not know how
the prison gives Von Kramer and that you had been the informer. The doctor scolded me, taking responsibility
for everything. For me I had known, and this was enough for me included in their indignation. All
our talk about your death, the most egregious deseándotela martyrdom.

Ferragut interrupted. He was frowning, as if they dominate a tenacious idea ... Such After not
listening.

- Where is the doctor? ...

The tone of your question was disturbing. He clenched his fists, looking around him as if he
expected the emergence of the impressive lady.

His gesture was equal to that had accompanied the aggression against Freya.

- Journey does not know where - said it -. Will be in Madrid, San
Sebastian or in Cadiz.

Shoot out with frequently, have friends everywhere ... If I have dared to call you is because I am
alone.

And recounted his life in this retreat. For now, his former protector, the left into inaction. He refrained
from ordering any work: she herself running around, avoiding intermediaries.

What happened to Von Kramer had made her wary and suspicious, and
when needed Auxiliary only admitted to his compatriots living in Barcelona.

A

fierce and determined band had gathered around her. They were refugees from of South American
republics, parasites or coastal cities Rovers the jungles of the interior. In front of them,
like the doctor's briefcases, included Karl, the clerk that Ferragut had seen in the big house in
the neighborhood of Chiaia.

This man, notwithstanding his mellow side, had in its history various
crimes.

Was a worthy group of adventurers foreman fired up by patriotic enthusiasm
that met every afternoon in a coffee port.

Freya was sure working in the procurement of submarines in the Mediterranean Spanish. Everyone
knew the Ferragut captain in Marseille by the event and spoke of
him with grim reluctance.

- For they knew your arrival - continued -.

I spy, awaiting a favorable moment. Who knows if you have followed so far? ... Odysseus escapes, your
life is in serious jeopardy!

The captain returned to raise the shoulders with an expression of contempt.

- Run away, I repeat! ... And if you can, if you inspire some compassion, if I am completely indifferent
... Take me with you!

Ferragut guessed that all this was to reach this final plea.

The unexpected demand gave him a sense of wonder and outrage. Run away with it, which had caused
so much damage? ... Wondering how to combine again to his own life, knowing as he knew? ...

It was so absurd proposition, which the captain smiled in a grim way.

-
I'm in danger just like you - continued desperate accent Freya -.

I do not know is the danger that threatens me or what part will come, but guess what, I feel
it on my head ... Anything I can serve them and do not inspire confidence and I know many things. I have
too many secrets to abandon me, leaving me in peace, have agreed to delete: I'm sure it. I
read it in the eyes of who was my friend and protector ... You can not leave me, Ulysses; You
will not want my death.

Ferragut was indignant at this request, finally breaking his contemptuous silence.

- Comedian! ... All lies! ... Inventions to hang out with me, asking me to intervene again in the
clutter of your life, mingling in your work of espionage!

...

The going now on the right track. His revenge had been placed between adversaries Germany. He regretted
his former blindness, and was pleased with his new situation. Did secret of his conduct served the
Allies.

- And so I want, so you have arranged this interview, you may agree with your friend Dr. You
want to hire a second time as an instrument of your spying stupid. "Captain Ferragut is a fool in love
- you have said -. You only have to make an appeal her knight ... "And you want to live with
me, maybe accompany me on trips, keep my existence, to reveal my secrets to your compatriots
and I appear again as a traitor.

Ah, bitch ...

The alleged betrayal aroused their anger over murder. He raised one arm and one foot, was to strike
and crush the kneeling woman. But his passive humility, their lack of resistance arrested him.

-
No, Ulises ... Hear me!

Made efforts to demonstrate his sincerity. Was afraid of his own: the saw to a new light and
inspired him with horror. His way of looking at things had changed dramatically. The tormented remorse
at the thought of what he had done. Was taking place in your consciousness the healthy transformation
of repentant women who were great sinners before.

How to wash your soul of the past crimes?

... Even enjoyed the consolation of faith patriotic bloody and ferocious
enraged the doctor and his men.

He had thought much. For her there was no longer German or English, or French, there were only
men: men with mothers, wives, daughters, and her woman's soul was
horrified at the thought in the fighting and bloodshed.

He hated war.

The first had experienced remorse to learn of the death of the son
of Ferragut.

- Take me with you - repeated -.

If you do not get me out of my world, I will not know how to get out of it ... I am poor. In recent years
I have held the doctor, I do not know the way to earn my life and
I am accustomed to living well.

Misery inspires me more fear than death. You keep me; you accept what you want me, I'll be
your servant.

In a vessel should be required care and good order of a woman ... The life I close the door: I'm alone.

The
captain smiled a cruel irony.

- I guess your smile. I know what you tell me ... I can sell you believe without doubt that
this has been my previous life. No. .. No! you're wrong, no good at that. We must have a predisposition
special, a talent for faking what you feel ... I have tried to sell
me, not I can not serve.

Bitter life of men when I am not interested, I am his adversary, hatred, and flee from me.

But the sailor stretched cruelly mocking smile.

- Lies - said again -. All lies!

Do not try ... Not convince me.

As if suddenly a vibrant new force, she stood up. His face was at the height Ferragut's eyes.
This saw his left temple with the torn skin, hit the spot stretched
around a red and swollen eye.

Contemplating his barbarous work, returned to haunt him remorse.

- Listen, Ulysses, you do not know my real existence. I have always lied, I have escaped to all your
inquiries at our happy time. I wanted to keep secret my previous life ... Forget it! Now I
must tell the truth, ultimate truth, as if he were to die. When The meet will be less cruel.

But
his listener wanted to hear. He protested in advance, with fierce incredulity:

- Lies! ... New lies! When Will your inventions?

- I am not German - she went without hearing him -. Neither my name
is Freya Talberg.

This is my nom de guerre, my name adventures. Talberg was the teacher whom he accompanied to the
Andes and neither was my husband ... My real name is Beatriz ... My mother was Italian, a Florentine,
my father was from Trieste.

This revelation did not interest Ferragut.

- A lie more! - He said -.

Another novel! ... Keep it up.
The woman was desperate. His hands were raised above his head, twisting
the fingers crossed. Fresh tears moistened his eyes.

- Ay! How will
I get you to believe me ...? What I can swear to you convince yourself
that tell you? ...

The captain gave him to understand with an air
unmoved the futility of these extremes. There was no oath I could
convince him. While telling the truth, not believe it.

She went on
in his story, not wanting to insist against the unyielding wall.

-
My father was born Italian but was Austrian by birth ... In addition,
blind enthusiasm inspired him Germanic Empires. Was among those who
abhor its origin and see all the virtues in the people of the North.

Inventor
of wonderful business, financial planner colossal companies had spent
its existence to plague the directors of large banking institutions
and making precursor in the ministries. Forever on the verge of striking
combinations to be provide tens of millions, luxurious living in poverty,
going from hotel to hotel, if the best, with his wife and only child.

-
You ignore that life, Ulysses, you come from a quiet family and money.
Yours have not known the existence of device in the "Palace", nor
the rush to settle the new account of the month, making the incorporation
to the previous months credit without limits.

She had seen a child
mourn his mother's apartment in the luxurious hotel, talking the father-like
glow, announcing next week a gain of one million. The wife, convinced
by the eloquence of a great man, had dried her tears, powdering his
face adorned with pearls and lace their problematical value. Then
down the great hall, full of perfumes, whispers and moans discrete
talks Violins, for tea with friends in the hotel, millionaire formidable
of the two hemispheres, which vaguely suspected the existence of a
disease called poverty, but were unable to conceive that could attack
people in their world. 

Meanwhile, the child played in the garden
of the "Palace" with other girls dressed and adorned as luxurious
and fragile wrists, each of which weighed several million.

- I have
been a childhood companion - continued Freya - of women who are famous
for their wealth New York, Paris, London ... I have familiarly with
big millionaire today are, their marriages, duchesses and princesses
of royal blood to. Many have passed by me without recognize, and I
have not said anything, knowing that the equality of children is nothing
more than a vague remember ...

This had come to be women. Several
of the parent business casual is allowed to continue existence of
poverty shiny and expensive.

Now, will any man tell me that such a state of things is natural, and that such conduct on
the part of the people of the north, springs from a consciousness of rectitude? No! every fibre
of the human heart unites in detestation of tyranny, and it is only when the human mind has
become familiarized with slavery, is accustomed to its injustice, and corrupted by its selfishness,
that it fails to record its abhorrence of slavery, and does not exult in the triumphs of liberty.

The northern people have been long connected with slavery; they have been linked to a decaying
corpse, which has destroyed the moral health. Are you? - Seeing Ferragut said, no surprise, as if they had separate him shortly before.

He
explained his presence at this late hour.

Took a long time without visiting the Aquarium. Octopus tank was for her and the cage of tropical
birds, colorful and cries, which adds to the solitude of a melancholy woman.

Adored the monsters that lived on the other side of the glass, and before going to lunch there
felt the irresistible need to see them. He feared that the watchdog had not taken good care during
his absence.

- Look how beautiful you are!

He noted the pond, which looked empty.

Dead in its water and soil of coarse sand not noticed the slightest tremor animal. Ferragut's
eyes followed her, and lectured by long contemplation, was found in the three guests.

With the powerful mimicry of its kind, had become minerals. Eyes only the experts could find,
each matted in a crack in the rocks, disrupting voluntary smooth skin with bumps and wrinkles like
those of the stone.

Its ability to change color allowed to acquire their hard socket, and thus disguised as three
rocky tumors, treacherously waited over their victims, just as if they were at sea.

- Soon you will see all its majesty - Freya continued, as if speaking of something that belonged -. The
guard is going to feed them ... Poor! Nobody cares about them, all detest. I need additional
meals.

As if the food smelled proximity, one of three stones was stirred with polychrome chill. His swelling
was elastic wrap.

Passed through the color stripes, clouds blush ranging from red to
green, circles that are inflated on the swelling, trembling form outgrowths.

Among des opened one eye wrinkles are yellow and of fierce and stupid fixity, a balloon tarnished
and evil, like that of snakes, which looked at the glass as if he could see beyond of this wall
of diamond.

- I know! - Freya cried with joy -. I think I know! ...

And listed the abilities of these monsters, those who attached great intelligence. They were
those who had rolled, as astute builders, stones piled on the floor
forming bastions, to whose coat is camouflaged to fall upon their
victims.

At sea, when wanted to surprise a tasty oyster meat, hidden waiting to open its two valves to
feed on water and light, and introduced a stone among them, dipping below the gap deadly tentacles.

His
love of liberty was another reason for the enthusiasm of Freya.

If you had more than a year locked in the Aquarium, sick with sadness
and gnawed his legs to kill himself.

- Ah, nice and strong bandits!
- Continued, with hysterical enthusiasm -.

I love them!

I would like to have them in my house, as have the goldfish in a jar, feed them at all hours, see
how to eat ...

Ferragut felt the same anxiety I had experienced a morning at the shrine of Virgil.

"She's crazy!" He said mentally.

But in spite of his madness, vehemently wanted the scent of sweet perfume which exhaled his
flesh for the neckline of her dress.

No longer the silent world saw who was swimming or ramp with a sizzle of color behind crystals.
Only she was. And heard, like distant music, his voice, that would explain briefly all the particulars
of those stones that went to be animals, those balloons, to swell,
showing their bodies, turning to hide under a gelatinous swell.

It was a sack, a bag, a rubber mask, inside which there was only water or air. Among the roots
of his arms was the mouth, strong jaws armed with a peak resembling
parrot.

Breathing, her skin a crack opened and closed alternately. One of sides arose a funnel-shaped
tube, which also swallowed water respirable feeding for both inputs the gill cavity. The many armed
wings of suckers operated as pressure vessels. They used to grab and hold its prey, ramp and
run.

The glassy eye of one of the monsters hovering and disappearing among
the soft folds evoked memories of Freya.

He spoke in a low voice, for itself, without worrying about Ferragut, I was disoriented by
the incoherence of his words. This view brought to Octopus his memory the Eye of the morning.

The
sailor asked, "Who am Eye ?...» And again he said mentally Freya I was mad to learn that this
name was that of a snake friend, a grid-backed reptile that served
as a necklace and watches at home beyond the island of Java, between
forest exhaled a perfume irresistible, covered sunlight to flower
trembling and monstrous resembling animals, towns phosphorescent night
stars, leaping from tree tree.

- I was dancing naked, with a transparent
veil tied around my hips and one floating on my head ... Danced for
hours, as a Brahmin priestess before the image Siva's terrible, and
Eye of the morning following my dances with his elegant wavy ... I
I believe in God Siva.

Do you not know to Siva? ...

Ferragut side gave the gloomy god.

What he wanted to know was why he had taken to Java, the island paradise and mysterious.

- My husband was a Dutch commander - said she -.

We were married in Amsterdam and followed him to Asia.

Ulysses protested to the news. Was not a wise husband? ... Had not been to the Andes in search
of prehistoric beasts? ...

Freya hesitated a moment to memory, but your question was short.

- That's right - said naturally -. The teacher was my second husband. I have been married twice.

Captain
did not have time to express their surprise. At the top of the pool,
on the surface crystal silver by the sun, became a human shadow.

It was the silhouette of the guardian. Down three bags were moved to the reports. Freya was
trembling with emotion, as an enthusiastic spectator and impatient.

Something fell in the water, dropping little by little, a piece of dead sardines, which was releasing
strands of flesh and yellow scales.

A strange solidarity seemed to exist between monsters. Stirring to eat only one who looked
more closely at the dam. Perhaps undergoing voluntarily to a turn, maybe your eyes only reached
a little beyond its tentacles.

Which was closer to the glass suddenly unfolded with the violence of a spring escapes, a projectile
that explodes.

He jumped, hit the ground running by of his legs and taking other high like a bunch of reptiles.
Wreck report is star became monstrous, filling almost all glass with
his body swollen with rage and water, coloring the foil of green,
blue, red.

The tentacles grabbed the unfortunate prey, bending inward to bring to his mouth. The beast is
contracted, it was flattened, to rest on the floor.

Legs disappeared, and the sight was just a quivering bag by passing as a wave, from end to
end, gastrointestinal swelling. It was a puff of mucus that is colored and colorless with the contortions
of fury assimilatory, revealing once in a while your eyes stupid
and ferocious.

Continued to fall further casualties and the other monsters jumped in his turn, distending their
star, shrugging then to grind the prey in their gut with a tiger digestion.

Freya attended this awful power of pleasure shaking. Ulysses felt how relied on instinct, with
a contact that was becoming more intimate moments.

From shoulder to ankle felt the captain relieves soft warm flesh and a firm, was felt through
the clothes and seemed to pull him with nervous tremors.

Several times her eyes turned away from the bloody spectacle to look
at him quickly in a strange way.

Her eyes seemed enlarged. His corneas had an acuity of unhealthy reflection. Ferragut he thought
it should look at the crazy in his great crisis.

He spoke through clenched teeth, pausing with emotion, admiring the ferocity of these beasts, grieving
not have its force and cruelty.

- Be well! ... Able to walk down the street ... the world, stretching claws ... Devour! ...
Devour! They will be discussed in vain to undo the ring of my tentacles ... Absorb! ... Eat!
... Make them disappear!

Ulysses saw her as the first day, next to the shrine of the poet,
possessed of a rage deaf against men, looking forward to her voluptuous
tremors extermination.

The octopus, having finished his digestion, were released to swim.

Skeins were now horizontal that crossed the pond in style. Conical bow torpedo appeared, leading
to dredge the thick, long hair of his tentacles. His appetite was excited they run water in all
directions, looking for new victims.

Freya protested. The guard had thrown only lifeless bodies. She wanted the fight, slaughter, death. The
pieces of sardines were a meal without substance to these bandits
were only taste the food seasoned with murder.

As if the octopus would understand their complaints, had been dropped in the sand, flaccid, inert,
breathing through their funnels.

A small crab began to descend at the end of a thread, with desperate kicking.

She pressed closer against Ulysses, excited to think about the next show. Jumped one of the bags
turned into a star: his legs snaked looking for the newcomer.

In vain the guardian moved up the line, wanting to prolong the game.

Tentacles irresistible suckers stuck to the body of the victim and the twine, pulling the latter
with such force that it broke, falling into the bottom of the octopus with its prey.

Freya made a motion as if to applaud. "Bravo !...» was intensely pale. A fever heat passed through
the clothes from the side of his body on the side of Farragut that served as support.

Moved the bust to the glass to better view the activities of the stomach
devouring in a pyramid, which was at its height a tiny head with two
eyes fierce parrot and provides the basis around the twisted skein
of their paws full of outgoing rounds.

With they pressed against her mouth crab, injecting the product under its shell poison of their
salivary glands, paralyzing all movement of resistance.

Then he swallowed it slowly, a boa swallowing.

- How beautiful! - She said.

The other animals were also the victim alive and paralyzed and devoured, waving their flabby bodies,
for which nutritional posing swelling clouds of various stripes and colors.

Now the keeper threw a crab, but released without any bond. Freya cried enthusiasm.

It was the game as set in the ferocious mystery of the sea, death
race, the preceded by anguish and destruction exciting chances.

The poor crustacean, guessing the danger, swam to the rocks for shelter in the nearest crack. An
octopus left behind him, while others continued their digestion.

- Runs away!

... Escapes! - Freya cried, beating of interest.

The crab ran down the rocks, sheltered in their windings. The octopus and not swimming; also ran as a
land animal, climbing the rocks with their claws armed, which served as his locomotive apparatus.
Tiger was a struggle against rat ... When the crab body was already
half hidden among the lichen green of a hole, fell on his back one
of the heavy snakes, begins with the irresistible pull of its sales,
making disappeared into the tangle of tentacles.

- Ah! - Freya sighed,
leaning back as if to faint on the chest of Ulysses.

It shuddered, feeling that he had twisted his body a quivering ring
pressure.

The events of that imbalance had finally excite your nerves.

He thought that a monster in the same class as the pond, but much
more, a giant octopus the ocean floor, had treacherously slipped behind
him, suddenly throwing one of its tentacles.

I felt the pressure of the grip on his waist, increasingly tight fiercer.

Freya was holding him with one arm.

Had twisted violently to him and pressed waist with full force, as if to halve his body vigorous.

Then
he saw near the head of this woman with a rapidly aggressive if it
were to bite ... His eyes enlarged and vagorosos teary seemed to be
far, far away.

Maybe not I saw ... His mouth, trembling with emotion and blue, a
round mouth and in relief, as absorbent muscle, sought the mouth of
the ocean, taking possession of her, pulling her lips.

It was a windy kiss, long dominant painful. Ulises acknowledged that he had never been kissed
well.

The water in that mouth, tracing the edge of the teeth, spilled over into his own as sweet poison.
A hitherto unknown shudder ran along his back, making him close his
eyes.

He felt empty, as if everything inside it settles, passing to another body through the absolute suction.
He had a hunch that this kiss was going to be dated in her life that began for him a new existence
that would never come off these lips biting and caressing, who had
a distant taste of cinnamon, incense, Asian populated jungle the pleasures
and pitfalls.

And was carried away by the touch of a beast, lost in thought and the dead body and resigned,
as the castaway who falls down and the endless layers of the abyss without ever reaching the
bottom.

VI

THE DEVICES OF CIRCE

Thought after that kiss your other wishes were to be realized immediately. The hardest thing
the road and was gone. But Freya had always expect something absurd
and inconceivable.

The noon cannon shot them out of their trance voluptuous, which lasted a few seconds long as years.
The steps of the guardian ever closer, finally separating two busts and untangle his arms.

Freya was the first to settle.

Only a slight smoke hung in the background of their pupils, as if the fumes of burning freshly
extinguished.

- Goodbye ... I hope.

And left the Aquarium followed by Ferragut, still faltering and trembling.

Were useless questions and requests with which he pursued while crossing the ride.

- So far nothing more - she said in one of the side streets of Chiaia -. We'll see ... He formally
promise ... Now let me ...

He disappeared with his step firm hunter beautiful, serene face, as if not left in she the slightest
recollection of his wild outburst of passion.

This time he kept his promise. Ferragut saw her every day.

Were found in the morning near the hotel, and sometimes it dropped to dining room, smiles and looks
across the ocean, unfortunately occupied by a distant table. Then walked, talked, laughed Freya
loving kindness of the captain's oaths ... And that was it. 

With
the ability of women to probe the man and penetrate its secrets, keeping
closed and unapproachable own secrets, she was aware of the accidents
and adventures the life of Ulysses. In this vain, for a natural reciprocity,
spoke of the island of Java, the mysterious dances with Siva, travel
through the lakes of the Andes. Freya was an effort to remember. "!...¡
Ah yes!" And then give this issue in reply exclamation distracted,
still figuring out eagerly to the old life of her lover. Ulysses,
in some time, came to suspect if the hug at the Aquarium have happened
in a dream.

One morning I got the captain to see realized one of
his wishes. He was jealous of the unknowns Freya had lunch with friends.
In vain he said it was the only colleague Dr. of hours spent outside
the hotel. The sailor, to calm down, demanded that the widow accept
their invitations. Should give greater scope to its trips, should
visit the beautiful outside Naples, in its cheerful trattoria lunch.

They
climbed together in the Vomero hill funicular to the heights crowned
by the castle Sant Elmo and the Certosa of San Martino. After admiring
the museum gives the Abbey memories art of domination and domination
muratesca Bourbon, entered a restaurant near a trattoria with tables
set in a plaza from which the rails could be covered unforgettable
spectacle of the Gulf, besides seeing Vesuvius and the chain of mountains
vanishing on the horizon like a dark pink stationary waves.

Naples
horseshoe extended by the arcuate edge of the sea, its huge mass expelling
white, as if it were foam cores, the villages of the suburbs.

A ostricario
brown, thin, with eyes of coal and huge mustache, had his post at
the door the restaurant, offering seafood intense smell, perhaps midweek
had cast climb from the town to the heights of Vomero. Freya laughed
at the typical beauty ostricario and burning eyes who ran out of habit
to all the ladies who entered the establishment ... A real find for
travelers eager for adventure with local color.

At bottom, a small
orchestra accompanied the voice of a tenor, or sounded alone, stretching
melodies, rhythms with Neapolitan amplifying the hype.

Freya felt
a childish glee when sitting at the table, seeing beyond the cloth
vacuum light height. Cut in the first place by a glass tube filled
with flowers, extended the distant panorama of the city, the Gulf
and capes. We drunk the air of this summit, after two weeks that have
passed without leaving Naples. Harps and violins gave the environment
pathetic tremor and served as background to the talks, as the vague
murmurs of a enhance hidden orchestra in the theater chanting of verses
melancholy, ripping tears.

Ate with appetite nervous that provides
joy. A few tables away, a couple Young forgot dishes to shake hands
under the tablecloth and tightened leg frantic leg against pressure.
The two smiled looking at the scenery and looking at each other. Perhaps
they were foreigners newlyweds, lovers perhaps fugitives were conducted
their illusions lulled into this country so often evoked in his distant
courtship. It is, however, a notable fact, that, while so much execration is poured out
by Americans, upon those engaged in the foreign slave trade, the men engaged in the slave trade
between the states pass without condemnation, and their business is deemed honorable.

Behold the practical operation of this internal slave trade--the American slave trade sustained
by American politics and American religion! Here you will see men and women reared like swine
for the market. You know what is a swine-drover? I will show you a man-drover. They inhabit
all our southern states. They perambulate the country, and crowd the{355} highways of the nation
with droves of human stock. You will see one of these human-flesh-jobbers, armed with pistol,
whip, and bowie-knife, driving a company of a hundred men, women, and children, from the Potomac
to the slave market at New Orleans. These wretched people are to be sold singly, or in lots,
to suit purchasers. They are food for the cotton-field and the deadly sugar-mill. Mark the
sad procession as it moves wearily along, and the inhuman wretch who drives them. Hear his
savage yells and his blood-chilling oaths, as he hurries on his affrighted captives. There,
see the old man, with locks thinned and gray. Cast one glance, if you please, upon that young
mother, whose shoulders are bare to the scorching sun, her briny tears falling on the brow
of the babe in her arms. See, too, that girl of thirteen, weeping, yes, weeping, as she thinks
of the mother from whom she has been torn. The drove moves tardily. Heat and sorrow have nearly
consumed their strength. Suddenly you hear a quick snap, like the discharge of a rifle; the
fetters clank, and the chain rattles simultaneously; your ears are saluted with a scream that
seems to have torn its way to the center of your soul. The crack you heard was the sound of
the slave whip; the scream you heard was from the woman you saw with the babe. Her speed had
faltered under the weight of her child and her chains; that gash on her shoulder tells her
to move on. Follow this drove to New Orleans. Attend the auction; see men examined like horses;
see the forms of women rudely and brutally exposed to the shocking gaze of American slave-buyers.
See this drove sold and separated forever; and never forget the deep, sad sobs that arose from
that scattered multitude. Tell me, citizens, where, under the sun, can you witness a spectacle
more fiendish and shocking. Yet this is but a glance at the American slave trade, as it exists
at this moment, in the ruling part of the United States. On the first night the captain tasted the voluptuous self the
break-out. I no longer had a woman at his side as an extension inevitable; living among men ...
And appreciated chastity as a pleasure that was offered with all the charms of new.

The second night, on the narrow, smelly standard camera, she was revealed by memories, returning
to sprout. Oh, Freya! ... When see her again! ...

The Count and he spoke little, but spent long hours together, sitting next to the wheel the helm,
watching the sea. Were more friends than on land, although they passed among them limited words.
The common life slowed down the arrogance of pretending diplomat
and was the captain discover new merits in him.

The ease with which he walked around the ship and certain technical
words used against their will Ferragut allowed no more doubts about
his true profession.

- You are a Marine - he said suddenly.

The Count nodded, judging dissimulation useless. Yes, it was ocean.

"So what am I doing here? What I have given command Ferragut thought ?...» So, without managing
Why sought their help this man who could run the ship without assistance.

Undoubtedly it was a naval officer, and a fleet should come from all sailors blonde who worked as
automatons. The discipline made them follow the orders of Ferragut, but they guessed that his
command was no more than a simple delegation, and that the real leader
board was the Count.

The schooner came in sight of the islands of Lipari, then twisting course toward the West, followed
the Sicilian coast from Cape Gallo after San Vito. From this set
her bow to the Southwest, going in search of the islands Egadi.

To expect in these waters, where it begins to narrow the Mediterranean
between Tunisia and Sicily towering volcanic peak of Pantelleria island
in the middle of the huge close.

Short enough for him to count instructions so that the direction taken by Ferragut was under to his
wishes. Ended up not hide the admiration he felt for his master navigator.

- Well you know the sea - said the count.

The captain shrugged smiling. It was truly yours. Could call mare nostrum, just like the Romans,
their former rulers.

As if divining the bottom to the naked eye, kept the ship on the edge of extensive bank of Adventure.
Sailed slowly with only a few candles, crossing and recrossing the same waters.

Kaledine, to spend two days, began to fret. Ferragut heard repeatedly muttering how Gibraltar's
name. The passage from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean was the greatest danger for he expected.

From
the deck of the schooner could only see a short distance, and the count rose again and times
scales of rope rigging, to cover his eyes with a larger space.

One morning he shouted from the top to the captain, pointing to a horizon point. Should do
course in the same direction. There were what he sought.

Ferragut obeyed him, and half an hour after they appeared, one after another, two long vessels
and low railing, sailing at high speed.

They were like destroyers, but without masts, without chimneys, sliding almost at water level,
painted a gray color that made them confused with the sea at a distance.

Placed on both sides of the boat, approaching it in such a way that seemed likely encontrón to
crush with their helmets.

Several metal wires grew out of their covers to screw in the sticks
of the schooner aground, forming a single mass of the three ships,
which together followed the slow wave of the sea.

Ulysses looked curiously at the two co-flotation. "These were the
famous underwater?

... Saw its steel roof hatches and chimneys protruding round, by
poking groups of animals.

The officers and crew were dressed as fishermen from the coast North,
wearing one-piece waterproof and waxed hull.

Many of them waved high in these helmets, and the Count replied waving his cap. Blonde sailors
the schooner shouted, responding to the cheers of his comrades of the submersible "Deutschland
über alles !...»

But this excitement in the solitude of the sea, which amounted to a song gives triumph lasted very
little.

Whistles sounded, the men ran covered sidewalks, and Ferragut saw invaded the vessel by two
rows of sailors.

At a time when the hatches were opened, hit a sound of broken timber and cans of essence began
to be transhipped from both sides. In around the boat was filled with water drawers open, they
walked away with gentle floating.

The Count heard in the stern a man dressed in waterproof fabric, which was an officer.

He related the passage through the Strait of Gibraltar completely submerged, looking through
the periscope the English torpedo on security patrol.

- Nothing
major - continued the officer -, nor the slightest incident ... A
great navigation.

- May God punish England!

"- Said the count, now called the commander.

- May God punish! - Said the officer, as if to say "Amen."

Ferragut saw forgotten, ignored by all these men who filled the schooner. Some sailors pushed
him in the haste of their work.

Was the patron of the boat, a civilian lack of hierarchy to be men of war.

Began to understand why he had been given command of the small vessel. The count remained. Saw
him approaching as if he suddenly remembered, holding out his right hand with kindness comradery.

-
Captain, thank you very much.

This service is for those who are not forgotten.

Maybe we will not never ... But if you ever need me, know who I am.

And as if presented to another person, said their names ceremoniously: Archibald von Kramer, Lieutenant
of the Imperial Navy ... His personality was not entirely diplomatic
false.

He had served as naval attache at various embassies.

Then he gave instructions for the return. Could expect to face Palermo. A boat would in search
of him to take you to the ground.

Everything was planned ... Should hand over the reins to the true owner of the schooner: a coward
who had become too expensive to pay the rent of the ship, but without daring to threaten him.
In the chamber were the papers in order to justify this navigation.

- Say hello on my behalf to the ladies ... Tell them you will soon hear about us. Let us make
us masters of the Mediterranean.

Continued unloading fuel.

Ferragut he saw Von Kramer introduced by the hood Open one of the submarines. Then she thought
she recognized in the other two sailors submersible of those who had manned the schooner, which
was received with shouts and hugs his comrades, then getting a tubular hatch.

The discharge lasted until midafternoon. Ulysses had not imagined that the small vessel will many
boxes. When the warehouse was empty, the last sailors disappeared Germanic and with them the
cables that held the boat.

An officer shouted that he could leave.

The two submersibles, more flattened on the sea on his arrival, with swollen deposits essence and oil,
began to move away.

Finding himself alone in the stern of the schooner, he felt a sudden uneasiness.

"What have you done? ... What have you done? "Cried a voice in his brain.

But looking to the three passengers and the boy who had been the only
crew forgot his remorse.

Should move a lot to make up for this lack of arms. Two nights and one day just rested, driving
around the same time the rudder and engine, it did not dare to employ all their sails with this
shortage of men.

When he found himself in a sunrise, opposite the port of Palermo, who began to extinguish their
lights, Ferragut could sleep for the first time, leaving manager to one of the sailors surveillance
the ship, which was maintained with the canopy collected. By mid-morning he was awakened voices
shouting from the sea, "Where is the captain?"

He saw a boat and several men who jumped to the schooner. He was the owner, who came to recover
their vessel to enter port it legally. The same can be commissioned to carry Ulysses ashore with
his little suitcase.

He was accompanied by a man red and obese, which seemed have great influence on the pattern.

- Since you will be aware of what happens - he said, as did two rowers glide the boat over the
waves -. These bandits ... These mandolinists! ...

Ulysses without knowing why, nodded. This was a German bourgeois indignation:
one of those who helped the doctor.

Hear enough.

Half an hour later, Ferragut jumped into a dock, no one objected to his landing like protecting
their fellow obese sleep every surveillance. Despite this, the good Lord showed a burning desire
away from him, to flee, according to their own issues.

He smiled when he learned that Odysseus wanted to leave immediately
for Naples.

"You do well ..." The train departed two hours later. And I got into a cab, disappearing precipitation.

The
captain, being alone, almost thought he had dreamed the previous days.

Palermo came back to see after an absence of many years.

Experienced the joy of a Sicilian banished to cross the country with several cars pulled by
hacks whose feathers and boxes defaced depicting scenes from the liberated Jerusalem. He recalled
the names of main roads, which were those of old Spanish viceroys.

He saw the statues in a square four kings of Spain ... But all these
things inspired him only a fleeting interest.

He was concerned about the extraordinary movement of the streets, the crowd forming groups to
hear reading newspapers. Many windows were intertwined with national flags France, England
and Belgium.

On arriving at the station knew the truth out about the incident he
had alluded to the merchant while they were in the boat.

It was war! ... Italy had broken off relations the day before with the Central Powers.

Ulysses felt troubled by anxiety, remembering what he had done in the Mediterranean. Popular
groups believed cheering passing behind the flags were going to guess
his achievement, landing on him.

Needed to get away from this patriotic enthusiasm, and felt satisfied to be inside of a car
... Also, going to see Freya, and its image was enough to evoke to vanish all his remorse.

The journey was long and difficult. The necessities of war were being felt from the first time
absorbing all the media.

The train stood still for hours to make way for other trains loaded
with men and military equipment.

In all seasons there were soldiers in battle dress, flags, crowds
cheered.

When he reached Naples, fatigued by a journey of forty-eight hours,
it seemed that the driver too slowly headed towards the old palace
of Chiaia.

In crossing the hall with his little suitcase, cut him off the goalkeeper, thick comadre frizzy
hair and dusty, there were only interviewed a few times in the depths of his cave.

- The ladies do not live in the house ... The ladies have gone suddenly
with Karl, his employee.

And he explained the rest of this flight with a hostile and evil smile.

Ferragut knew he should not insist. The big woman was furious about the leak of the ladies Tedesco, and
examining the ocean as a suspected spy, good for a complaint patriotic.

However, professional honesty, we warned that the blonde signora, the youngest and sympathetic had thought
of him to leave, leaving his luggage in the goal.

Ulises hastened to disappear. And send someone to collect your bags. And taking another carriage,
went to the harbor of Santa Lucia ... What unexpected blow!

At his entrance, the goalkeeper made a gesture of surprise and astonishment.

Before he reached Ferragut to ask for Freya, with the vague hope that they had taken refuge in
the hotel, this man gave him the news.

- Captain, his son was here, waiting.

The captain stammered, confused: "What son ?...»

The man brought the keys embroidered travel book, showing a line: "Esteban Ferragut. Barcelona.
"And recognized Ulysses the letter of your child while he pressed his chest with an indescribable
anguish.

The shock left him speechless, and the porter took advantage of his silence to keep talking.

It was a nice guy and intelligent ... Some mornings he had accompanied him to teach best of
the city. He had been connected with the consignees of the Mare Nostrum,
looking everywhere for news of his father.

At last, convinced that the captain was and back to Barcelona, ​​had started to turn the previous
day.

- If you get twelve hours before, still here.

The doorman did not know more. Busy to meet the orders of a South American ladies, no was able
to greet the young man when he left the hotel. Torn between making the trip on a steam English
to Marseilles or go by train to Genoa, where to find direct ship Barcelona.

Ferragut wanted to know when he arrived, and the porter, raising his eyes, turned to a during
mental arithmetic ... Finally scored a date, and the sailor, in his
turn, was examined by his memories.

Was given a slap on the forehead, rough as a punch.

It was her young son had seen entering the harbor when he was going
to take charge the schooner to carry fuel to German submarines.

VIII

The young Telemachus

Whenever the Mare Nostrum back to Barcelona, ​​Esteban Ferragut felt a sense glare, just as
if it was opened a glorious window in his dark existence child and family monotonous.

No longer wandering the harbor, admiring from afar the great ocean liners anchored off the Columbus
monument or cargo vapors that lined the commercial docks.

A vessel important was his absolute property for several weeks. The captain and officers spent
ground time with their families.

Toni, the second was the only one who slept on board. Many of the sailors asked permission to live
in the city, and the steam is entrusted to Caragol Uncle guard with half a dozen men for daily
cleaning.

The small Ferragut could be under the illusion that he was the captain of the Mare Nostrum. He
moved imagining that the bridge was braving a storm; examining instruments
water with a severity of knowledgeable expert, ran all departments
habitable ship, down to the cellars, which aireaban, open, pending
charge, and finally got into the boat service, undoing of the scale,
to row a few hours with more satisfaction Yoles that in light of the
Race Club.

His visits ended in the kitchen, invited by his uncle Caragol, who
treated him with a familiarity paternal.

The young oarsman was sweating. "A refresquet ?...» and preparing the sweet mixture, I did fall to
men of a single jump in the nebulosity of intoxication.

Stephen had much the "soft" chef. His imagination, excited by the frequent Travel reading novels had
made him conceive a type of marine heroic, daring, philanderer, and
able to swallow the beverage jars incendiary without blinking.

He wanted If so, every good mariner should drink.

While on the ground did not know other spirits that the innocent and sweet kept by his mother
family holiday once trod the deck of the ship felt the need for fluids
alcoholics, to show that he was a man.

"There was a beverage in the world that could with him ... And the second "refresh" the uncle
was sunk in a placid Caragol nirvana, seeing all pink and considerably enlarged: the sea, nearby ships,
the docks and the mountain of Montjuic, which served as background.

The cook, to behold with his eyes lovingly sick, he thought he had
a jump dozen years ago and is still in Valencia talking to the other
Ferragut that University escape to paddle in the harbor.

Almost came to believe that he had lived twice.

The boy listened to the complaints, interrupting with solemn advice.

This Ferragut fifteen years of life showed discontent. He was a man, and had to live among
women: his mother and two nieces who accompanied him making lace, as she had accompanied once
to his mother Dona Cristina. I wanted to be a sailor, and he was forced to study the Baccalaureate
unfriendly materials. Can a captain needs to know Latin? ...

Wanted to end his life as a student, to become a pilot and follow
the practices in the bridge next to his father.

Maybe you'll command the thirty years or another ship Mare Nostrum similar.

Meanwhile, the lure of the sea drew him away from the classroom, going to see Caragol at the
same time the roll call teachers to the students, noting their absence.

The old man and his protégé are recruited in the kitchen with a responsible
concern.

Steps and voices on the cover altered their conversation. "Hide!" And Stephen crawled under
a table or hidden in the storeroom of the provisions, while the cook came out to meet the newcomer
with a seraphic face.

Sometimes it was Toni, and the boy ventured out, with his silence. It also will wanted and approved
of his distaste for the books.

If from time to time was the captain who came to the ship for a few
moments, he spoke Caragol obstructing the door with his body, while
smiling slyly.

For Stephen, the two most worthy of admiration were the sea and his father. All heroes novelistic
that from the pages of the books had gone to stay in his imagination had the face and gestures
of Captain Ferragut.

As a child he had seen sometimes to mourn his mother with sad resignation. Years later, to meet
with his precocious little boy watched the relationships between
men and women, he felt that all these tears should be motivated by
indiscretions and infidelities Far navigator.

He loved his mother with a passion only child and spoiled, but not least the captain admired,
excusing all sins that might commit.

His father was the bravest man and most beautiful land. So he saw it. And one day, examining the
drawers in his cabin, found several photographs of women wearing the foot the names of distant countries,
his admiration was even larger. All must be mad with love for the captain of the Mare Nostrum.
Ay! For more than him to do to be a man, never get to catch up with
the winner to had given the existence ...

When the ship came to Barcelona
without their owner around Naples, the son of Ferragut experienced
no surprise.

Toni, who was always short, lavished on this occasion.
Captain Ferragut had been there for a business, but would soon return.
His second will expected at any moment. Perhaps hiciese land travel
to get there first.

Esteban was amazed to see that his mother did
not accept this absence as an insignificant event. The good lady was
concerned and the watery eyes. Her feminine instinct made him sensed
something wrong with the delay of her husband.

In the afternoon,
when he visited, as usual, his former love the professor, the two
spoke slowly, with measured words, but understood his eyes during
the long intervals of silence.

Pedro arrived at the pinnacle of his
illustrious career with the possession of a professorship at the Institute
Barcelona, ​​visiting every afternoon to tape, and a half hours from
his room exactly clockwork. Not the slightest thought of impurity
professor never stirred. The past had forgotten ... But he needed
daily to see the captain's wife knitting lace between two young nieces
as she had seen years before the widow of Ferragut.

Let him know
the most important events in Barcelona and around the world, discussing
them the future destiny of Stephen, he heard her sweet voice with
rapture, to attach great importance to the details of domestic economy
or to the descriptions of religious holidays, just because it was
she who had such accounts.

Often remained in a long silence. Don
Pedro represented patience, humor equal respect silent, quiet and
clean the house, lost his composure only monastic the present owner
for a few days, including two trips.

Tape had been accustomed to
the visits of Professor. By checking the clock half past three sensed
his footsteps on the stairs.

If any evening did not arrive, the sweet
Penépole suffered a disappointment.

- What will happen to Don Pedro?
- Asked with concern to his nieces.

This question was sometimes extended
to the child, but Stephen, without hating the visitor liked him very
little.

Don Pedro belonged to the group of those gentlemen of the
Institute that the government paid for teaser with their explanations
and their reviews to the youth. Still remembered two years had happened
in his chair, and in a chamber of torture, suffering the punishment
of Latin. He was also a coward, always afraid and did not dare take
cold to go out on days cloudy if the umbrella was missing. He spoke
of you brave men.

- I do not know his mother answered ...-- -. May
be stuck in bed, with seven headscarves.

When I returned Don Pedro,
the house resumed its normal slow clock and safe. Doña Film, from
consultation to consultation, he had finally consider indispensable
for your cooperation. Professor sweetly made up for the husband's
authority traveler, he had to represent the head of the family in
all foreign affairs ... I often looked forward to Ferragut's wife
for advice urgently, and he issued his opinion in a slow voice, after
much reflection.

Esteban was intolerable that this man, who was but
a distant relative of grandmother, meddling in the affairs of the
house, trying to address him as a father. But irritated him even more
to see in a good mood and with claims of funny. He was angry that
flames Penépole his mother and him Telemachus ... "Uncle lateral and
heavy!"

The young Telemachus did not hesitate in their revenge. Small
interrupted their diversions for "Work" in the hall, next to the neighbor
to the door hanger. And the poor professor was dented his top hat,
hair in disarray, or in carrying out the Haldas several spit coat.

Now
the boy was confined to ignore its existence, going before him without
giving him, greeting him only when his mother told him to.

The day
brought news of the return of steam without their captain, Don Pedro
made the visit longer than usual. Tape shed two tears on the laces,
but had to cut her tears, overcome by the good sense to your counselor.

-
Why mourn and head warm with so many unfounded assumptions? ... What
you should do, my dear, is to call that Toni is the second ship. He
should know all ... Maybe tell you the truth.

Stephen received the
commission to seek the next day, and could see the concern Toni experienced
knowing that he wanted to talk Dona Cinta. Ship left the gloomy silence,
as if it leads to death suffer torture. Then she sang quietly, it
was in The indication of serious concern.

Unable to attend the young
Telemachus to the interview, but he hung near the door closed overheard
some words louder than they slipped through the cracks. His mother
was the one who spoke more often. Toni dully repeating the same excuses:
"I do not know. The captain is going to get from one point to another
... " That cause has a life, distinct
and independent of the organizations patched up from time to time to carry it forward. Looked
at, apart from the bones and sinews and body, it is a thing immortal. It is the very essence
of justice, liberty, and love. The moral life of human society, it cannot die while conscience,
honor, and humanity remain. If but one be filled with it, the cause lives. Its incarnation
in any one individual man, leaves the whole world a priesthood, occupying the highest moral
eminence even that of disinterested benevolence. Whoso has ascended his height, and has the
grace to stand there, has the world at his feet, and is the world's teacher, as of divine right.
He may set in judgment on the age, upon the civilization of the age, and upon the religion
of the age; for he has a test, a sure and certain test, by which to try all institutions, and
to measure all men. I say, he may do this, but this is not the chief business for which he
is qualified. The great work to which he is called is not that of judgment. Like the Prince
of Peace, he may say, if I judge, I judge righteous judgment; still mainly, like him, he may
say, this is not his work. The man who has thoroughly embraced the principles of justice, love,
and liberty, like the true preacher of Christianity, is less anxious to reproach the world
of its sins, than to win it to repentance. His great work on earth is to exemplify, and to
illustrate, and to ingraft those principles upon the living and practical understandings of
all men within the reach of his influence. This is his work; long or short his years, many
or few his adherents, powerful or weak his instrumentalities, through good report, or through
bad report, this is his work. It is to snatch from the bosom of nature the latent facts of
each individual man's experience, and with steady hand to hold them up fresh and glowing, enforcing,
with all his power, their acknowledgment and practical adoption. But is
for him, for he ... not to say there that I dress in Tarascan. "

All this was approved in a phrase Pez already decided but not vehement, and became indignant,
scold hard to your friend as opposed to petty social requirements ... "That man not know that
his own dignity, his own decency, his own interest ... How is career such a man, a man who runs well, a
man who thus comes ?...». Rosalia was extended further in the field of confidence, not silence
the agonies Bringas going to hide the small purchases she had to do ... "Sometimes you do not
know what I suffer, I have to lie, I have to invent stories ...». Tan cavalier Fish and noble was
that after her friend to commiserate with all the soul, offered to pay their generous assistance
if the unspeakable sordideces Rosalia looked her in any difficult situation ... "Either there is
friendship between the two, or lacking, or are openly or not. This would be between you and
me ... How to pamper you ... with so much worth, as much merit, with a figure as there are few,
let's look ...!».

And such a flood of accolades followed, fanned Rosalia more to mitigate the heat vivid that left
his skin. Her beautiful facets nose swelled, swelled to bursting ... "I'll give the drink ...
are the seven "- said suddenly.

She also had to take that I needed it.

With the assurances given by the doctor the next day, got all excited. Were heard new laughter
in the house, and the patient himself, recovering his spirits, gave off sparks impatience and
vivacity. "The next week - had said the doctor - we will remove you rag. That's going very
well. For the next week you will not have but slight alterations in vision, and may go out
with dark glasses. Abstaining during the summer of any work in which you get tired of it, for
you will fall into his office and ordinary occupations, renouncing forever to play with hair ...
Mechanical work that affect the muscle you feel good, like carpentry, for example, turning,
countryside jobs ... But none of trifles. " Very bad sign when the doctor put Bringas Added to
this the indication of taking Cestona waters. Was that of "hoax, in others time no one took
baths and fewer people died "and that" the bathrooms are a pretext for spend money and the
ladies look their cuddles ...». To which the old Galen answered an impassioned apology hydropathic
medication ... "Whatever you want, my son - said Rosalia, with more eloquence in the nostrils
to the lips - and the doctor what demand and sufficient ... What is hoax? ... Account that is
not yours. In such cases efforts should be made so that there is the disappointment of not having done
if you get worse ... The climate of the provinces in summer you just replaced. Oh, what is
for me, here I would, for the travel, is more annoying than anything else, but the children (Emphasizing
the statement with emphatic gestures.) can not spend another year
without bathing.

"

Despite hurting his spirit travel that perspective, with the consequent discomfort, the much spending,
asking for free tickets and other chinchorrerías, D. Francisco was so happy joy overflowed
him on the lips, and could not be quiet for a minute. "In As soon as I get well, I will undertake
carpentry work. I'll make you a cupboard for clothes, so good and so famous, that people asked
to view the ballot, as history Natural, and stables. The lessee of the short Balsaín gives me
much pine I do want ... In the basement of this house is a repository of mahogany that are rotting,
and His Majesty will allow me to take a little piece ... The contractor's pantheon of Birth
Escorial has offered me all the marble you want. I'll make a cabinet with marble ... I say
a pantheon for clothes ... no, I will make a great sink and a console ... And I'll Candidita
to also make furniture ... I'm such a tool which ... But I will try
others ... or I paid the contractor for the works of La Granja ...». One flash from the heart-supplied intellect of Harriet Beecher Stowe could light
a million camp fires in front of the embattled host of slavery, which not all the waters of
the Mississippi, mingled as they are with blood, could extinguish. The present will be looked
to by after coming generations, as the age of anti-slavery literature--when supply on the gallop
could not keep pace with the ever growing demand--when a picture of a Negro on the cover was
a help to the sale of a book--when conservative lyceums and other American literary associations
began first to select their orators for distinguished occasions from the ranks of the previously
despised abolitionists. If the anti-slavery movement shall fail now, it will not be from outward
opposition, but from inward decay. 

The last to speak was the only one who came to the truth, confirming the news a little later three
in the afternoon, with lots of fanfare and unconnected words, the carter or water carrier Polanco.
Well known in the neighborhood, its appearance on Broad Street was greeted with a escopeteo grained
and cross-questions from window to window. Idle was that job, because he's motu proprio came
announcing the death of Tonda treacherous front of the shoe in the street Manrique corner at
the Maloja.

By Malanga, a prisoner in the prison service, had learned the nursing Tonda Dionisio Gamboa
and ran to turn it on with confidence and neglect that arise from the amount charged to recklessness.
Knocked on the door of the bakery by a man as well known as Tonda, failed Dionisio mistaking
his intentions, and of course, he formed his resolution.

Rose from the bench that worked, and walked with his hands behind his back, in a gesture of surrender.

The
forward motion of the fugitive determined by another opposed by the pursuer, which was fatal. Grande,
as mentioned, was the slope of the street, and was also arrested then the door of a flying
shoe alquilones blocking the road. To field, Tonda, and dismounted, fell short distance, neglect
him that was exploited in The moment the cunning cook, to splinter inside and open the belly
from side to side the same utility knife that was used for repairing the soles of shoes. Injured
and all the heroic Tonda, pursued the murderer, falling lifeless to just ride through honda
street.

The fact is historic in almost every detail.

     
      
      CHAPTER IV
      

         What you dream of love, and to suffer when it takes, and to fear when
it comes, and what to mourn if he leaves?

J. VELARDE

On a mild January morning Cecilia gave him a heart sank, and said
to himself: - Hey!

He comes today. And from that moment could not think of anything or do anything helpful. Times
infinite appeared before the gate of the window, believing that the wretched and hasten the
coming the object of his desire, and many others sank, faint of soul and body, in leaning swing
to the opposite headpiece.

Soon earned him become all ears and eyes. On the contrary, such was the obfuscation their senses,
hearing is not heard, not seen peering intently. This explains why spent a few seconds before
she did her lover's presence, filling the gap the front door ajar, a mirror which worshiped
his image.

Then forgotten full of his revengeful, the previous disdain of the
alleged wrongs received with their whims and their march to the field,
ran to meet him with open arms kissed him and let herself be kissed
by him in the delirium of passion.

No doubt, the fact of short absence had wrought a miracle to make
them close friends, in loving brothers in ternísimos lovers.

- Are
you alone? he asked her.

- Sola, "she said with languid expression.

-
Do I expect? added tenderly holding it still narrowed waist.

- With
the soul and life, "said the young man in his loving enthusiasm.

-
Who told you I was coming today?

- The heart!

He kissed her again in the eyes and mouth, and added:

- I am pale
and thinner than my departure for the field.

- Do you seem little
nights and days I've been without hitting the eyes watching over mommy?

There have also been other troubles ...

- When your grandmother got
sick?

- Since last year did not have health mamita.

But its gravity began to say that Christmas Eve.

When I arrived, at about two o'clock, the met flying a hot ... Did
not rise further.

- Where you've been up to that time, asked the
surprised young man.

- In a part.

- What part?

- Oh! In one part.

-
Will you tell me where?, He asked Leonardo becoming serious.

 The fugitive slave bill has especially been of positive service to the anti-slavery
movement. It has illustrated before all the people the horrible character of slavery toward
the slave, in hunting him down in a free state, and tearing him away from wife and children,
thus setting its claims higher than marriage or parental claims. Since then plotted scholars
with the most scrupulous our family tree. Start a tree be called Monera, compromise between
the inorganic and organic, germ, embryo, element prime of life, endowed with a force, an itch,
a propensity for indiscriminate be a vegetable or animal. Then the tree will spread, and are
unfolding forms and differentiating, until the end of the Paleolithic age, and our ancestors have
achieved rise to the level of lizards and fish resources. During the Mesolithic age or secondary progressed
further. By going to come to an end, in the Cretaceous period, we are marsupials, that is, we,
like kangaroos and gerbils, a bag, where our little ones are hiding. In the Eocene period of
the Tertiary period, we achieved the dignity of monkeys are catarrinios, or say to yourself
monkeys with the windows down and nose to tail. In the Miocene period, and we drop tail, and we resemble
the gorrilla, orangutan and chimpanzee. In the period Pliocene are almost men, although pithecoid
and Alal, or without words, without understanding, as any monkey. Finally, in the Quaternary, the
period known as Flood, we unleashed the language, we started talking and we are true men. From
this moment sages less dramatic and more timid and economic in their chronologies, put up
the day Today some 25,000 years. Alala race, the antropiscos, the nearly men, as it were, Africa
left the center or a southern continent called Lemuria, which sank in the sea like Atlantis,
and was between Africa and Asia. These were antropiscos black as soot, and lived in herds or
flocks to fend off the beasts. So were spread around the world. During dispersal and migration,
invented languages, and here that can not be reduced to a primitive all.
 Such is the voice of experience, such has been the past, such is the present,
and such will be that future, which, so sure as man is man, will come. These people had gone dark, from island to island, from the bottom Mediterranean
to the Straits, which is its door.

The captain imagined their boats made of tree trunks just trimmed, moved to paddle, or rather
thrust of a shovel, no other help than a rudimentary sail only ex-tended to blow from astern. The
first Europeans Navy was equal to that of the wild islands of Oceania, who are still currently in
its fleet of logs of islands in the archipelago.

So they had dared to break away from the coast, losing sight of land, venturing into the wilderness blue,
advised of the existence of the humps steamy islands of mountains marked on the horizon at
sunset. Each advance in the Mediterranean sea this stammering had shown greater audacity and
waste of energy that the discovery of America or the first trip around the world ... These early
sailors threw themselves not to the sea ​​adventures: they were people en masse, taking with
them families and animals.

Tribes, Once installed on an island, let loose fragments of his own life, who came to colonize,
through the waves, other land nearby.

Ulysses and his second major disasters thought ignored by history:
the storm surprised to exodus navigator, whole fleets of rude rafts
swallowed by the abyss within minutes, families dying clutching their
pets when they were going to try a new breakthrough in its embryonic
civilization.

To get an idea of ​​what were their small boats, fleets recalled Ferragut of the Homeric poems,
created many centuries later. Winds instilled a religious terror sea ​​to the warriors gathered
to fall over Troy.

Their ships remained chained a year in Aulis ports for fear of hostility in the air, and appease
Mediterranean to the gods sacrificed the life of a virgin.

Everything was danger and mystery in the realm of the waves. The roaring chasms, crags barked Sirens
were singing the pitfalls that were attracted to his music to craft
to disintegrate. There was no particular god island, no monster, no
mage Cyclops or warping of artifice. The terror was the first god
of the seas. The man, before he tamed the elements, tribute them more
superstitious fears. When hope of gaining is(sic) own was gone, he had
hope for others. Although considered more intelligent than his brother, and serve long years
of public administration in various provinces of Spain, and had read the César Cantú Universal
History of Spain and Lafuente, without missing a volume, and possessed the same fortune, retirement
more than 2,500 pesetas a year, it is certain that D. John, without Peñascosa never left or
have read in the newspaper life to which he subscribed, enjoyed far greater prestige in the village.
This, by way of D. Peregrin, but not appropriate for height. Indeed, D. Juan Casanova was tall,
dry, aquiline face, large eyes drooping eyelids and look imposing, venerable bald, short white
whiskers and a measured and stately march.
 But D. Peregrin, perchance noting
the impossibility of taking a step, or flushed with anger, which had been increasing little by little,
he replied with a grimace of anger and contempt that overtook his unfortunate brother completely
took away the desire to insist.

- What is that? - Asked D. Martín de las Casas, who was sitting next
to him .-- Do not you want D. come Peregrin?

- Is that it is impossible.

Who breaks the wall of flesh?

- For anyone.

You see how I go there and bring it at once - said D. Martin, Male
vigorous and expeditious nature, ready to rise.

D. John is retained by the sleeve of his coat.

- No, let you ...
Did not want to come ... You know his character.

- For man is not
like dish could you be there sweating latte! - Answered sharply, while
raising the shoulders.

The church is among the most spacious villa can be rendered. Truth Peñascosa with have seven to
eight thousand souls, no church has more than this. Perhaps to be too spacious, the sexton and
his assistants do not want to take care of cleaning often. Its appearance is murky and dirty.
On the walls, not many years ago whitewashed, hanging chains, dark, blurry pictures, a crowd of
legs, arms, heads and yellow wax still greater ones of boats and barges that the faith of the
sailors or their families have been there in memory of danger miraculously avoided. But for the function
to be held habíanla adorned as they could. Flower garlands surrounded the main altar covered
with white cloths pressed from fresh. They had hung some curtains in wall paintings near the altar
and some soil upholstered with carpet, dirty and and torn in several places, which came to light
forty years, in the solemn days. Ms Eloise, the godmother of the new priest, and the ladies
who had assisted in the noble endeavor to give race, have added some details to trim crude and sensitive
routine the sexton. But this, which very well could have fallen behind, was well accommodated in the sanctuary
among the priests, the mayor and several councilors, which stood in heart a wave of envy you
even more stifling than the knees of giants behind him. The following letter is unique;
and probably the only specimen of the kind extant. It was written while in England.]

