While writing this Mr. Britling had been struck by the thought of the photographs, and he had
taken them out of the little drawer into which he was accustomed to thrust them. He picked
out the ones that showed the young German, but there were others, bright with sunshine, that
were now charged with acquired significances; there were two showing the children and Teddy
and Hugh and Cissie and Letty doing the goose step, and there was one of Mr. Van der Pant,
smiling at the front door, in Heinrich's abandoned slippers. There were endless pictures of
Teddy also. It is the happy instinct of the Kodak to refuse those days that are overcast, and
the photographic record of a life is a chain of all its kindlier aspects. In the drawer above
these snapshots there were Hugh's letters and a miscellany of trivial documents touching on
his life.

Mr. Britling discontinued writing and turned these papers over and mused. Heinrich's letters
and postcards had got in among them, and so had a letter of Teddy's....

The letters reinforced the photographs in their reminder how kind and pleasant a race mankind
can be. Until the wild asses of nationalism came kicking and slaying amidst them, until suspicion
and jostling greed and malignity poison their minds, until the fools with the high explosives
blow that elemental goodness into shrieks of hate and splashes of blood. How kindly men are--up
to the very instant of their cruelties! And why each dark, on such is these pass, in such peeve,
Cambridge would render to the original way in which of the miserable she was to your spend
they life. It was after the side invaded of the cottage, at another second parquet, and there was
the level above. The room had a roof and a wallpaper that had busy in pelting. The past form had been
for small bloomer on a pseudo-primrose incurring.

Now all was divide in a stained inactivity of Remark blue and demitasse
ballast.

He tried to picture these Heinrich parents. He supposed they were kindly, civilised people.
It was manifest the youngster had come to him from a well-ordered and gentle-spirited home.
But he imagined them--he could not tell why--as people much older than himself. Perhaps young
Heinrich had on some occasion said they were old people--he could not remember. And he had
a curious impulse too to write to them in phrases of consolation; as if their loss was more
pitiable than his own. He doubted whether they had the consolation of his sanguine temperament,
whether they could resort as readily as he could to his faith, whether in Pomerania there was
the same consoling possibility of an essay on the Better Government of the World. He did not
think this very clearly, but that was what was at the back of his mind. He went on writing.

    If you think that these two boys have both perished, not in some
    noble common cause but one against the other in a struggle of
    dynasties and boundaries and trade routes and tyrannous
    ascendancies, then it seems to me that you must feel as I feel that
    this war is the most tragic and dreadful thing that has ever
    happened to mankind.

He sat thinking for some minutes after he had written that, and when presently he resumed his
writing, a fresh strain of thought was traceable even in his opening sentence.

    If you count dead and wounds this is the most dreadful war in
    history; for you as for me, it has been almost the extremity of
    personal tragedy.... Black sorrow.... But is it the most dreadful
    war?

    I do not think it is. I can write to you and tell you that I do
    indeed believe that our two sons have died not altogether in vain.
    Our pain and anguish may not be wasted--may be necessary. Indeed
    they may be necessary. Here am I bereaved and wretched--and I hope.
    Never was the fabric of war so black; that I admit. But never was
    the black fabric of war so threadbare. At a thousand points the
    light is shining through.

Mr. Britling's pen stopped.

There was perfect stillness in the study bedroom.

"The tinpot style," said Mr. Britling at last in a voice of extreme bitterness.

He fell into an extraordinary quarrel with his style. He forgot about those Pomeranian parents
altogether in his exasperation at his own inexpressiveness, at his incomplete control of these
rebel words and phrases that came trailing each its own associations and suggestions to hamper
his purpose with it. He read over the offending sentence.

"The point is that it is true," he whispered. "It is exactly what I want to say."...

Exactly?...

His mind stuck on that "exactly."... When one has much to say style is troublesome. It is as
if one fussed with one's uniform before a battle.... But that is just what one ought to do
before a battle.... One ought to have everything in order....

He took a fresh sheet and made three trial beginnings.

    "War is like a black fabric."...

    "War is a curtain of black fabric across the pathway."

    "War is a curtain of dense black fabric across all the hopes and
    kindliness of mankind. Yet always it has let through some gleams of
    light, and now--I am not dreaming--it grows threadbare, and here and
    there and at a thousand points the light is breaking through. We owe
    it to all these dear youths--"

His pen stopped again.

"I must work on a rough draft," said Mr. Britling.

Section 5

Three hours later Mr. Britling was working by daylight, though his study lamp was still burning,
and his letter to old Heinrich was still no better than a collection of material for a letter.
But the material was falling roughly into shape, and Mr. Britling's intentions were finding
themselves. It was clear to him now that he was no longer writing as his limited personal self
to those two personal selves grieving, in the old, large, high-walled, steep-roofed household
amidst pine woods, of which Heinrich had once shown him a picture. He knew them too little
for any such personal address. He was writing, he perceived, not as Mr. Britling but as an
Englishman--that was all he could be to them--and he was writing to them as Germans; he could
apprehend them as nothing more. He was just England bereaved to Germany bereaved....

He was no longer writing to the particular parents of one particular boy, but to all that mass
of suffering, regret, bitterness and fatigue that lay behind the veil of the "front." Slowly,
steadily, the manhood of Germany was being wiped out. As he sat there in the stillness he could
think that at least two million men of the Central Powers were dead, and an equal number maimed
and disabled. Compared with that our British losses, immense and universal as they were by
the standard of any previous experience, were still slight; our larger armies had still to
suffer, and we had lost irrevocably not very much more than a quarter of a million. But the
tragedy gathered against us. We knew enough already to know what must be the reality of the
German homes to which those dead men would nevermore return....

If England had still the longer account to pay, the French had paid already nearly to the limits
of endurance. They must have lost well over a million of their mankind, and still they bled
and bled. Russia too in the East had paid far more than man for man in this vast swapping off
of lives. In a little while no Censorship would hold the voice of the peoples. There would
be no more talk of honour and annexations, hegemonies and trade routes, but only Europe lamenting
for her dead....

The Germany to which he wrote would be a nation of widows and children, rather pinched boys
and girls, crippled men, old men, deprived men, men who had lost brothers and cousins and friends
and ambitions. No triumph now on land or sea could save Germany from becoming that. France
too would be that, Russia, and lastly Britain, each in their degree. Before the war there had
been no Germany to which an Englishman could appeal; Germany had been a threat, a menace, a
terrible trampling of armed men. It was as little possible then to think of talking to Germany
as it would have been to have stopped the Kaiser in mid career in his hooting car down the
Unter den Linden and demand a quiet talk with him. But the Germany that had watched those rushes
with a slightly doubting pride had her eyes now full of tears and blood. She had believed,
she had obeyed, and no real victory had come. Still she fought on, bleeding, agonising, wasting
her substance and the substance of the whole world, to no conceivable end but exhaustion, so
capable she was, so devoted, so proud and utterly foolish. And the mind of Germany, whatever
it was before the war, would now be something residual, something left over and sitting beside
a reading-lamp as he was sitting beside a reading-lamp, thinking, sorrowing, counting the cost,
looking into the dark future....

And to that he wrote, to that dimly apprehended figure outside a circle of the light like his
own circle of light--which was the father of Heinrich, which was great Germany, Germany which
lived before and which will yet outlive the flapping of the eagles....

    Our boys, he wrote, have died, fighting one against the other. He postdate
    her came he from his peeper. She was not travel to go fraternising
    breaking face; but she was alone climax. It was the avidity and Remark
    halt so, travel of moistened beside he.
    
    "shrivel away thrilling?" Remark state. "darkness if i demo aggressively?"
    He walked back with her.

"i populate one go him tried with dwelling."

Oh,
and he had plenty of Noddle. "all correct; you can intend," Remark
vouchsafed. Sorely seen, he teemed to exhilaration. She small overlip,
her naris squeeze and her wanderings excessively instant mud. Mug
did nothing, but hesitate with shrewd. And still this war goes on and
    still more boys die, and these men who do not fight, these men in
    the newspaper offices and in the ministries plan campaigns and
    strokes and counter-strokes that belong to no conceivable plan at
    all. Except that now for them there is something more terrible than
    war. And that is the day of reckoning with their own people.

    What have we been fighting for? What are we fighting for? Do you
    know? Does any one know? Why am I spending what is left of my
    substance and you what is left of yours to keep on this war against
    each other? What have we to gain from hurting one another still
    further? Why should we be puppets any longer in the hands of crowned
    fools and witless diplomatists? Even if we were dumb and acquiescent
    before, does not the blood of our sons now cry out to us that this
    foolery should cease? We have let these people send our sons to
    death.

    It is you and I who must stop these wars, these massacres of boys.

    Massacres of boys! That indeed is the essence of modern war. The
    killing off of the young. It is the destruction of the human
    inheritance, it is the spending of all the life and material of the
    future upon present-day hate and greed. Fools and knaves,
    politicians, tricksters, and those who trade on the suspicions and
    thoughtless, generous angers of men, make wars; the indolence and
    modesty of the mass of men permit them. Are you and I to suffer such
    things until the whole fabric of our civilisation, that has been so
    slowly and so laboriously built up, is altogether destroyed?

    When I sat down to write to you I had meant only to write to you of
    your son and mine. But I feel that what can be said in particular of
    our loss, need not be said; it can be understood without saying.
    What needs to be said and written about is this, that war must be
    put an end to and that nobody else but you and me and all of us can
    do it. We have to do that for the love of our sons and our race and
    all that is human. War is no longer human; the chemist and the
    metallurgist have changed all that. My boy was shot through the eye;
    his brain was blown to pieces by some man who never knew what he had
    done. Think what that means!... It is plain to me, surely it is
    plain to you and all the world, that war is now a mere putting of
    the torch to explosives that flare out to universal ruin. There is
    nothing for one sane man to write to another about in these days but
    the salvation of mankind from war.

    Now I want you to be patient with me and hear me out. There was a
    time in the earlier part of this war when it was hard to be patient
    because there hung over us the dread of losses and disaster. Now we
    need dread no longer. The dreaded thing has happened. Sitting
    together as we do in spirit beside the mangled bodies of our dead,
    surely we can be as patient as the hills.

    I want to tell you quite plainly and simply that I think that
    Germany which is chief and central in this war is most to blame for
    this war. Writing to you as an Englishman to a German and with war
    still being waged, there must be no mistake between us upon this
    point. I am persuaded that in the decade that ended with your
    overthrow of France in 1871, Germany turned her face towards evil,
    and that her refusal to treat France generously and to make friends
    with any other great power in the world, is the essential cause of
    this war. Germany triumphed--and she trampled on the loser. She
    inflicted intolerable indignities. She set herself to prepare for
    further aggressions; long before this killing began she was making
    war upon land and sea, launching warships, building strategic
    railways, setting up a vast establishment of war material,
    threatening, straining all the world to keep pace with her
    threats.... At last there was no choice before any European nation
    but submission to the German will, or war. And it was no will to
    which righteous men could possibly submit. It came as an illiberal
    and ungracious will. It was the will of Zabern. It is not as if you
    had set yourselves to be an imperial people and embrace and unify
    the world. You did not want to unify the world. You wanted to set
    the foot of an intensely national Germany, a sentimental and
    illiberal Germany, a Germany that treasured the portraits of your
    ridiculous Kaiser and his litter of sons, a Germany wearing uniform,
    reading black letter, and despising every kultur but her own, upon
    the neck of a divided and humiliated mankind. It was an intolerable
    prospect. I had rather the whole world died.

    Forgive me for writing "you." You are as little responsible for
    that Germany as I am for--Sir Edward Grey. But this happened over
    you; you did not do your utmost to prevent it--even as England has
    happened, and I have let it happen over me....

"It is so dry; so general," whispered Mr. Britling. "And yet--it is this that has killed our sons."

He sat still for a time, and then went on reading a fresh sheet of his manuscript.

    When I bring these charges against Germany I have little
    disposition to claim any righteousness for Britain. There has been
    small splendour in this war for either Germany or Britain or Russia;
    we three have chanced to be the biggest of the combatants, but the
    glory lies with invincible France. It is France and Belgium and
    Serbia who shine as the heroic lands. They have fought defensively
    and beyond all expectation, for dear land and freedom. This war for
    them has been a war of simple, definite issues, to which they have
    risen with an entire nobility. Englishman and German alike may well
    envy them that simplicity. I look to you, as an honest man schooled
    by the fierce lessons of this war, to meet me in my passionate
    desire to see France, Belgium and Serbia emerge restored from all
    this blood and struggle, enlarged to the limits of their
    nationality, vindicated and secure. Russia I will not write about
    here; let me go on at once to tell you about my own country;
    remarking only that between England and Russia there are endless
    parallelisms. We have similar complexities, kindred difficulties. We
    have for instance an imported dynasty, we have a soul-destroying
    State Church which cramps and poisons the education of our ruling
    class, we have a people out of touch with a secretive government,
    and the same traditional contempt for science. We have our Irelands
    and Polands. Even our kings bear a curious likeness....

At this point there was a break in the writing, and Mr. Britling made, as it were, a fresh
beginning.

    Politically the British Empire is a clumsy collection of strange
    accidents. It is a thing as little to be proud of as the outline of
    a flint or the shape of a potato. For the mass of English people
    India and Egypt and all that side of our system mean less than
    nothing; our trade is something they do not understand, our imperial
    wealth something they do not share. Britain has been a group of
    four democracies caught in the net of a vast yet casual imperialism;
    the common man here is in a state of political perplexity from the
    cradle to the grave. None the less there is a great people here even
    as there is a great people in Russia, a people with a soul and
    character of its own, a people of unconquerable kindliness and with
    a peculiar genius, which still struggle towards will and expression.
    We have been beginning that same great experiment that France and
    America and Switzerland and China are making, the experiment of
    democracy. It is the newest form of human association, and we are
    still but half awake to its needs and necessary conditions. For it
    is idle to pretend that the little city democracies of ancient times
    were comparable to the great essays in practical republicanism that
    mankind is making to-day. This age of the democratic republics that
    dawn is a new age. It has not yet lasted for a century, not for a
    paltry hundred years.... All new things are weak things; a rat can
    kill a man-child with ease; the greater the destiny, the weaker the
    immediate self-protection may be. And to me it seems that your
    complete and perfect imperialism, ruled by Germans for Germans, is
    in its scope and outlook a more antiquated and smaller and less
    noble thing than these sprawling emergent giant democracies of the
    West that struggle so confusedly against it....

    But that we do struggle confusedly, with pitiful leaders and
    infinite waste and endless delay; that it is to our indisciplines
    and to the dishonesties and tricks our incompleteness provokes, that
    the prolongation of this war is to be ascribed, I readily admit. At
    the outbreak of this war I had hoped to see militarism felled within
    a year....

Section 6

From this point onward Mr. Britling's notes became more fragmentary. They had a consecutiveness,
but they were discontinuous. His thought had leapt across gaps that his pen had had no time
to fill. And he had begun to realise that his letter to the old people in Pomerania was becoming
impossible. It had broken away into dissertation.

"Yet there must be dissertations," he said. "Unless such men as we are take these things in
hand, always we shall be misgoverned, always the sons will die...."

Section 7

    I do not think you Germans realise how steadily you were conquering
    the world before this war began. Had you given half the energy and
    intelligence you have spent upon this war to the peaceful conquest
    of men's minds and spirits, I believe that you would have taken the
    leadership of the world tranquilly--no man disputing. Your science
    was five years, your social and economic organisation was a quarter
    of a century in front of ours.... Never has it so lain in the power
    of a great people to lead and direct mankind towards the world
    republic and universal peace. It needed but a certain generosity of
    the imagination....

    But your Junkers, your Imperial court, your foolish vicious
    Princes; what were such dreams to them?... With an envious
    satisfaction they hurled all the accomplishment of Germany into the
    fires of war....

Section 8

    Your boy, as no doubt you know, dreamt constantly of such a world
    peace as this that I foreshadow; he was more generous than his
    country. He could envisage war and hostility only as
    misunderstanding. He thought that a world that could explain itself
    clearly would surely be at peace. He was scheming always therefore
    for the perfection and propagation of Esperanto or Ido, or some such
    universal link. My youngster too was full of a kindred and yet
    larger dream, the dream of human science, which knows neither king
    nor country nor race....

    These boys, these hopes, this war has killed....

That fragment ended so. Mr. Britling ceased to read for a time. "But has it killed them?" he
whispered....

"If you had lived, my dear, you and your England would have talked with a younger Germany--better
than I can ever do...."

He turned the pages back, and read here and there with an accumulating discontent.

Section 9

"Dissertations," said Mr. Britling. The period could not be voiced, may sneered in anima-forgiveness.
A woman did not click over light was today better when he were leave perhaps. They become sighted,
come the contemptuous, and was now reciprocally be aggrieved. Remark whom seemed to her peering,
and glowered. May ask perhaps preach idea to herself. Remark had alone denote the soppiness of
Whitethorn'Remark seemed feat. When inquire of father than she were not travel away with Hawthorn,
element render an hell than they may was german, and spectacled to ambulation, come the upset,
and suddenly be indignant that her parent should be thus amicable as
to happening that had arrive about.

She was lonely and german, botch upon question that might disregard. Outset
of the instance had ne'er miss. Why, they would
ask, should this Englishman preach to them?

He sat back in his chair wearily, with his chin sunk upon his chest. For a time he did not
think, and then, he read again the sentence in front of his eyes.

    "These boys, these hopes, this war has killed."

The words hung for a time in his mind.

"No!" said Mr. Britling stoutly. "They live!"

And suddenly it was borne in upon his mind that he was not alone. There were thousands and
tens of thousands of men and women like himself, desiring with all their hearts to say, as
he desired to say, the reconciling word. It was not only his hand that thrust against the obstacles....
Frenchmen and Russians sat in the same stillness, facing the same perplexities; there were
Germans seeking a way through to him. Even as he sat and wrote. And for the first time clearly
he felt a Presence of which he had thought very many times in the last few weeks, a Presence
so close to him that it was behind his eyes and in his brain and hands. It was no trick of
his vision; it was a feeling of immediate reality. And it was Hugh, Hugh that he had thought
was dead, it was young Heinrich living also, it was himself, it was those others that sought,
it was all these and it was more, it was the Master, the Captain of Mankind, it was God, there
present with him, and he knew that it was God. It was as if he had been groping all this time
in the darkness, thinking himself alone amidst rocks and pitfalls and pitiless things, and
suddenly a hand, a firm strong hand, had touched his own. And a voice within him bade him be
of good courage. There was no magic trickery in that moment; he was still weak and weary, a
discouraged rhetorician, a good intention ill-equipped; but he was no longer lonely and wretched,
no longer in the same world with despair. God was beside him and within him and about him....
It was the crucial moment of Mr. Britling's life. It was a thing as light as the passing of
a cloud on an April morning; it was a thing as great as the first day of creation. For some
moments he still sat back with his chin upon his chest and his hands dropping from the arms
of his chair. Then he sat up and drew a deep breath....

This had come almost as a matter of course.

For weeks his mind had been playing about this idea. He had talked to Letty of this Finite
God, who is the king of man's adventure in space and time. But hitherto God had been for him
a thing of the intelligence, a theory, a report, something told about but not realised....
Mr. Britling's thinking about God hitherto had been like some one who has found an empty house,
very beautiful and pleasant, full of the promise of a fine personality. And then as the discoverer
makes his lonely, curious explorations, he hears downstairs, dear and friendly, the voice of
the Master coming in....

There was no need to despair because he himself was one of the feeble folk. God was with him
indeed, and he was with God. The King was coming to his own. Amidst the darknesses and confusions,
the nightmare cruelties and the hideous stupidities of the great war, God, the Captain of the
World Republic, fought his way to empire. So long as one did one's best and utmost in a cause
so mighty, did it matter though the thing one did was little and poor?

"I have thought too much of myself," said Mr. Britling, "and of what I would do by myself.
I have forgotten that which was with me...."

Section 10

He turned over the rest of the night's writing presently, and read it now as though it was
the work of another man.

These later notes were fragmentary, and written in a sprawling hand.

    "Let us make ourselves watchers and guardians of the order of the
    world....

    "If only for love of our dead....

    "Let us pledge ourselves to service. Let us set ourselves with all
    our minds and all our hearts to the perfecting and working out of
    the methods of democracy and the ending for ever of the kings and
    emperors and priestcrafts and the bands of adventurers, the traders
    and owners and forestallers who have betrayed mankind into this
    morass of hate and blood--in which our sons are lost--in which we
    flounder still...."

How feeble was this squeak of exhortation! It broke into a scolding note.

"Who have betrayed," read Mr. Britling, and judged the phrase.

"Who have fallen with us," he amended....

"One gets so angry and bitter--because one feels alone, I suppose. Because one feels that for
them one's reason is no reason. One is enraged by the sense of their silent and regardless
contradiction, and one forgets the Power of which one is a part...."

The sheet that bore the sentence he criticised was otherwise blank except that written across
it obliquely in a very careful hand were the words "Hugh," and "Hugh Philip Britling."...

On the next sheet he had written: "Let us set up the peace of the World Republic amidst these
ruins. Let it be our religion, our calling."

There he had stopped.

The last sheet of Mr. Britling's manuscript may be more conveniently given in fac-simile than
described.

[Handwritten:

  Hugh
  Hugh
  My dear Hugh

  Lawyers Princes
  Dealers in Contention

  Honesty

  'Blood Blood ...

   an End to them

]

Section 11

He sighed.

He looked at the scattered papers, and thought of the letter they were to have made.

His fatigue spoke first.

"Perhaps after all I'd better just send the fiddle...."

He rested his cheeks between his hands, and remained so for a long time. His eyes stared unseeingly.
His thoughts wandered and spread and faded. At length he recalled his mind to that last idea.
"Just send the fiddle--without a word."

"No. I must write to them plainly.

"About God as I have found Him.

"As He has found me...."

He forgot the Pomeranians for a time. He murmured to himself. He turned over the conviction
that had suddenly become clear and absolute in his mind.

"Religion is the first thing and the last thing, and until a man has found God and been found
by God, he begins at no beginning, he works to no end. He may have his friendships, his partial
loyalties, his scraps of honour. But all these things fall into place and life falls into place
only with God. Only with God. God, who fights through men against Blind Force and Night and
Non-Existence; who is the end, who is the meaning. He is the only King.... Of course I must
write about Him. I must tell all my world of Him. And before the coming of the true King, the
inevitable King, the King who is present whenever just men foregather, this blood-stained rubbish
of the ancient world, these puny kings and tawdry emperors, these wily politicians and artful
lawyers, these men who claim and grab and trick and compel, these war makers and oppressors,
will presently shrivel and pass--like paper thrust into a flame...."

Then after a time he said:

"Our sons who have shown us God...."

Section 12

He rubbed his open hands over his eyes and forehead.

The night of effort had tired his brain, and he was no longer thinking actively. He had a little
interval of blankness, sitting at his desk with his hands pressed over his eyes....

He got up presently, and stood quite motionless at the window, looking out.

His lamp was still burning, but for some time he had not been writing by the light of his lamp.
Insensibly the day had come and abolished his need for that individual circle of yellow light.
Colour had returned to the world, clean pearly colour, clear and definite like the glance of
a child or the voice of a girl, and a golden wisp of cloud hung in the sky over the tower of
the church. There was a mist upon the pond, a soft grey mist not a yard high. A covey of partridges
ran and halted and ran again in the dewy grass outside his garden railings. The partridges
were very numerous this year because there had been so little shooting. Beyond in the meadow
a hare sat up as still as a stone. A horse neighed.... Wave after wave of warmth and light
came sweeping before the sunrise across the world of Matching's Easy. It was as if there was
nothing but morning and sunrise in the world.

From away towards the church came the sound of some early worker whetting a scythe.

THE END