JOY AND POWER

Three messages with One meaning

by

Henry van Dyke

1903

Dedicated to my friend John Huston Finley President of the College of the City of New York

THE PREFACE

The three messages which are brought together in this book were given not far apart in time,
though at some distance from one another in space. The one called Joy and Power was delivered
in Los Angeles, California, at the opening of the Presbyterian General Assembly, May 21, 1903.
The one called The Battle of Life was delivered on Baccalaureate Sunday at Princeton University,
June 7. The one called The Good Old Way was delivered on Baccalaureate Sunday at Harvard University,
June 14. At the time, I was thinking chiefly of the different qualities and needs of the people
to whom I had to speak. This will account for some things in the form of each message. But
now that they are put together I can see that all three of them say about the same thing. They
point in the same direction, urge the same course of action, and appeal to the same motive.
It is nothing new,--the meaning of this threefold message,--but it is the best that I have
learned in life. And I believe it is true,--so true that we need often to have it brought to
remembrance.

Henry van Dyke

Avalon, July 5, 1903

CONTENTS

i. Joy and Power

ii. The Battle of Life

iii. The Good Old Way

JOY AND POWER

    <i>St. John viii. 17: If ye know these things, happy are
    ye if ye do them.</i>

I ask you to think for a little while about the religion of Christ in its relation to happiness.

This is only one point in the circle of truth at the centre of which Jesus stands. But it is
an important point because it marks one of the lines of power which radiate from Him. To look
at it clearly and steadily is not to disregard other truths. The mariner takes the whole heavens
of astronomy for granted while he shapes his course by a single star.

In the wish for happiness all men are strangely alike. In their explanations of it and in their
ways of seeking it they are singularly different. Shall we think of this wish as right, or
wrong; as a true star, or a will-o'-the-wisp? If it is right to wish to be happy, what are
the conditions on which the fulfilment of this wish depends? These are the two questions with
which I would come to Christ, seeking instruction and guidance.

I. The desire of happiness, beyond all doubt, is a natural desire. It is the law of life itself
that every being seeks and strives toward the perfection of its kind, the realization of its
own specific ideal in form and function, and a true harmony with its environment. Every drop
of sap in the tree flows toward foliage and fruit. Every drop of blood in the bird beats toward
flight and song. In a conscious being this movement toward perfection must take a conscious
form. This conscious form is happiness,--the satisfaction of the vital impulse,--the rhythm
of the inward life,--the melody of a heart that has found its keynote. To say that all men
long for this is simply to confess that all men are human, and that their thoughts and feelings
are an essential part of their life. Virtue means a completed manhood. The joyful welfare of
the soul belongs to the fulness of that ideal. Holiness is wholeness. In striving to realize
the true aim of our being, we find the wish for happiness implanted in the very heart of our
effort.

Now what does Christ say in regard to this natural human wish? Does He say that it is an illusion?
Does He condemn and deny it? Would He have accepted Goethe's definition: "religion is renunciation"?

Surely such a notion is far from the spirit of Jesus. There is nothing of the hardness of Stoicism,
the coldness of Buddhism, in Christ's gospel. It is humane, sympathetic, consoling. Unrest
and weariness, the fever of passion and the chill of despair, soul-solitude and heart-trouble,
are the very things that He comes to cure. He begins His great discourse with a series of beatitudes.
"Blessed" is the word. "Happy" is the meaning. Nine times He rings the changes on that word,
like a silver bell sounding from His fair temple on the mountain-side, calling all who long
for happiness to come to Him and find rest for their souls.

Christ never asks us to give up merely for the sake of giving up, but always in order to win
something better. He comes not to destroy, but to fulfil,--to fill full,--to replenish life
with true, inward, lasting riches. His gospel is a message of satisfaction, of attainment,
of felicity. Its voice is not a sigh, but a song. Its final word is a benediction, a good-saying.
"These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might
be full."

If we accept His teaching we must believe that men are not wrong in wishing for happiness,
but wrong in their way of seeking it. Earthly happiness,--pleasure that belongs to the senses
and perishes with them,--earthly happiness is a dream and a delusion. But happiness on earth,--spiritual
joy and peace, blossoming here, fruiting hereafter,--immortal happiness, is the keynote of
life in Christ.

And if we come to Him, He tells us four great secrets in regard to it.

i. It is inward, and, not outward; and so it does not depend on what we have, but on what we are.

ii. It cannot be found by direct seeking, but by setting our faces toward the things from which
it flows; and so we must climb the mount if we would see the vision, we must tune the instrument
if we would hear the music.

iii. It is not solitary, but social; and so we can never have it without sharing it with others.

iv. It is the result of God's will for us, and not of our will for ourselves; and so we can
only find it by giving our lives up, in submission and obedience, to the control of God.

  For this is peace,--to lose the lonely note
  Of self in love's celestial ordered strain:
  And this is joy,--to find one's self again
  In Him whose harmonies forever float
  Through all the spheres of song, below, above,--
  For God is music, even as God is love.

This is the divine doctrine of happiness as Christ taught it by His life and with His lips.
If we want to put it into a single phrase, I know not where we shall find a more perfect utterance
than in the words which have been taught us in childhood,--words so strong, so noble, so cheerful,
that they summon the heart of manhood like marching-music: "Man's chief end is to glorify God
and enjoy Him forever."

Let us accept without reserve this teaching of our Divine Lord and Master in regard to the
possibility and the duty of happiness. It is an essential element of His gospel. The atmosphere
of the New Testament is not gloom, but gladness; not despondency, but hope. The man who is
not glad to be a Christian is not the right kind of a Christian.

The first thing that commended the Church of Jesus to the weary and disheartened world in the
early years of her triumph, was her power to make her children happy,--happy in the midst of
afflictions, happy in the release from the burden of guilt, happy in the sense of Divine Fatherhood
and human brotherhood, happy in Christ's victory over sin and death, happy in the assurance
of an endless life. At midnight in the prison, Paul and Silas sang praises, and the prisoners
heard them. The lateral force of joy,--that was the power of the Church.

  "'Poor world,' she cried, 'so deep accurst,
    Thou runn'st from pole to pole
  To seek a draught to slake thy thirst,--
    Go seek it in thy soul.'

         *       *       *       *       *

  Tears washed the trouble from her face!
    She changed into a child!
  'Mid weeds and wrecks she stood,--a place
    Of ruin,--but she smiled!"

Much has the Church lost of that pristine and powerful joy. The furnace of civilization has
withered and hardened her. She has become anxious and troubled about many things. She has sought
earthly honours, earthly powers. Richer she is than ever before, and probably better organized,
and perhaps more intelligent, more learned,--but not more happy. The one note that is most
often missing in Christian life, in Christian service, is the note of spontaneous joy.

Christians are not as much calmer, steadier, stronger, and more cheerful than other people
as they ought to be. Some Christians are among the most depressing and worryful people in the
world,--the most difficult to live with. And some, indeed, have adopted a theory of spiritual
ethics which puts a special value upon unhappiness. The dark, morbid spirit which mistrusts
every joyful feeling, and depreciates every cheerful virtue, and looks askance upon every happy
life as if there must be something wrong about it, is a departure from the beauty of Christ's
teaching to follow the dark-browed philosophy of the Orient.

The religion of Jesus tells us that cheerful piety is the best piety. There is something finer
than to do right against inclination; and that is to have an inclination to do right. There
is something nobler than reluctant obedience; and that is joyful obedience. The rank of virtue
is not measured by its disagreeableness, but by its sweetness to the heart that loves it. The
real test of character is joy. For what you rejoice in, that you love. And what you love, that
you are like.

I confess frankly that I have no admiration for the phrase "disinterested benevolence," to
describe the main-spring of Christian morals. I do not find it in the New Testament: neither
the words, nor the thing. Interested benevolence is what I find there. To do good to others
is to make life interesting and find peace for our own souls. To glorify God is to enjoy Him.
That was the spirit of the first Christians. Was not St. Paul a happier man than Herod? Did
not St. Peter have more joy of his life than Nero? It is said of the first disciples that they
"did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart." Not till that pristine gladness
of life returns will the Church regain her early charm for the souls of men. Every great revival
of Christian power--like those which came in the times of St. Francis of Assisi and of John
Wesley--has been marked and heralded by a revival of Christian joy.

If we want the Church to be mighty in power to win men, to be a source of light in the darkness,
a fountain of life in the wilderness, we must remember and renew, in the spirit of Christ,
the relation of religion to human happiness.

II. What, then, are the conditions upon which true happiness depends? Christ tells us in the
text: If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them.

This is the blessing with a double if. "If ye know,"--this is the knowledge which Christ gives
to faith. "If ye do,"--this is the obedience which faith gives to Christ. Knowing and Doing,--these
are the twin pillars, Jachin and Boaz, on which the house of happiness is built. The harmony
of faith and life,--this is the secret of inward joy and power.

You remember when these words were spoken. Christ had knelt to wash the disciples' feet. Peter,
in penitence and self-reproach, had hesitated to permit this lowly service of Divine love.
But Christ answered by revealing the meaning of His act as a symbol of the cleansing of the
soul from sin. He reminded the disciples of what they knew by faith,--that He was their Saviour
and their Lord. By deed and by word He called up before them the great spiritual truths which
had given new meaning to their life. He summoned them to live according to their knowledge,
to act upon the truth which they believed.

I am sure that His words sweep out beyond that quiet upper room, beyond that beautiful incident,
to embrace the whole spiritual life. I am sure that He is revealing to us the secret of happy
living which lies at the very heart of His gospel, when He says: If ye know these things, happy
are ye if ye do them.

i. "If ye know,"--there is, then, a certain kind of knowledge without which we can not be happy.
There are questions arising in human nature which demand an answer. If it is denied we can
not help being disappointed, restless, and sad. This is the price we have to pay for being
conscious, rational creatures. If we were mere plants or animals we might go on living through
our appointed years in complete indifference to the origin and meaning of our existence. But
within us, as human beings, there is something that cries out and rebels against such a blind
life. Man is born to ask what things mean. He is possessed with the idea that there is a significance
in the world beyond that which meets his senses.

John Fiske has brought out this fact very clearly in his last book, Through Nature to God.
He shows that "in the morning twilight of existence the Human Soul vaguely reached forth toward
something akin to itself, not in the realm of fleeting phenomena, but in the Eternal Presence
beyond." He argues by the analogy of evolution, which always presupposes a real relation between
the life and the environment to which it adjusts itself, that this forth-reaching and unfolding
of the soul implies the everlasting reality of religion.

The argument is good. But the point which concerns us now is simply this. The forth-reaching,
questioning soul can never be satisfied if it touches only a dead wall in the darkness, if
its seeking meets with the reply, "You do not know, and you never can know, and you must not
try to know." This is agnosticism. It is only another way of spelling unhappiness.

"Since Christianity is not true," wrote Ernest Renan, "nothing interests me, or appears worthy
my attention." That is the logical result of losing the knowledge of spiritual things,--a life
without real interest, without deep worth,--a life with a broken spring.

But suppose Renan is mistaken. Suppose Christianity is true. Then the first thing that makes
it precious, is that it answers our questions, and tells us the things that we must know in
order to be happy.

Christianity is a revealing religion, a teaching religion, a religion which conveys to the
inquiring spirit certain great and positive solutions of the problems of life. It is not silent,
nor ambiguous, nor incomprehensible in its utterance. It replies to our questions with a knowledge
which, though limited, is definite and sufficient. That the ruler of both worlds, seen and
unseen, is God, a Spirit, and the Father of our spirits. That He is not distant from us nor
indifferent to us, but that He has given His eternal Son Jesus Christ to be our Saviour. That
His Spirit is ever present with us to help us in our conflicts with evil, in our efforts toward
goodness. That He is making all things work together for good to those that love Him. That
through the sacrifice of Christ every one who will may obtain the forgiveness of sins and everlasting
peace. That through the resurrection of Christ all who love Him and their fellow-men shall
obtain the victory over death and live forever.

Now these are doctrines. And it is just because Christianity contains such doctrines that it
satisfies the need of man.

"The first and the most essential condition of true happiness," writes Professor Carl Hilty,
the eminent Swiss jurist, "is a firm faith in the moral order of the world. What is the happy
life? And wherein is the profoundest unhappiness? It is in the sense of remoteness from God,
issuing into incurable restlessness of heart, and finally into incapacity to make one's life
fruitful or effective."

What shall we say, then, of the proposal to adapt Christianity to the needs of the world to-day
by eliminating or ignoring its characteristic doctrines? You might as well propose to fit a
ship for service by taking out its compass and its charts and cutting off its rudder. Make
Christianity silent in regard to these great questions of spiritual existence, and you destroy
its power to satisfy the heart.

What would the life of Christ mean if these deep truths on which He rested and from which He
drew His strength, were uncertain or illusory? It would be the most pathetic, mournful, heartbreaking
of all phantoms.

What consoling, cheering power would be left in the words of Jesus if His doctrine were blotted
out and His precept left to stand alone? Try the experiment, if it may be done without irreverence:
read His familiar discourses in the shadow of agnosticism.

'Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is a hopeless poverty. Blessed are the pure in
heart, for they know not whether they shall see God. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you
and persecute you, for ye have no promise of a heavenly reward.

'Enter into thy closet and when thou hast shut the door, keep silence, for thou canst not tell
whether there is One to hear thy voice in secret. Take no thought for the morrow, for thou
knowest not whether there is a Father who careth for thee.

'God is unknown, and they that worship Him must worship Him in ignorance and doubt. No man
hath ascended up into heaven, neither hath any man come down from heaven, for the Son of Man
hath never been in heaven. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born
of the spirit is a dream. Man shall not live by bread alone, neither shall he listen for any
word from the mouth of God. I proceeded forth and came from darkness, I came of myself, I know
not who sent me. Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe not in God, ye need not believe
in me. Keep my commandments, and I will not pray for you, and ye shall abide without a Comforter.
In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer, for ye know not whether there
is a world to come. I came forth from darkness into the world, and again I leave the world
and return to darkness. Peace I leave with you. If ye loved me ye would rejoice because I said,
I go into darkness, and where I am there shall ye be also.'

Is it conceivable that any suffering, sorrowing human soul should be comforted and strengthened
by such a message as this? Could it possibly be called a gospel, glad tidings of great joy
to all people?

And yet what has been omitted here from the words of Christ? Nothing but what men call doctrines:
the personality of God, the divinity of Christ, the Atonement, the presence and power of the
Holy Spirit, the sovereignty of the Heavenly Father, the truth of the divine revelation, the
reality of the heavenly world, the assurance of immortal life. But it is just from these doctrines
that the teaching of Jesus draws its peculiar power to comfort and inspire. They are the rays
of light which disperse the gloom of uncertainty. They are the tones of celestial music which
fill the heart of man with good cheer.

Let us never imagine that we can strengthen Christianity by leaving out the great doctrines
which have given it life and power. Faith is not a mere matter of feeling. It is the acceptance
of truth, positive, unchanging, revealed truth, in regard to God and the world, Christ and
the soul, duty and immortality. The first appeal to faith lies in the clearness and vividness,
the simplicity and joy, with which this truth is presented.

There has not been too much preaching of doctrine in this age. There has been too little. And
what there has been, has been too dull and cold and formal, too vague and misty, too wavering
and uncertain.

What the world wants and waits for to-day is a strong, true, vital preaching of doctrine. The
Church must realize anew the precious value of the truths which Christ has given her. She must
not conceal them or cast them away; she must bring them out into the light, press them home
upon the minds and hearts of men. She must simplify her statement of them, so that men can
understand what they mean. She must not be content with repeating them in the language of past
centuries. She must translate them into the language of to-day. First century texts will never
wear out because they are inspired. But seventeenth century sermons grow obsolete because they
are not inspired. Texts from the Word of God, preaching in the words of living men,--that is
what we need.

We must think about the doctrines of Christianity more earnestly and profoundly. We must renew
our Christian evidences, as an army fits itself with new weapons. The old-fashioned form of
the "argument from design in nature" has gone out with the old-fashioned books of science which
it used. But there is a new and more wonderful proof of God's presence in the world,--the argument
from moral ends in evolution. Every real advance of science makes the intelligent order of
the universe more sublimely clear. Every century of human experience confirms the Divine claims
and adds to the Divine triumphs of Jesus Christ. Social progress has followed to a hair's breadth
the lines of His gospel; and He lays His hand to-day with heavenly wisdom on the social wants
that still trouble us, "the social lies that warp us from the living truth." Christ's view
of life and the world is as full of sweet reasonableness now as it was in the first century.
Every moral step that man has taken upward has brought a wider, clearer vision of his need
of such a religion as that which Christ teaches.

Let not the Church falter and blush for her doctrines. Let her not turn and go down the hill
of knowledge to defend her position in the valley of ignorance. Let her go up the hill, welcoming
every wider outlook, rejoicing in every new discovery, gathering fresh evidences of the truths
which man must believe concerning God and new motives to the duties which God requires of man.

But in doing this we must put the emphasis of our preaching to-day where it belongs, where
Christ puts it, on the doctrines that are most important to human life and happiness. We can
afford to let the fine metaphysical distinctions of theology rest for a while, and throw all
our force on the central, fundamental truths which give steadiness and courage and cheer to
the heart of man. I will not admit that it makes no difference to a man of this age whether
or not he believes in the personal God and the Divine Christ. If he really believes, it makes
all the difference between spiritual strength and spiritual weakness, between optimism and
pessimism. I will not admit that it makes no difference to a learned scholar or a simple labourer
to-day whether he accepts or ignores the doctrine of the atonement, the doctrine of personal
immortality. If he knows that Christ died for him, that there is a future beyond the grave,
it makes all the difference between despair and hope, between misery and consolation, between
the helpless frailty of a being that is puffed out like a candle, and the joyful power of an
endless life.

My brethren, we must work and pray for a true revival of Christian doctrine in our age. We
must deepen our own hold upon the truths which Christ has taught us. We must preach them more
simply, more confidently, more reasonably, more earnestly. We must draw from them the happiness
and the help, the comfort and the inspiration, that they have to give to the souls of men.
But most of all, we must keep them in close and living touch with the problems of daily duty
and experience. For no doctrine, however high, however true, can make men happy until it is
translated into life.

ii. Here is the second if, on which the power of religion to confer happiness depends: If ye
know, happy are ye if ye do these things.

Between the knowing and the doing there is a deep gulf. Into that abyss the happiness of many
a man slips, and is lost. There is no peace, no real and lasting felicity for a human life
until the gulf is closed, and the continent of conduct meets the continent of creed, edge to
edge, lip to lip, firmly joined forever.

It is not a blessing to know the things that Christ teaches, and then go on living as if they
were false or doubtful. It is a trouble, a torment, a secret misery. To know that God is our
Father, and yet to withhold our love and service from Him; to know that Christ died for us,
and yet to deny Him and refuse to follow Him; to know that there is an immortal life, and yet
to waste and lose our souls in the pursuit of sensual pleasure and such small portion of the
world as we may hope to gain,--surely that is the deepest of all unhappiness.

But the right kind of knowing carries in its heart the doing of the truth. And the right kind
of doing leads to a fuller and happier knowing. "If any man will do God's will," declares Christ,
"he shall know of the doctrine."

Let a man take the truth of the Divine Fatherhood and begin to conform his life to its meaning.
Let him give up his anxious worryings, his murmurings, his complainings, and trust himself
completely to his Father's care. Let him do his work from day to day as well as he can and
leave the results to God. Let him come to his Father every day and confess his faults and ask
for help and guidance. Let him try to obey and please God for love's sake. Let him take refuge
from the trials and confusions and misunderstandings of the world, from the wrath of men and
the strife of tongues, in the secret of his Father's presence. Surely if he learns the truth
thus, by doing it, he will find happiness.

Or take the truth of immortality. Let a man live now in the light of the knowledge that he
is to live forever. How it will deepen and strengthen the meaning of his existence, lift him
above petty cares and ambitions, and make the things that are worth while precious to his heart!
Let him really set his affections on the spiritual side of life, let him endure afflictions
patiently because he knows that they are but for a moment, let him think more of the soul than
of the body, let him do good to his fellow-men in order to make them sharers of his immortal
hope, let him purify his love and friendship that they may be fit for the heavenly life. Surely
the man who does these things will be happy. It will be with him as with Lazarus, in Robert
Browning's poem, "The Epistle of Karshish." Others will look at him with wonder and say:

  "Whence has the man the balm that brightens all?
  This grown man eyes the world now like a child."

Yes, my brethren, this is the sure result of following out the doctrines of Christ in action,
of living the truths that He teaches,--a simple life, a childlike life, a happy life. And this
also the Church needs to-day, as well as a true revival of doctrine.

A revival of simplicity, a revival of sincerity, a revival of work: this will restore unto
us the joy of salvation. And with the joy of salvation will come a renewal and expansion of power.

The inconsistency of Christians is the stronghold of unbelief. The lack of vital joy in the
Church is the chief cause of indifference in the world. The feeble energy, the faltering and
reluctant spirit, the weariness in well-doing with which too many believers impoverish and
sadden their own hearts, make other men question the reality and value of religion and turn
away from it in cool neglect.

What, then, is the duty of the Church? What must she do to win the confidence of the world?
What is the best way for her to "prove her doctrine all divine"?

First, she must increase her labours in the love of men: second, she must practice the simple
life, deepening her trust in God.

Suppose that a fresh flood of energy, brave, cheerful, joyous energy, should be poured into
all the forms of Christian work. Suppose that Foreign Missions and Home Missions should no
longer have to plead and beg for support, but that plenty of money should come flowing in to
send out every missionary that wants to go, and that plenty of the strongest and best young
men should dedicate their lives to the ministry of Christ, and that every household where His
gospel is believed should find its highest honour and its greatest joy in helping to extend
His kingdom.

And then suppose that the Christian life, in its daily manifestation, should come to be marked
and known by simplicity and happiness. Suppose that the followers of Jesus should really escape
from bondage to the evil spirits of avarice and luxury which infect and torment so much of
our complicated, tangled, artificial, modern life. Suppose that instead of increasing their
wants and their desires, instead of loading themselves down on life's journey with so many
bags and parcels and boxes of superfluous luggage and bric-a-brac that they are forced to sit
down by the roadside and gasp for breath, instead of wearing themselves out in the dusty ways
of ostentation and vain show or embittering their hearts because they can not succeed in getting
into the weary race of wealth and fashion,--suppose instead of all this, they should turn to
quiet ways, lowly pleasures, pure and simple joys, "plain living and high thinking." Suppose
they should truly find and show their happiness in the knowledge that God loves them and Christ
died for them and heaven is sure, and so set their hearts free to rejoice in life's common
mercies, the light of the sun, the blue of the sky, the splendour of the sea, the peace of
the everlasting hills, the song of birds, the sweetness of flowers, the wholesome savour of
good food, the delights of action and motion, the refreshment of sleep, the charm of music,
the blessings of human love and friendship,--rejoice in all these without fear or misgiving,
because they come from God and because Christ has sanctified them all by His presence and touch.

Suppose, I say, that such a revival of the joy of living in Christ and working for Christ should
silently sweep over the Church in the Twentieth Century. What would happen? Great would be
the peace of her children. Greater still would be their power.

This is the message which I have to bring to you, my brethren, in this General Assembly of
the Presbyterian Church. You may wonder that it is not more distinctive, more ecclesiastical,
more specially adapted to the peculiarities of our own denomination. You may think that it
is a message which could just as well be brought to any other Church on any other occasion.
With all my heart I hope that is true. The things that I care for most in our Church are not
those which divide us from other Christians but those which unite us to them. The things that
I love most in Christianity are those which give it power to save and satisfy, to console and
cheer, to inspire and bless human hearts and lives. The thing that I desire most for Presbyterianism
is that it should prove its mission and extend its influence in the world by making men happy
in the knowing and the doing of the things which Christ teaches.

The Church that the Twentieth Century will hear most gladly and honour most sincerely will
have two marks. It will be the Church that teaches most clearly and strongly the truths that
Jesus taught. It will be the Church that finds most happiness in living the simple life and
doing good in the world.

THE BATTLE OF LIFE

    <i>Romans vii. 21: Overcome evil with good.</i>

