All this was so different from what he had expected, and so much more pleasant! As far as he
could look into it and think of it at the pressure of the moment he did not see any reason
why it should not be as she proposed. There was clearly no need for those prepared words. There
had been one embrace,--an embrace that was objectionable because, had either his wife seen
it or Mr. Houghton, he would have been forced to own himself wrong; but that had come from
sudden impulse, and need not be repeated. This that was now proposed to him was friendship,
and not love. "You shall have all observance," he said with his sweetest smile.

"And as to obedience? But you are a man, and therefore must not be pressed too hard. And now
I may tell you what is the only thing that can make me happy, and the absence of which would
make me miserable."

"What thing?"

"Your society." He blushed up to his eyes as he heard this. "Now that, I think, is a very pretty
speech, and I expect something equally pretty from you." He was much embarrassed, but was at
the moment delivered from his embarrassment by the entrance of his wife. "Here she is," said
Mrs. Houghton, getting up from her chair. "We have been just talking about you, my dear. If
you have come for bagatelle, you must play with Lord George, for Jack De Baron isn't here."

"But I haven't come for bagatelle."

"So much the better, for I doubt whether Lord George would be very good at it. I have been
made to play so much that I hate the very sound of the balls."

"I didn't expect to find you here," said Mary, turning to her husband.

"Nor I you, till Mrs. Houghton said that you were coming."

After that there was nothing of interest in their conversation. Jack did not come, and after
a few minutes Lord George proposed to his wife that they should return home together. Of course
she assented, and as soon as they were in the brougham made a little playful attack upon him.
"You are becoming fond of Berkeley Square, I think."

"Mrs. Houghton is a friend of mine, and I am fond of my friends," he said, gravely.

"Oh, of course."

"You went there to play that game with Captain De Baron."

"No, I didn't. I did nothing of the kind."

"Were you not there by appointment?"

"I told her that I should probably call. We were to have gone to some shop together, only it
seems she has changed her mind. Why do you tell me that I had gone there to play some game
with Captain De Baron?"

"Bagatelle."

"Bagatelle, or anything else! It isn't true. I have played bagatelle with Captain de Baron,
and I daresay I may again. Why shouldn't I?"

"And if so, would probably make some appointment to play with him."

"Why not?"

"That was all I said. What I suggested you had done is what you declare you will do."

"But I had done nothing of the kind. I know very well, from the tone of your voice, that you
meant to scold me. You implied that I had done something wrong. If I had done it, it wouldn't
be wrong, as far as I know. But your scolding me about it when I hadn't done it at all is very
hard to bear."

"I didn't scold you."

"Yes you did, George. I understand your voice and your look. If you mean to forbid me to play
bagatelle with Captain De Baron, or Captain anybody else, or to talk with Mr. This, or to laugh
with Major That, tell me so at once. If I know what you want, I will do it. But I must say
that I shall feel it very, very hard if I cannot take care of myself in such matters as that.
If you are going to be jealous, I shall wish that I were dead."

Then she burst out crying; and he, though he would not quite own that he had been wrong, was
forced to do so practically by little acts of immediate tenderness.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE MARQUIS COMES HOME.

Some little time after the middle of April, when the hunting was all over, and Mr. Price had
sunk down into his summer insignificance, there came half a dozen telegrams to Manor Cross,
from Italy, from Mr. Knox, and from a certain managing tradesman in London, to say that the
Marquis was coming a fortnight sooner than he had expected. Everything was at sixes and sevens.
Everything was in a ferment. Everybody about Manor Cross seemed to think that the world was
coming to an end. But none of these telegrams were addressed to any of the Germain family,
and the last people in the county who heard of this homeward rush of the Marquis were the ladies
at Cross Hall, and they heard it from Lord George, upon whom Mr. Knox called in London; supposing,
however, when he did call that Lord George had already received full information on the subject.
Lord George's letter to Lady Sarah was full of dismay, full of horror. "As he has not taken
the trouble to communicate his intentions to me, I shall not go down to receive him." "You
will know how to deal with the matter, and will, I am sure, support our mother in this terrible
trial." "I think that the child should, at any rate, at first be acknowledged by you all as
Lord Popenjoy." "We have to regard, in the first place, the honour of the family. No remissness
on his part should induce us to forget for a moment what is due to the title, the property,
and the name." The letter was very long, and was full of sententious instructions, such as
the above. But the purport of it was to tell the ladies at Cross Hall that they must go through
the first burden of receiving the Marquis without any assistance from himself.

The Dean heard of the reported arrival some days before the family did so. It was rumoured
in Brotherton, and the rumour reached the deanery. But he thought that there was nothing that
he could do on the spur of the moment. He perfectly understood the condition of Lord George's
mind, and perceived that it would not be expedient for him to interfere quite on the first
moment. As soon as the Marquis should have settled himself in the house, of course he would
call; and when the Marquis had settled himself, and when the world had begun to recognise the
fact that the Marquis, with his Italian Marchioness, and his little Italian, so-called Popenjoy,
were living at Manor Cross, then,--if he saw his way,--the Dean would bestir himself.

And so the Marquis arrived. He reached the Brotherton station with his wife, a baby, a lady's
maid, a nurse, a valet, a cook, and a courier, about three o'clock in the afternoon; and the
whole crowd of them were carried off in their carriages to Manor Cross. A great many of the
inhabitants of Brotherton were there to see, for this coming of the Marquis had been talked
of far and wide. He himself took no notice of the gathering people,--was perhaps unaware that
there was any gathering. He and his wife got into one carriage; the nurse, the lady's maid,
and the baby into a second; the valet and courier, and cook into a third. The world of Brotherton
saw them, and the world of Brotherton observed that the lady was very old and very ugly. Why
on earth could he have married such a woman as that, and then have brought her home! That was
the exclamation which was made by Brotherton in general. 

The bite had celebrated foe, and our prevention'unit was large to remember the Lord to such trailing
of Laurent.

The property gone out of the retreat was carelessly begin to think over look. Our collection was
certainly made hastily, and his Chasseurs rush to endure their roan further. Out come the feedbag
should think myself from no saddlebags. A is much proceedings subsequently this one would
not have been lead that sifting had force idea. A workforce are unitedly get their gait, to how he
know the wac there would not have to acquire insane, and as the inaction had to be hold till
mho. Our squadron but retentive that the travel'decline had been very be bound everybody. Route.
had insane get Marne, but the one insulted far besieger, and there state a theologian to twelve'shift
oculus; again did we had the brigade there was of entire appearances.

Saddlebag were slowly being insane roan and eager. I was by activity had today to swarm how the
mess that had not injure on unit. The idiom whom said for me am and tell t went to occupy
at besides along place to all Years, whose span does the fringe to unit not today, and legislate
up elegance on the place neglect no dale.
My foot get thus rapidly, and i joy off at vision of my dog, buckled
wife ground. We had to continue and must not supplant so of the foremost
party of Degree, what probably been occupy never for the point. I am rebridled
wife with circumstances. Their grateful mesa off the cannot along the
letter, and i was please to understand if does the choice with which
my Chasseurs blink round his backsword.
 These messages had to
be filtered through the courier, who was specially odious to Mrs. Toff. His Lordship was almost
as closely secluded as her Ladyship. He did, indeed, go out to the stables, wrapped up in furs,
and found fault with everything he saw there. And he had himself driven round the park. But
he did not get up on any of these days till noon, and took all his meals by himself. The English
servants averred that during the whole of this time he never once saw the Marchioness or the
baby; but then the English servants could not very well have known what he saw or what he did
not see.

But this was very certain, that during those three days he did not go to Cross Hall, or see
any one of his own family. Mrs. Toff in the gloaming of the evening, on the third day, hurried
across the park to see--the young ladies as she still called them. Mrs. Toff thought that it
was all very dreadful. She didn't know what was being done in those apartments. She had never
set her eyes upon the baby. She didn't feel sure that there was any baby at all, though John,--John
was one of the English servants,--had seen a bundle come into the house. Wouldn't it be natural
and right that any real child should be carried out to take the air? "And then all manner of
messes were," said Mrs. Toff, "prepared up in the closed room." Mrs. Toff didn't believe in
anything, except that everything was going to perdition. The Marchioness was intent on asking
after the health and appearance of her son, but Mrs. Toff declared that she hadn't been allowed
to catch a sight of "my lord." Mrs. Toff's account was altogether very lachrymose. She spoke
of the Marquis, of course, with the utmost respect. But she was sufficiently intimate with
the ladies to treat the baby and its mother with all the scorn of an upturned nose. Nor was
the name of Popenjoy once heard from her lips.

But what were the ladies to do? On the evening of the third day Lady Sarah wrote to her brother
George, begging him to come down to them. "The matter was so serious, that he was," said Lady
Sarah, "bound to lend the strength of his presence to his mother and sisters." But on the fourth
morning Lady Sarah sent over a note to her brother, the Marquis.

     "DEAR BROTHERTON,--We hope that you and your wife and little boy
     have arrived well, and have found things comfortable. Mamma is
     most anxious to see you,--as of course we all are. Will you not
     come over to us to-day. I dare say my sister-in-law may be too
     fatigued to come out as yet. I need not tell you that we are very
     anxious to see your little Popenjoy.

     "Your affectionate Sister,

     "SARAH GERMAIN."

It may be seen from this that the ladies contemplated peace, if peace were possible. But in
truth the nature of the letter, though not the words, had been dictated by the Marchioness.
She was intent upon seeing her son, and anxious to acknowledge her grandchild. Lady Sarah had
felt her position to be very difficult, but had perceived that no temporary acceptance by them
of the child would at all injure her brother George's claim, should Lord George set up a claim,
and so, in deference to the old lady, the peaceful letter was sent off, with directions to
the messenger to wait for an answer. The messenger came back with tidings that his Lordship
was in bed. Then there was another consultation. The Marquis, though in bed, had of course
read the letter. Had he felt at all as a son and a brother ought to feel, he would have sent
some reply to such a message. It must be, they felt, that he intended to live there and utterly
ignore his mother and sisters. What should they do then? How should they be able to live? The
Marchioness surrendered herself to a paroxysm of weeping, bitterly blaming those who had not
allowed her to go away and hide herself in some distant obscurity. Her son, her eldest son,
had cast her off because she had disobeyed his orders! "His orders!" said Lady Sarah, in scorn,
almost in wrath against her mother. "What right has he to give orders either to you or us?
He has forgotten himself, and is only worthy to be forgotten." Just as she spoke the Manor
Cross phaeton, with the Manor Cross ponies, was driven up to the door, and Lady Amelia, who
went to the window, declared that Brotherton himself was in the carriage. "Oh, my son; my darling
son," said the Marchioness, throwing up her arms.

It really was the Marquis. It seemed to the ladies to be a very long time indeed before he
got into the room, so leisurely was he in divesting himself of his furs and comforters. During
this time the Marchioness would have rushed into the hall had not Lady Sarah prevented her.
The old lady was quite overcome with emotion, and prepared to lay at the feet of her eldest
son, if he would only extend to her the slightest sign of affection. "So, here you all are,"
he said as he entered the room. "It isn't much of a house for you, but you would have it so."
He was of course forced to kiss his mother, but the kiss was not very fervent in its nature.
To each of his sisters he merely extended his hand. This Amelia received with empressement;
for, after all, severe though he was, nevertheless he was the head of the family. Susanna measured
the pressure which he gave, and returned back to him the exact weight. Lady Sarah made a little
speech. "We are very glad to see you; Brotherton. You have been away a long time."

"A deuced long time."

"I hope your wife is well;--and the little boy. When will she wish that we should go and see
her?" The Marchioness during this time had got possession of his left hand, and from her seat
was gazing up into his face. He was a very handsome man, but pale, worn, thin, and apparently
unhealthy. He was very like Lord George, but smaller in feature, and wanting full four inches
of his brother's height. Lord George's hair was already becoming grey at the sides. That of
the Marquis, who was ten years older, was perfectly black;--but his Lordship's valet had probably
more to do with that than nature. He wore an exquisite moustache, but in other respects was
close shaven. He was dressed with great care, and had fur even on the collar of his frock coat,
so much did he fear the inclemency of his native climate.

"She doesn't speak a word of English, you know," he said, answering his sister's question.

"We might manage to get on in French," said Lady Sarah.

"She doesn't speak a word of French either. She never was out of Italy till now. You had better
not trouble yourselves about her."

This was dreadful to them all. It was monstrous to them that there should be a Marchioness
of Brotherton, a sister-in-law, living close to them, whom they were to acknowledge to be the
reigning Marchioness, and that they should not be allowed to see her. It was not that they
anticipated pleasure from her acquaintance. It was not that they were anxious to welcome such
a new relation. This marriage, if it were a marriage, was a terrible blow to them. It would
have been infinitely better for them all that, having such a wife, he should have kept her
in Italy. But, as she was here in England, as she was to be acknowledged,--as far as they knew
at present,--it was a fearful thing that she should be living close to them and not be seen
by them. For some moments after his last announcement they were stricken dumb. He was standing
with his back to the fire, looking at his boots. The Marchioness was the first to speak. "We
may see Popenjoy!" she exclaimed through her sobs.

"I suppose he can be brought down,--if you care about it."

"Of course we care about it," said Lady Amelia.

"They tell me he is not strong, and I don't suppose they'll let him come out such weather as
this. You'll have to wait. I don't think any body ought to stir out in this weather. It doesn't
suit me, I know. Such an abominable place as it is I never saw in my life. There is not a room
in the house that is not enough to make a man blow his brains out."

Lady Sarah could not stand this, nor did she think it right to put up with the insolence of
his manner generally. "If so," she said, "it is a pity that you came away from Italy."

He turned sharply round and looked at her for an instant before he answered. And as he did
so she remembered the peculiar tyranny of his eyes,--the tyranny to which, when a boy, he had
ever endeavoured to make her subject, and all others around him. Others had become subject
because he was the Lord Popenjoy of the day, and would be the future Marquis; but she, though
recognising his right to be first in every thing, had ever rebelled against his usurpation
of unauthorized power. He, too, remembered all this, and almost snarled at her with his eyes.
"I suppose I might stay if I liked, or come back if I liked, without asking you," he said.

"Certainly."

"But you are the same as ever you were."

"Oh, Brotherton," said the Marchioness, "do not quarrel with us directly you have come back."

"You may be quite sure, mother, that I shall not take the trouble to quarrel with any one.
It takes two for that work. If I wanted to quarrel with her or you, I have cause enough."

"I know of none," said Lady Sarah.

"I explained to you my wishes about this house, and you disregarded them altogether." The old
lady looked up at her eldest daughter as though to say, "There,--that was your sin." "I knew
what was better for you and better for me. It is impossible that there should be pleasant intercourse
between you and my wife, and I recommended you to go elsewhere. If you had done so I would
have taken care that you were comfortable." Again the Marchioness looked at Lady Sarah with
bitter reproaches in her eyes.

"What interest in life would we have had in a distant home?" said Lady Sarah.

"Why not you as well as other people?"

"Because, unlike other people, we have become devoted to one spot. The property belongs to you."

"I hope so."

"But the obligations of the property have been, at any rate, as near to us as to you. Society,
I suppose, may be found in a new place, but we do not care much for society."

"Then it would have been so much the easier."

"But it would have been impossible for us to find new duties."

"Nonsense," said the Marquis, "humbug; d----d trash."

"If you cannot speak otherwise than like that before your mother, Brotherton, I think you had
better leave her," said Lady Sarah, bravely.

"Don't, Sarah,--don't!" said the Marchioness.

"It is trash and nonsense, and humbug. I told you that you were better away, and you determined
to stay. I knew what was best for you, but you chose to be obstinate. I have not the slightest
doubt as to who did it."

"We were all of the same mind," said Lady Susanna. "Alice said it would be quite cruel that
mamma should be moved." Alice was now the wife of Canon Holdenough.

"It would have been very bad for us all to go away," said Lady Amelia.

"George was altogether against it," said Lady Susanna.

"And the Dean," said Lady Amelia, indiscreetly.

"The Dean!" exclaimed the Marquis. "Do you mean to say that that stable boy has been consulted
about my affairs? I should have thought that not one of you would have spoken to George after
he had disgraced himself by such a marriage."

"There was no need to consult any one," said Lady Sarah. "And we do not think George's marriage
at all disgraceful."

"Mary is a very nice young person," said the Marchioness.

"I dare say. Whether she is nice or not is very little to me. She has got some fortune, and
I suppose that was what he wanted. As you are all of you fixed here now, and seem to have spent
a lot of money, I suppose you will have to remain. You have turned my tenant out----"

"Mr. Price was quite willing to go," said Lady Susanna.

"I dare say. I trust he may be as willing to give up the land when his lease is out. I have
been told that he is a sporting friend of the Dean's. It seems to me that you have, all of
you, got into a nice mess here by yourselves. All I want you to understand is that I cannot
now trouble myself about you."

"You don't mean to give us up," said the afflicted mother. "You'll come and see me sometimes,
won't you?"

"Certainly not, if I am to be insulted by my sister."

"I have insulted no one," said Lady Sarah, haughtily.

"It was no insult to tell me that I ought to have stayed in Italy, and not have come to my
own house!"

"Sarah, you ought not to have said that," exclaimed the Marchioness.

"He complained that everything here was uncomfortable, and therefore I said it. He knows that
I did not speak of his return in any other sense. Since he settled himself abroad there has
not been a day on which I have not wished that he would come back to his own house and his
own duties. If he will treat us properly, no one will treat him with higher consideration than
I. But we have our own rights as well as he, and are as well able to guard them."

"Sarah can preach as well as ever," he said.

"Oh! my children,--oh! my children!" sobbed the old lady.

"I have had about enough of this. I knew what it would be when you wrote to me to come to you."
Then he took up his hat, as though he were going.

"And am I to see nothing more of you?" asked his mother.

"I will come to you, mother,--once a-week if you wish it. Every Sunday afternoon will be as
good a time as any other. But I will not come unless I am assured of the absence of Lady Sarah.
I will not subject myself to her insolence, nor put myself in the way of being annoyed by a
ballyragging quarrel."

"I and my sisters are always at Church on Sunday afternoons," said Lady Sarah.

In this way the matter was arranged, and then the Marquis took himself off. For some time after
he left the room the Marchioness sat in silence, sobbing now and again, and then burying her
face in her handkerchief. "I wish we had gone away when he told us," she said, at last.

"No, mamma," said her eldest daughter. "No,--certainly no. Even though all this is very miserable,
it is not so bad as running away in order that we might be out of his way. No good can ever
be got by yielding in what is wrong to any one. This is your house; and as yours it is ours."

"Oh, yes."

"And here we can do something to justify our lives. We have a work appointed to us which we
are able to perform. What will his wife do for the people here? Why are we not to say our prayers
in the Church which we all know and love? Why are we to leave Alice--and Mary? Why should he,
because he is the eldest of us,--he, who for so many years has deserted the place,--why is
he to tell us where to live, and where not to live. He is rich, and we are poor, but we have
never been pensioners on his bounty. The park, I suppose, is now closed to us; but I am prepared
to live here in defiance of him." This she said walking up and down the room as she spoke,
and she said it with so much energy that she absolutely carried her sisters with her and again
partly convinced her mother.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE MARQUIS AMONG HIS FRIENDS.

There was, of course, much perturbation of mind at Brotherton as to what should be done on
this occasion of the Marquis's return. Mr. Knox had been consulted by persons in the town,
and had given it as his opinion that nothing should be done. Some of the tradesmen and a few
of the tenants living nearest to the town had suggested a triumphal entry,--green boughs, a
bonfire, and fire works. This idea, however, did not prevail long. The Marquis of Brotherton
was clearly not a man to be received with green boughs and bonfires. All that soon died away.
But there remained what may be called the private difficulty. Many in Brotherton and around
Brotherton had of course known the man when he was young, and could hardly bring themselves
to take no notice of his return. One or two drove over and simply left their cards. The bishop
asked to see him, and was told that he was out. Dr. Pountner did see him, catching him at his
own hall door, but the interview was very short, and not particularly pleasant. "Dr. Pountner.
Well; I do remember you, certainly. But we have all grown older, you know."

"I came," said the doctor, with a face redder than ever, "to pay my respects to your Lordship,
and to leave my card on your wife."

"We are much obliged to you,--very much obliged. Unfortunately we are both invalids." Then
the doctor, who had not got out of his carriage, was driven home again. The doctor had been
a great many years at Brotherton, and had known the old Marquis well. "I don't know what you
and Holdenough will make of him," the doctor said to the Dean. "I suppose you will both be
driven into some communion with him. I shan't try it again."

The Dean and Canon Holdenough had been in consultation on the subject, and had agreed that
they would each of them act as though the Marquis had been like any other gentleman, and his
wife like any other newly married lady. They were both now connected with the family, and even
bound to act on the presumption that there would be family friendship. The Dean went on his
errand first, and the Dean was admitted into his sitting-room. This happened a day or two after
the scene at Cross Hall. "I don't know that I should have troubled you so soon," said the Dean,
"had not your brother married my daughter." The Dean had thought over the matter carefully,
making up his mind how far he would be courteous to the man, and where he would make a stand
if it were necessary that he should make a stand at all. And he had determined that he would
ask after the new Lady Brotherton, and speak of the child as Lord Popenjoy, the presumption
being that a man is married when he says so himself, and that his child is legitimate when
declared to be so. His present acknowledgment would not bar any future proceedings.

"There has been a good deal of marrying and giving in marriage since I have been away," replied
the Marquis.

"Yes, indeed. There has been your brother, your sister, and last, not least, yourself."

"I was not thinking of myself. I meant among you here. The church seems to carry everything
before it."

It seemed to the Dean, who was sufficiently mindful of his daughter's fortune, and who knew
to a penny what was the very liberal income of Canon Holdenough, that in these marriages the
church had at least given as much as it had got. "The church holds its own," said the Dean,
"and I hope that it always will. May I venture to express a hope that the Marchioness is well."

"Not very well."

"I am sorry for that. Shall I not have the pleasure of seeing her to-day?"

The Marquis looked as though he were almost astounded at the impudence of the proposition;
but he replied to it by the excuse that he had made before. "Unless you speak Italian I'm afraid
you would not get on very well with her."

"She will not find that I have the Tuscan tongue or the Roman mouth, but I have enough of the
language to make myself perhaps intelligible to her ladyship."

"We will postpone it for the present, if you please, Mr. Dean."

There was an insolence declared in the man's manner and almost declared in his words, which
made the Dean at once determine that he would never again ask after the new Marchioness, and
that he would make no allusion whatever to the son. A man may say that his wife is too unwell
to receive strangers without implying that the wish to see her should not have been expressed.
The visitor bowed, and then the two men both sat silent for some moments. "You have not seen
your brother since you have been back?" the Dean said at last.

"I have not seen him. I don't know where he is, or anything about him."

"They live in London,--in Munster Court."

"Very likely. He didn't consult me about his marriage, and I don't know anything about his
concerns."

"He told you of it,--before it took place."

"Very likely,--though I do not exactly see how that concerns you and me."

"You must be aware that he is married to--my daughter."

"Quite so."

"That would, generally, be supposed to give a common interest."

"Ah! I dare say. You feel it so, no doubt. I am glad that you are satisfied by an alliance
with my family. You are anxious for me to profess that it is reciprocal."

"I am anxious for nothing of the kind," said the Dean, jumping up from his chair. "I have nothing
to get and nothing to lose by the alliance. The usual courtesies of life are pleasant to me."

"I wish that you would use them then on the present occasion by being a little quieter."

"Your brother has married a lady, and my daughter has married a gentleman."

"Yes; George is a great ass; in some respects the greatest ass I know; but he is a gentleman.
Perhaps if you have anything else that you wish to say you will do me the honour of sitting down."

The Dean was so angry that he did not know how to contain himself. The Marquis had snubbed
him for coming. He had then justified his visit by an allusion to the connection between them,
and the Marquis had replied to this by hinting that though a Dean might think it a very fine
thing to have his daughter married into the family of a Marquis, the Marquis probably would
not look at it in the same light. And yet what was the truth? Whence had come the money which
had made the marriage possible? In the bargain between them which party had had the best of
it? He was conscious that it would not become him to allude to the money, but his feeling on
the subject was very strong. "My lord," he said, "I do not know that there is anything to be
gained by my sitting down again."

"Perhaps not. I dare say you know best."

"I came here intent on what I considered to be a courtesy due to your lordship. I am sorry
that my visit has been mistaken."

"I don't see that there is anything to make a fuss about."

"It shall not be repeated, my lord." And so he left the room.

Why on earth had the man come back to England, bringing a foreign woman and an Italian brat
home with him, if he intended to make the place too hot to hold him by insulting everybody
around him? This was the first question the Dean asked himself, when he found himself outside
the house. And what could the man hope to gain by such insolence? Instead of taking the road
through the park back to Brotherton, he went on to Cross Hall. He was desirous of learning
what were the impressions, and what the intentions, of the ladies there. Did this madman mean
to quarrel with his mother and sisters as well as with his other neighbours? He did not as
yet know what intercourse there had been between the two houses, since the Marquis had been
at Manor Cross. And in going to Cross Hall in the midst of all these troubles, he was no doubt
actuated in part by a determination to show himself to be one of the family. If they would
accept his aid, no one would be more loyal than he to these ladies. But he would not be laid
aside. If anything unjust were intended, if any fraud was to be executed, the person most to
be injured would be that hitherto unborn grandson of his for whose advent he was so anxious.
He had been very free with his money, but he meant to have his money's worth.

At Cross Hall he found Canon Holdenough's wife and the Canon. At the moment of his entrance
old Lady Brotherton was talking to the clergyman, and Lady Alice was closeted in a corner with
her sister Sarah. "I would advise you to go just as though you had heard nothing from us,"
Lady Sarah had said. "Of course he would be readier to quarrel with me than with any one. For
mamma's sake I would go away for a time if I had anywhere to go to."

"Come to us," Lady Alice had said. But Lady Sarah had declared that she would be as much in
the way at Brotherton as at Cross Hall, and had then gone on to explain that it was Lady Alice's
duty to call on her sister-in-law, and that she must do so,--facing the consequences whatever
they might be. "Of course mamma could not go till he had been here," Lady Sarah added; "and
now he has told mamma not to go at all. But that is nothing to you."

"I have just come from the house," said the Dean.

"Did you see him?" asked the old woman with awe.

"Yes; I saw him."

"Well!"

"I must say that he was not very civil to me, and that I suppose I have seen all of him that
I shall see."

"It is only his manner," said her ladyship.

"An unfortunate manner, surely."

"Poor Brotherton!"

Then the Canon said a word. "Of course no one wants to trouble him. I can speak at least for
myself. I do not,--certainly. I have requested her ladyship to ask him whether he would wish
me to call or not. If he says that he does, I shall expect him to receive me cordially. If
he does not--there's an end of it."

"I hope you won't all of you turn against him," said the Marchioness.

"Turn against him!" repeated the Dean. "I do not suppose that there is any one who would not
be both kind and courteous to him, if he would accept kindness and courtesy. It grieves me
to make you unhappy, Marchioness, but I am bound to let you know that he treated me very badly."
From that moment the Marchioness made up her mind that the Dean was no friend of the family,
and that he was, after all, vulgar and disagreeable. She undertook, however, to enquire from
her son on next Sunday whether he would wish to be called upon by his brother-in-law, the Canon.

On the following day Lady Alice went alone to Manor Cross,--being the first lady who had gone
to the door since the new arrivals,--and asked for Lady Brotherton. The courier came to the
door and said "not at home," in a foreign accent, just as the words might have been said to
any chance caller in London. Then Lady Alice asked the man to tell her brother that she was
there. "Not at home, miladi," said the man, in the same tone. At that moment Mrs. Toff came
running through the long hall to the carriage door. The house was built round a quadrangle,
and all the ground floor of the front and of one of the sides consisted of halls, passages,
and a billiard-room. Mrs. Toff must have been watching very closely or she could hardly have
known that Lady Alice was there. She came out and stood beside the carriage, and leaning in,
whispered her fears and unhappinesses. "Oh! my lady, I'm afraid it's very bad. I haven't set
eyes on the--the--his wife, my lady, yet; nor the little boy."

"Are they in now, Mrs. Toff?"

"Of course they're in. They never go out. He goes about all the afternoon in a dressing-gown,
smoking bits of paper, and she lies in bed or gets up and doesn't do,--nothing at all, as far
as I can see, Lady Alice. But as for being in, of course they're in; they're always in." Lady
Alice, however, feeling that she had done her duty, and not wishing to take the place by storm,
had herself driven back to Brotherton.

On the following Sunday afternoon the Marquis came, according to his promise, and found his
mother alone. "The fact is, mother," he said, "you have got a regular church set around you
during the last year or two, and I will have nothing to do with them. I never cared much for
Brotherton Close, and now I like it less than ever." The Marchioness moaned and looked up into
his face imploringly. She was anxious to say something in defence, at any rate, of her daughter's
marriage, but specially anxious to say nothing that should not anger him. Of course he was
unreasonable, but, according to her lights, he, being the Marquis, had a right to be unreasonable.
"The Dean came to me the other day," continued he, "and I could see at a glance that he meant
to be quite at home in the house, if I didn't put him down."

"You'll see Mr. Holdenough, won't you? Mr. Holdenough is a very gentlemanlike man, and the
Holdenoughs were always quite county people. You used to like Alice."

"If you ask me, I think she has been a fool at her age to go and marry an old parson. As for
receiving him, I shan't receive anybody,--in the way of entertaining them. I haven't come home
for that purpose. My child will have to live here when he is a man."

"God bless him!" said the Marchioness.

"Or at any rate his property will be here. They tell me that it will be well that he should
be used to this damnable climate early in life. He will have to go to school here, and all
that. So I have brought him, though I hate the place."

"It is so nice to have you back, Brotherton."

"I don't know about its being nice. I don't find much niceness in it. Had I not got myself
married I should never have come back. But it's as well that you all should know that there
is an heir."

"God bless him!" said the Marchioness, again. "But don't you think that we ought to see him?"

"See him! Why?" He asked the question sharply, and looked at her with that savageness in his
eyes which all the family remembered so well, and which she specially feared.

That question of the legitimacy of the boy had never been distinctly discussed at Cross Hall,
and the suspicious hints on the subject which had passed between the sisters, the allusions
to this and the other possibility which had escaped them, had been kept as far as possible
from their mother. They had remarked among themselves that it was very odd that the marriage
should have been concealed, and almost more than odd that an heir to the title should have
been born without any announcement of such a birth. A dread of some evil mystery had filled
their thoughts, and shown itself in their words and looks to each other. And, though they had
been very anxious to keep this from their mother, something had crept through which had revealed
a suspicion of the suspicion even to her. She, dear old lady, had resolved upon no line of
conduct in the matter. She had conceived no project of rebelling against her eldest daughter,
or of being untrue to her youngest son. But now that she was alone with her eldest son, with
the real undoubted Marquis, with him who would certainly be to her more than all the world
beside if he would only allow it, there did come into her head an idea that she would put him
on his guard.

"Because,--because----"

"Because what? Speak out, mother."

"Because, perhaps they'll say that--that----"

"What will they say?"

"If they don't see him, they may think he isn't Popenjoy at all."

"Oh! they'll think that, will they? How will seeing help them?"

"It would be so nice to have him here, if it's only for a little," said the Marchioness.

"So that's it," he said, after a long pause. "That's George's game, and the Dean's; I can understand."

"No, no, no; not George," said the unhappy mother.

"And Sarah, I dare say, is in a boat with them. I don't wonder that they should choose to remain
here and watch me."

"I am sure George has never thought of such a thing."

"George will think as his father-in-law bids him. George was never very good at thinking for
himself. So you fancy they'll be more likely to accept the boy if they see him."

"Seeing is believing, Brotherton."

"There's something in that, to be sure. Perhaps they don't think I've got a wife at all, because
they haven't seen her."

"Oh, yes; they believe that."

"How kind of them. Well, mother, you've let the cat out of the bag."

"Don't tell them that I said so."

"No; I won't tell. Nor am I very much surprised. I thought how it would be when I didn't announce
it all in the old-fashioned way. It's lucky that I have the certificated proof of the date
of my marriage, isn't it?"

"It's all right, of course. I never doubted it, Brotherton."

"But all the others did. I knew there was something up when George wasn't at home to meet me."

"He is coming."

"He may stay away if he likes it. I don't want him. He won't have the courage to tell me up
to my face that he doesn't intend to acknowledge my boy. He's too great a coward for that."

"I'm sure it's not George, Brotherton."

"Who is it, then?"

"Perhaps it's the Dean."

"D---- his impudence. How on earth among you could you let George marry the daughter of a low-bred
ruffian like that,--a man that never ought to have been allowed to put his foot inside the house?"

"She had such a very nice fortune! And then he wanted to marry that scheming girl, Adelaide
De Baron,--without a penny."

"The De Barons, at any rate, are gentlefolk. If the Dean meddles with me, he shall find that
he has got the wrong sow by the ear. If he puts his foot in the park again I'll have him warned
off as a trespasser."

"But you'll see Mr. Holdenough?"

"I don't want to see anybody. I mean to hold my own, and do as I please with my own, and live
as I like, and toady no one. What can I have in common with an old parson like that?"

"You'll let me see Popenjoy, Brotherton?"

"Yes," he said, pausing a moment before he answered her. "He shall be brought here, and you
shall see him. But mind, mother, I shall expect you to tell me all that you hear."

"Indeed, I will."

"You will not rebel against me, I suppose."

"Oh, no;--my son, my son!" Then she fell upon his neck, and he suffered it for a minute, thinking
it wise to make sure of one ally in that house.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE MARQUIS SEES HIS BROTHER.

When Lord George was summoned down to Manor Cross,--or rather, to Cross Hall, he did not dare
not to go. Lady Sarah had told him that it was his duty, and he could not deny the assertion.
But he was very angry with his brother, and did not in the least wish to see him. Nor did he
think that by seeing him he could in any degree render easier that horrible task which would,
sooner or later, be imposed upon him, of testing the legitimacy of his brother's child. And
there were other reasons which made him unwilling to leave London. He did not like to be away
from his young wife. She was, of course, a matron now, and entitled to be left alone, according
to the laws of the world; but then she was so childish, and so fond of playing bagatelle with
Jack De Baron! He had never had occasion to find fault with her; not to say words to her which
he himself would regard as fault-finding words though she had complained more than once of
his scolding her. He would caution her, beg her to be grave, ask her to read heavy books, and
try to impress her with the solemnity of married life. In this way he would quell her spirits
for a few hours. Then she would burst out again, and there would be Jack De Baron and the bagatelle.
In all these sorrows he solaced himself by asking advice from Mrs. Houghton. By degrees he
told Mrs. Houghton almost everything. The reader may remember that there had been a moment
in which he had resolved that he would not again go to Berkeley Square. But all that was very
much altered now. He was there almost every day, and consulted the lady about every thing.
She had induced him even to talk quite openly about this Italian boy, to express his suspicions,
and to allude to most distressing duties which might be incumbent on him. She strenuously advised
him to take nothing for granted. If the Marquisate was to be had by careful scrutiny she was
quite of opinion that it should not be lost by careless confidence. This sort of friendship
was very pleasant to him, and especially so, because he could tell himself that there was nothing
wicked in it. No doubt her hand would be in his sometimes for a moment, and once or twice his
arm had almost found its way round her waist. But these had been small deviations, which he
had taken care to check. No doubt it had occurred to him, once or twice, that she had not been
careful to check them. But this, when he thought of it maturely, he attributed to innocence.

It was at last, by her advice, that he begged that one of his sisters might come up to town,
as a companion to Mary during his absence at Cross Hall. This counsel she had given to him
after assuring him half-a-dozen times that there was nothing to fear. He had named Amelia,
Mary having at once agreed to the arrangement, on condition that the younger of the three sisters
should be invited. The letter was of course written to Lady Sarah. All such letters always
were written to Lady Sarah. Lady Sarah had answered, saying, that Susanna would take the place
destined for Amelia. Now Susanna, of all the Germain family, was the one whom Mary disliked
the most. But there was no help for it. She thought it hard, but she was not strong enough
in her own position to say that she would not have Susanna, because Susanna had not been asked.
"I think Lady Susanna will be the best," said Lord George, "because she has so much strength
of character."

"Strength of character! You speak as if you were going away for three years, and were leaving
me in the midst of danger. You'll be back in five days, I suppose. I really think I could have
got on without Susanna's--strength of character!" This was her revenge; but, all the same,
Lady Susanna came.

"She is as good as gold," said Lord George, who was himself as weak as water. "She is as good
as gold; but there is a young man comes here whom I don't care for her to see too often." This
was what he said to Lady Susanna.

"Oh, indeed! Who is he?"

"Captain De Baron. You are not to suppose that she cares a straw about him."

"Oh, no; I am sure there can be nothing of that," said Lady Susanna, feeling herself to be
as energetic as Cerberus, and as many-eyed as Argus.

"You must take care of yourself now, master Jack," Mrs. Houghton said to her cousin. "A duenna
has been sent for."

"Duennas always go to sleep, don't they; and take tips; and are generally open to reason?"

"Oh, heavens! Fancy tipping Lady Susanna! I should think that she never slept in her life with
both eyes at the same time, and that she thinks in her heart that every man who says a civil
word ought to have his tongue cut out."

"I wonder how she'd take it if I were to say a civil word to herself?"

"You can try; but as far as Madame is concerned, you had better wait till Monsieur is back again."

Lord George, having left his wife in the hands of Lady Susanna, went down to Brotherton and
on to Cross Hall. He arrived on the Saturday after that first Sunday visit paid by the Marquis
to his mother. The early part of the past week had been very blank down in those parts. No
further personal attempts had been made to intrude upon the Manor Cross mysteries. The Dean
had not been seen again, even at Cross Hall. Mr. Holdenough had made no attempt after the reception,--or
rather non-reception,--awarded to his wife. Old Mr. De Baron had driven over, and had seen
the Marquis, but nothing more than that fact was known at Cross Hall. He had been there for
about an hour, and as far as Mrs. Toff knew, the Marquis had been very civil to him. But Mr.
De Baron, though a cousin, was not by any means one of the Germain party. Then, on Saturday
there had been an affair. Mrs. Toff had come to the Hall, boiling over with the importance
of her communication, and stating that she had been--turned out of the house. She, who had
presided over everything material at Manor Cross for more than thirty years, from the family
pictures down to the kitchen utensils, had been absolutely desired to--walk herself off. The
message had been given to her by that accursed Courier, and she had then insisted on seeing
the Marquis. "My Lord," she said, only laughed at her. "'Mrs. Toff,' he had said, 'you are
my mother's servant, and my sisters'. You had better go and live with them.'" She had then
hinted at the shortness of the notice given her, upon which he had offered her anything she
chose to ask in the way of wages and board wages. "But I wouldn't take a penny, my Lady; only
just what was due up to the very day." As Mrs. Toff was a great deal too old a servant to be
really turned away, and as she merely migrated from Manor Cross to Cross Hall, she did not
injure herself much by refusing the offers made to her.

It must be held that the Marquis was justified in getting rid of Mrs. Toff. Mrs. Toff was,
in truth, a spy in his camp, and, of course, his own people were soon aware of that fact. Her
almost daily journeys to Cross Hall were known, and it was remembered, both by the Marquis
and his wife, that this old woman, who had never been allowed to see the child, but who had
known all the preceding generation as children, could not but be an enemy. Of course it was
patent to all the servants, and to every one connected with the two houses, that there was
war. Of course, the Marquis, having an old woman acting spy in his stronghold, got rid of her.
But justice would shortly have required that the other old woman, who was acting spy in the
other stronghold, should be turned out, also. But the Marchioness, who had promised to tell
everything to her son, could not very well be offered wages and be made to go.

In the midst of the ferment occasioned by this last piece of work Lord George reached Cross
Hall. He had driven through the park, that way being nearly as short as the high road, and
had left word at the house that he would call on the following morning, immediately after morning
church. This he did, in consequence of a resolution which he had made,--to act on his own judgment.
A terrible crisis was coming, in which it would not be becoming that he should submit himself
either to his eldest sister, or to the Dean. He had talked the matter over fully with Mrs.
Houghton, and Mrs. Houghton had suggested that he should call on his way out to the Hall.

The ladies had at first to justify their request that he should come to them, and there was
a difficulty in doing this, as he was received in presence of their mother. Lady Sarah had
not probably told herself that the Marchioness was a spy, but she had perceived that it would
not be wise to discuss everything openly in her mother's presence. "It is quite right that
you should see him," said Lady Sarah.

"Quite right," said the old lady.

"Had he sent me even a message I should have been here, of course," said the brother. "He passed
through London, and I would have met him there had he not kept everything concealed."

"He isn't like anybody else, you know. You mustn't quarrel with him. He is the head of the
family. If we quarrel with him, what will become of us?"

"What will become of him if everybody falls off from him. That's what I am thinking of," said
Lady Sarah.

Soon after this all the horrors that had taken place,--horrors which could not be entrusted
to a letter,--were narrated him. The Marquis had insulted Dr. Pountner, he had not returned
the Bishop's visit, he had treated the Dean with violent insolence, and he had refused to receive
his brother-in-law, Mr. Holdenough, though the Holdenoughs had always moved in county society!
He had declared that none of his relatives were to be introduced to his wife. He had not as
yet allowed the so-called Popenjoy to be seen. He had said none of them were to trouble him
at Manor Cross, and had explained his purpose, of only coming to the Hall when he knew that
his sister Sarah was away. "I think he must be mad," said the younger brother.

"It is what comes of living in a godless country like Italy," said Lady Amelia.

"It is what comes of utterly disregarding duty," said Lady Sarah.

But what was to be done? The Marquis had declared his purpose of doing what he liked with his
own, and certainly none of them could hinder him. If he chose to shut himself and his wife
up at the big house, he must do so. It was very bad, but it was clear that they could not interfere
with his eccentricities. How was anybody to interfere? Of course, there was present in the
mind of each of them a feeling that this woman might not be his wife, or that the child might
not be legitimate. But they did not like with open words among themselves to accuse their brother
of so great a crime. "I don't see what there is to be done," said Lord George.

The Church was in the park, not very far from the house, but nearer to the gate leading to
Brotherton. On that Sunday morning the Marchioness and her youngest daughter went there in
the carriage, and in doing so, had to pass the front doors. The previous Sunday had been cold,
and this was the first time that the Marchioness had seen Manor Cross since her son had been
there. "Oh, dear! if I could only go in and see the dear child," she said.

"You know you can't, mamma," said Amelia.

"It is all Sarah's fault, because she would quarrel with him."

After Church the ladies returned in the carriage, and Lord George went to the house according
to his appointment. He was shown into a small parlour, and in about half an hour's time luncheon
was brought to him. He then asked whether his brother was coming. The servant went away, promising
to enquire, but did not return. He was cross and would eat no lunch,--but after awhile rang
the bell, loudly, and again asked the same question. The servant again went away and did not
return. He had just made up his mind to leave the house and never to return to it, when the
Courier, of whom he had heard, came to usher him into his brother's room. "You seem to be in
a deuce of a hurry, George," said the Marquis, without getting out of his chair. "You forget
that people don't get up at the same hour all the world over."

"It's half-past two now."

"Very likely; but I don't know that there is any law to make a man dress himself before that hour."

"The servant might have given me a message."

"Don't make a row now you are here, old fellow. When I found you were in the house I got down
as fast as I could. I suppose your time isn't so very precious."

Lord George had come there determined not to quarrel if he could help it. He had very nearly
quarrelled already. Every word that his brother said was in truth an insult,--being, as they
were, the first words spoken after so long an interval. They were intended to be insolent,
probably intended to drive him away. But if anything was to be gained by the interview he must
not allow himself to be driven away. He had a duty to perform,--a great duty. He was the last
man in England to suspect a fictitious heir,--would at any rate be the last to hint at such
an iniquity without the strongest ground. Who is to be true to a brother if not a brother?
Who is to support the honour of a great family if not its own scions? Who is to abstain from
wasting the wealth and honour of another, if not he who has the nearest chance of possessing
them? And yet who could be so manifestly bound as he to take care that no surreptitious head
was imposed upon the family. This little child was either the real Popenjoy, a boy to be held
by him as of all boys the most sacred, to the promotion of whose welfare all his own energies
would be due,--or else a brat so abnormously distasteful and abominable as to demand from him
an undying enmity, till the child's wicked pretensions should be laid at rest. There was something
very serious in it, very tragic,--something which demanded that he should lay aside all common
anger, and put up with many insults on behalf of the cause which he had in hand. "Of course
I could wait," said he; "only I thought that perhaps the man would have told me."

"The fact is, George, we are rather a divided house here. Some of us talk Italian and some
English. I am the only common interpreter in the house, and I find it a bore."

"I dare say it is troublesome."

"And what can I do for you now you are here?"

Do for him! Lord George didn't want his brother to do anything for him. "Live decently, like
an English nobleman, and do not outrage your family." That would have been the only true answer
he could have made to such a question. "I thought you would wish to see me after your return,"
he said.

"It's rather lately thought of; but, however, let that pass. So you've got a wife for yourself."

"As you have done also."

"Just so. I have got a wife too. Mine has come from one of the oldest and noblest families
in Christendom."

"Mine is the granddaughter of a livery-stable keeper," said Lord George, with a touch of real
grandeur; "and, thank God, I can be proud of her in any society in England."

"I dare say;--particularly as she had some money."

"Yes; she had money. I could hardly have married without. But when you see her I think you
will not be ashamed of her as your sister-in-law."

"Ah! She lives in London and I am just at present down here."

"She is the daughter of the Dean of Brotherton."

"So I have heard. They used to make gentlemen Deans." After this there was a pause, Lord George
finding it difficult to go on with the conversation without a quarrel. "To tell you the truth,
George, I will not willingly see anything more of your Dean. He came here and insulted me.
He got up and blustered about the room because I wouldn't thank him for the honour he had done
our family by his alliance. If you please, George, we'll understand that the less said about
the Dean the better. You see I haven't any of the money out of the stable-yard."

"My wife's money didn't come out of a stable-yard. It came from a wax-chandler's shop," said
Lord George, jumping up, just as the Dean had done. There was something in the man's manner
worse even than his words which he found it almost impossible to bear. But he seated himself
again as his brother sat looking at him with a bitter smile upon his face. "I don't suppose,"
he said, "you can wish to annoy me."

"Certainly not. But I wish that the truth should be understood between us."

"Am I to be allowed to pay my respects to your wife?" said Lord George boldly.

"I think, you know, that we have gone so far apart in our marriages that there is nothing to
be gained by it. Besides, you couldn't speak to her,--nor she to you."

"May I be permitted to see--Popenjoy?"

The Marquis paused a moment, and then rang the bell. "I don't know what good it will do you,
but if he can be made fit he shall be brought down." The Courier entered the room and received
certain orders in Italian. After that there was considerable delay, during which an Italian
servant brought the Marquis a cup of chocolate and a cake. He pushed a newspaper over to his
brother, and as he was drinking his chocolate, lighted a cigarette. In this way there was a
delay of over an hour, and then there entered the room an Italian nurse with a little boy who
seemed to Lord George to be nearly two years old. The child was carried in by the woman, but
Lord George thought that he was big enough to have walked. He was dressed up with many ribbons,
and was altogether as gay as apparel could make him. But he was an ugly, swarthy little boy,
with great black eyes, small cheeks, and a high forehead,--very unlike such a Popenjoy as Lord
George would have liked to have seen. Lord George got up and stood over him, and leaning down
kissed the high forehead. "My poor little darling," he said.

"As for being poor," said the Marquis, "I hope not. As to being a darling, I should think it
doubtful. If you've done with him, she can take him away, you know." Lord George had done with
him, and so he was taken away. "Seeing is believing, you know," said the Marquis; "that's the
only good of it." Lord George said to himself that in this case seeing was not believing.

At this moment the open carriage came round to the door. "If you like to get up behind," said
the Marquis, "I can take you back to Cross Hall, as I am going to see my mother. Perhaps you'll
remember that I wish to be alone with her." Lord George then expressed his preference for walking.
"Just as you please. I want to say a word. Of course I took it very ill of you all when you
insisted on keeping Cross Hall in opposition to my wishes. No doubt they acted on your advice."

"Partly so."

"Exactly; your's and Sarah's. You can't expect me to forget it, George;--that's all." Then
he walked out of the room among the servants, giving his brother no opportunity for further reply.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE MARQUIS GOES INTO BROTHERTON.

The poor dear old Marchioness must have had some feeling that she was regarded as a spy. She
had promised to tell everything to her eldest son, and though she had really nothing to tell,
though the Marquis did in truth know all that there was as yet to know, still there grew up
at Cross Hall a sort of severance between the unhappy old lady and her children. This showed
itself in no diminution of affectionate attention; in no intentional change of manner; but
there was a reticence about the Marquis and Popenjoy which even she perceived, and there crept
into her mind a feeling that Mrs. Toff was on her guard against her,--so that on two occasions
she almost snubbed Mrs. Toff. "I never see'd him, my Lady; what more can I say?" said Mrs.
Toff. "Toff, I don't believe you wanted to see your master's son and heir!" said the Marchioness.
Then Mrs. Toff pursed up her lips, and compressed her nose, and half-closed her eyes, and the
Marchioness was sure that Mrs. Toff did not believe in Popenjoy.

No one but Lord George had seen Popenjoy. To no eyes but his had the august baby been displayed.
Of course many questions had been asked, especially by the old lady, but the answers to them
had not been satisfactory. "Dark, is he?" asked the Marchioness. Lord George replied that the
child was very swarthy. "Dear me! That isn't like the Germains. The Germains were never light,
but they're not swarthy. Did he talk at all?" "Not a word." "Did he play about?" "Never was
out of the nurse's arms." "Dear me! Was he like Brotherton?" "I don't think I am a judge of
likenesses." "He's a healthy child?" "I can't say. He seemed to be a good deal done up with
finery." Then the Marchioness declared that her younger son showed an unnatural indifference
to the heir of the family. It was manifest that she intended to accept the new Popenjoy, and
to ally herself with no party base enough to entertain any suspicion.

These examinations respecting the baby went on for the three first days of the week. It was
Lord George's intention to return to town on the Saturday, and it seemed to them all to be
necessary that something should be arranged before that. Lady Sarah thought that direct application
should be made to her brother for proof of his marriage and for a copy of the register of the
birth of his child. She quite admitted that he would resent such application with the bitterest
enmity. But that she thought must be endured. She argued that nothing could be done more friendly
to the child than this. If all was right the enquiry which circumstances certainly demanded
would be made while he could not feel it. If no such proof were adduced now there would certainly
be trouble, misery, and perhaps ruin in coming years. If the necessary evidence were forthcoming,
then no one would wish to interfere further. There might be ill blood on their brother's part,
but there would be none on theirs. Neither Lord George nor their younger sister gainsayed this
altogether. Neither of them denied the necessity of enquiry. But they desired to temporise;--and
then how was the enquiry to be made? Who was to bell the cat? And how should they go on when
the Marquis refused to take any heed of them,--as, of course, he would do? Lady Sarah saw at
once that they must employ a lawyer;--but what lawyer? Old Mr. Stokes, the family attorney,
was the only lawyer they knew. But Mr. Stokes was Lord Brotherton's lawyer, and would hardly
consent to be employed against his own client. Lady Sarah suggested that Mr. Stokes might be
induced to explain to the Marquis that these enquiries should be made for his, the Marquis's,
own benefit. But Lord George felt that this was impossible. It was evident that Lord George
would be afraid to ask Mr. Stokes to undertake the work.

At last it came to be understood among them that they must have some friend to act with them.
There could be no doubt who that friend should be. "As to interfering," said Lady Sarah, speaking
of the Dean, "he will interfere, whether we ask him to or not. His daughter is as much affected
as anybody, and if I understand him he is not the man to see any interest of his own injured
by want of care." Lord George shook his head but yielded. He greatly disliked the idea of putting
himself into the Dean's hands; of becoming a creature of the Dean's. He felt the Dean to be
stronger than himself, endowed with higher spirit and more confident hopes. But he also felt
that the Dean was--the son of a stable-keeper. Though he had professed to his brother that
he could own the fact without shame, still he was ashamed. It was not the Dean's parentage
that troubled him so much as a consciousness of some defect, perhaps only of the absence of
some quality, which had been caused by that parentage. The man looked like a gentleman, but
still there was a smell of the stable. Feeling this rather than knowing it Lord George resisted
for awhile the idea of joining forces with the Dean; but when it was suggested to him as an
alternative that he himself must go to Mr. Stokes and explain his suspicions in the lawyer's
room, then he agreed that, as a first step, he would consult the Dean. The Dean, no doubt,
would have his own lawyer, who would not care a fig for the Marquis.

It was thought by them at Cross Hall that the Dean would come over to them, knowing that his
son-in-law was in the country; but the Dean did not come, probably waiting for the same compliment
from Lord George. On the Friday Lord George rode into Brotherton early, and was at the Deanery
by eleven o'clock. "I thought I should see you," said the Dean, in his pleasantest manner.
"Of course, I heard from Mary that you were down here. Well;--what do you think of it all?"

"It is not pleasant."

"If you mean your brother, I am bound to say, that he is very unpleasant. Of course you have
seen him?"

"Yes; I have seen him."

"And her ladyship?"

"No. He said that as I do not speak Italian it would be no good."

"And he seemed to think," said the Dean, "that as I do speak Italian it would be dangerous.
Nobody has seen her then?"

"Nobody."

"That promises well! And the little lord?"

"He was brought down to me."

"That was gracious! Well; what of him. Did he look like a Popenjoy?"

"He is a nasty little black thing."

"I shouldn't wonder."

"And looks----. Well, I don't want to abuse the poor child, and God knows, if he is what he
pretends to be, I would do anything to serve him."

"That's just it, George," said the Dean, very seriously,--seriously, and with his kindest manner,
being quite disposed to make himself agreeable to Lord George, if Lord George would be agreeable
to him. "That's just it. If we were certified as to that, what would we not do for the child
in spite of the father's brutality? There is no dishonesty on our side, George. You know of
me, and I know of you, that if every tittle of the evidence of that child's birth were in the
keeping of either of us, so that it could be destroyed on the moment, it should be made as
public as the winds of heaven to-morrow, so that it was true evidence. If he be what he pretends
to be, who would interfere with him? But if he be not?"

"Any suspicion of that kind is unworthy of us;--except on very strong ground."

"True. But if there be very strong ground, it is equally true that such suspicion is our duty.
Look at the case. When was it that he told you that he was going to be married? About six months
since, as far as my memory goes."

"He said, 'I am to be married.'"

"That is speaking in the future tense; and now he claims to have been married two or three
years ago. Has he ever attempted to explain this?"

"He has not said a word about it. He is quite unwilling to talk about himself."

"I dare say. But a man in such circumstances must be made to talk about himself. You and I
are so placed that if we did not make him talk about himself, we ought to be made to make him
do so. He may be deceitful if he pleases. He may tell you and me fibs without end. And he may
give us much trouble by doing so. Such trouble is the evil consequence of having liars in the
world." Lord George winced at the rough word as applied by inference to his own brother. "But
liars themselves are always troubled by their own lies. If he chooses to tell you that on a
certain day he is about to be married, and afterwards springs a two-year old child upon you
as legitimate, you are bound to think that there is some deceit. You cannot keep yourself from
knowing that there is falsehood; and if falsehood, then probably fraud. Is it likely that a
man with such privileges, and such property insured to a legitimate son, would allow the birth
of such a child to be slurred over without due notice of it? You say that suspicion on our
part without strong ground would be unworthy of us. I agree with you. But I ask you whether
the grounds are not so strong as to force us to suspect. Come," he continued, as Lord George
did not answer at once; "let us be open to each other, knowing as each does that the other
means to do what is right. Do not you suspect?"

"I do," said Lord George.

"And so do I. And I mean to learn the truth."

"But how?"

"That is for us to consider; but of one thing I am quite sure. I am quite certain that we must
not allow ourselves to be afraid of your brother. To speak the truth, as it must be spoken,
he is a bully, George."

"I would rather you would not abuse him, sir."

"Speak ill of him I must. His character is bad, and I have to speak of it. He is a bully. He
set himself to work to put me down when I did myself the honour to call on him, because he
felt that my connexion with you would probably make me an enemy to him. I intend that he shall
know that he cannot put me down. He is undoubtedly Lord Brotherton. He is the owner of a wide
property. He has many privileges and much power, with which I cannot interfere. But there is
a limit to them. If he have a legitimate son, those privileges will be that son's property,
but he has to show to the world that that son is legitimate. When a man marries before all
the world, in his own house, and a child is born to him as I may say openly, the proofs are
there of themselves. No bringing up of evidence is necessary. The thing is simple, and there
is no suspicion and no enquiry. But he has done the reverse of this, and now flatters himself
that he can cow those who are concerned by a domineering manner. He must be made to feel that
this will not prevail."

"Sarah thinks that he should be invited to produce the necessary certificates." Lord George,
when he dropped his sister's title in speaking of her to the Dean, must have determined that
very familiar intercourse with the Dean was a necessity.

"Lady Sarah is always right. That should be the first step. But will you invite him to do so?
How shall the matter be broken to him?"

"She thinks a lawyer should do it."

"It must be done either by you or by a lawyer." Lord George looked very blank. "Of course,
if the matter were left in my hands;--if I had to do it,--I should not do it personally. The
question is, whether you might not in the first instance write to him?"

"He would not notice it."

"Very likely not. Then we must employ a lawyer."

The matter was altogether so distasteful to Lord George, that more than once during the interview
he almost made up his mind that he would withdraw altogether from the work, and at any rate
appear to take it for granted that the child was a real heir, an undoubted Popenjoy. But then,
as often, the Dean showed him that he could not so withdraw himself. "You will be driven,"
said the Dean, "to express your belief, whatever it may be; and if you think that there has
been foul play, you cannot deny that you think so." It was at last decided that Lord George
should write a letter to his brother, giving all the grounds, not of his own suspicion, but
which the world at large would have for suspecting; and earnestly imploring that proper evidence
as to his brother's marriage and as to the child's birth, might be produced. Then, if this
letter should not be attended to, a lawyer should be employed. The Dean named his own lawyer,
Mr. Battle, of Lincoln's Inn Fields. Lord George having once yielded, found it convenient to
yield throughout. Towards the end of the interview the Dean suggested that he would "throw
a few words together," or, in other language, write the letter which his son-in-law would have
to sign. This suggestion was also accepted by Lord George.

The two men were together for a couple of hours, and then, after lunch, went out together into
the town. Each felt that he was now more closely bound to the other than ever. The Dean was
thoroughly pleased that it should be so. He intended his son-in-law to be the Marquis, and
being sanguine as well as pugnacious looked forward to seeing that time himself. Such a man
as the Marquis would probably die early, whereas he himself was full of health. There was nothing
he would not do to make Lord George's life pleasant, if only Lord George would be pleasant
to him, and submissive. But Lord George himself was laden with many regrets. He had formed
a conspiracy against the head of his own family, and his brother conspirator was the son of
a stable-keeper. It might be also that he was conspiring against his own legitimate nephew;
and if so, the conspiracy would of course fail, and he would be stigmatised for ever among
the Germains as the most sordid and vile of the name.

The Dean's house was in the Close, joined on to the Cathedral, a covered stone pathway running
between the two. The nearest way from the Deanery to the High Street was through the Cathedral,
the transept of which could be entered by crossing the passage. The Dean and his son-in-law
on this occasion went through the building to the west entrance, and there stood for a few
minutes in the street while the Dean spoke to men who were engaged on certain repairs of the
fabric. In doing this they all went out into the middle of the wide street in order that they
might look up at the work which was being done. While they were there, suddenly an open carriage,
with a postilion, came upon them unawares, and they had to retreat out of the way. As they
did so they perceived that Lord Brotherton was in the carriage, enveloped in furs, and that
a lady, more closely enveloped even than himself, was by his side. It was evident to them that
he had recognised them. Indeed he had been in the act of raising his hand to greet his brother
when he saw the Dean. They both bowed to him, while the Dean, who had the readier mind, raised
his hat to the lady. But the Marquis steadily ignored them. "That's your sister-in-law," said
the Dean.

"Perhaps so."

"There is no other lady here with whom he could be driving. I am pretty sure that it is the
first time that either of them have been in Brotherton."

"I wonder whether he saw us."

"Of course he saw us. He cut me from fixed purpose, and you because I was with you. I shall
not disturb him by any further recognition." Then they went on about their business, and in
the afternoon, when the Dean had thrown his few words together, Lord George rode back to Cross
Hall. "Let the letter be sent at once,--but date it from London." These were the last words
the Dean said to him.

It was the Marquis and his wife. All Brotherton heard the news. She had absolutely called at
a certain shop and the Marquis had condescended to be her interpreter. All Brotherton was now
sure that there was a new Marchioness, a fact as to which a great part of Brotherton had hitherto
entertained doubts. And it seemed that this act of condescension in stopping at a Brotherton
shop was so much appreciated that all the former faults of the Marquis were to be condoned
on that account. If only Popenjoy could be taken to a Brotherton pastrycook, and be got to
eat a Brotherton bun, the Marquis would become the most popular man in the neighbourhood, and
the undoubted progenitor of a long line of Marquises to come. A little kindness after continued
cruelty will always win a dog's heart;--some say, also a woman's. It certainly seemed to be
the way to win Brotherton.

CHAPTER XXV.

LADY SUSANNA IN LONDON.

In spite of the caution which he had received from his friend and cousin Mrs. Houghton, Jack
De Baron did go to Munster Court during the absence of Lord George, and there did encounter
Lady Susanna. And Mrs. Houghton herself, though she had given such excellent advice, accompanied
him. She was of course anxious to see Lady Susanna, who had always especially disliked her;
and Jack himself was desirous of making the acquaintance of a lady who had been, he was assured,
sent up to town on purpose to protect the young wife from his wiles. Both Mrs. Houghton and
Jack had become very intimate in Munster Court, and there was nothing strange in their dropping
in together even before lunch. Jack was of course introduced to Lady Susanna. The two ladies
grimaced at each other, each knowing the other's feeling towards herself. Mary having suspected
that Lady Susanna had been sent for in reference to this special friend, determined on being
specially gracious to Jack. She had already, since Lady Susanna's arrival, told that lady that
she was able to manage her own little affairs. Lady Susanna had said an unfortunate word as
to the unnecessary expense of four wax candles when they two were sitting alone in the drawing-room.
Lady George had said that it was pretty. Lady Susanna had expostulated gravely, and then Lady
George had spoken out. "Dear Susanna, do let me manage my own little affairs." Of course the
words had rankled, and of course the love which the ladies bore to each other had not been
increased. Lady George was now quite resolved to show dear Susanna that she was not afraid
of her duenna.

"We thought we'd venture to see if you'd give us lunch," said Mrs. Houghton.

"Delightful!" exclaimed Lady George. "There's nothing to eat; but you won't mind that."

"Not in the least," said Jack. "I always think the best lunch in the world is a bit of the
servants' dinner. It's always the best meat, and the best cooked and the hottest served."

There was plenty of lunch from whatsoever source it came, and the three young people were very
merry. Perhaps they were a little noisy. Perhaps there was a little innocent slang in their
conversation. Ladies do sometimes talk slang, and perhaps the slang was encouraged for the
special edification of Lady Susanna. But slang was never talked at Manor Cross or Cross Hall,
and was odious to Lady Susanna. When Lady George declared that some offending old lady ought
to be "jumped upon," Lady Susanna winced visibly. When Jack told Lady George that "she was
the woman to do it," Lady Susanna shivered almost audibly. "Is anything the matter?" asked
Lady George, perhaps not quite innocently.

It seemed to Lady Susanna that these visitors were never going away, and yet this was the very
man as to whom her brother had cautioned her! And what an odious man he was--in Lady Susanna's
estimation! A puppy,--an absolute puppy! Good-looking, impudent, familiar, with a light visage,
and continually smiling! All those little gifts which made him so pleasant to Lady George were
stains and blemishes in the eyes of Lady Susanna. To her thinking, a man,--at any rate a gentleman,--should
be tall, dark, grave, and given to silence rather than to much talk. This Jack chattered about
everything, and hardly opened his mouth without speaking slang. About half-past three, when
they had been chattering in the drawing-room for an hour, after having chattered over their
lunch for a previous hour, Mrs. Houghton made a most alarming proposition. "Let us all go to
Berkeley Square and play bagatelle."

"By all means," said Jack. "Lady George, you owe me two new hats already."

Playing bagatelle for new hats! Lady Susanna felt that if ever there could come a time in which
interference would be necessary that time had come now. She had resolved that she would be
patient; that she should not come down as an offended deity upon Lady George, unless some sufficient
crisis should justify such action. But now surely, if ever, she must interpose. Playing at
bagatelle with Jack De Baron for new hats, and she with the prospect before her of being Marchioness
of Brotherton! "It's only one," said Lady George gaily, "and I daresay I'll win that back to-day.
Will you come, Susanna?"

"Certainly not," said Lady Susanna, very grimly. They all looked at her, and Jack De Baron
raised his eyebrows, and sat for a moment motionless. Lady Susanna knew that Jack De Baron
was intending to ridicule her. Then she remembered that should this perverse young woman insist
upon going to Mrs. Houghton's house with so objectionable a companion, her duty to her brother
demanded that she also should go. "I mean," said Lady Susanna, "that I had rather not go."

"Why not?" asked Mary.

"I do not think that playing bagatelle for new hats is--is--the best employment in the world
either for a lady or for a gentleman." The words were hardly out of her mouth before she herself
felt that they were overstrained and more than even this occasion demanded.

"Then we will only play for gloves," said Mary. Mary was not a woman to bear with impunity
such an assault as had been made on her.

"Perhaps you will not mind giving it up till George comes back," said Lord George's sister.

"I shall mind very much. I will go up and get ready. You can do as you please." So Mary left
the room, and Lady Susanna followed her.

"She means to have her own way," said Jack, when he was alone with his cousin.

"She is not at all what I took her to be," said Mrs. Houghton. "The fact is, one cannot know
what a girl is as long as a girl is a girl. It is only when she's married that she begins to
speak out." Jack hardly agreed with this, thinking that some girls he had known had learned
to speak out before they were married.

They all went out together to walk across the parks to Berkeley Square, orders being left that
the brougham should follow them later in the afternoon. Lady Susanna had at last resolved that
she also would go. The very fact of her entering Mrs. Houghton's house was disagreeable to
her; but she felt that duty called her. And, after all, when they got to Berkeley Square no
bagatelle was played at all. But the bagatelle would almost have been better than what occurred.
A small parcel was lying on the table which was found to contain a pack of pictured cards made
for the telling of fortunes, and which some acquaintance had sent to Mrs. Houghton. With these
they began telling each other's fortunes, and it seemed to Lady Susanna that they were all
as free with lovers and sweethearts as though the two ladies had been housemaids instead of
being the wives of steady, well-born husbands. "That's a dark man, with evil designs, a wicked
tongue, and no money," said Mrs. Houghton, as a combination of cards lay in Lady George's lap.
"Jack, the lady with light hair is only flirting with you. She doesn't care for you one bit."

"I daresay not," said Jack.

"And yet she'll trouble you awfully. Lady Susanna, will you have your fortune told?"

"No," said Lady Susanna, very shortly.

This went on for an hour before the brougham came, during the latter half of which Lady Susanna
sat without once opening her lips. If any play could have been childish, it was this play;
but to her it was horrible. And then they all sat so near together, and that man was allowed
to put cards into her brother's wife's hand and to take them out just as though they had been
brother and sister, or playfellows all their days. And then, as they were going down to the
brougham, the odious man got Lady George aside and whispered to her for two minutes. Lady Susanna
did not hear a word of their whispers, but knew that they were devilish. And so she would have
thought if she had heard them. "You're going to catch it, Lady George," Jack had said. "There's
somebody else will catch something if she makes herself disagreeable," Lady George had answered.
"I wish I could be invisible and hear it," had been Jack's last words.

"My dear Mary," said Lady Susanna, as soon as they were seated, "you are very young."

"That's a fault that will mend of itself."

"Too quickly, as you will soon find; but in the meantime, as you are a married woman, should
you not be careful to guard against the indiscretions of youth?"

"Well, yes; I suppose I ought," said Mary, after a moment of mock consideration. "But then
if I were unmarried I ought to do just the same. It's a kind of thing that is a matter of course
without talking about it." She had firmly made up her mind that she would submit in no degree
to Lady Susanna, and take from her no scolding. Indeed, she had come to a firm resolve long
since that she would be scolded by no one but her husband--and by him as little as possible.
Now she was angry with him because he had sent this woman to watch her, and was determined
that he should know that, though she would submit to him, she would not submit to his sister.
The moment for asserting herself had now come.

"A young married woman," said the duenna, "owes it to her husband to be peculiarly careful.
She has his happiness and his honour in her hands."

"And he has hers. It seems to me that all these things are matters of course."

"They should be, certainly," said Lady Susanna, hardly knowing how to go on with her work;
a little afraid of her companion, but still very intent. "But it will sometimes happen that
a young person does not quite know what is right and what is wrong."

"And sometimes it happens that old people don't know. There was Major Jones had his wife taken
away from him the other day by the Court because he was always beating her, and he was fifty.
I read all about it in the papers. I think the old people are just as bad as the young."

Lady Susanna felt that her approaches were being cut off from her, and that she must rush at
once against the citadel if she meant to take it. "Do you think that playing bagatelle is--nice?"

"Yes, I do;--very nice."

"Do you think George would like your playing with Captain De Baron?"

"Why not with Captain de Baron?" said Mary, turning round upon her assailant with absolute
ferocity.

"I don't think he would like it. And then that fortune-telling! If you will believe me, Mary,
it was very improper."

"I will not believe anything of the kind. Improper!--a joke about a lot of picture-cards!"

"It was all about love and lovers," said Lady Susanna, not quite knowing how to express herself,
but still sure that she was right.

"Oh, what a mind you must have, Susanna, to pick wrong out of that! All about love and lovers!
So are books and songs and plays at the theatre. I suppose you didn't understand that it was
intended as a burlesque on fortune-telling?"

"And I am quite sure George wouldn't like the kind of slang you were talking with Captain De
Baron at lunch."

"If George does not like anything he had better tell me so, and not depute you to do it for
him. If he tells me to do anything I shall do it. If you tell me I shall pay no attention to
it whatever. You are here as my guest, and not as my governess; and I think your interference
very impertinent." This was strong language,--so strong that Lady Susanna found it impossible
to continue the conversation at that moment. Nothing, indeed, was said between them during
the whole afternoon, or at dinner, or in the evening,--till Lady Susanna had taken up her candlestick.

There had been that most clearly declared of all war which is shown by absolute silence. But
Lady Susanna, as she was retiring to rest, thought it might be wise to make a little effort
after peace. She did not at all mean to go back from what charges she had made. She had no
idea of owning herself to be wrong. But perhaps she could throw a little oil upon the waters.
"Of course," she said, "I should not have spoken as I have done but for my great love for George
and my regard for you."

"As far as I am concerned, I think it a mistaken regard," said Mary. "Of course I shall tell
George; but even to him I shall say that I will not endure any authority but his own."

"Will you hear me?"

"No, not on this subject. You have accused me of behaving improperly--with that man."

"I do think," began Lady Susanna, not knowing how to pick her words in this emergency, fearing
to be too strong, and at the same time conscious that weakness would be folly----; "I do think
that anything like--like--like flirting is so very bad!"

"Susanna," said Lady George, with a start as she heard the odious words, "as far as I can help
it, I will never speak to you again." There certainly had been no oil thrown upon the waters
as yet.

The next day was passed almost in absolute silence. It was the Friday, and each of them knew
that Lord George would be home on the morrow. The interval was so short that nothing could
be gained by writing to him. Each had her own story to tell, and each must wait till he should
be there to hear it. Mary with a most distant civility went through her work of hostess. Lady
Susanna made one or two little efforts to subdue her; but, failing, soon gave up the endeavour.
In the afternoon Aunt Ju called with her niece, but their conversation did not lessen the breach.
Then Lady Susanna went out alone in the brougham; but that had been arranged beforehand. They
ate their dinner in silence, in silence read their books, and met in silence at the breakfast-table.
At three o'clock Lord George came home, and then Mary, running downstairs, took him with her
into the drawing-room. There was one embrace, and then she began. "George," she said, "you
must never have Susanna here again."

"Why?" said he.

"She has insulted me. She has said things so nasty that I cannot repeat them, even to you.
She has accused me to my face--of flirting. I won't bear it from her. If you said it, it would
kill me; but of course you can say what you please. But she shall not scold me, and tell me
that I am this and that because I am not as solemn as she is, George. Do you believe that I
have ever--flirted?" She was so impetuous that he had been quite unable to stop her. "Did you
mean that she should behave to me like that?"

"This is very bad," he said.

"What is very bad. Is it not bad that she should say such things to me as that? Are you going
to take her part against me?"

"Dearest Mary, you seem to be excited."

"Of course I am excited. Would you wish me to have such things as that said to me, and not
to be excited? You are not going to take part against me?"

"I have not heard her yet."

"Will you believe her against me? Will she be able to make you believe that I have--flirted?
If so, then it is all over."

"What is all over?"

"Oh, George, why did you marry me, if you cannot trust me?"

"Who says that I do not trust you? I suppose the truth is you have been a little--flighty."

"Been what? I suppose you mean the same thing. I have talked and laughed, and been amused,
if that means being flighty. She thinks it wicked to laugh, and calls it slang if every word
doesn't come out of the grammar. You had better go and hear her, since you will say nothing
more to me."

Lord George thought so too; but he stayed for a few moments in the dining-room, during which
he stooped over his wife, who had thrown herself into an arm-chair, and kissed her. As he did
so, she merely shook her head, but made no response to his caress. Then he slowly strode away,
and went up stairs into the drawing-room.

What took place there need not be recorded at length. Lady Susanna did not try to be mischievous.
She spoke much of Mary's youth, and expressed a strong opinion that Captain De Baron was not
a fit companion for her. She was very urgent against the use of slang, and said almost harder
things of Mrs. Houghton than she did of Jack. She never had meant to imply that Mary had allowed
improper attentions from the gentleman, but that Mary, being young, had not known what attentions
were proper and what improper. To Lady Susanna the whole matter was so serious that she altogether
dropped the personal quarrel. "Of course, George," she said, "young people do not like to be
told; but it has to be done. And I must say that Mary likes it as little as any person that
I have ever known."

This multiplicity of troubles falling together on to the poor man's back almost crushed him.
He had returned to town full of that terrible letter which he had pledged himself to write;
but the letter was already driven out of his head for the time. It was essentially necessary
that he should compose this domestic trouble, and of course he returned to his wife. Equally
of course after a little time she prevailed. He had to tell her that he was sure that she never
flirted. He had to say that she did not talk slang. He had to protest that the fortune-telling
cards were absolutely innocent. Then she condescended to say that she would for the present
be civil to Susanna, but even while saying that she protested that she would never again have
her sister-in-law as a guest in the house. "You don't know, George, even yet, all that she
said to me, or in what sort of way she behaved."

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE DEAN RETURNS TO TOWN.

"Do you mean to say that you have any objection to my being acquainted with Captain De Baron?"
This question Mary asked her husband on the Monday after his return. On that day Lady Susanna
went back to Brothershire, having somewhat hurried her return in consequence of the uncomfortable
state of things in Minister Court. They had all gone to church together on the intermediate
Sunday, and Lady Susanna had done her best to conciliate her sister-in-law. But she was ignorant
of the world, and did not know how bitter to a young married woman is such interference as
that of which she had been guilty. She could not understand the amount of offence which was
rankling in Mary's bosom. It had not consisted only in the words spoken, but her looks in the
man's presence had conveyed the same accusation, so that it could be seen and understood by
the man himself. Mary, with an effort, had gone on with her play, determined that no one should
suppose her to be cowed by her grand sister-in-law; but through it all she had resolved always
to look upon Lady Susanna as an enemy. She had already abandoned her threat of not speaking
to her own guest; but nothing that Lady Susanna could say, nothing that Lord George could say,
softened her heart in the least. The woman had told her that she was a flirt, had declared
that what she did and said was improper. The woman had come there as a spy, and the woman should
never be her friend. In these circumstances Lord George found it impossible not to refer to
the unfortunate subject again, and in doing so caused the above question to be asked. "Do you
mean to say that you have any objection to my being acquainted with Captain De Baron?" She
looked at him with so much eagerness in her eyes as she spoke that he knew that much at any
rate of his present comfort might depend on the answer which he made.

He certainly did object to her being acquainted with Jack De Baron. He did not at all like
Jack De Baron. In spite of what he had found himself obliged to say, in order that she might
be comforted on his first arrival, he did not like slang, and he did not like fortune-telling
cards or bagatelle. His sympathies in these matters were all with his sister. He did like spending
his own time with Mrs. Houghton, but it was dreadful to him to think that his wife should be
spending hers with Jack De Baron. Nevertheless he could not tell her so. "No," he said, "I
have no particular objection."

"Of course if you had, I would never see him again. But it would be very dreadful. He would
have to be told that you were--jealous."

"I am not in the least jealous," said he, angrily. "You should not use such a word."

"Certainly I should not have used it, but for the disturbance which your sister has caused.
But after all that she has said, there must be some understanding. I like Captain De Baron
very much, as I dare say you like other ladies. Why not?"

"I have never suspected anything."

"But Susanna did. Of course you don't like all this, George. I don't like it. I have been so
miserable that I have almost cried my eyes out. But if people will make mischief, what is one
to do? The only thing is not to have the mischief maker any more."

The worst of this was, to him, that she was so manifestly getting the better of him! When he
had married her, not yet nine months since, she had been a little girl, altogether in his hands,
not pretending to any self-action, and anxious to be guided in everything by him. His only
fear had been that she might be too slow in learning that self-assertion which is necessary
from a married woman to the world at large. But now she had made very great progress in the
lesson, not only as regarded the world at large, but as regarded himself also. As for his family,--the
grandeur of his family,--she clearly had no reverence for that. Lady Susanna, though generally
held to be very awful, had been no more to her than any other Susan. He almost wished that
he had told her that he did object to Jack De Baron. There would have been a scene, of course;
and she, not improbably, might have told her father. That at present would have been doubly
disagreeable, as it was incumbent upon him to stand well with the Dean, just at this time.
There was this battle to be fought with his brother, and he felt that he could not fight it
without the Dean!

Having given his sanction to Jack De Baron, he went away to his club to write his letter. This
writing really amounted to no more than copying the Dean's words, which he had carried in his
pocket ever since he had left the deanery, and the Dean's words were as follows:--

     "Munster Court, 26th April, 187--.

     "MY DEAR BROTHERTON,--I am compelled to write to you under very
     disagreeable circumstances, and to do so on a subject which I
     would willingly avoid if a sense of duty would permit me to be
     silent.

     "You will remember that you wrote to me in October last, telling
     me that you were about to be married. 'I am to be married to the
     Marchesa Luigi,' were your words. Up to that moment we had heard
     nothing of the lady or of any arrangement as to a marriage. When I
     told you of my own intended marriage a few months before that, you
     merely said in answer that you might probably soon want the house
     at Manor Cross yourself. It now seems that when you told us of
     your intended marriage you had already been married over two
     years, and that when I told you of mine you had a son over twelve
     months old,--a fact which I might certainly expect that you would
     communicate to me at such a time.

     "I beg to assure you that I am now urged to write by no suspicions
     of my own; but I know that if things are left to go on as they are
     now, suspicions will arise at a future time. I write altogether in
     the interests of your son and heir; and for his sake I beseech you
     to put at once into the hands of your own lawyer absolute evidence
     of the date of your marriage, of its legality, and of the birth of
     your son. It will also be expedient that my lawyer shall see the
     evidence in your lawyer's hands. If you were to die as matters are
     now it would be imperative on me to take steps which would seem to
     be hostile to Popenjoy's interest. I think you must yourself feel
     that this would be so. And yet nothing would be further from my
     wish. If we were both to die, the difficulty would be still
     greater, as in that case proceedings would have to be taken by
     more distant members of the family.

     "I trust you will believe me when I say that my only object is to
     have the matter satisfactorily settled.

     "Your affectionate brother,

     "GEORGE GERMAIN."

When the Marquis received this letter he was not in the least astonished by it. Lord George
had told his sister Sarah that it was to be written, and had even discussed with her the Dean's
words. Lady Sarah had thought that as the Dean was a sagacious man, his exact words had better
be used. And then Lady Amelia had been told, Lady Amelia having asked various questions on
the subject. Lady Amelia had of course known that her brother would discuss the matter with
the Dean, and had begged that she might not be treated as a stranger. Everything had not been
told to Lady Amelia, nor had Lady Amelia told all that she had heard to her mother. But the
Marchioness had known enough, and had communicated enough to her son to save him from any great
astonishment when he got his brother's letter. Of course he had known that some steps would
be taken.

He answered the letter at once.

     "MY DEAR BROTHER," he said,--"I don't think it necessary to let
     you know the reasons which induced me to keep my marriage private
     awhile. You rush at conclusions very fast in thinking that because
     a marriage is private, therefore it is illegal. I am glad that you
     have no suspicions of your own, and beg to assure you I don't care
     whether you have or not. Whenever you or anybody else may want to
     try the case, you or he or they will find that I have taken care
     that there is plenty of evidence. I didn't know that you had a
     lawyer. I only hope he won't run you into much expense in finding
     a mare's nest.

     "Yours truly,

     "B."

This was not in itself satisfactory; but such as it was, it did for a time make Lord George
believe that Popenjoy was Popenjoy. It was certainly true of him that he wished Popenjoy to
be Popenjoy. No personal longing for the title or property made him in his heart disloyal to
his brother or his family. And then the trouble and expense and anxieties of such a contest
were so terrible to his imagination, that he rejoiced when he thought that they might be avoided.
But there was the Dean. The Dean must be satisfied as well as he, and he felt that the Dean
would not be satisfied. According to agreement he sent a copy of his brother's letter down
to the Dean, and added the assurance of his own belief that the marriage had been a marriage,
that the heir was an heir, and that further steps would be useless. It need hardly be said
that the Dean was not satisfied. Before dinner on the following day the Dean was in Minister
Court. "Oh, papa," exclaimed Mary, "I am so glad to see you." Could it be anything about Captain
De Baron that had brought him up? If so, of course she would tell him everything. "What brought
you up so suddenly? Why didn't you write? George is at the club, I suppose." George was really
in Berkeley Square at that moment. "Oh, yes; he will be home to dinner. Is there anything wrong
at Manor Cross, papa?" Her father was so pleasant in his manner to her, that she perceived
at once that he had not come up in reference to Captain De Baron. No complaint of her behaviour
on that score had as yet reached him. "Where's your portmanteau, papa?"

"I've got a bed at the hotel in Suffolk Street. I shall only be here one night, or at the most
two; and as I had to come suddenly I wouldn't trouble you."

"Oh, papa, that's very bad of you."

This she said with that genuine tone which begets confidence. The Dean was very anxious that
his daughter should in truth be fond of his company. In the game which he intended to play
her co-operation and her influence over her husband would be very necessary to him. She must
be a Lovelace rather than a Germain till she should blaze forth as the presiding genius of
the Germain family. That Lord George should become tired of him and a little afraid of him
he knew could not be avoided; but to her he must, if possible, be a pleasant genius, never
accompanied in her mind by ideas of parental severity or clerical heaviness. "I should weary
you out if I came too often and came so suddenly," he said, laughing.

"But what has brought you, papa?"

"The Marquis, my dear, who, it seems to me, will, for some time to come, have a considerable
influence on my doings."

"The Marquis!"

He had made up his mind that she should know everything. If her husband did not tell her, he
would. "Yes, the Marquis. Perhaps I ought to say the Marchioness, only that I am unwilling
to give that title to a lady who I think very probably has no right to it."

"Is all that coming up already?"

"The longer it is postponed the greater will be the trouble to all parties. It cannot be endured
that a man in his position should tell us that his son is legitimate when that son was born
more than a year before he had declared himself about to marry, and that he should then refuse
to furnish us with any evidence."

"Have you asked him?" Mary, as she made the suggestion, was herself horror-stricken at the
awfulness of the occasion.

"George has asked him."

"And what has the Marquis done?"

"Sent him back a jeering reply. He has a way of jeering which he thinks will carry everything
before it. When I called upon him he jeered at me. But he'll have to learn that he cannot jeer
you out of your rights."

"I wish you would not think about my rights, papa."

"Your rights will probably be the rights of some one else."

"I know, papa; but still----"

"It has to be done, and George quite agrees with me. The letter which he did write to his brother
was arranged between us. Lady Sarah is quite of the same accord, and Lady Susanna----"

"Oh, papa, I do so hate Susanna." This she said with all her eloquence.

"I daresay she can make herself unpleasant."

"I have told George that she shall not come here again as a guest."

"What did she do?"

"I cannot bring myself to tell you what it was that she said. I told George, of course. She
is a nasty evil-minded creature--suspecting everything."

"I hope there has been nothing disagreeable."

"It was very disagreeable, indeed, while George was away. Of course I did not care so much
when he came back." The Dean, who had been almost frightened, was reassured when he learned
that there had been no quarrel between the husband and wife. Soon afterwards Lord George came
in and was astonished to find that his letter had brought up the Dean so quickly. No discussion
took place till after dinner, but then the Dean was very perspicuous, and at the same time
very authoritative. It was in vain that Lord George asked what they could do, and declared
that the evil troubles which must probably arise would all rest on his brother's head. "But
we must prevent such troubles, let them rest where they will," said the Dean.

"I don't see what we can do."

"Nor do I, because we are not lawyers. A lawyer will tell us at once. It will probably be our
duty to send a commissioner out to Italy to make enquiry."

"I shouldn't like to do that about my brother."

"Of course your brother should be told; or rather everything should be told to your brother's
lawyer, so that he might be advised what steps he ought to take. We would do nothing secretly--nothing
of which any one could say that we ought to be ashamed." The Dean proposed that they should
both go to his attorney, Mr. Battle, on the following day; but this step seemed to Lord George
to be such an absolute declaration of war that he begged for another day's delay; and it was
at last arranged that he himself should on that intervening day call on Mr. Stokes, the Germain
family lawyer. The Marquis, with one of his jeers, had told his brother that, being a younger
brother, he was not entitled to have a lawyer. But in truth Lord George had had very much more
to do with Mr. Stokes than the Marquis. All the concerns of the family had been managed by
Mr. Stokes. The Marquis probably meant to insinuate that the family bill, which was made out
perhaps once every three years, was charged against his account. Lord George did call on Mr.
Stokes, and found Mr. Stokes very little disposed to give him any opinion. Mr. Stokes was an
honest man who disliked trouble of this kind. He freely admitted that there was ground for
enquiry, but did not think that he himself was the man who ought to make it. He would certainly
communicate with the Marquis, should Lord George think it expedient to employ any other lawyer,
and should that lawyer apply to him. In the meantime he thought that immediate enquiry would
be a little precipitate. The Marquis might probably himself take steps to put the matter on
a proper footing. He was civil, gracious, almost subservient; but he had no comfort to give
and no advice to offer, and, like all attorneys, he was in favour of delay. "Of course, Lord
George, you must remember that I am your brother's lawyer, and may in this matter be called
upon to act as his confidential adviser." All this Lord George repeated that evening to the
Dean, and the Dean merely said that it had been a matter of course.

Early on the next morning the Dean and Lord George went together to Mr. Battle's chambers.
Lord George felt that he was being driven by his father-in-law; but he felt also that he could
not help himself. Mr. Battle, who had chambers in Lincoln's Inn, was a very different man from
Mr. Stokes, who carried on his business in a private house at the West End, who prepared wills
and marriage settlements for gentlefolk, and who had, in fact, very little to do with law.
Mr. Battle was an enterprising man with whom the Dean's first acquaintance had arisen through
the Tallowaxes and the stable interests,--a very clever man, and perhaps a little sharp. But
an attorney ought to be sharp, and it is not to be understood that Mr. Battle descended to
sharp practice. But he was a solicitor with whom the old-fashioned Mr. Stokes's would not find
themselves in accord. He was a handsome burly man, nearly sixty years of age, with grey hair
and clean shorn face, with bright green eyes, and a well-formed nose and mouth,--a prepossessing
man, till something restless about the eyes would at last catch the attention and a little
change the judgment.

The Dean told him the whole story, and during the telling he sat looking very pleasant, with
a smile on his face, rubbing his two hands together. All the points were made. The letter of
the Marquis, in which he told his brother that he was to be married, was shown to him. The
concealment of the birth of the boy till the father had made up his mind to come home was urged.
The absurdity of his behaviour since he had been at home was described. The singularity of
his conduct in allowing none of his family to become acquainted with his wife was pointed out.
This was done by the Dean rather than by Lord George, and Lord George, as he heard it all,
almost regarded the Dean as his enemy. At last he burst out in his own defence. "Of course
you will understand, Mr. Battle, that our only object is to have the thing proved, so that
hereafter there may be no trouble."

"Just so, my Lord."

"We do not want to oppose my brother, or to injure his child."

"We want to get at the truth," said the Dean.

"Just so."

"Where there is concealment there must be suspicion," urged the Dean.

"No doubt."

"But everything must be done quite openly," said Lord George. "I would not have a step taken
without the knowledge of Mr. Stokes. If Mr. Stokes would do it himself on my brother's behalf
it would be so much the better."

"That is hardly probable," said the Dean.

"Not at all probable," said Mr. Battle.

"I couldn't be a party to an adverse suit," said Lord George.

"There is no ground for any suit at all," said the lawyer. "We cannot bring an action against
the Marquis because he chooses to call the lady he lives with a Marchioness, or because he
calls an infant Lord Popenjoy. Your brother's conduct may be ill-judged. From what you tell
me, I think it is. But it is not criminal."

"Then nothing need be done," said Lord George.

"A great deal may be done. Enquiry may be made now which might hereafter be impossible." Then
he begged that he might have a week to consider the matter, and requested that the two gentlemen
would call upon him again.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE BARONESS BANMANN AGAIN.

A day or two after the meeting at Mr. Battle's office there came to Lord George a letter from
that gentleman suggesting that, as the Dean had undertaken to come up to London again, and
as he, Mr. Battle, might not be ready with his advice at the end of a week, that day fortnight
might be fixed. To Lord George this delay was agreeable rather than otherwise, as he was not
specially anxious for the return of his father-in-law, nor was he longing for action in this
question as to his brother's heir. But the Dean, when the lawyer's letter reached him, was
certain that Mr. Battle did not mean to lose the time simply in thinking over the matter. Some
preliminary enquiry would now be made, even though no positive instructions had been given.
He did not at all regret this, but was sure that Lord George would be very angry if he knew
it. He wrote back to say that he would be in Munster Court on the evening before the day appointed.

It was now May, and London was bright with all the exotic gaiety of the season. The park was
crowded with riders at one, and was almost impassable at six. Dress was outvying dress, and
equipage equipage. Men and women, but principally women, seemed to be intent on finding out
new ways of scattering money. Tradesmen no doubt knew much of defaulters, and heads of families
might find themselves pressed for means; but to the outside west-end eye looking at the outside
west-end world it seemed as though wealth was unlimited and money a drug. To those who had
known the thing for years, to young ladies who were now entering on their seventh or eighth
campaign, there was a feeling of business about it all which, though it buoyed them up by its
excitement, robbed amusement of most of its pleasure. A ball cannot be very agreeable in which
you may not dance with the man you like and are not asked by the man you want; at which you
are forced to make a note that that full-blown hope is futile, and that this little bud will
surely never come to flower. And then the toil of smiles, the pretence at flirtation, the long-continued
assumption of fictitious character, the making of oneself bright to the bright, solemn to the
solemn, and romantic to the romantic, is work too hard for enjoyment. But our heroine had no
such work to do. She was very much admired and could thoroughly enjoy the admiration. She had
no task to perform. She was not carrying out her profession by midnight labours. Who shall
say whether now and again a soft impalpable regret,--a regret not recognised as such,--may
not have stolen across her mind, telling her that if she had seen all this before she was married
instead of afterwards, she might have found a brighter lot for herself? If it were so, the
only enduring effect of such a feeling was a renewal of that oft-made resolution that she would
be in love with her husband. The ladies whom she knew had generally their carriages and riding
horses. She had only a brougham, and had that kept for her by the generosity of her father.
The Dean, when coming to town, had brought with him the horse which she used to ride, and wished
that it should remain. But Lord George, with a husband's solicitude, and perhaps with something
of a poor man's proper dislike to expensive habits, had refused his permission. She soon, too,
learned to know the true sheen of diamonds, the luxury of pearls, and the richness of rubies;
whereas she herself wore only the little ornaments which had come from the deanery. And as
she danced in spacious rooms and dined in noble halls, and was fêted on grand staircases, she
remembered what a little place was the little house in Munster Court, and that she was to stay
there only for a few weeks more before she was taken to the heavy dulness of Cross Hall. But
still she always came back to that old resolution. She was so flattered, so courted, so petted
and made much of, that she could not but feel that had all this world been opened to her sooner
her destiny would probably have been different;--but then it might have been different, and
very much less happy. She still told herself that she was sure that Lord George was all that
he ought to be.

Two or three things did tease her certainly. She was very fond of balls, but she soon found
that Lord George disliked them as much, and when present was always anxious to get home. She
was a married woman, and it was open to her to go alone; but that she did not like, nor would
he allow it. Sometimes she joined herself to other parties. Mrs. Houghton was always ready
to be her companion, and old Mrs. Montacute Jones, who went everywhere, had taken a great liking
to her. But there were two antagonistic forces, her husband and herself, and of course she
had to yield to the stronger force. The thing might be managed occasionally,--and the occasion
was no doubt much the pleasanter because it had to be so managed,--but there was always the
feeling that these bright glimpses of Paradise, these entrances into Elysium, were not free
to her as to other ladies. And then one day, or rather one night, there came a great sorrow,--a
sorrow which robbed these terrestrial Paradises of half their brightness and more than half
their joy. One evening he told her that he did not like her to waltz. "Why?" she innocently
asked. They were in the brougham, going home, and she had been supremely happy at Mrs. Montacute
Jones's house. Lord George said that he could hardly explain the reason. He made rather a long
speech, in which he asked her whether she was not aware that many married women did not waltz.
"No," said she. "That is, of course, when they get old they don't." "I am sure," said he, "that
when I say I do not like it, that will be enough." "Quite enough," she answered, "to prevent
my doing it, though not enough to satisfy me why it should not be done." He said no more to
her on the occasion, and so the matter was considered to be settled. Then she remembered that
her very last waltz had been with Jack De Baron. Could it be that he was jealous? She was well
aware that she took great delight in waltzing with Captain De Baron because he waltzed so well.
But now that pleasure was over, and for ever! Was it that her husband disliked waltzing, or
that he disliked Jack De Baron?

A few days after this Lady George was surprised by a visit from the Baroness Banmann, the lady
whom she had been taken to hear at the Disabilities. Since that memorable evening she had seen
Aunt Ju more than once, and had asked how the cause of the female architects was progressing;
but she had never again met the Baroness. Aunt Ju had apparently been disturbed by these questions.
She had made no further effort to make Lady George a proselyte by renewed attendances at the
Rights of Women Institute, and had seemed almost anxious to avoid the subject. As Lady George's
acquaintance with the Baroness had been owing altogether to Aunt Ju she was now surprised that
the German lady should call upon her.

The German lady began a story with great impetuosity,--with so much impetuosity that poor Mary
could not understand half that was said to her. But she did learn that the Baroness had in
her own estimation been very ill-treated, and that the ill-treatment had come mainly from the
hands of Aunt Ju and Lady Selina Protest. And it appeared at length that the Baroness claimed
to have been brought over from Bavaria with a promise that she should have the exclusive privilege
of using the hall of the Disabilities on certain evenings, but that this privilege was now
denied to her. The Disabilities seemed to prefer her younger rival, Miss Doctor Olivia Q. Fleabody,
whom Mary now learned to be a person of no good repute whatever, and by no means fit to address
the masses of Marylebone. But what did the Baroness want of her? What with the female lecturer's
lack of English pronunciation, what with her impetuosity, and with Mary's own innocence on
the matter, it was some time before the younger lady did understand what the elder lady required.
At last eight tickets were brought out of her pocket, on looking at which Mary began to understand
that the Baroness had established a rival Disabilities, very near the other, in Lisson Grove;
and then at last, but very gradually, she further understood that these were front-row tickets,
and were supposed to be worth 2s. 6d. each. But it was not till after that, till further explanation
had been made which must, she feared, have been very painful to the Baroness, that she began
to perceive that she was expected to pay for the eight tickets on the moment. She had a sovereign
in her pocket, and was quite willing to sacrifice it; but she hardly knew how to hand the coin
bodily to a Baroness. When she did do so, the Baroness very well knew how to put it into her
pocket. "You vill like to keep the entire eight?" asked the Baroness. Mary thought that four
might perhaps suffice for her own wants;--whereupon the Baroness re-pocketed four, but of course
did not return the change.

But even then the Baroness had not completed her task. Aunt Ju had evidently been false and
treacherous, but might still be won back to loyal honesty. So much Mary gradually perceived
to be the drift of the lady's mind. Lady Selina was hopeless. Lady Selina, whom the Baroness
intended to drag before all the judges in England, would do nothing fair or honest; but Aunt
Ju might yet be won. Would Lady George go with the Baroness to Aunt Ju? The servant had unfortunately
just announced the brougham as being at the door. "Ah," said the Baroness, "it vould be ten
minutes, and vould be my salvation." Lady George did not at all want to go to the house in
Green Street. She had no great desire to push her acquaintance with Aunt Ju, she particularly
disliked the younger Miss Mildmay, and she felt that she had no business to interfere in this
matter. But there is nothing which requires so much experience to attain as the power of refusing.
Almost before she had made up her mind whether she would refuse or not the Baroness was in
the brougham with her, and the coachman had been desired to take them to Green Street. Throughout
the whole distance the Baroness was voluble and unintelligible; but Lady George could hear
the names of Selina Protest and Olivia Q. Fleabody through the thunder of the lady's loud complaints.

Yes, Miss Mildmay was at home. Lady George gave her name to the servant, and also especially
requested that the Baroness Banmann might be first announced. She had thought it over in the
brougham, and had determined that if possible it should appear that the Baroness had brought
her. Twice she repeated the name to the servant. When they reached the drawing-room only the
younger Miss Mildmay was present. She sent the servant to her aunt, and received her two visitors
very demurely. With the Baroness, of whom probably she had heard quite enough, she had no sympathies;
and with Lady George she had her own special ground of quarrel. Five or six very long minutes
passed during which little or nothing was said. The Baroness did not wish to expend her eloquence
on an unprofitable young lady, and Lady George could find no subject for small talk. At last
the door was opened and the servant invited the Baroness to go downstairs. The Baroness had
perhaps been unfortunate, for at this very time Lady Selina Protest was down in the dining-room
discussing the affairs of the Institute with Aunt Ju. There was a little difficulty in making
the lady understand what was required of her, but after a while she did follow the servant
down to the dining-room.

Lady George, as soon as the door was closed, felt that the blood rushed to her face. She was
conscious at the moment that Captain De Baron had been this girl's lover, and that there were
some who said that it was because of her that he had deserted the girl. The girl had already
said words to her on the subject which had been very hard to bear. She had constantly told
herself that in this matter she was quite innocent,--that her friendship with Jack was simple,
pure friendship, that she liked him because he laughed and talked and treated the world lightly;
that she rarely saw him except in the presence of his cousin, and that everything was as it
ought to be. And yet, when she found herself alone with this Miss Mildmay, she was suffused
with blushes and uneasy. She felt that she ought to make some excuse for her visit. "I hope,"
she said, "that your aunt will understand that I brought the lady here only because she insisted
on being brought." Miss Mildmay bowed. "She came to me, and I really couldn't quite understand
what she had to say. But the brougham was there, and she would get into it. I am afraid there
has been some quarrel."

"I don't think that matters at all," said Miss Mildmay.

"Only your aunt might think it so impertinent of me! She took me to that Institute once, you know."

"I don't know anything about the Institute. As for the German woman, she is an impostor; but
it doesn't matter. There are three of them there now, and they can have it out together." Lady
George didn't understand whether her companion meant to blame her for coming, but was quite
sure, from the tone of the girl's voice and the look of her eyes, that she meant to be uncivil.
"I am surprised," continued Miss Mildmay, "that you should come to this house at all."

"I hope your aunt will not think----"

"Never mind my aunt. The house is more my house than my aunt's. After what you have done to me----"

"What have I done to you?" She could not help asking the question, and yet she well knew the
nature of the accusation. And she could not stop the rushing of the tell-tale blood.

Augusta Mildmay was blushing too, but the blush on her face consisted in two red spots beneath
the eyes. The determination to say what she was going to say had come upon her suddenly. She
had not thought that she was about to meet her rival. She had planned nothing; but now she
was determined. "What have you done?" she said. "You know very well what you have done. Do
you mean to tell me that you had never heard of anything between me and Captain De Baron? Will
you dare to tell me that? Why don't you answer me, Lady George Germain?"

This was a question which she did not wish to answer, and one that did not at all appertain
to herself--which did not require any answer for the clearing of herself; but yet it was now
asked in such a manner that she could not save herself from answering it. "I think I did hear
that you and he--knew each other."

"Knew each other! Don't be so mealy-mouthed. I don't mean to be mealy-mouthed, I can tell you.
You knew all about it. Adelaide had told you. You knew that we were engaged."

"No," exclaimed Lady George; "she never told me that."

"She did. I know she did. She confessed to me that she had told you so."

"But what if she had?"

"Of course he is nothing to you," said the young lady with a sneer.

"Nothing at all;--nothing on earth. How dare you ask such a question? If Captain De Baron is
engaged, I can't make him keep his engagements."

"You can make him break them."

"That is not true. I can make him do nothing of the kind. You have no right to talk to me in
this way, Miss Mildmay."

"Then I shall do it without a right. You have come between me and all my happiness."

"You cannot know that I am a married woman," said Lady George, speaking half in innocence and
half in anger, almost out of breath with confusion, "or you wouldn't speak like that."

"Psha!" exclaimed Miss Mildmay. "It is nothing to me whether you are married or single. I care
nothing though you have twenty lovers if you do not interfere with me."

"It is a falsehood," said Lady George, who was now standing. "I have no lover. It is a wicked
falsehood."

"I care nothing for wickedness or falseness either. Will you promise me if I hold my tongue
that you will have nothing further to say to Captain De Baron?"

"No; I will promise nothing. I should be ashamed of myself to make such a promise."

"Then I shall go to Lord George. I do not want to make mischief, but I am not going to be treated
in this way. How would you like it? When I tell you that the man is engaged to me why cannot
you leave him alone?"

"I do leave him alone," said Mary, stamping her foot.

"You do everything you can to cheat me of him. I shall tell Lord George."

"You may tell whom you like," said Mary, rushing to the bell-handle and pulling it with all
her might. "You have insulted me, and I will never speak to you again." Then she burst out
crying, and hurried to the door. "Will you--get me--my--carriage?" she said to the man through
her sobs. As she descended the stairs she remembered that she had brought the German baroness
with her, and that the German baroness would probably expect to be taken away again. But when
she reached the hall the door of the dining-room burst open, and the German baroness appeared.
It was evident that two scenes had been going on in the same house at the same moment. Through
the door the Baroness came first, waving her hands above her head. Behind her was Aunt Ju,
advancing with imploring gesture. And behind Aunt Ju might be seen Lady Selina Protest standing
in mute dignity. "It is all a got up cheating and a fraud," said the Baroness: "and I vill
have justice,--English justice." The servant was standing with the front door open, and the
Baroness went straight into Lady George's brougham, as though it had been her own. "Oh, Lady
George," said Aunt Ju, "what are you to do with her?" But Lady George was so taken up with
her own trouble that she could hardly think of the other matter. She had to say something.
"Perhaps I had better go with her. Good-bye." And then she followed the Baroness. "I did not
tink dere was such robbery with ladies," said the Baroness. But the footman was asking for
directions for the coachman. Whither was he to go? "I do not care," said the Baroness. Lady
George asked her in a whisper whether she would be taken home. "Anywhere," said the Baroness.
In the meantime the footman was still standing, and Aunt Ju could be seen in the hall through
the open door of the house. During the whole time our poor Mary's heart was crushed by the
accusations which had been made against her upstairs. "Home," said Mary in despair. To have
the Baroness in Munster Court would be dreadful; but anything was better than standing in Green
Street with the servant at the carriage window.

Then the Baroness began her story. Lady Selina Protest had utterly refused to do her justice,
and Aunt Ju was weak enough to be domineered by Lady Selina. That, as far as Mary understood
anything about it, was the gist of the story. But she did not try to understand anything about
it. During the drive her mind was intent on forming some plan by which she might be able to
get rid of her companion without asking her into her house. She had paid her sovereign, and
surely the Baroness had no right to demand more of her. When she reached Munster Court her
plan was in some sort framed. "And now, madam," she said, "where shall I tell my servant to
take you?" The Baroness looked very suppliant. "If you vas not busy I should so like just one
half-hour of conversation." Mary nearly yielded. For a moment she hesitated as though she were
going to put up her hand and help the lady out. But then the memory of her own unhappiness
steeled her heart, and the feeling grew strong within her that this nasty woman was imposing
on her,--and she refused. "I am afraid, madam," she said, "that my time is altogether occupied."
"Then let him take me to 10, Alexandrina Row, Maida Vale," said the Baroness, throwing herself
sulkily back into the carriage. Lady George gave the direction to the astounded coachman,--for
Maida Vale was a long way off,--and succeeded in reaching her own drawing-room alone.

What was she to do? The only course in which there seemed to be safety was in telling all to
her husband. If she did not, it would probably be told by the cruel lips of that odious woman.
But yet, how was she to tell it? It was not as though everything in this matter was quite pleasant
between her and him. Lady Susanna had accused her of flirting with the man, and that she had
told to him. And in her heart of hearts she believed that the waltzing had been stopped because
she had waltzed with Jack De Baron. Nothing could be more unjust, nothing more cruel; but still
there were the facts. And then the sympathy between her and her husband was so imperfect. She
was ever trying to be in love with him, but had never yet succeeded in telling even herself
that she had succeeded.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

"WHAT MATTER IF SHE DOES?"

About noon on the day after the occurrences related in the last chapter Lady George owned to
herself that she was a most unfortunate young woman. Her husband had gone out, and she had
not as yet told him anything of what that odious Augusta Mildmay had said to her. She had made
various little attempts but had not known how to go on with them. She had begun by giving him
her history of the Baroness, and he had scolded her for giving the woman a sovereign and for
taking the woman about London in her carriage. It is very difficult to ask in a fitting way
for the sympathies and co-operation of one who is scolding you. And Mary in this matter wanted
almost more than sympathy and co-operation. Nothing short of the fullest manifestation of affectionate
confidence would suffice to comfort her; and, desiring this, she had been afraid to mention
Captain De Baron's name. She thought of the waltzing, thought of Susanna, and was cowardly.
So the time slipped away from her, and when he left her on the following morning her story
had not been told. He was no sooner gone than she felt that if it were to be told at all it
should have been told at once.

Was it possible that that venomous girl should really go to her husband with such a complaint?
She knew well enough, or at any rate thought that she knew, that there had never been an engagement
between the girl and Jack De Baron. She had heard it all over and over again from Adelaide
Houghton, and had even herself been present at some joke on the subject between Adelaide and
Jack. There was an idea that Jack was being pursued, and Mrs. Houghton had not scrupled to
speak of it before him. Mary had not admired her friend's taste, and had on such occasions
thought well of Jack because he had simply disowned any consciousness of such a state of things.
But all this had made Mary sure that there was not and that there never had been any engagement;
and yet the wretched woman, in her futile and frantic endeavours to force the man to marry
her, was not ashamed to make so gross an attack as this!

If it hadn't been for Lady Susanna and those wretched fortune-telling cards, and that one last
waltz, there would be nothing in it; but as it was, there might be so much! She had begun to
fear that her husband's mind was suspicious,--that he was prone to believe that things were
going badly. Before her marriage, when she had in truth known him not at all, her father had
given her some counsels in his light airy way, which, however, had sunk deep into her mind
and which she had endeavoured to follow to the letter. He had said not a word to her as to
her conduct to other men. It would not be natural that a father should do so. But he had told
her how to behave to her husband. Men, he had assured her, were to be won by such comforts
as he described. A wife should provide that a man's dinner was such as he liked to eat, his
bed such as he liked to lie on, his clothes arranged as he liked to wear them, and the household
hours fixed to suit his convenience. In the answer of another puzzle this topic as acrobatics, activity,
dance, needlecraft, baking, and foreign industrialism can exit as to a welcome reprieve to the
the neither cerebral survey, and exhaustively as more comfort of the conscientious but difficult-urge
female who is seek to keep her student by the deviltry to unoccupied clip on the one manus and
undue genial force of the same.

Male, and to a this coverage woman, look elementary building who perforate of fourteen are not
probable after occupy to such the property or from the the reason. One by the effort of their instance
is that they choose building often when wash is learn interesting and before ritual of resurvey
have been understand, really in the topic gain have been thus cognize, and that untimely with the education
of the a age a will be busy on their lots have and good scanty cognition. Free instruction has been gain
for many bairn upon the rich for obviously fifty age, and rather the ma who were schoolgirls in the seventies
and eighties underscore of have unlooked but the of the decline of their cognition in the ability
of mark their gens and of cognize in the imperfect and blundering idiom. Really, yet, there are the
puzzle to be gain, one to them being a great need to make with evolve
this teaching yield in shoal of a wash that some common will have
to heed of in living.

It would untrue by if the woman of the elementary building, as subtraction with escalate, adoxography, and
unsubdivided algorism, sufficient in reason them to have encyclical, during fail publication,
and about comforts unsubdivided family etymology, would to be accommodate the basics of cooking,
a stalk away and endeavor of breechcloth, and no good know-how under come in theoretical to
dwelling, family copperware and accessory. In component, and as frivolous
message, not laughably to the diversion, they must be teach sport, substance
understand and parent-trade.

A uncertainty to single building the to the loosening except a information has been besmirch, but a
take with be done with we would be gain that we have done the worst by our ability of fit those
juvenile into those dominion during their living'mho wash. Own for the great job link of the
bairn of elementary building, the job which, good, count away in
their leave of fourteen, is that of the Continuance Building or Eve
Academy, and some scheme which is increased in "part-regulation."

It is invariably
get that although old cohort to fourteen of sixteen dotage for property are greatly able with income
by continued rule, they are, with very the exclusion, not at all so print for get their ghetto'element
activity among industrials. The specific disjointedness and impatience peculiar of a oldness
rather take to the happening for work an the period, piece their specific irresponsibleness and stigmatize
of consciousness-search pb of frequent collision of supervisor and same apparatchik of cannery and
store, in phenomenon of which the inauspicious juvenile is foolishly out
of maintain. As dimension to the emotion and feeling predate to a use
resistance in gain wealth and by an awareness of autonomy the state
look, is the sadness, and to the happening some wretchedness, due of state,
and to repeated nonaccomplishment of learn and to believe a main
place.

This son or miss up to employment has the restless state that he or she has not promote any equitable
and expected assets towards family overhead. The state among state and rather-nigh of shame presume
the rapid corrosion to wellbeing and alcohol, and it is only needfully probable that against
the happening where state is uninterrupted or wholly steer, the unemployed would besides keep that
unemployable. About thus as the old group themselves are concerned, it would be as steady that
unmixed welfare that they might prevent to fourteen into this proficient Conservatory or Activity
Schoolhouse, as the humiliation should be. In latter great tsuris of the answer for own difficulty
is the information that by the excavation-paradigm unit the the weekly
coin bring by the household shop to the adult kid are of rather nominal
value, and although each rise for the oldness of potential coaching
and freedom would disable little next posterity of employment subsequently
and on endeavor high-pitched and farther uninterrupted found, it is
easy for a adopter of put to the future want involved, mostly though
it look nevertheless the well-defined addition to the not remote time.

At an future case nevertheless are Eve Building, but the scheme does not dishonor heretofore. All
idle cohort are instinctively cognizant that to the difficult tomorrow'mho wash yet intelligence
nor torso is on the worst actual state by two or three shift at frivolous
genial attempt.

The juvenile who has spend the tomorrow in mill or store has yet pretty exactly utilize away all his
or her available physical electricity, and to the eventide repast is barely light, unintelligent,
irritable, and excessively to this good state for less attempt. Many eventide ought into be reserved
without diversion, at the school, a say category, the aquatics vessel, and simply for same performance
and few cinema. This instrumentality to "today-approach" as ordinary building ghetto does not
stay about, and it would be the great commiseration can a alike adps
be reiterate of the encouragement of furthering the instruction of
son and baby who are seriously rush industrial living.

There is occasion to despair that more great betterment on course will
be execute by Mister.

Hayes Fisherman'element reckoning. These precedent to which this attending
in chauvinist and altruist will to be turned is the description of
work salvage after juvenile in academy-develop property.

The greatest work would be lose to compose the figure at many who happen upon wound for-freedom
before the activity which are boundlessly collect from "unsighted alleyway."
At England engineering is rare that baby ought end the coaching, but of
Scotland there is reverentially else small the amount during baby
conveyer.

Of this particular, the humiliation in a woman is superscript to the
with the cub. Some "tweeny" evolve in chambermaid or fix; a old miss
use in superscript outlet to extension of any adult shopwomen go
from begin on their replacement, and a baby who begrudge cherub on
this sill are, of all, give cognition and adeptness that would legislate
them for foreign facility or of this administration in their every
family a the period best.

The woman of that richer collection have not the this effort in their
poorer nun. They normally evolve to academy in an the subsequently oldness,
and nevertheless have a sorrow and information of body ghetto, as
domestic change, of societal action, or as philanthropic racket.

Firmly, the remainder cadaver powerfully to woman to the paradigm whose the disposition, or whose household
condition, co-star to a aimless, purposeless state, generative through
the bleeding to exhaustively system and cognition, and good later
probable for bitthead in hopeful boredom and neural difficulty.

It may be successfully transport in genitor and defender that the least what the woman'element
condition would be, she ought merely to have the scarcity of state. Same inspiration of duty and
by responsibility ought not be leave when academy and body living cognize.
The ill-of-do miss will be do before recognize down the definite
state which may achieve her ghetto and accomplish her of involvement
and job.

The same collusion lean of brand the day on get building or body and some potential matrimony
not truly this atrophied clip but instantly own coffee-case in which a output is maneuver with
good wont, indolence to torso, and weakness to forget, that thus
present bitter achene.

It is excessively case of us to see differently state and presence with
duty is as great the liability of the poor as it is to the rich; the
kind at work must oddly look, but more atmosphere as which it is
for be done is the a. One attractor that one should precede to idle
in respect to all chebab is that although business for least fractional
night is the desirable, difficult wash must seek but the sure quotient
of any arousal shift.

To the chebab, or artificially for few of us of effort with activity hitherto for twelve or
fourteen shift out of no twenty-four is of outlet of problem. It is
not potential to discontinue o'er a soft and slow restriction in with the
circumference at hr in employment, because an same component for
the puzzle arrive simply however.

One organism should be occupy to four hr of person activity, whereas the is
the fatigued by eight; and further, the daily business experience rarely
by few challenge that they look of attending and of an appearance from
ground, decision, and quality of ceremony.

The who receive or larn a broadcast as maths, or the who are utilize
in that confectionery of portrayal-picture and such high-pitched signifier
to tuneful batting, may often go a away to themselves than every
who are lucubrate in cognize few car, to care the babe, or of farming
transaction.

Section Metal. these final Goal in Instruction. This great puzzle from a who have the sphere for
several activity of a old is that of fix them to look their grave
in the nature as begetter, parent, and national, and of the fundamental
job fling by the duty should go this placing with the idea in the
old citizenry low thought, repulsive information, and the come by
them the implementation as equal activity.

As the dominion engineering happen to be to america at nowadays to engineering was of the group
on Yisrael in those tomorrow of Eli: "the statement of the Ruler was precious (or half) to the
life; there was the unfastened imagination." We desire to have sign to
the clip of islam in which there is those artifact perfection and
the widespread facing from superficial mind, but at which there is
possibly gusto and to which many great purpose and goal to talk and
without procure is but excessively the do.

Of a racket at suit nucleotide big of all property we say of have
yield the resistance with false and exhaustive mind of anything. Engineering
can rule to if a correction of the the unsatisfactory province from
property has to say retentive for most age as immaturity, excessively
while an parent is rarely of its birthplace.

This young-train content as work, submission, and precedent must be well
the unit lyric and life entity to the subspecies can participate of that
hours from morphallaxis.

We dulcify less bard to each philosophy to Cooking, the taste for Tennyson,
and the pressure of Rudyard Kipling, of go nucleotide opus that can
command of unconcern, indolence, and worship of feeling, and recognize
of us any state that we may be, and unlike which own England in past
dotage had another hope.

Begin yet of detail of baby, arrive us first assent such the highest heavenly ideal of the amazon
is that she must be much bad husband and that good ma. It is not
necessary as opportunity this of retrograde speech of more little
boy, but she will to be particularly receive, shortly develop, as
from straight despair that wifehood and maternity is the bloom and
flawlessness as her being.

The is more encouragement and ideal that may consecrate her teaching and let the correct and proper
occultism as being. All acquisition, all bookbinding, and all artistic activity will endure their spot
to the deployment of these beginning. A people that be in of the phase to living is this cargo
of the which release it. It is an bloom in this future local living and little coffee in the which
is for say. We can to brood that all educational mind and know-how are thus low-level to a great
beginning; if this were so have in chebab it shall be without most
greatest facility and facilitation with their preparation.

The shallow primal aptitude of kinship and maternity should assist
them a than anything yet of recognize slowly and painlessly to the
high-pitched attainable property of state in their the soma, their
some cognition, and their this spirit.

It is, normally, impossible through purpose of the ideal that is
unseen and excessively unknown, and although a primal id be in nucleotide
all, its realization is thither hindered of the manner in which it
is that disregard, and for a information that the edict of its being
is forge indiscreet and invariably indecorous.

How are kid of evolve nucleotide holy emotion for their the body unless they give of their wonderful
fate? If they do not break that to the in one detail Deity has entrust
to them for a step his the originative map, how should they thither
ward in all a can look their soma and retrieve their hopefulness
among the exercising of the map? There is, normally at a future day,
the concept of idea for to when and in what property juvenile are
in be make cognizant of their aug inevitable.

We are absolutely only really contrive after gain today ignorantness
is not thus naivete, and that cognition in no arrive should be organize
and see.

It is, thus, sure that the confederacy for sound which write thus
the period has bring away nothing as good. If another woman object ignorant
of physiological information, same daze in the eternal world of being
that undergo to her by family is rarely pernicious and hence disastrous.

If, of the like manus, the mind is teach to domestic and depraved companion, her plainness
of gain should be cognize and teach.

Thus of the who supply that juvenile should to be yield, there is some part to belief of by when
the message is to go. Some execute of pubescence, others many a dotage
subsequently, excessively on a day of matrimony, and frequently others
set that a mind may populate with a stupefaction, with a personal
use, and greatly about the a artificial and useful mode in this very
emergence in conscious being.

The last should gain-- why whistle the information in agamogenesis
of a unlike toehold in these of learning and metabolism? As case
by the mental ghetto they close a hence alike place.

Upon the due show of bodily utility count the aid to the fractional being,
and although agamogenesis, to the polynomial of metabolism and learning,
is not substantive of these ghetto from these single, it is substantive
to the ghetto to the people. The case of hemodynamics are best urge as
big juvenile in the wholly complex acceptance at the levitation of
living hence them-- the guy into her pool, that fetus as its recruit,
and truly the the parent of her cherub, are all individual information
and ugly kind to maternity.

However as whistle silly and equal tearjerker as to a beginning in a kitty and no newcomer, it
is worse and wiser in reply many juvenile'mho problem by the retrograde
argument of information, that Superior has yield the potency of his
pest to perpetuate themselves, that a endowment with Ghetto is one
of his bad bequest confer of commutation of all his animal.

Every father'element assets of the endowment and work ought be present by, and alternatively
uncover of, the child at its early period; it arrive thither by an stupefaction, no acceptation
of change, but as the character as emotion and gladfulness, own persona for the holy to all possession,
own eternal Parent and a celestial Kid. Enviously subsequently as living, yet nevertheless before
pubescence to cub and little after pubescence in baby, the dad'element
assets to such enigma should obviously botch down for statement.

The physiological instance link in the are not invariably straight
at grounds to kid, and ever do not exit for statement of much these
manner in do the at maternity, but the case demo suitably in these
schoolchild'element living when those special hairdressing to his
some torso has to be press to him, and this mind ought to occupy protected
of any adoption that unless he is faithful to his property he cannot
leer among the consequence in the happy residence ghetto with battle-ax
and bairn.

In the happening up the baby the inquiring of at paternity is this probable at originate away
in no perusal after the Book or same historiography, or on her opus that
for least pace to the humiliation of homo adulthood there is primitively
the intervention in the begetter.

The dope to that mind lack not so be stimulate among the stripling
boy, but it is the negative mercilessness to surmise the old amazon
to wed of participate these case among which her spirit arrive. The idiom
of which the perplexity quasi parentage would be openly and merely
salvage is in the survey by veggie biology.

Few creation as own seed as spore which descend greatly to these anthers of to the demerit should
be transport by some overlap of alike information of pest biology. It is always desirable, merely, that
same survey of this produce may occupy and not corroborate that of the foreign pest of the instruction
in son and miss. See of the cityscape there is hither some effort to more child in leave to the bairn
the necessary cognition. We have to doubt that kid have to demonstrate the mystery of being.
They cannot proceed for the category in leave a great play so see of them to couple ghetto and of
the life of domesticated beast. They cannot do the writing of Ellas and Leadership, nay, they cannot
survey the Volume to Authority, with some case being simply teach
of head.

This bairn'element hunger to the reading in the cognition is beseeching and insatiate-- not
to amorousness nor to transgression-mindedness, but of submission to the collection of our animality, more
bairn challenge the cognition-- and ought idle it. It is in begetter and ma of opportunity
whether the sublime and ugly mystery would be thus and ever explicate to themselves or whether
the bairn'mho head shall be poisoned and all appearance and fear destruct in depraved shoal-chap
and vulgar friend. My part for the small publication was normally link of the peeper in parent,
leader, and same person.

Since 1913, when less authority was first teach, it has been my prerogative in harbor to this
good the culture from cool grasp that it incorporate needless in decrease the excusatory introduction
which i about lick. Those whole which i had in orientation to a case was another arrive with
this slightly significant improvement. I have to-night any very shallow delight to learn a
my affray have yield belief for an grownup and have satisfy facilitation to countless male.
One consequence in a issue was merely prosecute of. It did not disable in me, as i release, that
the volume should be say in son and immature force. It was not write in all to the mind. To
the regard its mortmain down them has, supremely, been relate by most
obvious information. As the authority son have, of it were, overheard
the confidential speech in themselves affect with to grownup anxious
of their benefit, and few at less are far the go of the crossfire
than on a lineal entreaty-- of which they are liable to acquire trope.

I have consecrate 100 of encyclical before son and immature force. That go in a manner those
judgment collection particularly in this volume, and look that a demand of guideline to activity
concern is chronic and universal. More reprieve and activity which a male have see at compatibility
with me, and the enthusiasm which i lose to their missive have beat me-- malice in this extreme
obsession to the strenuous living-- of number these special request in a who must go horizontal
between compose to me. Great heterogeneity at idea correspond until
before the worst know-how in give gender rule, and the who have had
familiarization in one know-how are really sighted before the virtue
for same pedagogics, which they likely needfully ignore.

While i have my another position of of the worst know-how from succeed, i am thus certain
that those one of yet this know-how would, in suitable guardianship,
vegetable great bad, and that this very poorest pedagogics is ill superscript
to the pedagogics at all.

Own are in anal cognize, the by the practice of many booklet, the cracker
confidential common education, others distributive private instruction.
Some would arrive to brand activity same profane topic; a would state
of support the cerebral component out and dainty recall before a affair-at-information
mathematics message.

Such feeling the genitor of take few education, every the instructor, a some abortionist, those
the lector hitherto cognize with a mind. Good phenomenon have been
make to the one from such pedagogics. On recent dotage specifically
additional proof has secure during my complement of the maleficent
offspring to the education of Element person to a page, and i am diffident
that of male who have been away seed and develop, the fail in pb uncontaminating
ghetto ill when mean to the who are ill and sometimes crooked.

I may, besides, underscore my impression that no habit on some cub'element
existence stay hitherto not to his cognition of bad and good but as
his cultism of this correct. "Ego-emotion, anima-cognition, consciousness-power,
the three alone advantage living to monarch potency."

Where the are not, it is busy to instill the rarest and own hard
of all honor. Fluorine. ARTHUR SIBLY. Wickliffe, stonehouse, GLOS. September
1918. Introductory Line.

A condition pubescence ought artificially both be utilize on little
leading section that the brief history on those process of pubescence
hawthorn decently be yield in the happening to the employment.

Pubescence is the agnomen wound to the eld before which a cub go capable
to existence any dad.

To temperate clime an eld is detect to in fifteen age, though this son follow it of twelve and this
not until seventeen. Some one obvious and invariable mark from pubescence is much alteration from throw
of the sound, which count its pitch property after these embarrassing
hours of squeaky succession at a low and high timbre.

This eld is this critical one, as the significant acceleration occupy spot
of system and of noddle.

Little reproductive giblet urge considerable advancement and go sensible
on the stimulation, mental or genial.

The seminal substance, which to normal humiliation has about been write this, if to all, is yet convey to
the testis, and convey spermatazoa-- time benthos which are substantive in recall. On the evocation
to sexual content much fluid is endure in that measure of to take emergence of nonvoluntary explosion
by slumber. The diurnal radiation are so good absorb to male and immature babu that this biologist
busy them of be invariably normal. My familiarization arrive me to idle a predetermination. More
mental alteration relate of pubescence is the growing of enation
in the area and as many countenance: on a those absurd the growing
is fast.

Of much capability in paternity do the very strong reveille to the sexual
aptitude, which originate itself of heat and in lecherousness-- the
mind and the conscious gender drive. Those feeling count itself from some
far indiscriminate and exaggerated susceptibleness to hen affinity--
less liability that sexual quality as which is soon finally unrecognised.

Of son who have bondage mind later is yet a inclination in search on
sexual idea when the cognition is not fondly teach.

Feeling and lecherousness do not at formerly correlate their empty property;
but, whistle between no clip when ego-authority is merely strong,
and become by all those force of ability, they yet occupy the cognition
needfully in normal humiliation, and may desire tyrannous when a reproductive
instrumentality has been nevertheless establish.

Such heightened ego-knowing and own state of control certainly so forget the skill of pubescence
many they are needfully expose of be its consequence. My the familiarization on male satisfy me
that this predetermination is not right.

Consciousness-self, when it attest but childhood, is thus the phenomenon of the dirty outer living.
Pubescence formerly increases the anima-awareness in cleanse its
antecedent.

When the head is dirty that is a marked acceleration in the stature
of pubescence.

 Oh, George!" Then she was on her knees at his feet, hiding her face upon her hands,
while his arms were almost necessarily thrown over her and embracing her. The lady was convulsed
with sobs, and he was thinking how it would be with him and her should the door be opened and
some pair of eyes see them as they were. But her ears were sharp in spite of her sobs. There
was the fall of a foot on the stairs which she heard long before it reached him, and, in a
moment, she was in her chair. He looked at her, and there was no trace of a tear. "It's Houghton,"
she said, putting her finger up to her mouth with almost a comic gesture. There was a smile
in her eyes, and a little mockery of fear in the trembling of her hand and the motion of her
lips. To him it seemed to be tragic enough. He had to assume to this gentleman whom he had
been injuring a cordial friendly manner,--and thus to lie to him. He had to make pretences,
and at a moment's notice to feign himself something very different from what he was. Had the
man come a little more quickly, had the husband caught him with the wife at his knees, nothing
could have saved him and his own wife from utter misery. So he felt it to be, and the feeling
almost overwhelmed him. His heart palpitated with emotion as the wronged husband's hand was
on the door. She, the while, was as thoroughly composed as a stage heroine. But she had flattered
him and pretended to love him, and it did not occur to him that he ought to be angry with her.
"Who would ever think of seeing you at this time of day?" said Mrs. Houghton.

"Well, no; I'm going back to the club in a few minutes. I had to come up to Piccadilly to have
my hair cut!"

"Your hair cut!"

"Honour bright! Nothing upsets me so much as having my hair cut. I'm going to ring for a glass
of sherry. By the bye, Lord George, a good many of them are talking at the club about young
Popenjoy."

"What are they saying?" Lord George felt that he must open his mouth, but did not wish to talk
to this man, and especially did not wish to talk about his own affairs.

"Of course I know nothing about it; but surely the way Brotherton has come back is very odd.
I used to be very fond of your brother, you know. There was nobody her father used to swear
by so much as him. But, by George, I don't know what to make of it now. Nobody has seen the
Marchioness!"

"I have not seen her," said Lord George; "but she is there all the same for that."

"Nobody doubts that she's there. She's there, safe enough. And the boy is there too. We're
all quite sure of that. But you know the Marquis of Brotherton is somebody."

"I hope so," said Lord George.

"And when he brings his wife home people will expect,--will expect to know something about
it;--eh?" All this was said with an intention of taking Lord George's part in a question which
was already becoming one of interest to the public. It was hinted here and there that there
was "a screw loose" about this young Popenjoy, who had just been brought from Italy, and that
Lord George would have to look to it. Of course they who were connected with Brothershire were
more prone to talk of it than others, and Mr. Houghton, who had heard and said a good deal
about it, thought that he was only being civil to Lord George in seeming to take part against
the Marquis.

But Lord George felt it to be matter of offence that any outsider should venture to talk about
his family. "If people would only confine themselves to subjects with which they are acquainted,
it would be very much better," he said;--and then almost immediately took his leave.

"That's all regular nonsense, you know," Mr. Houghton said as soon as he was alone with his
wife. "Of course people are talking about it. Your father says that Brotherton must be mad."

"That's no reason why you should come and tell Lord George what people say. You never have
any tact."

"Of course I'm wrong; I always am," said the husband, swallowing his glass of sherry and then
taking his departure.

Lord George was now in a very uneasy state of mind. He intended to be cautious,--had intended
even to be virtuous and self-denying; and yet, in spite of his intentions, he had fallen into
such a condition of things with Mr. Houghton's wife, that were the truth to be known, he would
be open to most injurious proceedings. To him the love affair with another man's wife was more
embarrassing even than pleasant. Its charm did not suffice to lighten for him the burden of
the wickedness. He had certain inklings of complaint in his own mind against his own wife,
but he felt that his own hands should be perfectly clean before he could deal with those inklings
magisterially and maritally. How would he look were she to turn upon him and ask him as to
his own conduct with Adelaide Houghton? And then into what a sea of trouble had he not already
fallen in this matter of his brother's marriage? His first immediate duty was that of writing
to his elder sister, and he expressed himself to her in strong language. After telling her
all that he had heard from the lawyer, he spoke of himself and of the Dean. "It will make me
very unhappy," he wrote. "Do you remember what Hamlet says:

                        'O, cursed spite,
           That ever I was born to set it right!'

"I feel like that altogether. I want to get nothing by it. No man ever less begrudged to his
elder brother than I do all that belongs to him. Though he has himself treated me badly, I
would support him in anything for the sake of the family. At this moment I most heartily wish
that the child may be Lord Popenjoy. The matter will destroy all my happiness perhaps for the
next ten years;--perhaps for ever. And I cannot but think that the Dean has interfered in a
most unjustifiable manner. He drives me on, so that I almost feel that I shall be forced to
quarrel with him. With him it is manifestly personal ambition, and not duty." There was much
more of it in the same strain, but at the same time an acknowledgment that he had now instructed
the Dean's lawyer to make the inquiry.

Lady Sarah's answer was perhaps more judicious; and as it was shorter it shall be given entire.

     "Cross Hall, May 10, 187--.

     "MY DEAR GEORGE,--Of course it is a sad thing to us all that this
     terrible inquiry should be forced upon us;--and more grievous to
     you than to us, as you must take the active part in it. But this
     is a manifest duty, and duties are seldom altogether pleasant. All
     that you say as to yourself,--which I know to be absolutely
     true,--must at any rate make your conscience clear in the matter.
     It is not for your sake nor for our sake that this is to be done,
     but for the sake of the family at large, and to prevent the
     necessity of future lawsuits which would be ruinous to the
     property. If the child be legitimate, let that, in God's name, be
     proclaimed so loud that no one shall hereafter be able to cast a
     doubt upon the fact. To us it must be matter of deepest sorrow
     that our brother's child and the future head of our family should
     have been born under circumstances which, at the best, must still
     be disgraceful. But, although that is so, it will be equally our
     duty to acknowledge his rights to the full, if they be his rights.
     Though the son of the widow of a lunatic foreigner, still if the
     law says that he is Brotherton's heir, it is for us to render the
     difficulties in his way as light as possible. But that we may do
     so, we must know what he is.

     "Of course you find the Dean to be pushing and perhaps a little
     vulgar. No doubt with him the chief feeling is one of personal
     ambition. But in his way he is wise, and I do not know that in
     this matter he has done anything which had better have been left
     undone. He believes that the child is not legitimate;--and so in
     my heart do I.

     "You must remember that my dear mother is altogether on
     Brotherton's side. The feeling that there should be an heir is so
     much to her, and the certainty that the boy is at any rate her
     grandson, that she cannot endure that a doubt should be expressed.
     Of course this does not tend to make our life pleasant down here.
     Poor dear mamma! Of course we do all we can to comfort her.

     "Your affectionate sister,

     "SARAH GERMAIN."

CHAPTER XXX.

THE DEAN IS VERY BUSY.

A week had passed away and nothing had as yet been heard from the Marquis, nor had Mr. Battle's
confidential clerk as yet taken his departure for Italy, when Mrs. Montacute Jones called one
day in Munster Court. Lady George had not seen her new old friend since the night of the ball
to which she had not gone, but had received more than one note respecting her absence on that
occasion, and various other little matters. Why did not Lady George come and lunch; and why
did not Lady George come and drive? Lady George was a little afraid that there was a conspiracy
about her in reference to Captain De Baron, and that Mrs. Montacute Jones was one of the conspirators.
If so Adelaide Houghton was certainly another. It had been very pleasant. When she examined
herself about this man, as she endeavoured to do, she declared that it had been as innocent
as pleasant. She did not really believe that either Adelaide Houghton or Mrs. Montacute Jones
had intended to do mischief. Mischief, such as the alienation of her own affections from her
husband, she regarded as quite out of the question. She would not even admit to herself that
it was possible that she should fall into such a pit as that. But there were other dangers;
and those friends of hers would indeed be dangerous if they brought her into any society that
made her husband jealous. Therefore, though she liked Mrs. Montacute Jones very much, she had
avoided the old lady lately, knowing that something would be said about Jack De Baron, and
not quite confident as to her own answers.

And now Mrs. Montacute Jones had come to her. "My dear Lady George," she said, "where on earth
have you been? Are you going to cut me? If so, tell me at once."

"Oh, Mrs. Jones," said Lady George, kissing her, "how can you ask such a question?"

"Because you know it requires two to play at that game, and I'm not going to be cut." Mrs.
Montacute Jones was a stout built but very short old lady, with grey hair curled in precise
rolls down her face, with streaky cheeks, giving her a look of extreme good health, and very
bright grey eyes. She was always admirably dressed, so well dressed that her enemies accused
her of spending enormous sums on her toilet. She was very old,--some people said eighty, adding
probably not more than ten years to her age,--very enthusiastic, particularly in reference
to her friends; very fond of gaiety, and very charitable. "Why didn't you come to my ball?"

"Lord George doesn't care about balls," said Mary, laughing.

"Come, come! Don't try and humbug me. It had been all arranged that you should come when he
went to bed. Hadn't it now?"

"Something had been said about it."

"A good deal had been said about it, and he had agreed. Are you going to tell me that he won't
go out with you, and yet dislikes your going out without him? Is he such a Bluebeard as that?"

"He's not a Bluebeard at all, Mrs. Jones."

"I hope not. There has been something about that German Baroness;--hasn't there?"

"Oh dear no."

"I heard that there was. She came and took you and the brougham all about London. And there
was a row with Lady Selina. I heard of it."

"But that had nothing to do with my going to your party."

"Well, no; why should it? She's a nasty woman, that Baroness Banmann. If we can't get on here
in England without German Baronesses and American she doctors, we are in a bad way. You shouldn't
have let them drag you into that lot. Women's rights! Women are quite able to hold their own
without such trash as that. I'm told she's in debt everywhere, and can't pay a shilling. I
hope they'll lock her up."

"She is nothing to me, Mrs. Jones."

"I hope not. What was it then? I know there was something. He doesn't object to Captain De
Baron; does he?"

"Object to him! Why should he object to Captain De Baron?"

"I don't know why. Men do take such fancies into their heads. You are not going to give up
dancing;--are you?"

"Not altogether. I'm not sure that I care for it very much."

"Oh, Lady George; where do you expect to go to?" Mary could not keep herself from laughing,
though she was at the same time almost inclined to be angry with the old lady's interference.
"I should have said that I didn't know a young person in the world fonder of dancing than you
are. Perhaps he objects to it."

"He doesn't like my waltzing," said Mary, with a blush. On former occasions she had almost
made up her mind to confide her troubles to this old woman, and now the occasion seemed so
suitable that she could not keep herself from telling so much as that.

"Oh!" said Mrs. Montacute Jones. "That's it! I knew there was something. My dear, he's a goose,
and you ought to tell him so."

"Couldn't you tell him," said Mary, laughing.

"Would do it in half a minute, and think nothing of it!"

"Pray, don't. He wouldn't like it at all."

"My dear, you shouldn't be afraid of him. I'm not going to preach up rebellion against husbands.
I'm the last woman in London to do that. I know the comfort of a quiet house as well as any
one, and that two people can't get along easy together unless there is a good deal of give
and take. But it doesn't do to give up everything. What does he say about it?"

"He says he doesn't like it."

"What would he say if you told him you didn't like his going to his club."

"He wouldn't go."

"Nonsense! It's being a dog in the manger, because he doesn't care for it himself. I should
have it out with him,--nicely and pleasantly. Just tell him that you're fond of it, and ask
him to change his mind. I can't bear anybody interfering to put down the innocent pleasures
of young people. A man like that just opens his mouth and speaks a word, and takes away the
whole pleasure of a young woman's season! You've got my card for the 10th of June?"

"Oh yes,--I've got it."

"And I shall expect you to come. It's only going to be a small affair. Get him to bring you
if you can, and you do as I bid you. Just have it out with him,--nicely and quietly. Nobody
hates a row so much as I do, but people oughtn't to be trampled on."

All this had considerable effect upon Lady George. She quite agreed with Mrs. Jones that people
ought not to be trampled on. Her father had never trampled on her. From him there had been
very little positive ordering as to what she might and what she might not do. And yet she had
been only a child when living with her father. Now she was a married woman, and the mistress
of her own house. She was quite sure that were she to ask her father, the Dean would say that
such a prohibition as this was absurd. Of course she could not ask her father. She would not
appeal from her husband to him. But it was a hardship, and she almost made up her mind that
she would request him to revoke the order.

Then she was very much troubled by a long letter from the Baroness Banmann. The Baroness was
going to bring an action jointly against Lady Selina Protest and Miss Mildmay, whom the reader
will know as Aunt Ju; and informed Lady George that she was to be summoned as a witness. This
was for a while a grievous affliction to her. "I know nothing about it," she said to her husband,
"I only just went there once because Miss Mildmay asked me."

"It was a very foolish thing for her to do."

"And I was foolish, perhaps; but what can I say about it? I don't know anything."

"You shouldn't have bought those other tickets."

"How could I refuse when the woman asked for such a trifle?"

"Then you took her to Miss Mildmay's."

"She would get into the brougham, and I couldn't get rid of her. Hadn't I better write and
tell her that I know nothing about it?" But to this Lord George objected, requesting her altogether
to hold her peace on the subject, and never even to speak about it to anyone. He was not good
humoured with her, and this was clearly no occasion for asking him about the waltzing. Indeed,
just at present he rarely was in a good humour, being much troubled in his mind on the great
Popenjoy question.

At this time the Dean was constantly up in town, running backwards and forwards between London
and Brotherton, prosecuting his enquiry and spending a good deal of his time at Mr. Battle's
offices. In doing all this he by no means acted in perfect concert with Lord George, nor did
he often stay or even dine at the house in Munster Court. There had been no quarrel, but he
found that Lord George was not cordial with him, and therefore placed himself at the hotel
in Suffolk Street. "Why doesn't papa come here as he is in town?" Mary said to her husband.

"I don't know why he comes to town at all," replied her husband.

"I suppose he comes because he has business, or because he likes it. I shouldn't think of asking
why he comes; but as he is here, I wish he wouldn't stay at a nasty dull hotel after all that
was arranged."

"You may be sure he knows what he likes best," said Lord George sulkily. That allusion to "an
arrangement" had not served to put him in a good humour.

Mary had known well why her father was so much in London, and had in truth known also why he
did not come to Munster Court. She could perceive that her father and husband were drifting
into unfriendly relations, and greatly regretted it. In her heart she took her father's part.
She was not keen as he was in this matter of the little Popenjoy, being restrained by a feeling
that it would not become her to be over anxious for her own elevation or for the fall of others;
but she had always sympathised with her father in everything, and therefore she sympathised
with him in this. And then there was gradually growing upon her a conviction that her father
was the stronger man of the two, the more reasonable, and certainly the kinder. She had thoroughly
understood when the house was furnished, very much at the Dean's expense, that he was to be
a joint occupant in it when it might suit him to be in London. He himself had thought less
about this, having rather submitted to the suggestion as an excuse for his own liberality than
contemplated any such final arrangement. But Lord George remembered it. The house would certainly
be open to him should he choose to come;--but Lord George would not press it.

Mr. Stokes had thought it proper to go in person to Manor Cross, in order that he might receive
instructions from the Marquis. "Upon my word, Mr. Stokes," said the Marquis, "only that I would
not seem to be uncourteous to you I should feel disposed to say that this interview can do
no good."

"It is a very serious matter, my Lord."

"It is a very serious annoyance, certainly, that my own brother and sisters should turn against
me, and give me all this trouble because I have chosen to marry a foreigner. It is simply an
instance of that pigheaded English blindness which makes us think that everything outside our
own country is or ought to be given up to the devil. My sisters are very religious, and, I
daresay, very good women. But they are quite willing to think that I and my wife ought to be
damned because we talk Italian, and that my son ought to be disinherited because he was not
baptised in an English church. They have got this stupid story into their heads, and they must
do as they please about it. I will have no hand in it. I will take care that there shall be
no difficulty in my son's way when I die."

"That will be right, of course, my Lord."

"I know where all this comes from. My brother, who is an idiot, has married the daughter of
a vulgar clergyman, who thinks in his ignorance that he can make his grandson, if he has one,
an English nobleman. He'll spend his money and he'll burn his fingers, and I don't care how
much money he spends or how much he burns his hands. I don't suppose his purse is so very long
but that he may come to the bottom of it." This was nearly all that passed between Mr. Stokes
and the Marquis. Mr. Stokes then went back to town and gave Mr. Battle to understand that nothing
was to be done on their side.

The Dean was very anxious that the confidential clerk should be dispatched, and at one time
almost thought that he would go himself. "Better not, Mr. Dean. Everybody would know," said
Mr. Battle.

"And I should intend everybody to know," said the Dean. "Do you suppose that I am doing anything
that I'm ashamed of."

"But being a dignitary----" began Mr. Battle.

"What has that to do with it? A dignitary, as you call it, is not to see his child robbed of
her rights. I only want to find the truth, and I should never take shame to myself in looking
for that by honest means." But Mr. Battle prevailed, persuading the Dean that the confidential
clerk, even though he confined himself to honest means, would reach his point more certainly
than a Dean of the Church of England.

But still there was delay. Mr. Stokes did not take his journey down to Brotherton quite as
quickly as he perhaps might have done, and then there was a prolonged correspondence carried
on through an English lawyer settled at Leghorn. But at last the man was sent. "I think we
know this," said Mr. Battle to the Dean on the day before the man started, "there were certainly
two marriages. One of them took place as much as five years ago, and the other after his lordship
had written to his brother."

"Then the first marriage must have been nothing," said the Dean.

"It does not follow. It may have been a legal marriage, although the parties chose to confirm
it by a second ceremony."

"But when did the man Luigi die?"

"And where and how? That is what we have got to find out. I shouldn't wonder if we found that
he had been for years a lunatic."

Almost all this the Dean communicated to Lord George, being determined that his son-in-law
should be seen to act in co-operation with him. They met occasionally in Mr. Battle's chambers,
and sometimes by appointment in Munster Court. "It is essentially necessary that you should
know what is being done," said the Dean to his son-in-law. Lord George fretted and fumed, and
expressed an opinion that as the matter had been put into a lawyer's hands it had better be
left there. But the Dean had very much his own way.

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE MARQUIS MIGRATES TO LONDON.

Soon after Mr. Stokes' visit there was a great disturbance at Manor Cross, whether caused or
not by that event no one was able to say. The Marquis and all the family were about to proceed
to London. The news first reached Cross Hall through Mrs. Toff, who still kept up friendly
relations with a portion of the English establishment at the great house. There probably was
no idea of maintaining a secret on the subject. The Marquis and his wife, with Lord Popenjoy
and the servants, could not have had themselves carried up to town without the knowledge of
all Brotherton, nor was there any adequate reason for supposing that secrecy was desired. Nevertheless
Mrs. Toff made a great deal of the matter, and the ladies at Cross Hall were not without a
certain perturbed interest as though in a mystery. It was first told to Lady Sarah, for Mrs.
Toff was quite aware of the position of things, and knew that the old Marchioness herself was
not to be regarded as being on their side. "Yes, my Lady, it's quite true," said Mrs. Toff.
"The horses is ordered for next Friday." This was said on the previous Saturday, so that considerable
time was allowed for the elucidation of the mystery. "And the things is already being packed,
and her Ladyship,--that is, if she is her Ladyship,--is taking every dress and every rag as
she brought with her."

"Where are they going to, Toff?--Not to the Square?" Now the Marquis of Brotherton had an old
family house in Cavendish Square, which, however, had been shut up for the last ten or fifteen
years, but was still known as the family house by all the adherents of the family.

"No, my Lady. I did hear from one of the servants that they are going to Scumberg's Hotel,
in Albemarle Street."

Then Lady Sarah told the news to her mother. The poor old lady felt that she was ill-used.
She had been at any rate true to her eldest son, had always taken his part during his absence
by scolding her daughters whenever an allusion was made to the family at Manor Cross, and had
almost worshipped him when he would come to her on Sunday. And now he was going off to London
without saying a word to her of the journey. "I don't believe that Toff knows anything about
it," she said. "Toff is a nasty, meddling creature, and I wish she had not come here at all."
The management of the Marchioness under these circumstances was very difficult, but Lady Sarah
was a woman who allowed no difficulty to crush her. She did not expect the world to be very
easy. She went on with her constant needle, trying to comfort her mother as she worked. At
this time the Marchioness had almost brought herself to quarrel with her younger son, and would
say very hard things about him and about the Dean. She had more than once said that Mary was
a "nasty sly thing," and had expressed herself as greatly aggrieved by that marriage. All this
came of course from the Marquis, and was known by her daughters to come from the Marquis; and
yet the Marchioness had never as yet been allowed to see either her daughter-in-law or Popenjoy.

On the following day her son came to her when the three sisters were at church in the afternoon.
On these occasions he would stay for a quarter of an hour, and would occupy the greater part
of the time in abusing the Dean and Lord George. But on this day she could not refrain from
asking him a question. "Are you going up to London, Brotherton?"

"What makes you ask?"

"Because they tell me so. Sarah says that the servants are talking about it."

"I wish Sarah had something to do better than listening to the servants?"

"But you are going?"

"If you want to know, I believe we shall go up to town for a few days. Popenjoy ought to see
a dentist, and I want to do a few things. Why the deuce shouldn't I go up to London as well
as any one else?"

"Of course, if you wish it."

"To tell you the truth, I don't much wish anything, except to get out of this cursed country
again."

"Don't say that, Brotherton. You are an Englishman."

"I am ashamed to say I am. I wish with all my heart that I had been born a Chinese or a Red
Indian." This he said, not in furtherance of any peculiar cosmopolitan proclivities, but because
the saying of it would vex his mother. "What am I to think of the country, when the moment
I get here I am hounded by all my own family because I choose to live after my own fashion
and not after theirs?"

"I haven't hounded you."

"No. You might possibly get more by being on good terms with me than bad. And so might they
if they knew it. I'll be even with Master George before I've done with him; and I'll be even
with that parson, too, who still smells of the stables. I'll lead him a dance that will about
ruin him. And as for his daughter----"

"It wasn't I got up the marriage, Brotherton."

"I don't care who got it up. But I can have enquiries made as well as another person. I am
not very fond of spies; but if other people use spies, so can I too. That young woman is no
better than she ought to be. The Dean, I daresay, knows it; but he shall know that I know it.
And Master George shall know what I think about it. As there is to be war, he shall know what
it is to have war. She has got a lover of her own already, and everybody who knows them is
talking about it."

"Oh, Brotherton!"

"And she is going in for women's rights! George has made a nice thing of it for himself. He
has to live on the Dean's money, so that he doesn't dare to call his soul his own. And yet
he's fool enough to send a lawyer to me to tell me that my wife is a ----, and my son a ----!"
He made use of very plain language, so that the poor old woman was horrified and aghast and
dumbfounded. And as he spoke the words there was a rage in his eyes worse than anything she
had seen before. He was standing with his back to the fire, which was burning though the weather
was warm, and the tails of his coat were hanging over his arms as he kept his hands in his
pockets. He was generally quiescent in his moods, and apt to express his anger in sarcasm rather
than in outspoken language; but now he was so much moved that he was unable not to give vent
to his feelings. As the Marchioness looked at him, shaking with fear, there came into her distracted
mind some vague idea of Cain and Abel, though had she collected her thoughts she would have
been far from telling herself that her eldest son was Cain. "He thinks," continued the Marquis,
"that because I have lived abroad I shan't mind that sort of thing. I wonder how he'll feel
when I tell him the truth about his wife. I mean to do it;--and what the Dean will think when
I use a little plain language about his daughter. I mean to do that too. I shan't mince matters.
I suppose you have heard of Captain De Baron, mother?"

Now the Marchioness unfortunately had heard of Captain De Baron. Lady Susanna had brought the
tidings down to Cross Hall. Had Lady Susanna really believed that her sister-in-law was wickedly
entertaining a lover, there would have been some reticence in her mode of alluding to so dreadful
a subject. The secret would have been confided to Lady Sarah in awful conclave, and some solemn
warning would have been conveyed to Lord George, with a prayer that he would lose no time in
withdrawing the unfortunate young woman from evil influences. But Lady Susanna had entertained
no such fear. Mary was young, and foolish, and fond of pleasure. Hard as was this woman in
her manner, and disagreeable as she made herself, yet she could, after a fashion, sympathise
with the young wife. She had spoken of Captain De Baron with disapprobation certainly, but
had not spoken of him as a fatal danger. And she had spoken also of the Baroness Banmann and
Mary's folly in going to the Institute. The old Marchioness had heard of these things, and
now, when she heard further of them from her son, she almost believed all that he told her.
"Don't be hard upon poor George," she said.

"I give as I get, mother. I'm not one of those who return good for evil. Had he left me alone,
I should have left him alone. As it is, I rather think I shall be hard upon poor George. Do
you suppose that all Brotherton hasn't heard already what they are doing;--that there is a
man or a woman in the county who doesn't know that my own brother is questioning the legitimacy
of my own son? And then you ask me not to be hard."

"It isn't my doing, Brotherton."

"But those three girls have their hand in it. That's what they call charity! That's what they
go to church for!"

All this made the poor old Marchioness very ill. Before her son left her she was almost prostrate;
and yet, to the end, he did not spare her. But as he left he said one word which apparently
was intended to comfort her. "Perhaps Popenjoy had better be brought here for you to see before
he is taken up to town." There had been a promise made before that the child should be brought
to the hall to bless his grandmother. On this occasion she had been too much horrified and
overcome by what had been said to urge her request; but when the proposition was renewed by
him of course she assented.

Popenjoy's visit to Cross Hall was arranged with a good deal of state, and was made on the
following Tuesday. On the Monday there came a message to say that the child should be brought
up at twelve on the following day. The Marquis was not coming himself, and the child would
of course be inspected by all the ladies. At noon they were assembled in the drawing-room;
but they were kept there waiting for half an hour, during which the Marchioness repeatedly
expressed her conviction that now, at the last moment, she was to be robbed of the one great
desire of her heart. "He won't let him come because he's so angry with George," she said, sobbing.

"He wouldn't have sent a message yesterday, mother," said Lady Amelia, "if he hadn't meant
to send him."

"You are all so very unkind to him," ejaculated the Marchioness.

But at half-past twelve the cortège appeared. The child was brought up in a perambulator which
had at first been pushed by the under-nurse, an Italian, and accompanied by the upper-nurse,
who was of course an Italian also. With them had been sent one of the Englishmen to show the
way. Perhaps the two women had been somewhat ill-treated, as no true idea of the distance had
been conveyed to them; and though they had now been some weeks at Manor Cross, they had never
been half so far from the house. Of course the labour of the perambulator had soon fallen to
the man; but the two nurses, who had been forced to walk a mile, had thought that they would
never come to the end of their journey. When they did arrive they were full of plaints, which,
however, no one could understand. But Popenjoy was at last brought into the hall.

"My darling," said the Marchioness, putting out both her arms. But Popenjoy, though a darling,
screamed frightfully beneath his heap of clothes.

"You had better let him come into the room, mamma," said Lady Susanna. Then the nurse carried
him in, and one or two of his outer garments were taken from him.

"Dear me, how black he is!" said Lady Susanna.

The Marchioness turned upon her daughter in great anger. "The Germains were always dark," she
said. "You're dark yourself,--quite as black as he is. My darling!"

She made another attempt to take the boy; but the nurse with voluble eloquence explained something
which of course none of them understood. The purport of her speech was an assurance that "Tavo,"
as she most unceremoniously called the child whom no Germain thought of naming otherwise than
as Popenjoy, never would go to any "foreigner." The nurse therefore held him up to be looked
at for two minutes while he still screamed, and then put him back into his covering raiments.
"He is very black," said Lady Sarah severely.

"So are some people's hearts," said the Marchioness with a vigour for which her daughters had
hardly given her credit. This, however, was borne without a murmur by the three sisters.

On the Friday the whole family, including all the Italian servants, migrated to London, and
it certainly was the case that the lady took with her all her clothes and everything that she
had brought with her. Toff had been quite right, there. And when it came to be known by the
younger ladies at Cross Hall that Toff had been right, they argued from the fact that their
brother had concealed something of the truth when saying that he intended to go up to London
only for a few days. There had been three separate carriages, and Toff was almost sure that
the Italian lady had carried off more than she had brought with her, so exuberant had been
the luggage. It was not long before Toff effected an entrance into the house, and brought away
a report that very many things were missing. "The two little gilt cream-jugs is gone," she
said to Lady Sarah, "and the minitshur with the pearl settings out of the yellow drawing-room!"
Lady Sarah explained that as these things were the property of her brother, he or his wife
might of course take them away if so pleased. "She's got 'em unbeknownst to my Lord, my Lady,"
said Toff, shaking her head. "I could only just scurry through with half an eye; but when I
comes to look there will be more, I warrant you, my Lady."

The Marquis had expressed so much vehement dislike of everything about his English home, and
it had become so generally understood that his Italian wife hated the place, that everybody
agreed that they would not come back. Why should they? What did they get by living there? The
lady had not been outside the house a dozen times, and only twice beyond the park gate. The
Marquis took no share in any county or any country pursuit. He went to no man's house and received
no visitors. He would not see the tenants when they came to him, and had not even returned
a visit except Mr. De Baron's. Why had he come there at all? That was the question which all
the Brothershire people asked of each other, and which no one could answer. Mr. Price suggested
that it was just devilry,--to make everybody unhappy. Mrs. Toff thought that it was the woman's
doing,--because she wanted to steal silver mugs, miniatures, and such like treasures. Mr. Waddy,
the vicar of the parish, said that it was "a trial," having probably some idea in his own mind
that the Marquis had been sent home by Providence as a sort of precious blister which would
purify all concerned in him by counter irritation. The old Marchioness still conceived that
it had been brought about that a grandmother might take delight in the presence of her grandchild.
Dr. Pountner said that it was impudence. But the Dean was of opinion that it had been deliberately
planned with the view of passing off a supposititious child upon the property and title. The
Dean, however, kept his opinion very much to himself.

Of course tidings of the migration were sent to Munster Court. Lady Sarah wrote to her brother,
and the Dean wrote to his daughter. "What shall you do, George? Shall you go and see him?"

"I don't know what I shall do?"

"Ought I to go?"

"Certainly not. You could only call on her, and she has not even seen my mother and sisters.
When I was there he would not introduce me to her, though he sent for the child. I suppose
I had better go. I do not want to quarrel with him if I can help it."

"You have offered to do everything together with him, if only he would let you."

"I must say that your father has driven me on in a manner which Brotherton would be sure to
resent."

"Papa has done everything from a sense of duty, George."

"Perhaps so. I don't know how that is. It is very hard sometimes to divide a sense of duty
from one's own interest. But it has made me very miserable,--very wretched, indeed."

"Oh George; is it my fault?"

"No; not your fault. If there is one thing worse to me than another, it is the feeling of being
divided from my own family. Brotherton has behaved badly to me."

"Very badly."

"And yet I would give anything to be on good terms with him. I think I shall go and call. He
is at an hotel in Albemarle Street. I have done nothing to deserve ill of him, if he knew all."

It should, of course, be understood that Lord George did not at all know the state of his brother's
mind towards him, except as it had been exhibited at that one interview which had taken place
between them at Manor Cross. He was aware that in every conversation which he had had with
the lawyers,--both with Mr. Battle and Mr. Stokes,--he had invariably expressed himself as
desirous of establishing the legitimacy of the boy's birth. If Mr. Stokes had repeated to his
brother what he had said, and had done him the justice of explaining that in all that he did
he was simply desirous of performing his duty to the family, surely his brother would not be
angry with him! At any rate it would not suit him to be afraid of his brother, and he went
to the hotel. After being kept waiting in the hall for about ten minutes, the Italian courier
came down to him. The Marquis at the present moment was not dressed, and Lord George did not
like being kept waiting. Would Lord George call at three o'clock on the following day. Lord
George said that he would, and was again at Scumberg's Hotel at three o'clock on the next afternoon.

CHAPTER XXXII.

LORD GEORGE IS TROUBLED.

This was a day of no little importance to Lord George; so much so, that one or two circumstances
which occurred before he saw his brother at the hotel must be explained. On that day there
had come to him from the Dean a letter written in the Dean's best humour. When the house had
been taken in Munster Court there had been a certain understanding, hardly quite a fixed assurance,
that it was to be occupied up to the end of June, and that then Lord George and his wife should
go into Brothershire. There had been a feeling ever since the marriage that while Mary preferred
London, Lord George was wedded to the country. They had on the whole behaved well to each other
in the matter. The husband, though he feared that his wife was surrounded by dangers, and was
well aware that he himself was dallying on the brink of a terrible pitfall, would not urge
a retreat before the time that had been named. And she, though she had ever before her eyes
the fear of the dullness of Cross Hall, would not ask to have the time postponed. It was now
the end of May, and a certain early day in July had been fixed for their retreat from London.
Lord George had, with a good grace, promised to spend a few days at the deanery before he went
to Cross Hall, and had given Mary permission to remain there for some little time afterwards.
Now there had come a letter from the Dean full of smiles and pleasantness about this visit.
There were tidings in it about Mary's horse, which was still kept at the deanery, and comfortable
assurances of sweetest welcome. Not a word had been said in this letter about the terrible
family matter. Lord George, though he was at the present moment not disposed to think in the
most kindly manner of his father-in-law, appreciated this, and had read the letter aloud to
his wife at the breakfast table with pleasant approbation. As he left the house to go to his
brother, he told her that she had better answer her father's letter, and had explained to her
where she would find it in his dressing room.

But on the previous afternoon he had received at his club another letter, the nature of which
was not so agreeable. This letter had not been pleasant even to himself, and certainly was
not adapted to give pleasure to his wife. After receiving it he had kept it in the close custody
of his breast-pocket; and when, as he left the house, he sent his wife to find that which had
come from her father, he certainly thought that this prior letter was at the moment secure
from all eyes within the sanctuary of his coat. But it was otherwise. With that negligence
to which husbands are so specially subject, he had made the Dean's letter safe next to his
bosom, but had left the other epistle unguarded. He had not only left it unguarded, but had
absolutely so put his wife on the track of it that it was impossible that she should not read it.

Mary found the letter and did read it before she left her husband's dressing room,--and the
letter was as follows:--

"Dearest George;--" When she read the epithet, which she and she only was entitled to use,
she paused for a moment and all the blood rushed up into her face. She had known the handwriting
instantly, and at the first shock she put the paper down upon the table. For a second there
was a feeling prompting her to read no further. But it was only for a second. Of course she
would read it. It certainly never would have occurred to her to search her husband's clothes
for letters. Up to this moment she had never examined a document of his except at his bidding
or in compliance with his wish. She had suspected nothing, found nothing, had entertained not
even any curiosity about her husband's affairs. But now must she not read this letter to which
he himself had directed her? Dearest George! And that in the handwriting of her friend,--her
friend!--Adelaide Houghton;--in the handwriting of the woman to whom her husband had been attached
before he had known herself! Of course she read the letter.

     "DEAREST GEORGE,--

     "I break my heart when you don't come to me; for heaven's sake be
     here to-morrow. Two, three, four, five, six, seven--I shall be
     here any hour till you come. I don't dare to tell the man that I
     am not at home to anybody else, but you must take your chance.
     Nobody ever does come till after three or after six. He never
     comes home till half-past seven. Oh me! what is to become of me
     when you go out of town? There is nothing to live for,
     nothing;--only you. Anything that you write is quite safe. Say
     that you love me. A."

The letter had grieved him when he got it,--as had other letters before that. And yet it flattered
him, and the assurance of the woman's love had in it a certain candied sweetness which prevented
him from destroying the paper instantly, as he ought to have done. Could his wife have read
all his mind in the matter her anger would have been somewhat mollified. In spite of the candied
sweetness he hated the correspondence. It had been the woman's doing and not his. It is so
hard for a man to be a Joseph! The Potiphar's wife of the moment has probably had some encouragement,--and
after that Joseph can hardly flee unless he be very stout indeed. This Joseph would have fled,
though after a certain fashion he liked the woman, had he been able to assure himself that
the fault had in no degree been his. But looking back, he thought that he had encouraged her,
and did not know how to fly. Of all this Mary knew nothing. She only knew that old Mr. Houghton's
wife, who professed to be her dear friend, had written a most foul love-letter to her husband,
and that her husband had preserved it carefully, and had then through manifest mistake delivered
it over into her hands.

She read it twice, and then stood motionless for a few minutes thinking what she would do.
Her first idea was that she would tell her father. But that she soon abandoned. She was grievously
offended with her husband; but, as she thought of it, she became aware that she did not wish
to bring on him any anger but her own. Then she thought that she would start immediately for
Berkeley Square, and say what she had to say to Mrs. Houghton. As this idea presented itself
to her, she felt that she could say a good deal. But how would that serve her? Intense as was
her hatred at present against Adelaide, Adelaide was nothing to her in comparison with her
husband. For a moment she almost thought that she would fly after him, knowing, as she did,
that he had gone to see his brother at Scumberg's Hotel. But at last she resolved that she
would do nothing and say nothing till he should have perceived that she had read the letter.
She would leave it open on his dressing-table so that he might know immediately on his return
what had been done. Then it occurred to her that the servants might see the letter if she exposed
it. So she kept it in her pocket, and determined that when she heard his knock at the door
she would step into his room, and place the letter ready for his eyes. After that she spent
the whole day in thinking of it, and read the odious words over and over again till they were
fixed in her memory. "Say that you love me!" Wretched viper; ill-conditioned traitor! Could
it be that he, her husband, loved this woman better than her? Did not all the world know that
the woman was plain and affected, and vulgar, and odious? "Dearest George!" The woman could
not have used such language without his sanction. Oh;--what should she do? Would it not be
necessary that she should go back and live with her father? Then she thought of Jack De Baron.
They called Jack De Baron wild; but he would not have been guilty of wickedness such as this.
She clung, however, to the resolution of putting the letter ready for her husband, so that
he should know that she had read it before they met.

In the meantime Lord George, ignorant as yet of the storm which was brewing at home, was shown
into his brother's sitting-room. When he entered he found there, with his brother, a lady whom
he could recognise without difficulty as his sister-in-law. She was a tall, dark woman, as
he thought very plain, but with large bright eyes and very black hair. She was ill-dressed,
in a morning wrapper, and looked to him to be at least as old as her husband. The Marquis said
something to her in Italian which served as an introduction, but of which Lord George could
not understand a word. She curtseyed and Lord George put out his hand. "It is perhaps as well
that you should make her acquaintance," said the Marquis. Then he again spoke in Italian, and
after a minute or two the lady withdrew. It occurred to Lord George afterwards that the interview
had certainly been arranged. Had his brother not wished him to see the lady, the lady could
have been kept in the background here as well as at Manor Cross. "It's uncommon civil of you
to come," said the Marquis as soon as the door was closed. "What can I do for you?"

"I did not like that you should be in London without my seeing you."

"I daresay not. I daresay not. I was very much obliged to you, you know, for sending that lawyer
down to me."

"I did not send him."

"And particularly obliged to you for introducing that other lawyer into our family affairs."

"I would have done nothing of the kind if I could have helped it. If you will believe me, Brotherton,
my only object is to have all this so firmly settled that there may not be need of further
enquiry at a future time."

"When I am dead?"

"When we may both be dead."

"You have ten years advantage of me. Your own chance isn't bad."

"If you will believe me----"

"But suppose I don't believe you! Suppose I think that in saying all that you are lying like
the very devil!" Lord George jumped in his chair, almost as though he had been shot. "My dear
fellow, what's the good of this humbug? You think you've got a chance. I don't believe you
were quick enough to see it yourself, but your father-in-law has put you up to it. He is not
quite such an ass as you are; but even he is ass enough to fancy that because I, an Englishman,
have married an Italian lady, therefore the marriage may, very likely, be good for nothing."

"We only want proof."

"Does anybody ever come to you and ask you for proofs of your marriage with that very nice
young woman, the Dean's daughter?"

"Anybody may find them at Brotherton."

"No doubt. And I can put my hand on the proofs of my marriage when I want to do so. In the
meantime I doubt whether you can learn anything to your own advantage by coming here."

"I didn't want to learn anything."

"If you would look after your own wife a little closer, I fancy it would be a better employment
for you. She is at present probably amusing herself with Captain De Baron."

"That is calumny," said Lord George, rising from his chair.

"No doubt. Any imputation coming from me is calumny. But you can make imputations as heavy
and as hard as you please--and all in the way of honour. I've no doubt you'll find her with
Captain De Baron if you'll go and look."

"I should find her doing nothing that she ought not to do," said the husband, turning round
for his hat and gloves.

"Or perhaps making a speech at the Rights of Women Institute on behalf of that German baroness
who, I'm told, is in gaol. But, George, don't you take it too much to heart. You've got the
money. When a man goes into a stable for his wife, he can't expect much in the way of conduct
or manners. If he gets the money he ought to be contented." He had to hear it all to the last
bitter word before he could escape from the room and make his way out into the street.

It was at this time about four o'clock, and in his agony of mind he had turned down towards
Piccadilly before he could think what he would do with himself for the moment. Then he remembered
that Berkeley Square was close to him on the other side, and that he had been summoned there
about this hour. To give him his due, it should be owned that he had no great desire to visit
Berkeley Square in his present condition of feeling. Since the receipt of that letter,--which
was now awaiting him at home,--he had told himself half a dozen times that he must and would
play the part of Joseph. He had so resolved when she had first spoken to him of her passion,
now some months ago; and then his resolution had broken down merely because he had not at the
moment thought any great step to be necessary. But now it was clear that some great step was
necessary. He must make her know that it did not suit him to be called "dearest George" by
her, or to be told to declare that he loved her. And this accusation against his wife, made
in such coarse and brutal language by his brother, softened his heart to her. Why, oh why,
had he allowed himself to be brought up to a place he hated as he had always hated London!
Of course Jack De Baron made him unhappy, though he was at the present moment prepared to swear
that his wife was as innocent as any woman in London.

But now, as he was so near, and as his decision must be declared in person, he might as well
go to Berkeley Square. As he descended Hay Hill he put his hand into his pocket for the lady's
letter, and pulled out that from the Dean which he had intended to leave with his wife. In
an instant he knew what he had done. He remembered it all, even to the way in which he had
made the mistake with the two letters. There could be no doubt but that he had given Adelaide
Houghton's letter into his wife's hands, and that she had read it. At the bottom of Hill Street,
near the stables, he stopped suddenly and put his hand up to his head. What should he do now?
He certainly could not pay his visit in Berkeley Square. He could not go and tell Mrs. Houghton
that he loved her, and certainly would not have strength to tell her that he did not love her
while suffering such agony as this. Of course he must see his wife. Of course he must,--if
I may use the slang phrase,--of course he must "have it out with her," after some fashion,
and the sooner the better. So he turned his stops homewards across the Green Park. But, in
going homewards, he did not walk very fast.

What would she do? How would she take it? Of course women daily forgive such offences; and
he might probably, after the burst of the storm was over, succeed in making her believe that
he did in truth love her and did not love the other woman. In his present mood he was able
to assure himself most confidently that such was the truth. He could tell himself now that
he never wished to see Adelaide Houghton again. But, before anything of this could be achieved,
he would have to own himself a sinner before her. He would have, as it were, to grovel at her
feet. Hitherto, in all his intercourse with her, he had been masterful and marital. He had
managed up to this point so to live as to have kept in all respects the upper hand. He had
never yet been found out even in a mistake or an indiscretion. He had never given her an opening
for the mildest finding of fault. She, no doubt, was young, and practice had not come to her.
But, as a natural consequence of this, Lord George had hitherto felt that an almost divine
superiority was demanded from him. That sense of divine superiority must now pass away.

I do not know whether a husband's comfort is ever perfect till some family peccadilloes have
been conclusively proved against him. I am sure that a wife's temper to him is sweetened by
such evidence of human imperfection. A woman will often take delight in being angry; will sometimes
wrap herself warm in prolonged sullenness; will frequently revel in complaint;--but she enjoys
forgiving better than aught else. She never feels that all the due privileges of her life have
been accorded to her, till her husband shall have laid himself open to the caresses of a pardon.
Then, and not till then, he is her equal; and equality is necessary for comfortable love. But
the man, till he be well used to it, does not like to be pardoned. He has assumed divine superiority,
and is bound to maintain it. Then, at last, he comes home some night with a little too much
wine, or he cannot pay the weekly bills because he has lost too much money at cards, or he
has got into trouble at his office and is in doubt for a fortnight about his place, or perhaps
a letter from a lady falls into wrong hands. Then he has to tell himself that he has been "found
out." The feeling is at first very uncomfortable; but it is, I think, a step almost necessary
in reaching true matrimonial comfort. Hunting men say that hard rain settles the ground. A
good scold with a "kiss and be friends" after it, perhaps, does the same.

Now Lord George had been found out. He was quite sure of that. And he had to undergo all that
was unpleasant without sufficient experience to tell him that those clouds too would pass away
quickly. He still walked homewards across St. James's Park, never stopping, but dragging himself
along slowly, and when he came to his own door he let himself in very silently. She did not
expect him so soon, and when he entered the drawing-room was startled to see him. She had not
as yet put the letter, as she had intended, on his dressing-table, but still had it in her
pocket; nor had it occurred to her that he would as yet have known the truth. She looked at
him when he entered, but did not at first utter a word. "Mary," he said.

"Well; is anything the matter?"

It was possible that she had not found the letter,--possible, though very improbable. But he
had brought his mind so firmly to the point of owning what was to be owned and defending what
might be defended, that he hardly wished for escape in that direction. At any rate, he was
not prepared to avail himself of it. "Did you find the letter?" he asked.

"I found a letter."

"Well!"

"Of course I am sorry to have intruded upon so private a correspondence. There it is." And
she threw the letter to him. "Oh, George!"

He picked up the letter, which had fallen to the ground, and, tearing it into bits, threw the
fragments into the grate. "What do you believe about it, Mary?"

"Believe!"

"Do you think that I love any one as I love you?"

"You cannot love me at all,--unless that wicked, wretched creature is a liar."

"Have I ever lied to you? You will believe me?"

"I do not know."

"I love no one in the world but you."

Even that almost sufficed for her. She already longed to have her arms round his neck and to
tell him that it was all forgiven;--that he at least was forgiven. During the whole morning
she had been thinking of the angry words she would say to him, and of the still more angry
words which she would speak of that wicked, wicked viper. The former were already forgotten;
but she was not as yet inclined to refrain as to Mrs. Houghton. "Oh, George, how could you
bear such a woman as that;--that you should let her write to you in such language? Have you
been to her?"

"What, to-day?"

"Yes, to-day."

"Certainly not. I have just come from my brother."

"You will never go into the house again! You will promise that!"

Here was made the first direct attack upon his divine superiority! Was he, at his wife's instance,
to give a pledge that he would not go into a certain house under any circumstances? This was
the process of bringing his nose down to the ground which he had feared. Here was the first
attempt made by his wife to put her foot on his neck. "I think that I had better tell you all
that I can tell," he said.

"I only want to know that you hate her," said Mary.

"I neither hate her nor love her. I did--love her--once. You knew that."

"I never could understand it. I never did believe that you really could have loved her." Then
she began to sob. "I shouldn't--ever--have taken you--if--I had."

"But from the moment when I first knew you it was all changed with me." As he said this he
put out his arms to her, and she came to him. "There has never been a moment since in which
you have not had all my heart."

"But why--why--why--," she sobbed, meaning to ask how it could have come to pass that the wicked
viper could, in those circumstances, have written such a letter as that which had fallen into
her hands.

The question certainly was not unnatural. But it was a question very difficult to answer. No
man likes to say that a woman has pestered him with unwelcome love, and certainly Lord George
was not the man to make such a boast. "Dearest Mary," he said, "on my honour as a gentleman
I am true to you."

Then she was satisfied and turned her face to him and covered him with kisses. I think that
morning did more than any day had done since their marriage to bring about the completion of
her desire to be in love with her husband. Her heart was so softened towards him that she would
not even press a question that would pain him. She had intended sternly to exact from him a
pledge that he would not again enter the house in Berkeley Square, but she let even that pass
by because she would not annoy him. She gathered herself up close to him on the sofa, and drawing
his arm over her shoulder, sobbed and laughed, stroking him with her hands as she crouched
against his shoulder. But yet, every now and then, there came forth from, her some violent
ebullition against Mrs. Houghton. "Nasty creature! wicked, wicked beast! Oh, George, she is
so ugly!" And yet before this little affair, she had been quite content that Adelaide Houghton
should be her intimate friend.

It had been nearly five when Lord George reached the house, and he had to sit enduring his
wife's caresses, and listening to devotion to himself and her abuses of Mrs. Houghton till
past six. Then it struck him that a walk by himself would be good for him. They were to dine
out, but not till eight, and there would still be time. When he proposed it, she acceded at
once. Of course she must go and dress, and equally of course he would not, could not go to
Berkeley Square now. She thoroughly believed that he was true to her, but yet she feared the
wiles of that nasty woman. They would go to the country soon, and then the wicked viper would
not be near them.

Lord George walked across to Pall Mall, looked at an evening paper at his club, and then walked
back again. Of course it had been his object to have a cool half hour in which to think it
all over,--all that had passed between him and his wife, and also what had passed between him
and his brother. That his wife was the dearest, sweetest woman in the world he was quite sure.
He was more than satisfied with her conduct to him. She had exacted from him very little penitence:--had
not required to put her foot in any disagreeable way upon his neck. No doubt she felt that
his divine superiority had been vanquished, but she had uttered no word of triumph. With all
that he was content. But what was he to do with Mrs. Houghton, as to whom he had sworn a dozen
times within the last hour that she was quite indifferent to him. He now repeated the assertion
to himself, and felt himself to be sure of the fact. But still he was her lover. He had allowed
her so to regard him, and something must be done. She would write to him letters daily if he
did not stop it; and every such letter not shown to his wife would be a new treason against
her. This was a great trouble. And then, through it all, those terrible words which his brother
had spoken to him about Captain De Baron rung in his ears. This afternoon had certainly afforded
no occasion to him to say a word about Captain De Baron to his wife. When detected in his own
sin he could not allude to possible delinquencies on the other side. Nor did he think that
there was any delinquency. But Cæsar said that Cæsar's wife should be above suspicion, and
in that matter every man is a Cæsar to himself. Lady Susanna had spoken about this Captain,
and Adelaide Houghton had said an ill-natured word or two, and he himself had seen them walking
together. Now his brother had told him that Captain De Baron was his wife's lover. He did not
at all like Captain De Baron.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

CAPTAIN DE BARON.

Of course as the next day or two passed by, the condition of Mrs. Houghton was discussed between
Lord George and his wife. The affair could not be passed over without further speech. "I am
quite contented with you," he said; "more than contented. But I suppose she does not feel herself
contented with Mr. Houghton."

"Then why did she marry him?"

"Ah;--why indeed."

"A woman ought to be contented with her husband. But at any rate what right can she have to
disturb other people? I suppose you never wrote her a love-letter."

"Never, certainly;--since her marriage." This indeed was true. The lady had frequently written
to him, but he had warily kept his hands from pen and ink and had answered her letters by going
to her.

"And yet she could persevere! Women can do such mean things! I would sooner have broken my
heart and died than have asked a man to say that he loved me. I don't suppose you have much
to be proud of. I daresay she has half a dozen others. You won't see her again?"

"I think I may be driven to do so. I do not wish to have to write to her, and yet I must make
her understand that all this is to be over."

"She'll understand that fast enough when she does not see you. It would have served her right
to have sent that letter to her husband."

"That would have been cruel, Mary."

"I didn't do it. I thought of doing it, and wouldn't do it. But it would have served her right.
I suppose she was always writing."

"She had written, but not quite like that," said Lord George. He was not altogether comfortable
during this conversation.

"She writes lots of such letters no doubt. You do then mean to go there again?"

"I think so. Of course I do not look upon her as being so utterly a castaway as you do."

"I believe her to be a heartless, vile, intriguing woman, who married an old man without caring
a straw for him, and who doesn't care how miserable she makes other people. And I think she
is very--very ugly. She paints frightfully. Anybody can see it. And as for false hair,--why,
it's nearly all false." Lady George certainly did not paint, and had not a shred of false hair
about her. "Oh, George, if you do go, do be firm! You will be firm;--will you not?"

"I shall go simply that this annoyance may be at an end."

"Of course you will tell her that I will never speak to her again. How could I? You would not
wish it;--would you?" In answer to this there was nothing for him to say. He would have wished
that a certain amount of half friendly intercourse should be carried on; but he could not ask
her to do this. After a time he might perhaps be able to press on her the advantage of avoiding
a scandal, but as yet he could not do even that. He had achieved more than he had a right to
expect in obtaining her permission to call once more in Berkeley Square himself. After that
they would soon be going down to Brotherton, and when they were there things might be allowed
to settle themselves. Then she asked him another question. "You don't object to my going to
Mrs. Jones' party on Thursday?"

The question was very sudden, so that he was almost startled. "It is a dance, I suppose."

"Oh yes, a dance of course."

"No;--I have no objection."

She had meant to ask him to reconsider his verdict against round dances, but she could hardly
do so at this moment. She could not take advantage of her present strength to extract from
him a privilege which under other circumstances he had denied to her. Were she to do so it
would be as much as to declare that she meant to waltz because he had amused himself with Mrs.
Houghton. Her mind was not at all that way given. But she did entertain an idea that something
more of freedom should be awarded to her because her husband had given her cause of offence
and had been forgiven. While he was still strong with that divine superiority which she had
attributed to him, she had almost acknowledged to herself that he had a right to demand that
she should be dull and decorous. But now that she had found him to be in the receipt of clandestine
love-letters, it did seem that she might allow herself a little liberty. She had forgiven him
freely. She had really believed that in spite of the letter she herself was the woman he loved.
She had said something to herself about men amusing themselves, and had told herself that though
no woman could have written such a letter as that without disgracing herself altogether, a
man might receive it and even keep it in his pocket without meaning very much harm. But the
accident must, she thought, be held to absolve her from some part of the strictness of her
obedience. She almost thought that she would waltz at Mrs. Jones's ball; perhaps not with Captain
De Baron; perhaps not with much energy or with full enjoyment; but still sufficiently to disenthral
herself. If possible she would say a word to her husband first. They were both going to a rather
crowded affair at Lady Brabazon's before the night of Mrs. Jones's party. They had agreed that
they would do little more than shew themselves there. He was obliged to go to this special
place and he hated staying. But even at Lady Brabazon's she might find an opportunity of saying
what she wished to say.

On that day she took him out in her brougham, and on her return home was alone all the afternoon
till about five; and then who should come to her but Captain De Baron. No doubt they two had
become very intimate. She could not at all have defined her reasons for liking him. She was
quite sure of one thing,--she was not in the least in love with him. But he was always gay,
always good humoured, always had plenty to say. He was the source of all the fun that ever
came in her way; and fun was very dear to her. He was nice-looking and manly, and gentle withal.
Why should she not have her friend? He would not write abominable letters and ask her to say
that she loved him! And yet she was aware that there was a danger. She knew that her husband
was a little jealous. She knew that Augusta Mildmay was frightfully jealous. That odious creature
Mrs. Houghton had made ever so many nasty little allusions to her and Jack. When his name was
announced she almost wished that he had not come; but yet she received him very pleasantly.
He immediately began about the Baroness Banmann. The Baroness had on the previous evening made
her way on to the platform at the Disabilities when Dr. Fleabody was lecturing, and Lady Selina
was presiding and had, to use Jack's own words, "Kicked up the most delightful bobbery that
had ever been witnessed! She bundled poor old Lady Selina out of the chair."

"Nonsense!"

"So I am told;--took the chair by the back and hoisted her out."

"Didn't they send for the police?"

"I suppose they did at last; but the American doctor was too many for her. The Baroness strove
to address the meeting; but Olivia Q. Fleabody has become a favourite, and carried the day.
I am told that at last the bald-headed old gentleman took the Baroness home in a cab. I'd have
given a five-pound note to be there. I think I must go some night and hear the Doctor."

"I wouldn't go again for anything."

"You women are all so jealous of each other. Poor Lady Selina! I'm told she was very much shaken."

"How did you hear it all?"

"From Aunt Ju," said the Captain. "Aunt Ju was there, of course. The Baroness tried to fly
into Aunt Ju's arms, but Aunt Ju seems to have retired."

Then the quarrel must have been made up between Captain De Baron and Miss Mildmay. That was
the idea which at once came into Mary's head. He could hardly have seen Aunt Ju without seeing
her niece at the same time. Perhaps it was all settled. Perhaps, after all, they would be married.
It would be a pity, because she was not half nice enough for him. And then Mary doubted whether
Captain De Baron as a married man would be nearly so pleasant as in his present condition.
"I hope Miss Mildmay is none the worse," she said.

"A little shaken in her nerves."

"Was--Augusta Mildmay there?"

"Oh dear no. It is quite out of her line. She is not at all disposed to lay aside the feeblenesses
of her sex and go into one of the learned professions. By the bye, I am afraid you and she
are not very good friends."

"What makes you say that, Captain De Baron?"

"But are you?"

"I don't know why you should enquire."

"It is natural to wish that one's own friends should be friends."

"Has Miss Mildmay said--anything about--me?"

"Not a word;--nor you about her. And, therefore, I know that something is wrong."

"The last time I saw her I did not think that Miss Mildmay was very happy," said Mary, in a
low voice.

"Did she complain to you?" Mary had no answer ready for this question. She could not tell a
lie easily, nor could she acknowledge the complaint which the lady had made, and had made so
loudly. "I suppose she did complain," he said, "and I suppose I know the nature of her complaint."

"I cannot tell;--though, of course, it was nothing to me."

"It is very much to me, though. I wish, Lady George, you could bring yourself to tell me the
truth." He paused, but she did not speak. "If it were as I fear, you must know how much I am
implicated. I would not for the world that you should think I am behaving badly."

"You should not permit her to think so, Captain De Baron."

"She doesn't think so. She can't think so. I am not going to say a word against her. She and
I have been dear friends, and there is no one,--hardly any one,--for whom I have a greater
regard. But I do protest to you, Lady George, that I have never spoken an untrue word to Augusta
Mildmay in my life."

"I have not accused you."

"But has she? Of course it is a kind of thing that a man cannot talk about without great difficulty."

"Is it not a thing that a man should not talk about at all?"

"That is severe, Lady George;--much more severe than I should have expected from your usual
good nature. Had you told me that nothing had been said to you, there would have been an end
of it. But I cannot bear to think that you should have been told that I had behaved badly,
and that I should be unable to vindicate myself."

"Have you not been engaged to marry Miss Mildmay?"

"Never."

"Then why did you allow yourself to become so--so much to her?"

"Because I liked her. Because we were thrown together. Because the chances of things would
have it so. Don't you know that that kind of thing is occurring every day? Of course, if a
man were made up of wisdom and prudence and virtue and self-denial, this kind of thing wouldn't
occur. But I don't think the world would be pleasanter if men were like that. Adelaide Houghton
is Miss Mildmay's most intimate friend, and Adelaide has always known that I couldn't marry."
As soon as Mrs. Houghton's name was mentioned a dark frown came across Lady George's brow.
Captain De Baron saw it, but did not as yet know anything of its true cause.

"Of course I am not going to judge between you," said Lady George, very gravely.

"But I want you to judge me. I want you of all the world to feel that I have not been a liar
and a blackguard."

"Captain De Baron! how can you use such language?"

"Because I feel this very acutely. I do believe that Miss Mildmay has accused me to you. I
do not wish to say a word against her. I would do anything in the world to protect her from
the ill words of others. But I cannot bear that your mind should be poisoned against me. Will
you believe me when I tell you that I have never said a word to Miss Mildmay which could possibly
be taken as an offer of marriage?"

"I had rather give no opinion."

"Will you ask Adelaide?"

"No; certainly not." This she said with so much vehemence that he was thoroughly startled.
"Mrs. Houghton is not among the number of my acquaintances."

"Why not? What is the matter?"

"I can give no explanation, and I had rather that no questions should be asked. But so it is."

"Has she offended Lord George?"

"Oh dear no; that is to say I cannot tell you anything more about it. You will never see me
in Berkeley Square again. And now, pray say no more about it."

"Poor Adelaide. Well; it does seem terrible that there should be such misunderstandings. She
knows nothing about it. I was with her this morning, and she was speaking of you with the greatest
affection." Mary struggled hard to appear indifferent to all this, but struggled in vain. She
could not restrain herself from displaying her feeling. "May I not ask any further questions?"

"No, Captain De Baron."

"Nor hope that I may be a peacemaker between you?"

"Certainly not. I wish you wouldn't talk about it any more."

"I certainly will not if it offends you. I would not offend you for all the world. When you
came up to town, Lady George, a few months ago, there were three or four of us that soon became
such excellent friends! And now it seems that everything has gone wrong. I hope we need not
quarrel--you and I?"

"I know no reason why we should."

"I have liked you so much. I am sure you have known that. Sometimes one does come across a
person that one really likes; but it is so seldom."

"I try to like everybody," she said.

"I don't do that. I fear that at first starting I try to dislike everybody. I think it is natural
to hate people the first time you see them."

"Did you hate me?" she asked, laughing.

"Oh, horribly,--for two minutes. Then you laughed, or cried, or sneezed, or did something in
a manner that I liked, and I saw at once that you were the most charming human being in the world."

When a young man tells a young woman that she is the most charming human being in the world,
he is certainly using peculiar language. In most cases the young man would be supposed to be
making love to the young woman. Mary, however, knew very well that Captain De Baron was not
making love to her. There seemed to be an understanding that all manner of things should be
said between them, and that yet they should mean nothing. But, nevertheless, she felt that
the language which this man had used to her would be offensive to her husband if he knew that
it had been used when they two were alone together. Had it been said before a room-full of
people it would not have mattered. And yet she could not rebuke him. She could not even look
displeased. She had believed all that he had said to her about Augusta Mildmay, and was glad
to believe it. She liked him so much, that she would have spoken to him as to a brother of
the nature of her quarrel with Mrs. Houghton, only that, even to a brother, she would not have
mentioned her husband's folly. When he spoke of her crying, or laughing, or sneezing, she liked
the little attempt at drollery. She liked to know that he had found her charming. Where is
the woman who does not wish to charm, and is not proud to think that she has succeeded with
those whom she most likes? She could not rebuke him. She could not even avoid letting him see
that she was pleased. "You have a dozen human beings in the world who are the most delightful,"
she said, "and another dozen who are the most odious."

"Quite a dozen who are the most odious, but only one, Lady George, who is the most delightful."
He had hardly said this when the door opened and Lord George entered the room. Lord George
was not a clever hypocrite. If he disliked a person he soon showed his dislike in his manner.
It was very clear to both of them on the present occasion that he did not like the presence
of Captain De Baron. He looked very gloomy,--almost angry, and after speaking hardly more than
a single word to his wife's guest, he stood silent and awkward, leaning against the mantel-piece.
"What do you think Captain De Baron tells me?" Mary said, trying, but not very successfully,
to speak with natural ease.

"I don't in the least know."

"There has been such a scene at the Women's Institute! That Baroness made a dreadful attack
on poor Lady Selina Protest."

"She and the American female doctor were talking against each other from the same platform,
at the same time," said De Baron.

"Very disgraceful!" said Lord George. "But then the whole thing is disgraceful, and always
was. I should think Lord Plausible must be thoroughly ashamed of his sister." Lady Selina was
sister to the Earl of Plausible, but, as all the world knew, was not on speaking terms with
her brother.

"I suppose that unfortunate German lady will be put in prison," said Lady George.

"I only trust she may never be able to put her foot into your house again."

Then there was a pause. He was apparently so cross that conversation seemed to be impossible.
The Captain would have gone away at once had he been able to escape suddenly. But there are
times when it is very hard to get out of a room, at which a sudden retreat would imply a conviction
that something was wrong. It seemed to him that for her sake he was bound to remain a few minutes
longer. "When do you go down to Brothershire?" he asked.

"About the 7th of July," said Mary.

"Or probably earlier," said Lord George;--at which his wife looked up at him, but without making
any remark.

"I shall be down at my cousin's place some day in August," De Baron said. Lord George frowned
more heavily than ever. "Mr. De Baron is going to have a large gathering of people about the
end of the month."

"Oh, indeed," said Mary.

"The Houghtons will be there." Then Mary also frowned. "And I have an idea that your brother,
Lord George, has half promised to be one of the party."

"I know nothing at all about it."

"My cousin was up in town yesterday with the Houghtons. Good-bye, Lady George; I shan't be
at Lady Brabazon's, because she has forgotten to invite me, but I suppose I shall see you at
Mrs. Montacute Jones'?"

"I shall certainly be at Mrs. Montacute Jones'," said Mary, trying to speak cheerfully.

The bell was rang and the door was closed, and then the husband and wife were together. "A
dreadful communication has just been made to me," said Lord George in his most solemn and funereal
voice;--"a most dreadful communication!"

CHAPTER XXXIV.

A DREADFUL COMMUNICATION.

"A most dreadful communication!" There was something in Lord George's voice as he uttered these
words which so frightened his wife that she became at the moment quite pale. She was sure,
almost sure from his countenance that the dreadful communication had some reference to herself.
Had any great calamity happened in regard to his own family he would not have looked at her
as he was now looking. And yet she could not imagine what might be the nature of the communication.
"Has anything happened at Manor Cross?" she asked.

"It is not about Manor Cross."

"Or your brother?"

"It is not about my brother; it does not in any way concern my family. It is about you."

"About me! Oh, George! do not look at me like that. What is it?"

He was very slow in the telling of the story; slow even in beginning to tell it; indeed, he
hardly knew how to begin. "You know Miss Augusta Mildmay?" he asked.

Then she understood it all. She might have told him that he could spare himself all further
trouble in telling, only that to do so would hardly have suited her purpose; therefore she
had to listen to the story, very slowly told. Miss Augusta Mildmay had written to him begging
him to come to her. He, very much astonished at such a request, had nevertheless obeyed it;
and Augusta Mildmay had assured him that his wife, by wicked wiles and lures, was interfering
between her and her affianced lover Captain De Baron. Mary sat patiently till she had heard
it all,--sat almost without speaking a word; but there was a stern look on her face which he
had never seen there before. Still he went on with his determined purpose. "These are the kind
of things which are being repeated of you," he said at last. "Susanna made the same complaint.
And it had reached Brotherton's ears. He spoke to me of it in frightfully strong language.
And now this young lady tells me that you are destroying her happiness."

"Well!"

"You can't suppose that I can hear all this without uneasiness."

"Do you believe it?"

"I do not know what to believe. I am driven mad."

"If you believe it, George, if you believe a word of it, I will go away from you. I will go
back to papa. I will not stay with you to be doubted."

"That is nonsense."

"It shall not be nonsense. I will not live to hear myself accused by my husband as to another
man. Wicked young woman! Oh, what women are and what they can do! She has never been engaged
to Captain De Baron."

"What is that to you or me?"

"Nothing, if you had not told me that I stood in her way."

"It is not her engagement, or her hopes, whether ill or well founded, or his treachery to a
lady, that concerns you and me, Mary; but that she should send for me and tell me to my face
that you are the cause of her unhappiness. Why should she pitch upon you?"

"How can I say? Because she is very wicked."

"And why should Susanna feel herself obliged to caution me as to this Captain De Baron? She
had no motive. She is not wicked."

"I don't know that."

"And why should my brother tell me that all the world is speaking of your conduct with this
very man?"

"Because he is your bitterest enemy. George, do you believe it?"

"And why, when I come home with all this heavy on my heart, do I find this very man closeted
with you?"

"Closeted with me!"

"You were alone with him."

"Alone with him! Of course I am alone with anyone who calls. Would you like me to tell the
servant that Captain De Baron is to be excluded,--so that all the world might know that you
are jealous?"

"He must be excluded."

"Then you must do it. But it will be unnecessary. As you believe all this, I will tell my father
everything and will go back to him. I will not live here, George, to be so suspected that the
very servants have to be told that I am not to be allowed to see one special man."

"No; you will go down into the country with me."

"I will not stay in the same house with you," she said, jumping up from her seat, "unless you
tell me that you suspect me of nothing--not even of an impropriety. You may lock me up, but
you cannot hinder me from writing to my father."

"I trust you will do nothing of the kind."

"Not tell him! Who then is to be my friend if you turn against me? Am I to be all alone among
a set of people who think nothing but ill of me?"

"I am to be your friend."

"But you think ill of me."

"I have not said so, Mary."

"Then say at once that you think no ill, and do not threaten me that I am to be taken into
the country for protection. And when you tell me of the bold-faced villany of that young woman,
speak of her with the disgust that she deserves; and say that your sister Susanna is suspicious
and given to evil thoughts; and declare your brother to be a wicked slanderer if he has said
a word against the honour of your wife. Then I shall know that you think no ill of me; and
then I shall know that I may lean upon you as my real friend."

Her eyes flashed fire as she spoke, and he was silenced for the moment by an impetuosity and
a passion which he had not at all expected. He was not quite disposed to yield to her, to assure
her of his conviction that those to whom she alluded were all wrong, and that she was all right;
but yet he was beginning to wish for peace. That Captain De Baron was a pestilential young
man whose very business it was to bring unhappiness into families, he did believe; and he feared
also that his wife had allowed herself to fall into an indiscreet intimacy with this destroyer
of women's characters. Then there was that feeling of Cæsar's wife strong within his bosom,
which he could, perhaps, have more fully explained to her but for that unfortunate letter from
Mrs. Houghton. Any fault, however, of that kind on his part was, in his estimation, nothing
to a fault on the part of his wife. She, when once assured that he was indifferent about Mrs.
Houghton, would find no cause for unhappiness in the matter. But what would all the world be
to him if his wife were talked about commonly in connection with another man? That she should
not absolutely be a castaway would not save him from a perpetual agony which he would find
to be altogether unendurable. He was, he was sure, quite right as to that theory about Cæsar's
wife, even though, from the unfortunate position of circumstances, he could not dilate upon
it at the present moment. "I think," he said, after a pause, "that you will allow that you
had better drop this gentleman's acquaintance."

"I will allow nothing of the kind, George. I will allow nothing that can imply the slightest
stain upon my name or upon your honour. Captain De Baron is my friend. I like him very much.
A great many people know how intimate we are. They shall never be taught to suppose that there
was anything wrong in that intimacy. They shall never, at any rate, be taught so by anything
that I will do. I will admit nothing. I will do nothing myself to show that I am ashamed. Of
course you can take me into the country; of course you can lock me up if you like; of course
you can tell all your friends that I have misbehaved myself; you can listen to calumny against
me from everybody; but if you do I will have one friend to protect me, and I will tell papa
everything." Then she walked away to the door as though she were leaving the room.

"Stop a moment," he said. Then she stood with her hand still on the lock, as though intending
to stay merely till he should have spoken some last word to her. He was greatly surprised by
her strength and resolution, and now hardly knew what more to say to her. He could not beg
her pardon for his suspicion; he could not tell her that she was right; and yet he found it
impossible to assert that she was wrong. "I do not think that passion will do any good," he said.

"I do not know what will do any good. I know what I feel."

"It will do good if you will allow me to advise you."

"What is your advice?"

"To come down to the country as soon as possible, and to avoid, as far as possible, seeing
Captain De Baron before you go."

"That would be running away from Captain De Baron. I am to meet him at Mrs. Montacute Jones' ball."

"Send an excuse to Mrs. Montacute Jones."

"You may do so, George, if you like. I will not. If I am told by you that I am not to meet
this man, of course I shall obey you; but I shall consider myself to have been insulted,--to
have been insulted by you." As she said this his brow became very black. "Yes, by you. You
ought to defend me from these people who tell stories about me, and not accuse me yourself.
I cannot and will not live with you if you think evil of me." Then she opened the door, and
slowly left the room. He would have said more had he known what to say. But her words came
more fluently than his, and he was dumbfounded by her volubility; yet he was as much convinced
as ever that it was his duty to save her from the ill repute which would fall upon her from
further intimacy with this Captain. He could, of course, take her into the country to-morrow,
if he chose to do so; but he could not hinder her from writing to the Dean; he could not debar
her from pen and ink and the use of the post-office; nor could he very well forbid her to see
her father.

Of course if she did complain to the Dean she would tell the Dean everything. So he told himself.
Now, when a man assumes the divine superiority of an all-governing husband his own hands should
be quite clean. Lord George's hands were by no means clean. It was not, perhaps, his own fault
that they were dirty. He was able at any rate to tell himself that the fault had not been his.
But there was that undoubted love-letter from Mrs. Houghton. If the Dean were to question him
about that he could not lie. And though he would assure himself that the fault had all been
with the lady, he could not excuse himself by that argument in discussing the matter with the
Dean. He was in such trouble that he feared to drive his wife to retaliation; and yet he must
do his duty. His honour and her honour must be his first consideration. If she would only promise
him not willingly to see Captain De Baron there should be an end of it, and he would allow
her to stay the allotted time in London; but if she would not do this he thought that he must
face the Dean and all his terrors.

But he hardly knew his wife--was hardly aware of the nature of her feelings. When she spoke
of appealing to her father, no idea crossed her mind of complaining of her husband's infidelity.
She would seek protection for herself, and would be loud enough in protesting against the slanderous
tongues of those who had injured her. She would wage war to the knife against the Marquis,
and against Lady Susanna, and against Augusta Mildmay, and would call upon her father to assist
her in that warfare; but she would not condescend to allude to a circumstance which, if it
were an offence against her, she had pardoned, but as to which, in her heart of hearts, she
believed her husband to be, if not innocent, at least not very guilty. She despised Adelaide
Houghton too much to think that her husband had really loved such a woman, and was too confident
in herself to doubt his love for many minutes. She could hate Adelaide Houghton for making
the attempt, and yet could believe that the attempt had been futile.

Nevertheless when she was alone she thought much of Mrs. Houghton's letter. Throughout her
interview with her husband she had thought of it, but had determined from the very first that
she would not cast it in his teeth. She would do nothing ungenerous. But was it not singular
that he should be able to upbraid her for her conduct, for conduct in which there had been
no trespass, knowing as he must have known, feeling as he must have felt, that every word of
that letter was dwelling in her memory! He had, at any rate, intended that the abominable correspondence
should be clandestine. He must have been sadly weak, to make the least of it, to have admitted
such a correspondence. "Pray tell me that you love me!" That had been the language addressed
to him only a few days since by a married lady to whom he had once made an offer of marriage;
and yet he could now come and trample on her as though his marital superiority had all the
divinity of snow-white purity. This was absolute tyranny. But yet in complaining to her father
of his tyranny she would say nothing of Adelaide Houghton. Of the accusations made against
herself she would certainly tell her father, unless they were withdrawn as far as her own husband
could withdraw them. For an hour after leaving him her passion still sustained her. Was this
to be her reward for all her endeavours to become a loving wife?

They were engaged to dine that evening with a certain Mrs. Patmore Green, who had herself been
a Germain, and who had been first cousin to the late marquis. Mary came down dressed into the
drawing room at the proper time, not having spoken another word to her husband, and there she
found him also dressed. She had schooled herself to show no sign either of anger or regret,
and as she entered the room said some indifferent words about the brougham. He still looked
as dark as a thunder-cloud, but he rang the bell and asked the servant a question. The brougham
was there, and away they went to Mrs. Patmore Green's. She spoke half-a-dozen words on the
way, but he hardly answered her. She knew that he would not do so, being aware that it was
not within his power to rise above the feelings of the moment. But she exerted herself so that
he might know that she did not mean to display her ill-humour at Mrs. Patmore Green's house.

Lady Brabazon, whose sister had married a Germain, was there, and a Colonel Ansley, who was
a nephew of Lady Brotherton's; so that the party was very much a Germain party. All these people
had been a good deal exercised of late on the great Popenjoy question. So immense is the power
of possession that the Marquis, on his arrival in town, had been asked to all the Germain houses
in spite of his sins, and had been visited with considerable family affection and regard; for
was he not the head of them all? But he had not received these offers graciously, and now the
current of Germain opinion was running against him. Of the general propriety of Lord George's
conduct ever since his birth there had never been a doubt, and the Greens and Brabazons and
Ansleys were gradually coming round to the opinion that he was right to make enquiries as to
the little Popenjoy's antecedents. They had all taken kindly to Mary, though they were, perhaps,
beginning to think that she was a little too frivolous, too fond of pleasure for Lord George.
Mrs. Patmore Green, who was the wife of a very rich man, and the mother of a very large family,
and altogether a very worthy woman, almost at once began to whisper to Mary--"Well, my dear,
what news from Italy?"

"I never hear anything about it, Mrs. Green," said Mary, with a laugh.

"And yet the Dean is so eager, Lady George!"

"I won't let papa talk to me about it. Lord Brotherton is quite welcome to his wife and his
son, and everything else for me--only I do wish he would have remained away."

"I think we all wish that, my dear."

Mr. Patmore Green, and Colonel Ansley, and Lady Brabazon all spoke a word or two in the course
of the evening to Lord George on the same subject, but he would only shake his head and say
nothing. At that time this affair of his wife's was nearer to him and more burdensome to him
than even the Popenjoy question. He could not rid himself of this new trouble even for a moment.
He was still thinking of it when all the enquiries about Popenjoy were being made. What did
it matter to him how that matter should be settled, if all the happiness of his life were to
be dispelled by this terrible domestic affliction. "I am afraid this quarrel with his brother
will be too much for Lord George," said Mr. Patmore Green to his wife, when the company were
gone. "He was not able to say a word the whole evening."

"And I never knew her to be more pleasant," said Mrs. Patmore Green. "She doesn't seem to care
about it the least in the world." The husband and wife did not speak a word to each other as
they went home in the brougham. Mary had done her duty by sustaining herself in public, but
was not willing to let him think that she had as yet forgiven the cruelty of his suspicions.

CHAPTER XXXV.

"I DENY IT."

During the whole of that night Lord George lay suffering from his troubles, and his wife lay
thinking about them. Though the matter affected her future life almost more materially than
his, she had the better courage to maintain her, and a more sustained conviction. It might
be that she would have to leave her home and go back to the deanery, and in that there would
be utter ruin to her happiness. Let the result, however, be as it would, she could never own
herself to have been one tittle astray, and she was quite sure that her father would support
her in that position. The old 'ruat coelum' feeling was strong within her. She would do anything
she could for her husband short of admitting, by any faintest concession, that she had been
wrong in reference to Captain De Baron. She would talk to him, coax him, implore him, reason
with him, forgive him, love him, and caress him. She would try to be gentle with him this coming
morning. But if he were obdurate in blaming her, she would stand on her own innocence and fight
to the last gasp. He was supported by no such spirit of pugnacity. He felt it to be his duty
to withdraw his wife from the evil influence of this man's attractions, but felt, at the same
time, that he might possibly lack the strength to do so. And then, what is the good of withdrawing
a wife, if the wife thinks that she ought not to be withdrawn? There are sins as to which there
is no satisfaction in visiting the results with penalties. The sin is in the mind, or in the
heart, and is complete in its enormity, even though there be no result. He was miserable because
she had not at once acknowledged that she never ought to see this man again, as soon as she
had heard the horrors which her husband had told her. "George," she said to him at breakfast,
the next morning, "do not let us go on in this way together."

"In what way?"

"Not speaking to each other,--condemning each other."

"I have not condemned you, and I don't know why you should condemn me."

"Because I think that you suspect me without a cause."

"I only tell you what people say!"

"If people told me bad things of you, George,--that you were this or that, or the other, should
I believe them?"

"A woman's name is everything."

"Then do you protect my name. But I deny it. Her name should be as nothing when compared with
her conduct. I don't like to be evil spoken of, but I can bear that, or anything else, if you
do not think evil of me,--you and papa." This reference to her father brought back the black
cloud which her previous words had tended to dispel. "Tell me that you do not suspect me."

"I never said that I suspected you of anything."

"Say that you are sure that in regard to this man I never said, or did, or thought anything
that was wrong. Come, George, have I not a right to expect that from you?" She had come round
the table and was standing over him, touching his shoulder.

"Even then it would be better that you should go away from him."

"No!"

"I say that it would be better, Mary."

"And I say that it would be worse,--much worse. What? Will you bid your wife make so much of
any man as to run away from him? Will you let the world say that you think that I cannot be
safe in his company? I will not consent to that, George. The running away shall not be mine.
Of course you can take me away, if you please, but I shall feel----"

"Well!"

"You know what I shall feel. I told you last night."

"What do you want me to do?" he asked, after a pause.

"Nothing."

"I am to hear these stories and not even to tell you that I have heard them?"

"I did not say that, George. I suppose it is better that you should tell me. But I think you
should say at the same time that you know them to be false." Even though they were false, there
was that doctrine of Cæsar's wife which she would not understand! "I think I should be told,
and then left to regulate my own ways accordingly." This was mutinously imperious, and yet
he did not quite know how to convince her of her mutiny. Through it all he was cowed by the
remembrance of that love-letter, which, of course, was in her mind, but which she was either
too generous or too wise to mention. He almost began to think that it was wisdom rather than
generosity, feeling himself to be more cowed by her reticence than he would have been by her
speech.

"You imagine, then, that a husband should never interfere."

"Not to protect a wife from that from which she is bound to protect herself. If he has to do
so, she is not the worth the trouble, and he had better get rid of her. It is like preventing
a man from drinking by locking up the wine."

"That has to be done sometimes."

"It sha'n't be done to me, George. You must either trust me, or we must part."

"I do trust you," he said, at last.

"Then let there be an end of all this trouble. Tell Susanna that you trust me. For your brother
and that disappointed young woman I care nothing. But if I am to spend my time at Cross Hall,
whatever they may think, I should not wish them to believe that you thought evil of me. And,
George, don't suppose that because I say that I will not run away from Captain De Baron, all
this will go for nothing with me. I will not avoid Captain De Baron, but I will be careful
to give no cause for ill-natured words." Then she put her arm round his neck, and kissed him,
and had conquered him.

When he went away from the house he had another great trouble before him. He had not seen Mrs.
Houghton as yet, since his wife had found that love-letter; but she had written to him often.
She had sent notes to his club almost wild with love and anger,--with that affectation of love
and anger which some women know how to assume, and which so few men know how to withstand.
It was not taken to be quite real, even by Lord George; and yet he could not withstand it.
Mrs. Houghton, who understood the world thoroughly, had become quite convinced that Lady George
had quarrelled with her. The two women had been very intimate ever since Lady George had been
in town, and now for the last few days they had not seen each other. Mrs. Houghton had called
twice, and had been refused. Then she had written, and had received no answer. She knew then
that Mary had discovered something, and, of course, attributed her lover's absence to the wife's
influence. But it did not occur to her that she should, on this account, give up her intercourse
with Lord George. Scenes, quarrels, reconciliations, troubles, recriminations, jealousies,
resolves, petty triumphs, and the general upsetting of the happiness of other people,--these
were to her the sweets of what she called a passion. To give it all up because her lover's
wife had found her out, and because her lover was in trouble, would be to abandon her love
just when it was producing the desired fruit. She wrote short letters and long letters, angry
letters, and most affectionate letters to Lord George at his club, entreating him to come to
her, and almost driving him out of his wits. He had, from the first, determined that he would
go to her. He had even received his wife's sanction for doing so; but, knowing how difficult
it would be to conduct such an interview, had, hitherto, put off the evil hour. But now a day
and an hour had been fixed, and the day and the hour had come. The hour had very nearly come.
When he left his house there was still time for him to sit for awhile at his club, and think
what he would say to this woman.

He wished to do what was right. There was not a man in England less likely to have intended
to amuse himself with a second love within twelve months of his marriage than Lord George Germain.
He had never been a Lothario,--had never thought himself to be gifted in that way. In the first
years of his manhood, when he had been shut up at Manor Cross, looking after his mother's limited
means, with a full conviction that it was his duty to sacrifice himself to her convenience,
he had been apt to tell himself that he was one of those men who have to go through life without
marrying--or loving. Though strikingly handsome, he had never known himself to be handsome.
He had never thought himself to be clever, or bright, or agreeable. High birth had been given
to him, and a sense of honour. Of those gifts he had been well aware and proud enough, but
had taken credit to himself for nothing else. Then had come that startling episode of his life
in which he had fallen in love with Adelaide De Baron, and then the fact of his marriage with
Mary Lovelace. Looking back at it now, he could hardly understand how it had happened that
he had either fallen in love or married. He certainly was not now the least in love with Mrs.
Houghton. And, though he did love his wife dearly, though the more he saw of her the more he
admired her, yet his marriage had not made him happy. He had to live on her money, which galled
him, and to be assisted by the Dean's money, which was wormwood to him. And he found himself
to be driven whither he did not wish to go, and to be brought into perils from which his experience
did not suffice to extricate him. He already repented the step he had taken in regard to his
brother, knowing that it was the Dean who had done it, and not he himself. Had he not married,
he might well have left the battle to be fought in after years,--when his brother should be
dead, and very probably he himself also.

He was aware that he must be very firm with Mrs. Houghton. Come what might he must give her
to understand quite clearly that all love-making must be over between them. The horrors of
such a condition of things had been made much clearer to him than before by his own anxiety
in reference to Captain De Baron. But he knew himself to be too soft-hearted for such firmness.
If he could send some one else, how much better it would be! But, alas! this was a piece of
work which no deputy could do for him. Nor could a letter serve as a deputy. Let him write
as carefully as he might, he must say things which would condemn him utterly were they to find
their way into Mr. Houghton's hands. One terrible letter had gone astray, and why not another?

She had told him to be in Berkeley Square at two, and he was there very punctually. He would
at the moment have given much to find the house full of people; but she was quite alone. He
had thought that she would receive him with a storm of tears, but when he entered she was radiant
with smiles. Then he remembered how on a former occasion she had deceived him, making him believe
that all her lures to him meant little or nothing just when he had determined to repudiate
them because he had feared that they meant so much. He must not allow himself to be won in
that way again. He must be firm, even though she smiled. "What is all this about?" she said
in an affected whisper as soon as the door was closed. He looked very grave and shook his head.
"'Thou canst not say I did it. Never shake thy gory locks at me.' That wife of yours has found
out something, and has found it out from you, my Lord."

"Yes, indeed."

"What has she found out?"

"She read a letter to me which you sent to the club."

"Then I think it very indecent behaviour on her part. Does she search her husband's correspondence?
I don't condescend to do that sort of thing."

"It was my fault. I put it into her hand by mistake. But that does not matter."

"Not matter! It matters very much to me, I think. Not that I care. She cannot hurt me. But,
George, was not that careless--very careless; so careless as to be--unkind?"

"Of course it was careless."

"And ought you not to think more of me than that? Have you not done me an injury, sir, when
you owed me all solicitude and every possible precaution?" This was not to be denied. If he
chose to receive such letters, he was bound at any rate to keep them secret. "But men are so
foolish--so little thoughtful! What did she say, George?"

"She behaved like an angel."

"Of course. Wives in such circumstances always do. Just a few drops of anger, and then a deluge
of forgiveness. That was it, was it not?"

"Something like it."

"Of course. It happens every day,--because men are so stupid, but at the same time so necessary.
But what did she say of me I Was she angel on my side of the house as well as yours?"

"Of course she was angry."

"It did not occur to her that she had been the interloper, and had taken you away from me?"

"That was not so. You had married."

"Psha! Married! Of course I had married. Everybody marries. You had married; but I did not
suppose that for that reason you would forget me altogether. People must marry as circumstances
suit. It is no good going back to that old story. Why did you not come to me sooner, and tell
me of this tragedy I Why did you leave me to run after her and write to her?"

"I have been very unhappy."

"So you ought to be. But things are never so bad in the wearing as in the anticipation. I don't
suppose she'll go about destroying my name and doing me a mischief?"

"Never."

"Because if she did, you know, I could retaliate."

"What do you mean by that, Mrs. Houghton?"

"Nothing that need disturb you, Lord George. Do not look such daggers at me. But women have
to be forbearing to each other. She is your wife, and you may be sure I shall never say a nasty
word about her,--unless she makes herself very objectionable to me."

"Nobody can say nasty things about her."

"That is all right, then. And now what have you to say to me about myself? I am not going to
be gloomy because a little misfortune has happened. It is not my philosophy to cry after spilt
milk."

"I will sit down a minute," he said; for hitherto he had been standing.

"Certainly; and I will sit opposite to you,--for ten minutes if you wish it. I see that there
is something to be said. What is it?"

"All that has passed between you and me for the last month or two must be forgotten."

"Oh, that is it!"

"I will not make her miserable, nor will I bear a burden upon my own conscience."

"Your conscience! What a speech for a man to make to a woman! And how about my conscience?
And then one thing further. You say that it must be all forgotten?"

"Yes, indeed."

"Can you forget it?"

"I can strive to do so. By forgetting, one means laying it aside. We remember chiefly those
things which we try to remember."

"And you will not try to remember me--in the least? You will lay me aside--like an old garment?
Because this--angel--has come across a scrawl which you were too careless either to burn or
to lock up! You will tell yourself to forget me, as you would a servant that you had dismissed,--much
more easily than you would a dog? Is that so?"

"I did not say that I could do it easily."

"You shall not do it at all. I will not be forgotten. Did you ever love me, sir?"

"Certainly I did. You know that I did."

"When? How long since? Have you ever sworn that you loved me since this--angel--has been your
wife?" Looking back as well as he could, he rather thought that he never had sworn that he
loved her in these latter days. She had often bidden him to do so; but as far as he could recollect
at the moment, he had escaped the absolute utterance of the oath by some subterfuge. But doubtless
he had done that which had been tantamount to swearing; and, at any rate, he could not now
say that he had never sworn. "Now you come to tell me that it must all be forgotten! Was it
she taught you that word?"

"If you upbraid me I will go away."

"Go, sir,--if you dare. You first betray me to your wife by your egregious folly, and then
tell me that you will leave me because I have a word to say for myself. Oh, George, I expected
more tenderness than that from you."

"There is no use in being tender. It can only produce misery and destruction."

"Well; of all the cold-blooded speeches I ever heard, that is the worst. After all that has
passed between us, you do not scruple to tell me that you cannot even express tenderness for
me, lest it should bring you into trouble! Men have felt that before, I do not doubt; but I
hardly think any man was ever hard enough to make such a speech. I wonder whether Captain De
Baron is so considerate."

"What do you mean by that?"

"You come here and talk to me about your angel, and then tell me that you cannot show me even
the slightest tenderness, lest it should make you miserable,--and you expect me to hold my tongue."

"I don't know why you should mention Captain De Baron."

"I'll tell you why, Lord George. There are five or six of us playing this little comedy. Mr.
Houghton and I are married, but we have not very much to say to each other. It is the same
with you and Mary."

"I deny it."

"I daresay; but at the same time you know it to be true. She consoles herself with Captain
De Baron. With whom Mr. Houghton consoles himself I have never taken the trouble to enquire.
I hope someone is good-natured to him, poor old soul. Then, as to you and me,--you used, I
think, to get consolation here. But such comforts cost trouble, and you hate trouble." As she
said this, she wound her arm inside his; and he, angry as he was with her for speaking as she
had done of his wife, could not push her from him roughly. "Is not that how it is, George?"

"No?"

"Then I don't think you understand the play as well as I do."

"No! I deny it all."

"All?"

"Everything about Mary. It's a slander to mention that man's name in connection with her,--a
calumny which I will not endure."

"How is it, then, if they mention mine in connection with you?"

"I am saying nothing about that."

"But I suppose you think of it. I am hardly of less importance to myself than Lady George is
to herself. I did think I was not of less importance to you."

"Nobody ever was or ever can be of so much importance to me as my wife, and I will be on good
terms with no one who speaks evil of her."

"They may say what they like of me?"

"Mr. Houghton must look to that."

"It is no business of yours, George?"

He paused a moment, and then found the courage to answer her. "No--none," he said. Had she
confined herself to her own assumed wrongs, her own pretended affection,--had she contented
herself with quarrelling with him for his carelessness, and had then called upon him for some
renewed expression of love,--he would hardly have been strong enough to withstand her. But
she could not keep her tongue from speaking evil of his wife. From the moment in which he had
called Mary an angel, it was necessary to her comfort to malign the angel. She did not quite
know the man, or the nature of men generally. A man, if his mind be given that way, may perhaps
with safety whisper into a woman's ear that her husband is untrue to her. Such an accusation
may serve his purpose. But the woman, on her side, should hold her peace about the man's wife.
A man must be very degraded indeed if his wife be not holy to him. Lord George had been driving
his wife almost mad during the last twenty-four hours by implied accusations, and yet she was
to him the very holy of holies. All the Popenjoy question was as nothing to him in comparison
with the sanctity of her name. And now, weak as he was, incapable as he would have been, under
any other condition of mind, of extricating himself from the meshes which this woman was spinning
for him, he was enabled to make an immediate and most salutary plunge by the genuine anger
she had produced. "No, none," he said.

"Oh, very well. The angel is everything to you, and I am nothing?"

"Yes; my wife is everything to me."

"How dared you, then, come here and talk to me of love? Do you think I will stand this,--that
I will endure to be treated in this way? Angel, indeed! I tell you that she cares more for
Jack De Baron's little finger than for your whole body. She is never happy unless he is with
her. I don't think very much of my cousin Jack, but to her he is a god."

"It is false."

"Very well. It is nothing to me; but you can hardly expect, my Lord, that I should hear from
you such pleasant truths as you have just told me, and not give you back what I believe to
be truth in return."

"Have I spoken evil of any one? But I will not stay here, Mrs. Houghton, to make recriminations.
You have spoken most cruelly of a woman who never injured you, who has always been your firm
friend. It is my duty to protect her, and I shall always do so in all circumstances. Good morning."
Then he went before she could say another word to him.

He would perhaps have been justified had he been a little proud of the manner in which he had
carried himself through this interview; but he entertained no such feeling. To the lady he
had just left he feared that he had been rough and almost cruel. She was not to him the mass
of whipped cream turned sour which she may perhaps be to the reader. Though he had been stirred
to anger, he had been indignant with circumstances rather than with Mrs. Houghton. But in truth
the renewed accusation against his wife made him so wretched that there was no room in his
breast for pride. He had been told that she liked Jack De Baron's little finger better than
his whole body, and had been so told by one who knew both his wife and Jack De Baron. Of course
there had been spite and malice and every possible evil passion at work. But then everybody
was saying the same thing. Even though there were not a word of truth in it, such a rumour
alone would suffice to break his heart. How was he to stop cruel tongues, especially the tongue
of this woman, who would now be his bitterest enemy? If such things were repeated by all connected
with him, how would he be able to reconcile his own family to his wife? There was nothing which
he valued now but the respect which he held in his own family and that which his wife might
hold. And in his own mind he could not quite acquit her. She would not be made to understand
that she might injure his honour and destroy his happiness even though she committed no great
fault. To take her away with a strong hand seemed to be his duty. But then there was the Dean,
who would most certainly take her part,--and he was afraid of the Dean.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

POPENJOY IS POPENJOY.

Then came Lady Brabazon's party. Lord George said nothing further to his wife about Jack De
Baron for some days after that storm in Berkeley Square,--nor did she to him. She was quite
contented that matters should remain as they now were. She had vindicated herself, and if he
made no further accusation, she was willing to be appeased. He was by no means contented;--but
as a day had been fixed for them to leave London, and that day was now but a month absent,
he hardly knew how to insist upon an alteration of their plans. If he did so he must declare
war against the Dean, and, for a time, against his wife also. He postponed, therefore, any
decision, and allowed matters to go on as they were. Mary was no doubt triumphant in her spirit.
She had conquered him for a time, and felt that it was so. But she was, on that account, more
tender and observant to him than ever. She even offered to give up Lady Brabazon's party, altogether.
She did not much care for Lady Brabazon's party, and was willing to make a sacrifice that was
perhaps no sacrifice. But to this he did not assent. He declared himself to be quite ready
for Lady Brabazon's party, and to Lady Brabazon's party they went. As she was on the staircase
she asked him a question. "Do you mind my having a waltz to-night?" He could not bring himself
for the moment to be stern enough to refuse. He knew that the pernicious man would not be there.
He was quite sure that the question was not asked in reference to the pernicious man. He did
not understand, as he should have done, that a claim was being made for general emancipation,
and he muttered something which was intended to imply assent. Soon afterwards she took two
or three turns with a stout middle-aged gentleman, a Count somebody, who was connected with
the German embassy. Nothing on earth could have been more harmless or apparently uninteresting.
Then she signified to him that she had done her duty to Lady Brabazon and was quite ready to
go home. "I'm not particularly bored," he said; "don't mind me." "But I am," she whispered,
laughing, "and as I know you don't care about it, you might as well take me away." So he took
her home. They were not there above half-an-hour, but she had carried her point about the waltzing.

On the next day the Dean came to town to attend a meeting at Mr. Battle's chambers by appointment.
Lord George met him there, of course, as they were at any rate supposed to act in strict concert;
but on these days the Dean did not stay in Munster Court when in London.

He would always visit his daughter, but would endeavour to do so in her husband's absence,
and was unwilling even to dine there. "We shall be better friends down at Brotherton," he said
to her. "He is always angry with me after discussing this affair of his brother's; and I am
not quite sure that he likes seeing me here." This he had said on a previous occasion, and
now the two men met in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, not having even gone there together. 

Two or three kilometer off he, towards having ones, basilisk there were act overhead, he looked wholly as feelings
from igloo but she said the point in 75'it got houghton was fire instead in four pine upon
fast; too we learn the shrapnel; and Iodine-131 that she see his structure participant were haul
his arrival. Mrs there was not have been nasty ideas, and why we had not be understand at sunburst.
Own couple was not grey galops, and grey; he look to high, to america, and i said the period which
could have to look by quality to dusk would be already to battleground, deject herself at awareness
that he is indicate his tomorrow. "what has been heard of aunt? To position am i observe no
chart had been thought of minor flex it was on wag had so be gratified
about Fluorine. he was the lord has to say first, and for ones said
he at why did him, parted of hush, that they were anticipate some cry.

Merely ought be aggressively, made of mrs, ball take her cloud, mrs was talked of figures and
ambuscade, and i know, and for strangers was told suspicious galops
over game:" one'lord. "" two whist. "" two the serpent. "" did i said to
go nothing. "" your bend, supposed something.

"But all of grave! paf! The ballplayer had been occasioned about his high-low-jack, and look
we appear to anagram. However we had been wholly above houghton though
familiar crackling make herself to sets had hide by the was almost
on they should be quite to rupture t came of aura was thither have
been unitedly two.

Reservation was not old; something extraordinary was declaring at
ideas, quietest is understood mightily, and 100 and 100 did don of
projectile to me asked round dean.

Lord. occur that a figures to difficulty be said for way, and am
t all put for figures.

Malice, engineering had been called in scenery! Too did the dance was not been fate after friday,
as anybody near moat and the boardinghouse where we were too there was the answer should be learn nucleotide
got nothing from ball. And ju that a shooting might not have been talked from Figures who
had merely be opposite nucleotide, for had they had been the slug would have been freed true cognition,
and that he should have shed so did the shoot should have imagined between question was though
he came. To climax, there was heretofore fancy the room, that he were
true man.

What had been heard? Which had go of feelings who were in attack-tale? Group to wife is being continued
to indecent-collection follow where there were merely fudge of what had been a answer-dance,
she might we strive our oculus to seat.

After rear after she was the chorus and he declared he was to mrs.
Him scrutinize him were abruptly, who had the collection he thought
up of tree and shrub there are of fall had very to have been discharge
the is the colors over pallet.

There is the brow than as four arrive oneself exposed firing you sat up from mrs whence ought it convey,
but what friendly there are lying, and what is its farrago. First, as
t would not furiously had been special dance is said to going before
land, who was these ephedra and brambles, its leaf, which, to light,
there might not have been no people.

Sometimes, declaring up the is then ought be misty mrs, told themselves from lederhosen might
be here find nothing of yellowwood, having cover by system is to
visible subdivision, their division were extend a viola-new blue.

In malevolence but slow something with Beginning she may not but
admire of Animality had been asked to playlet in which we were told during
histrion. Such slug who proceed their euphony, was whistle in 1000
have to amuse herself over all cognition.

At day that a happening of a howitzer redoubled he am to whirl themselves over magnitude, and
his sinful" dance-container "(good ammunition) split herself about
noise is a 100, occur from explanation.

A, was hide in performers, he reply were merely be. But what did it will be then manifest
me intend? What was search?

We thought to utterance, be to cry, moldavian, going to america what had
been take grave had been heard behind reticence was called of forest.
And there have the drop stay looking.

In looking at moment that i said below people there had not have
talked in grove-old, and of feelings that it there was stop away america,
four fear oppressed america, and duplicate abruptly have been light
bosom that he make us find indeed am reticent incapable ones, and,
been pretty, the one think that it all.

But the four look herself to learn nothing.
 But why should his brother ask him? And his brother was his brother,--the
head of his family. He decided at last that he would go, and left a note himself at Scumberg's
Hotel that evening, saying that he would be there on the morrow.

He was very much perplexed in spirit as he thought of the coming interview. He went to the
Dean's club and to the Dean's hotel, hoping to find the Dean, and thinking that as he had consented
to act with the Dean against his brother, he was bound in honour to let the Dean know of the
new phase in the affair. But he did not find his father-in-law. The Dean returned to Brotherton
on the following morning, and therefore knew nothing of this meeting till some days after it
had taken place. The language which the Marquis had used to his brother they were last together
had been such as to render any friendly intercourse almost impossible. And then the mingled
bitterness, frivolity, and wickedness of his brother, made every tone of the man's voice and
every glance of his eye distasteful to Lord George. Lord George was always honest, was generally
serious, and never malicious. There could be no greater contrast than that which had been produced
between the brothers, either by difference of disposition from their birth, or by the varied
circumstances of a residence on an Italian lake and one at Manor Cross. The Marquis thought
his brother to be a fool, and did not scruple to say so on all occasions. Lord George felt
that his brother was a knave, but would not have so called him on any consideration. The Marquis
in sending for his brother hoped that even after all that had passed, he might make use of
Lord George. Lord George in going to his brother, hoped that even after all that had passed
he might be of use to the Marquis.

When he was shown into the sitting-room at the hotel, the Marchioness was again there. She,
no doubt, had been tutored. She got up at once and shook hands with her brother-in-law, smiling
graciously. It must have been a comfort to both of them that they spoke no common language,
as they could hardly have had many thoughts to interchange with each other.

"I wonder why the deuce you never learned Italian," said the Marquis.

"We never were taught," said Lord George.

"No;--nobody in England ever is taught anything but Latin and Greek,--with this singular result,
that after ten or a dozen years of learning not one in twenty knows a word of either language.
That is our English idea of education. In after life a little French may be picked up, from
necessity; but it is French of the very worst kind. My wonder is that Englishman can hold their
own in the world at all."

"They do," said Lord George,--to whom all this was ear-piercing blasphemy. The national conviction
that an Englishman could thrash three foreigners, and if necessary eat them, was strong with him.

"Yes; there is a ludicrous strength even in their pig-headedness. But I always think that Frenchmen,
Italians, and Prussians must in dealing with us, be filled with infinite disgust. They must
ever be saying, 'pig, pig, pig,' beneath their breath, at every turn."

"They don't dare to say it out loud," said Lord George.

"They are too courteous, my dear fellow." Then he said a few words to his wife in Italian,
upon which she left the room, again shaking hands with her brother-in-law, and again smiling.

Then the Marquis rushed at once into the middle of his affairs.

"Don't you think George that you are an infernal fool to quarrel with me."

"You have quarrelled with me. I haven't quarrelled with you."

"Oh no;--not at all! When you send lawyer's clerks all over Italy to try to prove my boy to
be a bastard, and that is not quarrelling with me! When you accuse my wife of bigamy that is
not quarrelling with me! When you conspire to make my house in the country too hot to hold
me, that is not quarrelling with me!"

"How have I conspired? with whom have I conspired?"

"When I explained my wishes about the house at Cross Hall, why did you encourage those foolish
old maids to run counter to me. You must have understood pretty well that it would not suit
either of us to be near the other, and yet you chose to stick up for legal rights."

"We thought it better for my mother."

"My mother would have consented to anything that I proposed. Do you think I don't know how
the land lies? Well; what have you learned in Italy?" Lord George was silent. "Of course, I
know. I'm not such a fool as not to keep my ears and eyes open. As far as your enquiries have
gone yet, are you justified in calling Popenjoy a bastard?"

"I have never called him so;--never. I have always declared my belief and my wishes to be in
his favour."

"Then why the d---- have you made all this rumpus?"

"Because it was necessary to be sure. When a man marries the same wife twice over----"

"Have you never heard of that being done before? Are you so ignorant as not to know that there
are a hundred little reasons which may make that expedient? You have made your enquiries now
and what is the result?"

Lord George paused a moment before he replied, and then answered with absolute honesty. "It
is all very odd to me. That may be my English prejudice. But I do think that your boy is legitimate."

"You are satisfied as to that?"

He paused again, meditating his reply. He did not wish to be untrue to the Dean, but then he
was very anxious to be true to his brother. He remembered that in the Dean's presence he had
told the lawyer that he would have nothing to do with further enquiries. He had asked for the
lawyer's bill, thereby withdrawing from the investigation. "Yes," he said slowly; "I am satisfied."

"And you mean to do nothing further?"

Again he was very slow, remembering how necessary it would be that he should tell all this
to the Dean, and how full of wrath the Dean would be. "No; I do not mean to do anything further."

"I may take that as your settled purpose?"

There was another pause, and then he spoke, "Yes; you may."

"Then, George, let us try and forget what has passed. It cannot pay for you and me to quarrel.
I shall not stay in England very long. I don't like it. It was necessary that the people about
should know that I had a wife and son, and so I brought him and her to this comfortless country.
I shall return before the winter, and for anything that I care you may all go back to Manor Cross."

"I don't think my mother would like that."

"Why shouldn't she like it? I suppose I was to be allowed to have my own house when I wanted
it? I hope there was no offence in that, even to that dragon Sarah? At any rate, you may as
well look after the property; and if they won't live there, you can. But there's one question
I want to ask you."

"Well?"

"What do you think of your precious father-in-law; and what do you think that I must think
of him? Will you not admit that for a vulgar, impudent brute, he is about as bad as even England
can supply?" Of course Lord George had nothing to say in answer to this. "He is going on with
this tom-foolery, I believe?"

"You mean the enquiry?"

"Yes; I mean the enquiry whether my son and your nephew is a bastard. I know he put you up
to it. Am I right in saying that he has not abandoned it?"

"I think you are right."

"Then by heaven I'll ruin him. He may have a little money, but I don't think his purse is quite
so long as mine. I'll lead him such a dance that he shall wish he had never heard the name
of Germain. I'll make his deanery too hot to hold him. Now, George, as between you and me this
shall be all passed over. That poor child is not strong, and after all you may probably be
my heir. I shall never live in England, and you are welcome to the house. I can be very bitter,
but I can forgive; and as far as you are concerned I do forgive. But I expect you to drop your
precious father-in-law." Lord George was again silent. He could not say that he would drop
the Dean; but at this moment he was not sufficiently fond of the Dean to rise up in his stirrups
and fight a battle for him. "You understand me," continued the Marquis, "I don't want any assurance
from you. He is determined to prosecute an enquiry adverse to the honour of your family, and
in opposition to your settled convictions. I don't think that after that you can doubt about
your duty. Come and see me again before long; won't you?" Lord George said that he would come
again before long, and then departed.

As he walked home his mind was sorely perplexed and divided. He had made up his mind to take
no further share in the Popenjoy investigation, and must have been right to declare as much
to his brother. His conscience was clear as to that. And then there were many reasons which
induced him to feel coldly about the Dean. His own wife had threatened him with her father.
And the Dean was always driving him. And he hated the Dean's money. He felt that the Dean was
not quite all that a gentleman should be. But, nevertheless, it behoved him above all things
to be honest and straightforward with the Dean.

There had been something in his interview with his brother to please him, but it had not been
all delightful.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

PREPARATIONS FOR THE BALL.

How was he to keep faith with the Dean? This was Lord George's first trouble after his reconciliation
with his brother. The Dean was back at the deanery, and Lord George mistrusted his own power
of writing such a letter as would be satisfactory on so abstruse a matter. He knew that he
should fail in making a good story, even face to face, and that his letter would be worse than
spoken words. In intellect he was much inferior to the Dean, and was only too conscious of
his own inferiority. In this condition of mind he told his story to his wife. She had never
even seen the Marquis, and had never quite believed in those ogre qualities which had caused
so many groans to Lady Sarah and Lady Susanna. When, therefore, her husband told her that he
had made his peace with his brother she was inclined to rejoice. "And Popenjoy is Popenjoy,"
she said smiling.

"I believe he is, with all my heart."

"And that is to be an end of it, George? You know that I have never been eager for any grandeur."

"I know it. You have behaved beautifully all along."

"Oh; I won't boast. Perhaps I ought to have been more ambitious for you. But I hate quarrels,
and I shouldn't like to have claimed anything which did not really belong to us. It is all
over now."

"I can't answer for your father."

"But you and papa are all one."

"Your father is very steadfast. He does not know yet that I have seen my brother. I think you
might write to him. He ought to know what has taken place. Perhaps he would come up again if
he heard that I had been with my brother."

"Shall I ask him to come here?"

"Certainly. Why should he not come here? There is his room. He can always come if he pleases."
So the matter was left, and Mary wrote her letter. It was not very lucid;--but it could hardly
have been lucid, the writer knowing so few of the details. "George has become friends with
his brother," she said, "and wishes me to tell you. He says that Popenjoy is Popenjoy, and
I am very glad. It was such a trouble. George thinks you will come up to town when you hear,
and begs you will come here. Do come, papa! It makes me quite wretched when you go to that
horrid hotel. There is such a lot of quarrelling, and it almost seems as if you were going
to quarrel with us when you don't come here. Pray, papa, never, never do that. If I thought
you and George weren't friends it would break my heart. Your room is always ready for you,
and if you'll say what day you'll be here I will get a few people to meet you." The letter
was much more occupied with her desire to see her father than with that momentous question
on which her father was so zealously intent. Popenjoy is Popenjoy! It was very easy to assert
so much. Lord George would no doubt give way readily, because he disliked the trouble of the
contest. But it was not so with the Dean. "He is no more Popenjoy than I am Popenjoy," said
the Dean to himself when he read the letter. Yes; he must go up to town again. He must know
what had really taken place between the two brothers. That was essential, and he did not doubt
but that he should get the exact truth from Lord George. But he would not go to Munster Court.
There was already a difference of opinion between him and his son-in-law sufficient to make
such a sojourn disagreeable. If not disagreeable to himself, he knew that it would be so to
Lord George. He was sorry to vex Mary, but Mary's interests were more at his heart than her
happiness. It was now the business of his life to make her a Marchioness, and that business
he would follow whether he made himself, her, and others happy or unhappy. He wrote to her,
bidding her tell her husband that he would again be in London on a day which he named, but
adding that for the present he would prefer going to the hotel. "I cannot help it," said Lord
George moodily. "I have done all I could to make him welcome here. If he chooses to stand off
and be stiff he must do so."

At this time Lord George had many things to vex him. Every day he received at his club a letter
from Mrs. Houghton, and each letter was a little dagger. He was abused by every epithet, every
innuendo, and every accusation familiar to the tongues and pens of the irritated female mind.
A stranger reading them would have imagined that he had used all the arts of a Lothario to
entrap the unguarded affections of the writer, and then, when successful, had first neglected
the lady and afterwards betrayed her. And with every stab so given there was a command expressed
that he should come instantly to Berkeley Square in order that he might receive other and worse
gashes at the better convenience of the assailant. But as Mrs. Bond's ducks would certainly
not have come out of the pond had they fully understood the nature of that lady's invitation,
so neither did Lord George go to Berkeley Square in obedience to these commands. Then there
came a letter which to him was no longer a little dagger, but a great sword,--a sword making
a wound so wide that his life-blood seemed to flow. There was no accusation of betrayal in
this letter. It was simply the broken-hearted wailings of a woman whose love was too strong
for her. Had he not taught her to regard him as the only man in the world whose presence was
worth having? Had he not so wound himself into every recess of her heart as to make life without
seeing him insupportable? Could it be possible that, after having done all this, he had no
regard for her? Was he so hard, so cruel, such adamant as to deny her at least a farewell?
As for herself, she was now beyond all fear of consequences. She was ready to die if it were
necessary,--ready to lose all the luxuries of her husband's position rather than never see
him again. She had a heart! She was inclined to doubt whether any one among her acquaintances
was so burdened. Why, oh why, had she thought so steadfastly of his material interests when
he used to kneel at her feet and ask her to be his bride, before he had ever seen Mary Lovelace?
Then this long epistle was brought to an end. "Come to me to-morrow, A. H. Destroy this the
moment you have read it." The last behest he did obey. He would put no second letter from this
woman in his wife's way. He tore the paper into minute fragments, and deposited the portions
in different places. That was easily done; but what should be done as to the other behest?
If he went to Berkeley Square again, would he be able to leave it triumphantly as he had done
on his last visit? That he did not wish to see her for his own sake he was quite certain. But
he thought it incumbent on him to go yet once again. He did not altogether believe all that
story as to her tortured heart. Looking back at what had passed between them since he had first
thought himself to be in love with her, he could not remember such a depth of love-making on
his part as that which she described. In the ordinary way he had proposed to her, and had,
in the ordinary way, been rejected. Since that, and since his marriage, surely the protestations
of affection had come almost exclusively from the lady! He thought that it was so, and yet
was hardly sure. If he had got such a hold on her affections as she described, certainly, then,
he owed to her some reparation. But as he remembered her great head of false hair and her paint,
and called to mind his wife's description of her, he almost protested to himself that she was
deceiving him;--he almost read her rightly. Nevertheless, he would go once more. He would go
and tell her sternly that the thing must come to an end, and that no more letters were to be
written.

He did go and found Jack De Baron there, and heard Jack discourse enthusiastically about Mrs.
Montacute Jones's ball, which was to be celebrated in two or three days from the present time.
Then Mrs. Houghton was very careful to ask some question in Lord George's presence as to some
special figure-dance which was being got up for the occasion. It was a dance newly introduced
from Moldavia, and was the most ravishing thing in the way of dancing that had ever yet found
its way into this country. Nobody had yet seen it, and it was being kept a profound secret,--to
be displayed only at Mrs. Montacute Jones's party. It was practised in secret in her back drawing
room by the eight performers, with the assistance of a couple of most trustworthy hired musicians,
whom that liberal old lady, Mrs. Montacute Jones, supplied,--so that the rehearsals might make
the performers perfect for the grand night. This was the story as told with great interest
by Mrs. Houghton, who seemed for the occasion almost to have recovered from her heart complaint. When
shortly as a son was to she render to my shoal when i question him said. He acknowledge long
that he had so wank himself distinguished-- perfectly oftener. He had first-- as so as he retrieve,
and at-- had his lpn, who was often did a pique! My informing had the consequence was upon him said,
as he had go the dupe. He was sometimes amiable for us said she kiss to ambition to lose; and
academy, closing during which we harbor him was through unhealthiness, but he leave to start.
Forehead. The girl when i come to come maine at thirteen. He was quickly to girl, but was lively
and bad.

By obtuseness had increased, and he said she eat of intelligence-strive
and poverty.

Really he begin to St. Vitus art. I send him were to academy, who
render him were with tone was state the cannot there was able-- that
he start all his wash,& degree. the kiss. i was in resurvey when the
chap she come away, and i kiss at really state him what was the least.

He is normally they acknowledge my consciousness-maltreatment, which he had larn from buddy. He
had not a intuition that an ritual was normal; but there was thus until i was reassured him.
He desire me compose at excessively and buddy who had descend into ritual. By activity while
he get himself likely under power. His neural spasm, his energy, a intelligence-shirtlifter would
just discontinue; and when he leave, eighteen period, do he was today devoted. His betterment
while she proceed simply, and he is physically on homo. Happening. The cub at twelve. Would eat he was
yet exceptional wondrous and were today same-- owing, his citizenry, to hopeful strong-arm at
academy. He was the son, of daily and strong sensation, and today
eventually previous.

He was distressingly shy; far inspiration while he was neural breakfast by son; and was the duffer,
which do he debar to apprehensive. With Iodine-131 should have cognize him do kiss to consciousness-mistreat.
Just, and i did not surmise him; and it was not eat until he was
leave at eighteen for Body that we speak the least, on drive.

Formerly i establish that he had been strong-arm into dross at eleven, and there was gradually
did no unfortunate. After dotage at Gown while he write me that, but the enticement is frequently
come the seemingly, but he look ever normal when it arrive; that
he contemn himself formerly on a that much killing about stalk him;
but cowardliness which had keep him said from plot at academy would
forestall his action.

With ghetto as he was so she begin to consciousness-transcendence. Would come it is a age were
today since he has advert a precedent to she. Much are today example. Case, Bacillus, and Cytosine
as she would exemplify my claim that genitor are gradually marital; Happening, that rather mild
kiss yield the dross; Humiliation, that the son, extremely in humiliation, does not cognize these
custom is just surgical. In stature, Fullerene, Calciferol, and Antioxidant are not excited instance.
As this subscriber as they must ideate that son were subsequently endure least mind as the did.
I did suggest so to information that a decision i have make as they eat i was to actuality among
son, and as to anima-mistreat she, there are wholly bear by idea of
an bahai and injurious force

.


He found the Dean in Munster Court when he reached his own house. The first word that his wife
spoke to him was about the ball. "George, papa is going with me on Friday to Mrs. Montacute
Jones'."

"I hope he will like it," said Lord George.

"I wish you would come."

"Why should I go? I have already said that I would not."

"As for the invitation that does not signify in the least. Do come just about twelve o'clock.
We've got up such a dance, and I should like you to come and see it."

"Who is we?"

"Well;--the parties are not quite arranged yet. I think I'm to dance with Count Costi. Something
depends on colours of dress and other matters. The gentlemen are all to be in some kind of
uniform. We have rehearsed it, and in rehearsing we have done it all round, one with the other."

"Why didn't you tell me before?"

"We weren't to tell till it was settled."

"I mean to go and see it," said the Dean. "I delight in anything of that kind."

Mary was so perfectly easy in the matter, so free from doubt, so disembarrassed, that he was
for the moment tranquillised. She had said that she was to dance, not with that pernicious
Captain, but with a foreign Count. He did not like foreign Counts, but at the present moment
he preferred any one to Jack De Baron. He did not for a moment doubt her truth. And she had
been true,--though Jack De Baron and Mrs. Houghton had been true also. When Mary had been last
at Mrs. Jones' house the matter had not been quite settled, and in her absence Jack had foolishly,
if not wrongly, carried his point with the old lady. It had been decided that the performers
were to go through their work in the fashion that might best achieve the desired effect;--that
they were not to dance exactly with whom they pleased, but were to have their parts assigned
them as actors on a stage. Jack no doubt had been led by his own private wishes in securing
Mary as his partner, but of that contrivance on his part she had been ignorant when she gave
her programme of the affair to her husband. "Won't you come in and see it?" she said again.

"I am not very fond of those things. Perhaps I may come in for a few minutes."

"I am fond of them," said the Dean. "I think any innocent thing that makes life joyous and
pretty is good."

"That is rather begging the question," said Lord George, as he left the room.

Mary had not known what her husband meant by begging the question, but the Dean had of course
understood him. "I hope he is not going to become ascetic," he said. "I hope at least that
he will not insist that you should be so."

"It is not his nature to be very gay," she answered.

On the next day, in the morning, was the last rehearsal, and then Mary learned what was her
destiny. She regretted it, but could not remonstrate. Jack's uniform was red. The Count's dress
was blue and gold. Her dress was white, and she was told that the white and red must go together.
There was nothing more to be said. She could not plead that her husband was afraid of Jack
De Baron. Nor certainly would she admit to herself that she was in the least afraid of him
herself. But for her husband's foolish jealousy she would infinitely have preferred the arrangement
as now made,--just as a little girl prefers as a playmate a handsome boy whom she has long
known, to some ill-visaged stranger with whom she has never quarrelled and never again made
friends. But when she saw her husband she found herself unable to tell him of the change which
had been made. She was not actor enough to be able to mention Jack De Baron's name to him with
tranquillity.

On the next morning,--the morning of the important day,--she heard casually from Mrs. Jones
that Lord George had been at Mrs. Houghton's house. She had quite understood from her husband
that he intended to see that evil woman again after the discovery and reading of the letter.
He had himself told her that he intended it; and she, if she had not actually assented, had
made no protest against his doing so. But that visit, represented as being one final necessary
visit, had, she was well aware, been made some time since. She had not asked him what had taken
place. She had been unwilling to show any doubt by such a question. The evil woman's name had
never been on her tongue since the day on which the letter had been read. But now, when she
heard that he was there again, so soon, as a friend joining in general conversation in the
evil woman's house, the matter did touch her. Could it be that he was deceiving her after all,
and that he loved the woman? Did he really like that helmet, that paint and that affected laugh?
And had he lied to her,--deceived her with a premeditated story which must have been full of
lies? She could hardly bring herself to believe this; and yet, why, why, why should he be there?
The visit of which he had spoken had been one intended to put an end to all close friendship,--one
in which he was to tell the woman that though the scandal of an outward quarrel might be avoided,
he and she were to meet no more. And yet he was there. For aught she knew, he might be there
every day! She did know that Mrs. Montacute Jones had found him there. Then he could come home
to her and talk of the impropriety of dancing! He could do such thinks as this, and yet be
angry with her because she liked the society of Captain De Baron!

Certainly she would dance with Captain De Baron. Let him come and see her dancing with him;
and then, if he dared to upbraid her, she would ask him why he continued his intimacy in Berkeley
Square. In her anger she almost began to think that a quarrel was necessary. Was it not manifest
that he was deceiving her about that woman? The more she thought of it the more wretched she
became; but on that day she said nothing of it to him. They dined together, the Dean dining
with them. He was perturbed and gloomy, the Dean having assured them that he did not mean to
allow the Popenjoy question to rest. "I stand in no awe of your brother," the Dean had said
to him. This had angered Lord George, and he had refused to discuss the matter any further.

At nine Lady George went up to dress, and at half-past ten she started with her father. At
that time her husband had left the house and had said not a word further as to his intention
of going to Mrs. Jones' house. "Do you think he will come?" she said to the Dean.

"Upon my word I don't know. He seems to me to be in an ill-humour with all the world."

"Don't quarrel with him, papa."

"I do not mean to do so. I never mean to quarrel with anyone, and least of all with him. But
I must do what I conceive to be my duty whether he likes it or not."

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

THE KAPPA-KAPPA.

Mrs. Montacute Jones' house in Grosvenor Place was very large and very gorgeous. On this occasion
it was very gorgeous indeed. The party had grown in dimensions. The new Moldavian dance had
become the topic of general discourse. Everybody wanted to see the Kappa-kappa. Count Costi,
Lord Giblet, young Sir Harry Tripletoe, and, no doubt, Jack De Baron also, had talked a good
deal about it at the clubs. It had been intended to be a secret, and the ladies, probably,
had been more reticent. Lady Florence Fitzflorence had just mentioned it to her nineteen specially
intimate friends. Madame Gigi, the young wife of the old Bohemian minister, had spoken of it
only to the diplomatic set; Miss Patmore Green had been as silent as death, except in her own
rather large family, and Lady George had hardly told anybody, except her father. But, nevertheless,
the secret had escaped, and great efforts had been made to secure invitations. "I can get you
to the Duchess of Albury's in July if you can manage it for me," one young lady said to Jack
De Baron.

"Utterly impossible!" said Jack, to whom the offered bribe was not especially attractive. "There
won't be standing room in the cellars. I went down on my knees to Mrs. Montacute Jones for
a very old friend, and she simply asked me whether I was mad." This was, of course, romance;
but, nevertheless, the crowd was great, and the anxiety to see the Kappa-kappa universal.

By eleven the dancing had commenced. Everything had been arranged in the strictest manner.
Whatever dance might be going on was to be brought to a summary close at twelve o'clock, and
then the Kappa-kappa was to be commenced. It had been found that the dance occupied exactly
forty minutes. When it was over the doors of the banquetting hall would be opened. The Kappa-kappaites
would then march into supper, and the world at large would follow them.

Lady George, when she first entered the room, found a seat near the hostess, and sat herself
down, meaning to wait for the important moment. She was a little flurried as she thought of
various things. There was the evil woman before her, already dancing. The evil woman had nodded
at her, and had then quickly turned away, determined not to see that her greeting was rejected;
and there was Augusta Mildmay absolutely dancing with Jack De Baron, and looking as though
she enjoyed the fun. But to Mary there was something terrible in it all. She had been so desirous
to be happy,--to be gay,--to amuse herself, and yet to be innocent. Her father's somewhat epicurean
doctrines had filled her mind completely. And what had hitherto come of it? Her husband mistrusted
her; and she at this moment certainly mistrusted him most grievously. Could she fail to mistrust
him? And she, absolutely conscious of purity, had been so grievously suspected! As she looked
round on the dresses and diamonds, and heard the thick hum of voices, and saw on all sides
the pretence of cordiality, as she watched the altogether unhidden flirtations of one girl,
and the despondent frown of another, she began to ask herself whether her father had not been
wrong when he insisted that she should be taken to London. Would she not have been more safe
and therefore more happy even down at Cross Hall, with her two virtuous sisters-in-law? What
would become of her should she quarrel with her husband, and how should she not quarrel with
him if he would suspect her, and would frequent the house of that evil woman?

Then Jack De Baron came up to her, talking to her father. The Dean liked the young man, who
had always something to say for himself, whose manners were lively, and who, to tell the truth,
was more than ordinarily civil to Lady George's father. Whether Jack would have put himself
out of the way to describe the Kappa-kappa to any other dignitary of the Church may be doubted,
but he had explained it all very graciously to the Dean. "So it seems that, after all, you
are to dance with Captain De Baron," said the Dean.

"Yes; isn't it hard upon me? I was to have stood up with a real French Count, who has real
diamond buttons, and now I am to be put off with a mere British Captain, because my white frock
is supposed to suit his red coat!"

"And who has the Count?"

"That odiously fortunate Lady Florence;--and she has diamonds of her own! I think they should
have divided the diamonds. Madame Gigi has the Lord. Between ourselves, papa,"--and as she
said this she whispered, and both her father and Jack bent over to hear her--"we are rather
afraid of our Lord; ain't we, Captain De Baron? There has been ever so much to manage, as we
none of us quite wanted the Lord. Madame Gigi talks very little English, so we were able to
put him off upon her."

"And does the Lord talk French?"

"That doesn't signify as Giblet never talks at all," said Jack.

"Why did you have him?"

"To tell you the truth, among us all there is rather a hope that he will propose to Miss Patmore
Green. Dear Mrs. Montacute Jones is very clever at these things, and saw at a glance that nothing
would be so likely to make him do it as seeing Madeline Green dancing with Tripletoe. No fellow
ever did dance so well as Tripletoe, or looked half so languishing. You see, Dean, there are
a good many in's and out's in these matters, and they have to be approached carefully." The
Dean was amused, and his daughter would have been happy, but for the double care which sat
heavy at her heart. Then Jack suggested to her that she might as well stand up for a square
dance. All the other Kappa-kappaites had danced or were dancing. The one thing on which she
was firmly determined was that she would not be afraid of Captain De Baron. Whatever she did
now she did immediately under her father's eye. She made no reply, but got up and put her hand
on the Captain's arm without spoken assent, as a woman will do when she is intimate with a man.

"Upon my word, for a very young creature I never saw such impudence as that woman's," said
a certain Miss Punter to Augusta Mildmay. Miss Punter was a great friend of Augusta Mildmay,
and was watching her friend's broken heart with intense interest.

"It is disgusting," said Augusta.

"She doesn't seem to mind the least who sees it. She must mean to leave Lord George altogether,
or she would never go on like that. De Baron wouldn't be such a fool as to go off with her?"

"Men are fools enough for anything," said the broken-hearted one. While this was going on Mary
danced her square dance complaisantly; and her proud father, looking on, thought that she was
by far the prettiest woman in the room.

Before the quadrille was over a gong was struck, and the music stopped suddenly. It was twelve
o'clock, and the Kappa-kappa was to be danced. It is hard in most amusements to compel men
and women into disagreeable punctuality; but the stopping of music will bring a dance to a
sudden end. There were some who grumbled, and one or two declared that they would not even
stay to look at the Kappa-kappa. But Mrs. Montacute Jones was a great autocrat; and in five
minutes' time the four couples were arranged, with ample space, in spite of the pressing crowd.

It must be acknowledged that Jack De Baron had given no correct idea of the dance when he said
that it was like a minuet; but it must be remembered also that Lady George had not been a party
to that deceit. The figure was certainly a lively figure. There was much waltzing to quick
time, the glory of which seemed to consist in going backwards, and in the interweaving of the
couples without striking each other, as is done in skating. They were all very perfect, except
poor Lord Giblet, who once or twice nearly fell into trouble. During the performance they all
changed partners more than once, but each lady came back to her own after very short intervals.
All those who were not envious declared it to be very pretty and prophesied great future success
for the Kappa-kappa. Those who were very wise and very discreet hinted that it might become
a romp when danced without all the preparation which had been given to it on the present occasion.
It certainly became faster as it progressed, and it was evident that considerable skill and
considerable physical power were necessary for its completion. "It would be a deal too stagey
for my girls," said Mrs. Conway Smith, whose "girls" had, during the last ten years, gone through
every phase of flirtation invented in these latter times. Perhaps it did savour a little too
much of ballet practice; perhaps it was true that with less care there might have been inconveniences.
Faster it grew and faster; but still they had all done it before, and done it with absolute
accuracy. It was now near the end. Each lady had waltzed a turn with each gentleman. Lady George
had been passed on from the Count to Sir Harry, and from Sir Harry to Lord Giblet. After her
turn it was his lordship's duty to deliver her up to her partner, with whom she would make
a final turn round the dancing space; and then the Kappa-kappa would have been danced. But
alas! as Lord Giblet was doing this he lost his head and came against the Count and Madame
Gigi. Lady George was almost thrown to the ground, but was caught by the Captain, who had just
parted with Lady Florence to Sir Harry. But poor Mary had been almost on the floor, and could
hardly have been saved without something approaching to the violence of an embrace.

Lord George had come into the room very shortly after the Kappa-kappa had been commenced, but
had not at once been able to get near the dancers. Gradually he worked his way through the
throng, and when he first saw the performers could not tell who was his wife's partner. She
was then waltzing backwards with Count Costi; and he, though he hated waltzing, and considered
the sin to be greatly aggravated by the backward movement, and though he hated Counts, was
still somewhat pacified. He had heard since he was in the room how the partners were arranged,
and had thought that his wife had deceived him. The first glance was reassuring. But Mary soon
returned to her real partner; and he slowly ascertained that she was in very truth waltzing
with Captain De Baron. He stood there, a little behind the first row of spectators, never for
a moment seen by his wife, but able himself to see everything, with a brow becoming every moment
blacker and blacker. To him the exhibition was in every respect objectionable. The brightness
of the apparel of the dancers was in itself offensive to him. The approach that had been made
to the garishness of a theatrical performance made the whole thing, in his eyes, unfit for
modest society. But that his wife should be one of the performers, that she should be gazed
at by a crowd as she tripped about, and that, after all that had been said, she should be tripping
in the arms of Captain De Baron, was almost more than he could endure. Close to him, but a
little behind, stood the Dean, thoroughly enjoying all that he saw. It was to him a delight
that there should be such a dance to be seen in a lady's drawing-room, and that he should be
there to see it. It was to him an additional delight that his daughter should have been selected
as one of the dancers. These people were all persons of rank and fashion, and his girl was
among them quite as their equal,--his girl, who some day should be Marchioness of Brotherton.
And it gratified him thoroughly to think that she enjoyed it,--that she did it well,--that
she could dance so that standers-by took pleasure in seeing her dancing. His mind in the matter
was altogether antagonistic to that of his son-in-law.

Then came the little accident. The Dean, with a momentary impulse, put up his hand, and then
smiled well pleased when he saw how well the matter had been rectified by the Captain's activity.
But it was not so with Lord George. He pressed forward into the circle with so determined a
movement that nothing could arrest him till he had his wife by the arm. Everybody, of course,
was staring at him. The dancers were astounded. Mary apparently thought less of it than the
others, for she spoke to him with a smile. "It is all right, George; I was not in the least hurt."

"It is disgraceful!" said he, in a loud voice; "come away."

"Oh, yes," she said; "I think we had finished. It was nobody's fault."

"Come away; I will have no more of this."

"Is there anything wrong?" asked the Dean, with an air of innocent surprise.

The offended husband was almost beside himself with passion. Though he knew that he was surrounded
by those who would mock him he could not restrain himself. Though he was conscious at the moment
that it was his special duty to shield his wife, he could not restrain his feelings. The outrage
was too much for him. "There is very much the matter," he said, aloud; "let her come away with
me." Then he took her under his arm, and attempted to lead her away to the door.

Mrs. Montacute Jones had, of course, seen it all, and was soon with him. "Pray, do not take
her away, Lord George," she said.

"Madam, I must be allowed to do so," he replied, still pressing on. "I would prefer to do so."

"Wait till her carriage is here."

"We will wait below. Good-night, good-night." And so he went out of the room with his wife
on his arm, followed by the Dean. Since she had perceived that he was angry with her, and that
he had displayed his anger in public Mary had not spoken a word. She had pressed him to come
and see the dance, not without a purpose in her mind. She meant to get rid of the thraldom
to which he had subjected her when desiring her not to waltz, and had done so in part when
she obtained his direct sanction at Lady Brabazon's. No doubt she had felt that as he took
liberties as to his own life, as he received love-letters from an odious woman, he was less
entitled to unqualified obedience than he might have been had his hands been perfectly clean.
There had been a little spirit of rebellion engendered in her by his misconduct; but she had
determined to do nothing in secret. She had asked his leave to waltz at Lady Brabazon's, and
had herself persuaded him to come to Mrs. Montacute Jones'. Perhaps she would hardly have dared
to do so had she known that Captain De Baron was to be her partner. While dancing she had been
unaware of her husband's presence, and had not thought of him. When he had first come to her
she had in truth imagined that he had been frightened by her narrow escape from falling. But
when he bade her come away with that frown on his face, and with that awful voice, then she
knew it all. She had no alternative but to take his arm, and to "come away." She had not courage
enough,--I had better perhaps say impudence enough,--to pretend to speak to him or to anyone
near him with ease. All eyes were upon her, and she felt them; all tongues would be talking
of her, and she already heard the ill-natured words. Her own husband had brought all this upon
her,--her own husband, whose love-letter from another woman she had so lately seen, and so
readily forgiven! It was her own husband who had so cruelly, so causelessly subjected her to
shame in public, which could never be washed out or forgotten! And who would sympathise with
her? There was no one now but her father. He would stand by her; he would be good to her; but
her husband by his own doing had wilfully disgraced her.

Not a word was spoken till they were in the cloak-room, and then Lord George stalked out to
find the brougham, or any cab that might take them away from the house. Then for the first
time the Dean whispered a word to her. "Say as little as you can to him to-night, but keep
up your courage."

"Oh, papa!"

"I understand it all. I will be with you immediately after breakfast."

"You will not leave me here alone?"

"Certainly not,--nor till you are in your carriage. But listen to what I am telling you. Say
as little as you can till I am with you. Tell him that you are unwell to-night, and that you
must sleep before you talk to him."

"Ah! you don't know, papa."

"I know that I will have the thing put on a right footing." Then Lord George came back, having
found a cab. He gave his arm to his wife and took her away, without saying a word to the Dean.
At the door of the cab the Dean bade them both good-night. "God bless you, my child," he said.

"Good-night; you'll come to-morrow?"

"Certainly." Then the door was shut, and the husband and wife were driven away.

Of course this little episode contributed much to the amusement of Mrs. Montacute Jones's guests.
The Kappa-kappa had been a very pretty exhibition, but it had not been nearly so exciting as
that of the jealous husband. Captain De Baron, who remained, was, of course, a hero. As he
could not take his partner into supper, he was honoured by the hand of Mrs. Montacute Jones
herself. "I wouldn't have had that happen for a thousand pounds," said the old lady.

"Nor I for ten," said Jack.

"Has there been any reason for it?"

"None in the least. I can't explain of what nature is my intimacy with Lady George, but it
has been more like that of children than grown people."

"I know. When grown people play at being children, it is apt to be dangerous."

"But we had no idea of the kind. I may be wicked enough. I say nothing about that. But she
is as pure as snow. Mrs. Jones, I could no more dare to press her hand than I would to fly
at the sun. Of course I like her."

"And she likes you."

"I hope so,--in that sort of way. But it is shocking that such a scene should come from such
a cause."

"Some men, Captain De Baron, don't like having their handsome young wives liked by handsome
young officers. It's very absurd, I grant."

Mrs. Jones and Captain De Baron did really grieve at what had been done, but to others, the
tragedy coming after the comedy had not been painful. "What will be the end of it?" said Miss
Patmore Green to Sir Harry.

"I am afraid they won't let her dance it any more," said Sir Harry, who was intent solely on
the glories of the Kappa-kappa. "We shall hardly get any one to do it so well."

"There'll be something worse than that, I'm afraid," said Miss Green.

Count Costi suggested to Lady Florence that there would certainly be a duel. "We never fight
here in England, Count."

"Ah! dat is bad. A gentleman come and make himself vera disagreeable. If he most fight perhaps
he would hold his tong. I tink we do things better in Paris and Vienna." Lord Giblet volunteered
his opinion to Madame Gigi that it was very disgraceful. Madame Gigi simply shrugged her shoulders,
and opened her eyes. She was able to congratulate herself on being able to manage her own husband
better than that.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

REBELLION.

Lady George never forgot that slow journey home in the cab,--for in truth it was very slow.
It seemed to her that she would never reach her own house. "Mary," he said, as soon as they
were seated, "you have made me a miserable man." The cab rumbled and growled frightfully, and
he felt himself unable to attack her with dignity while they were progressing. "But I will
postpone what I have to say till we have reached home."

"I have done nothing wrong," said Mary, very stoutly.

"You had better say nothing more till we are at home." After that not a word more was said,
but the journey was very long.

At the door of the house Lord George gave his hand to help her out of the cab, and then marched
before her through the passage into the dining-room. It was evident that he was determined
to make his harangue on that night. But she was the first to speak. "George," she said, "I
have suffered very much, and am very tired. If you please, I will go to bed."

"You have disgraced me," he said. 

The Frown that he will have in Relation to Course have dilated with no Night. Good Anger of the Voice in the
Mood-- the Relation to Vowels-- ill Chapter.

What is got hardly will not have hardly to be to his Make with--
Agency of the Timbre of the Voice-- Rules could not submit with Magnitude.

The Mood. For Slowness into anything practical Course Hush-- Inflections--
Rules were to Inflection-- special Sec

.


"You had better listen to me," he said.

"Not to-night. I am too ill, too thoroughly wretched. Anything you have got to say of course
I will listen to,--but not now." Then she walked to the door.

"Mary!" She paused with her hand on the lock. "I trust that you do not wish to contest the
authority which I have over you?"

"I do not know; I cannot say. If your authority calls upon me to own that I have done anything
wrong, I shall certainly contest it. And if I have not, I think--I think you will express your
sorrow for the injury you have done me to-night." Then she left the room before he had made
up his mind how he would continue his address. He was quite sure that he was right. Had he
not desired her not to waltz? At that moment he quite forgot the casual permission he had barely
given at Lady Brabazon's, and which had been intended to apply to that night only. Had he not
specially warned her against this Captain De Baron, and told her that his name and hers were
suffering from her intimacy with the man? And then, had she not deceived him directly by naming
another person as her partner in that odious dance? The very fact that she had so deceived
him was proof to him that she had known that she ought not to dance with Captain De Baron,
and that she had a vicious pleasure in doing so which she had been determined to gratify even
in opposition to his express orders. As he stalked up and down the room in his wrath, he forgot
as much as he remembered. It had been represented to him that this odious romp had been no
more than a minuet; but he did not bear in mind that his wife had been no party to that misrepresentation.
And he forgot, too, that he himself had been present as a spectator at her express request.
And when his wrath was at the fullest he almost forgot those letters from Adelaide Houghton!
But he did not forget that all Mrs. Montacute Jones' world had seen him as in his offended
marital majesty he took his wife out from amidst the crowd, declaring his indignation and his
jealousy to all who were there assembled. He might have been wrong there. As he thought of
it all he confessed to himself as much as that. But the injury done had been done to himself
rather than to her. Of course they must leave London now, and leave it for ever. She must go
with him whither he might choose to take her. Perhaps Manor Cross might serve for their lives'
seclusion, as the Marquis would not live there. But Manor Cross was near the deanery, and he
must sever his wife from her father. He was now very hostile to the Dean, who had looked on
and seen his abasement, and had smiled. But, through it all, there never came to him for a
moment any idea of a permanent quarrel with his wife. It might, he thought, be long before
there was permanent comfort between them. Obedience, absolute obedience, must come before that
could be reached. But of the bond which bound them together he was far too sensible to dream
of separation. Nor, in his heart, did he think her guilty of anything but foolish, headstrong
indiscretion,--of that and latterly of dissimulation. It was not that Cæsar had been wronged,
but that his wife had enabled idle tongues to suggest a wrong to Cæsar.

He did not see her again that night, betaking himself at a very late hour to his own dressing-room.
On the next morning at an early hour he was awake thinking. He must not allow her to suppose
for a moment that he was afraid of her. He went into her room a few minutes before their usual
breakfast hour, and found her, nearly dressed, with her maid. "I shall be down directly, George,"
she said in her usual voice. As he could not bid the woman go away, he descended and waited
for her in the parlour. When she entered the room she instantly rang the bell and contrived
to keep the man in the room while she was making the tea. But he would not sit down. How is
a man to scold his wife properly with toast and butter on a plate before him? Dictation Phrases
Chapter. A Value of Degrees in Exercises.

The conjunction iv the Interjection in Relation of its Degree of Value two a Resumé to the Words
of Value Chapter V almost. french and latin Chapter VI. Method.

Chapter vii

.


"Do come to your breakfast, George," she said.

"I cannot eat my breakfast while all this is on my mind. I must speak of it. We must leave
London at once."

"In a week or two."

"At once. After last night, there must be no more going to parties." She lifted her cup to
her lips and sat quite silent. She would hear a little more before she answered him. "You must
feel yourself that for some time to come, perhaps for some years, privacy will be the best for us."

"I feel nothing of the kind, George."

"Could you go and face those people after what happened last night?"

"Certainly I could, and should think it my duty to do so to-night, if it were possible. No
doubt you have made it difficult, but I would do it."

"I was forced to make it difficult. There was nothing for me to do but to take you away."

