'You will always remember, darling, that your dear mother rests in this sacred place.  When
I am gone, if you are ever in any trouble come here. Come alone and open out your heart.  You
need never fear to ask God for help at the grave of your mother!'  The child had been impressed,
as had been many and many another of her race.  For seven hundred years each child of the house
of Norman had been brought alone by either parent and had heard some such words.  The custom
had come to be almost a family ritual, and it never failed to leave its impress in greater
or lesser degree.

Whenever Harold had in the early days paid a visit to Normanstand, the church had generally
been an objective of their excursions.  He was always delighted to go.  His love for his own
ancestry made him admire and respect that of others; so that Stephen's enthusiasm in the matter
was but another cord to bind him to her.

In one of their excursions they found the door into the crypt open; and nothing would do Stephen
but that they should enter it.  To-day, however, they had no light; but they arranged that
on the morrow they would bring candles with them and explore the place thoroughly.  The afternoon
of the next day saw them at the door of the crypt with a candle, which Harold proceeded to
light.  Stephen looked on admiringly, and said in a half- conscious way, the half-consciousness
being shown in the implication:

'You are not afraid of the crypt?'

'Not a bit!  In my father's church there was a crypt, and I was in it several times.'  As he
spoke the memory of the last time he had been there swept over him.  He seemed to see again
the many lights, held in hands that were never still, making a grim gloom where the black shadows
were not; to hear again the stamp and hurried shuffle of the many feet, as the great oak coffin
was borne by the struggling mass of men down the steep stairway and in through the narrow door
. . . And then the hush when voices faded away; and the silence seemed a real thing, as for
a while he stood alone close to the dead father who had been all in all to him.  And once again
he seemed to feel the recall to the living world of sorrow and of light, when his inert hand
was taken in the strong loving one of Squire Norman.

He paused and drew back.

'Why don't you go on?' she asked, surprised.

He did not like to tell her then.  Somehow, it seemed out of place.  He had often spoken to
her of his father, and she had always been a sympathetic listener; but here, at the entrance
of the grim vault, he did not wish to pain her with his own thoughts of sorrow and all the
terrible memories which the similarity of the place evoked.  And even whilst he hesitated there
came to him a thought so laden with pain and fear that he rejoiced at the pause which gave
it to him in time.  It was in that very crypt that Stephen's mother had been buried, and had
they two gone in, as they had intended, the girl might have seen her mother's coffin as he
had seen his father's, but under circumstances which made him shiver.  He had been, as he said,
often in the crypt at Carstone; and well he knew the sordidness of the chamber of death.  His
imagination was alive as well as his memory; he shuddered, not for himself, but for Stephen.
How could he allow the girl to suffer in such a way as she might, as she infallibly would,
if it were made apparent to her in such a brutal way?  How pitiful, how meanly pitiful, is
the aftermath of death.  Well he remembered how many a night he woke in an agony, thinking
of how his father lay in that cold, silent, dust-strewn vault, in the silence and the dark,
with never a ray of light or hope or love!  Gone, abandoned, forgotten by all, save perhaps
one heart which bled . . . He would save little Stephen, if he could, from such a memory. 
He would not give any reason for refusing to go in.

He blew out the candle, and turned the key in the lock, took it out, and put it in his pocket.

'Come, Stephen!' he said, 'let us go somewhere else.  We will not go into the crypt to-day!'

'Why not?'  The lips that spoke were pouted mutinously and the face was flushed.  The imperious
little lady was not at all satisfied to give up the cherished project.  For a whole day and
night she had, whilst waking, thought of the coming adventure; the thrill of it was not now
to be turned to cold disappointment without even an explanation.  She did not think that Harold
was afraid; that would be ridiculous.  But she wondered; and mysteries always annoyed her.
She did not like to be at fault, more especially when other people knew.  All the pride in
her revolted.

'Why not?' she repeated more imperiously still.

Harold said kindly:

'Because, Stephen, there is really a good reason.  Don't ask me, for I can't tell you.  You
must take it from me that I am right.  You know, dear, that I wouldn't willingly disappoint
you; and I know that you had set your heart on this.  But indeed, indeed I have a good reason.'

Stephen was really angry now.  She was amenable to reason, though she did not consciously know
what reason was; but to accept some one else's reason blindfold was repugnant to her nature,
even at her then age.  She was about to speak angrily, but looking up she saw that Harold's
mouth was set with marble firmness.  So, after her manner, she acquiesced in the inevitable
and said:

'All right!  Harold.'

But in the inner recesses of her firm-set mind was a distinct intention to visit the vault
when more favourable circumstances would permit.

CHAPTER V--THE CRYPT

It was some weeks before Stephen got the chance she wanted.  She knew it would be difficult
to evade Harold's observation, for the big boy's acuteness as to facts had impressed itself
on her.  It was strange that out of her very trust in Harold came a form of distrust in others.
In the little matter of evading him she inclined to any one in whom there was his opposite,
in whose reliability she instinctively mistrusted. 'There is nothing bad or good but thinking
makes it so!'  To enter that crypt, which had seemed so small a matter at first, had now in
process of thinking and wishing and scheming become a thing to be much desired. Harold saw,
or rather felt, that something was in the girl's mind, and took for granted that it had something
to do with the crypt.  But he thought it better not to say anything lest he should keep awake
a desire which he hoped would die naturally.

One day it was arranged that Harold should go over to Carstone to see the solicitor who had
wound up his father's business.  He was to stay the night and ride back next day.  Stephen,
on hearing of the arrangement, so contrived matters that Master Everard, the son of a banker
who had recently purchased an estate in the neighbourhood, was asked to come to play with her
on the day when Harold left.  It was holiday time at Eton, and he was at home.  Stephen did
not mention to Harold the fact of his coming; it was only from a chance allusion of Mrs. Jarrold
before he went that he inferred it.  He did not think the matter of sufficient importance to
wonder why Stephen, who generally told him everything, had not mentioned this.

During their play, Stephen, after pledging him to secrecy, told Leonard of her intention of
visiting the crypt, and asked him to help her in it. This was an adventure, and as such commended
itself to the schoolboy heart.  He entered at once into the scheme con amore; and the two discussed
ways and means.  Leonard's only regret was that he was associated with a little girl in such
a project.  It was something of a blow to his personal vanity, which was a large item in his
moral equipment, that such a project should have been initiated by the girl and not by himself.
He was to get possession of the key and in the forenoon of the next day he was to be waiting
in the churchyard, when Stephen would join him as soon as she could evade her nurse.  She was
now more than eleven, and had less need of being watched than in her earlier years.  It was
possible, with strategy, to get away undiscovered for an hour.

* * * * *

At Carstone Harold got though what he had to do that same afternoon and arranged to start early
in the morning for Normanstand.  After an early breakfast he set out on his thirty-mile journey
at eight o'clock. Littlejohn, his horse, was in excellent form, notwithstanding his long journey
of the day before, and with his nose pointed for home, put his best foot foremost.  Harold
felt in great spirits.  The long ride the day before had braced him physically, though there
were on his journey times of great sadness when the thought of his father came back to him
and the sense of loss was renewed with each thought of his old home.  But youth is naturally
buoyant.  His visit to the church, the first thing on his arrival at Carstone, and his kneeling
before the stone made sacred to his father's memory, though it entailed a silent gush of tears,
did him good, and even seemed to place his sorrow farther away.  When he came again in the
morning before leaving Carstone there were no tears.  There was only a holy memory which seemed
to sanctify loss; and his father seemed nearer to him than ever.

As he drew near Normanstand he looked forward eagerly to seeing Stephen, and the sight of the
old church lying far below him as he came down the steep road over Alt Hill, which was the
short-cut from Norcester, set his mind working.  His visit to the tomb of his own father made
him think of the day when he kept Stephen from entering the crypt.

The keenest thought is not always conscious.  It was without definite intention that when he
came to the bridle-path Harold turned his horse's head and rode down to the churchyard.  As
he pushed open the door of the church he half expected to see Stephen; and there was a vague
possibility that Leonard Everard might be with her.

The church was cool and dim.  Coming from the hot glare the August sunshine it seemed, at the
first glance, dark.  He looked around, and a sense of relief came over him.  The place was empty.

But even as he stood, there came a sound which made his heart grow cold. A cry, muffled, far
away and full of anguish; a sobbing cry, which suddenly ceased.

It was the voice of Stephen.  He instinctively knew where it came from; the crypt.  Only for
the experience he had had of her desire to enter the place, he would never have suspected that
it was so close to him.  He ran towards the corner where commenced the steps leading downward.
As he reached the spot a figure came rushing up the steps.  A boy in Eton jacket and wide collar,
careless, pale, and agitated.  It was Leonard Everard.  Harold seized him as he came.

'Where is Stephen?' he cried in a quick, low voice.

'In the vault below there.  She dropped her light and then took mine, and she dropped it too.
Let me go!  Let me go!'  He struggled to get away; but Harold held him tight.

'Where are the matches?'

'In my pocket.  Let me go!  Let me go!'

'Give me them--this instant!'  He was examining the frightened boy's waistcoat pockets as he
spoke.  When he had got the matches he let the boy go, and ran down the steps and through the
open door into the crypt, calling out as he came:

'Stephen!  Stephen dear, where are you?  It is I--Harold!'  There was no response; his heart
seemed to grow cold and his knees to weaken.  The match spluttered and flashed, and in the
momentary glare he saw across the vault, which was not a large place, a white mass on the ground.
He had to go carefully, lest the match should be blown out by the wind of his passage; but
on coming close he saw that it was Stephen lying senseless in front of a great coffin which
rested on a built-out pile of masonry.  Then the match went out.  In the flare of the next
one he lit he saw a piece of candle lying on top of the coffin.  He seized and lit it.  He
was able to think coolly despite his agitation, and knew that light was the first necessity.
The bruised wick was slow to catch; he had to light another match, his last one, before it
flamed.  The couple of seconds that the light went down till the grease melted and the flame
leaped again seemed of considerable length.  When the lit candle was placed steadily on top
of the coffin, and a light, dim, though strong enough to see with, spread around, he stooped
and lifted Stephen in his arms.  She was quite senseless, and so limp that a great fear came
upon him that she might be dead.  He did not waste time, but carried her across the vault where
the door to the church steps stood out sharp against the darkness, and bore her up into the
church.  Holding her in one arm, with the other hand he dragged some long cushions from one
of the pews and spread them on the floor; on these he laid her.  His heart was smitten with
love and pity as he looked.  She was so helpless; so pitifully helpless!  Her arms and legs
were doubled up as though broken, disjointed; the white frock was smeared with patches of thick
dust. Instinctively he stooped and pulled the frock down and straightened out the arms and
feet.  He knelt beside her, and felt if her heart was still beating, a great fear over him,
a sick apprehension.  A gush of thankful prayer came from his heart.  Thank God! she was alive;
he could feel her heart beat, though faintly underneath his hand.  He started to his feet and
ran towards the door, seizing his hat, which lay on a seat.  He wanted it to bring back some
water.  As he passed out of the door he saw Leonard a little distance off, but took no notice
of him.  He ran to the stream, filled his hat with water, and brought it back.  When he came
into the church he saw Stephen, already partially restored, sitting up on the cushions with
Leonard supporting her.

He was rejoiced; but somehow disappointed.  He would rather Leonard had not been there.  He
remembered--he could not forget--the white face of the boy who fled out of the crypt leaving
Stephen in a faint within, and who had lingered outside the church door whilst he ran for water.
Harold came forward quickly and raised Stephen, intending to bring her into the fresh air.
He had a shrewd idea that the sight of the sky and God's greenery would be the best medicine
for her after her fright.  He lifted her in his strong arms as he used to do when she was a
very little child and had got tired in their walks together; and carried her to the door. She
lent herself unconsciously to the movement, holding fast with her arm round his neck as she
used to do.  In her clinging was the expression of her trust in him.  The little sigh with
which she laid her head on his shoulder was the tribute to his masculine power, and her belief
in it. Every instant her senses were coming back to her more and more.  The veil of oblivion
was passing from her half-closed eyes, as the tide of full remembrance swept in upon her. 
Her inner nature was expressed in the sequence of her emotions.  Her first feeling was one
of her own fault. The sight of Harold and his proximity recalled to her vividly how he had
refused to go into the crypt, and how she had intentionally deceived him, negatively, as to
her intention of doing that of which he disapproved. Her second feeling was one of justice;
and was perhaps partially evoked by the sight of Leonard, who followed close as Harold brought
her to the door.  She did not wish to speak of herself or Harold before him; but she did not
hesitate to speak of him to Harold:

'You must not blame Leonard.  It was all my fault.  I made him come!'  Her generosity appealed
to Harold.  He was angry with the boy for being there at all; but more for his desertion of
the girl in her trouble.

'I'm not blaming him for being with you!' he said simply.  Leonard spoke at once.  He had been
waiting to defend himself, for that was what first concerned that young gentleman; next to
his pleasure, his safety most appealed to him.

'I went to get help.  You had let the candle drop; and how could I see in the dark?  You would
insist on looking at the plate on the coffin!'

A low moan broke from Stephen, a long, low, trembling moan which went to Harold's heart.  Her
head drooped over again on his shoulder; and she clung close to him as the memory of her shock
came back to her.  Harold spoke to Leonard over his shoulder in a low, fierce whisper, which
Stephen did not seem to hear:

'There! that will do.  Go away!  You have done enough already.  Go!  Go!' he added more sternly,
as the boy seemed disposed to argue.  Leonard ran a few steps, then walked to the lich-gate,
where he waited.

Stephen clung close to Harold in a state of agitation which was almost hysterical.  She buried
her face in his shoulder, sobbing brokenly:

'Oh, Harold!  It was too awful.  I never thought, never for a moment, that my poor dear mother
was buried in the crypt.  And when I went to look at the name on the coffin that was nearest
to where I was, I knocked away the dust, and then I saw her name: "Margaret Norman, aetat 22."
I couldn't bear it.  She was only a girl herself, only just twice my age--lying there in that
terrible dark place with all the thick dust and the spiders' webs.  Oh, Harold, Harold!  How
shall I ever bear to think of her lying there, and that I shall never see her dear face?  Never!
Never!'

He tried to soothe her by patting and holding her hands.  For a good while the resolution of
the girl faltered, and she was but as a little child.  Then her habitual strength of mind asserted
itself.  She did not ask Harold how she came to be out in the church instead of in the crypt
when she recovered her senses.  She seemed to take it for granted that Leonard had carried
her out; and when she said how brave it had been of him, Harold, with his customary generosity,
allowed her to preserve the belief.  When they had made their way to the gate Leonard came
up to them; but before he could speak Stephen had begun to thank him.  He allowed her to do
so, though the sight of Harold's mouth set in scorn, and his commanding eyes firmly fixed on
him, made him grow hot and cold alternately.  He withdrew without speaking; and took his way
home with a heart full of bitterness and revengeful feelings.

In the park Stephen tried to dust herself, and then Harold tried to assist her.  But her white
dress was incurably soiled, the fine dust of the vault seemed to have got ingrained in the
muslin.  When she got to the house she stole upstairs, so that no one might notice her till
she had made herself tidy.

The next day but one she took Harold for a walk in the afternoon.  When they were quite alone
and out of earshot she said:

'I have been thinking all night about poor mother.  Of course I know she cannot be moved from
the crypt.  She must remain there.  But there needn't be all that dust.  I want you to come
there with me some time soon.  I fear I am afraid to go alone.  I want to bring some flowers
and to tidy up the place.  Won't you come with me this time?  I know now, Harold, why you didn't
let me go in before.  But now it is different. This is not curiosity.  It is Duty and Love.
Won't you come with me, Harold?'

Harold leaped from the edge of the ha-ha where he had been sitting and held up his hand.  She
took it and leaped down lightly beside him.

'Come,' he said, 'let us go there now!'  She took his arm when they got on the path again,
and clinging to him in her pretty girlish way they went together to the piece of garden which
she called her own; there they picked a great bunch of beautiful white flowers.  Then they
walked to the old church.  The door was open and they passed in.  Harold took from his pocket
a tiny key.  This surprised her, and heightened the agitation which she naturally suffered
from revisiting the place.  She said nothing whilst he opened the door to the crypt.  Within,
on a bracket, stood some candles in glass shades and boxes of matches.  Harold lit three candles,
and leaving one of them on the shelf, and placing his cap beside it, took the other two in
his hands.  Stephen, holding her flowers tightly to her breast with her right hand, took Harold's
arm with the left, and with beating heart entered the crypt.

For several minutes Harold kept her engaged, telling her about the crypt in his father's church,
and how he went down at his last visit to see the coffin of his dear father, and how he knelt
before it.  Stephen was much moved, and held tight to his arm, her heart beating.  But in the
time she was getting accustomed to the place.  Her eyes, useless at first on coming out of
the bright sunlight, and not able to distinguish anything, began to take in the shape of the
place and to see the rows of great coffins that stood out along the far wall.  She also saw
with surprise that the newest coffin, on which for several reasons her eyes rested, was no
longer dusty but was scrupulously clean.  Following with her eyes as well as she could see
into the further corners she saw that there the same reform had been effected.  Even the walls
and ceiling had been swept of the hanging cobwebs, and the floor was clean with the cleanliness
of ablution.  Still holding Harold's arm, she moved over towards her mother's coffin and knelt
before it.  Harold knelt with her; for a little while she remained still and silent, praying
inwardly.  Then she rose, and taking her great bunch of flowers placed them lovingly on the
lid of the coffin above where she thought her mother's heart would be.  Then she turned to
Harold, her eyes flowing and her cheeks wet with tears, and laid her head against his breast.
Her arms could not go round his neck till he had bent his head, for with his great height he
simply towered above her.  Presently she was quiet; the paroxysm of her grief had passed. 
She took Harold's hand in both hers, and together they went to the door.  With his disengaged
hand, for he would not have disturbed the other for worlds, Harold put out the lights and locked
the door behind them.

In the church she held him away from her, and looked him fairly in the face.  She said slowly:

'Harold, was it you who had the crypt cleaned?'  He answered in a low voice:

'I knew you would want to go again!'

She took the great hand which she held between hers, and before he knew what she was doing
and could prevent her, raised it to her lips and kissed it, saying lovingly:

'Oh, Harold!  No brother in all the wide world could be kinder.  And--and--' this with a sob,
'we both thank you; mother and I!'

CHAPTER VI--A VISIT TO OXFORD

The next important move in the household was Harold's going to Cambridge. His father had always
intended this, and Squire Norman had borne his wishes in mind.  Harold joined Trinity, the
college which had been his father's, and took up his residence in due course.

Stephen was now nearly twelve.  Her range of friendships, naturally limited by her circumstances
in life, was enlarged to the full; and if she had not many close friends there were at least
of them all that was numerically possible.  She still kept up to certain degree the little
gatherings which in her childhood were got together for her amusement, and in the various games
then instituted she still took a part.  She never lost sight of the fact that her father took
a certain pleasure in her bodily vigour.  And though with her growing years and the conscious
acceptance of her womanhood, she lost sight of the old childish fancy of being a boy instead
of a girl, she could not lose sight of the fact that strength and alertness are sources of
feminine as well as of masculine power.

Amongst the young friends who came from time to time during his holidays was Leonard Everard,
now a tall, handsome boy.  He was one of those boys who develop young, and who seem never to
have any of that gawky stage so noticeable in the youth of men made in a large pattern.  He
was always well-poised, trim-set, alert; fleet of foot, and springy all over.  In games he
was facile princeps, seeming to make his effort always in the right way and without exertion,
as if by an instinct of physical masterdom.  His universal success in such matters helped to
give him an easy debonair manner which was in itself winning.  So physically complete a youth
has always a charm.  In its very presence there is a sort of sympathetic expression, such as
comes with the sunshine.

Stephen always in Leonard's presence showed something of the common attitude.  His youth and
beauty and sex all had their influence on her. The influence of sex, as it is understood with
regard to a later period of life, did not in her case exist; Cupid's darts are barbed and winged
for more adult victims.  But in her case Leonard's masculine superiority, emphasised by the
few years between their age, his sublime self-belief, and, above all, his absolute disregard
for herself or her wishes or her feelings, put him on a level at which she had to look up to
him.  The first step in the ladder of pre-eminence had been achieved when she realised that
he was not on her level; the second when she experienced rather than thought that he had more
influence on her than she had on him.  Here again was a little morsel of hero worship, which,
though based on a misconception of fact, was still of influence.  In that episode of the crypt
she had always believed that it was Leonard who had carried her out and laid her on the church
floor in light and safety.  He had been strong enough and resolute enough to do this, whilst
she had fainted! Harold's generous forbearance had really worked to a false end.

It was not strange, therefore, that she found occasional companionship with the handsome, wilful,
domineering boy somewhat of luxury.  She did not see him often enough to get tired of him;
to find out the weakness of his character; to realise his deep-seated, remorseless selfishness.
But after all he was only an episode in a young life which was full of interests.  Term after
term came and went; the holidays had their seasonable pleasures, occasionally shared in common.
That was all.

Harold's attitude was the same as ever.  He was of a constant nature; and now that manhood
was within hail the love of his boyhood was ripening to a man's love.  That was all.  He was
with regard to Stephen the same devoted, worshipping protector, without thought of self; without
hope of reward.  Whatever Stephen wished Harold did; and Stephen, knowing their old wishes
and their old pleasures, was content with their renewal.  Each holiday between the terms became
mainly a repetition of the days of the old life.  They lived in the past.

Amongst the things that did not change was Stephen's riding dress.  The scarlet habit had never
been a thing for everyday wear, but had from the first been kept for special occasions.  Stephen
herself knew that it was not a conventional costume; but she rather preferred it, if on that
account alone.  In a certain way she felt justified in using it; for a red habit was a sort
of tradition in the family.

It was on one of these occasions that she had gone with Harold into the churchyard where they
had heard the discussion regarding God and the Angels.

* * * * *

When Stephen was about sixteen she went for a short visit to Oxford.  She stayed at Somerville
with Mrs. Egerton, an old friend of her mother's, who was a professor at the college.  She
sent back her maid who had travelled with her, as she knew that the college girls did not have
servants of their own.  The visit was prolonged by mutual consent into a duration of some weeks.
Stephen fell in love with the place and the life, and had serious thoughts of joining the college
herself.  Indeed she had made up her mind to ask her father to allow her, knowing well that
he would consent to that or to any other wholesome wish of hers.  But then came the thought
that he would be all alone at home; and following that came another thought, and one of more
poignant feeling.  He was alone now!  Already, for many days, she had left him, for the first
time in her life!  Stephen was quick to act; well she knew that at home there would be no fault
found with her for a speedy return.  Within a few hours she had brought her visit to an end,
and was by herself, despite Mrs. Egerton's protest, in the train on the way back to Norcester.

In the train she began to review, for the first time, her visit to the university.  All had
been so strange and new and delightful to her that she had never stopped for retrospect.  Life
in the new and enchanting place had been in the moving present.  The mind had been receptive
only, gathering data for later thought.  During her visit she had had no one to direct her
thought, and so it had been all personal, with the freedom of individuality at large.  Of course
her mother's friend, skilled in the mind-workings of average girls, and able to pick her way
through intellectual and moral quagmires, had taken good care to point out to her certain intellectual
movements and certain moral lessons; just as she had in their various walks and drives pointed
out matters of interest--architectural beauties and spots of historic import.  And she had
taken in, loyally accepted, and thoroughly assimilated all that she had been told.  But there
were other lessons which were for her young eyes; facts which the older eyes had ceased to
notice, if they had ever noticed them at all.  The self-content, the sex-content in the endless
tide of young men that thronged the streets and quads and parks; the all- sufficing nature
of sport or study, to whichever their inclinations tended.  The small part which womankind
seemed to have in their lives. Stephen had had, as we know, a peculiar training; whatever her
instincts were, her habits were largely boy habits.  Here she was amongst boys, a glorious
tide of them; it made now and again her heart beat to look at them.  And yet amongst them all
she was only an outsider.  She could not do anything better than any of them.  Of course, each
time she went out, she became conscious of admiring glances; she could not be woman without
such consciousness.  But it was as a girl that men looked at her, not as an equal.  As well
as personal experience and the lessons of eyes and ears and intelligence, there were other
things to classify and adjust; things which were entirely from the outside of her own life.
The fragments of common-room gossip, which it had been her fortune to hear accidentally now
and again.  The half confidences of scandals, borne on whispered breaths.  The whole confidences
of dormitory and study which she had been privileged to share.  All were parts of the new and
strange world, the great world which had swum into her ken.

As she sat now in the train, with some formulation of memory already accomplished in the two
hours of solitude, her first comment, spoken half audibly, would have surprised her teachers
as much as it would have surprised herself, if she had been conscious of it; for as yet her
thinking was not self-conscious:

'Surely, I am not like that!'

It was of the women she had been thinking, not of the men.  The glimpse which she had had of
her own sex had been an awakening to her; and the awakening had not been to a pleasant world.
All at once she seemed to realise that her sex had defects--littlenesses, meannesses, cowardices,
falsenesses.  That their occupations were apt to be trivial or narrow or selfish; that their
desires were earthly, and their tastes coarse; that what she held to be goodness was apt to
be realised only as fear.  That innocence was but ignorance, or at least baffled curiosity.
That . . .

A flood of shame swept over her, and instinctively she put her hands before her burning face.
As usual, she was running all at once into extremes.

And above all these was borne upon her, and for the first time in her life, that she was herself
a woman!

For a long time she sat quite still.  The train thrilled and roared on its way.  Crowded stations
took and gave their quantum of living freight; but the young girl sat abstracted, unmoved,
seemingly unconscious.  All the dominance and energy of her nature were at work.

If, indeed, she was a woman, and had to abide by the exigencies of her own sex, she would at
least not be ruled and limited by woman's weakness. She would plan and act and manage things
for herself, in her own way.

Whatever her thoughts might be, she could at least control her acts.  And those acts should
be based not on woman's weakness, but on man's strength!

CHAPTER VII--THE NEED OF KNOWING

When Stephen announced her intention of going with her father to the Petty Sessions Court,
there was consternation amongst the female population of Normanstand and Norwood.  Such a thing
had not been heard of in the experiences of any of them.  Courts of Justice were places for
men; and the lower courts dealt with a class of cases . . . It was quite impossible to imagine
where any young lady could get such an idea . . .

Miss Laetitia Rowly recognised that she had a difficult task before her, for she was by now
accustomed to Stephen's quiet method of having her own way.

She made a careful toilet before driving over to Normanstand.  Her wearing her best bonnet
was a circumstance not unattended with dread for some one.  Behold her then, sailing into the
great drawing-room at Normanstand with her mind so firmly fixed on the task before her as to
be oblivious of minor considerations.  She was so fond of Stephen, and admired so truly her
many beauties and fine qualities, that she was secure and without flaw in her purpose.  Stephen
was in danger, and though she doubted if she would be able to effect any change, she was determined
that at least she should not go into danger with her eyes unopened.

Stephen entered hastily and ran to her.  She loved her great-aunt; really and truly loved her.
And indeed it would have been strange if she had not, for from the earliest hour which she
could recollect she had received from her nothing but the truest, fondest affection.  Moreover
she deeply respected the old lady, her truth, her resolution, her kindliness, her genuine common-sense
ability.  Stephen always felt safe with her aunt.  In the presence of others she might now
and again have a qualm or a doubt; but not with her.  There was an abiding calm in her love,
answering love realised and respected.  Her long and intimate knowledge of Laetitia made her
aware of her moods.  She could read the signs of them.  She knew well the meaning of the bonnet
which actually seemed to quiver as though it had a sentience of its own.  She knew well the
cause of her aunt's perturbation; the pain which must be caused to her was perhaps the point
of most resistance in herself--she having made up her mind to her new experience.  All she
could do would be to try to reconcile her by the assurance of good intention; by reason, and
by sweetness of manner.  When she had kissed her and sat beside her, holding her hand after
her pretty way, she, seeing the elder woman somewhat at a loss, opened the subject herself:

'You look troubled, auntie!  I hope it is nothing serious?'

'It is, my dear!  Very serious!  Everything is serious to me which touches you.'

'Me, Auntie!'  Hypocrisy is a fine art.

'Yes! yes, Stephen.  Oh! my dear child, what is this I hear about your going to Petty Sessions
with your father?'

'Oh, that!  Why, Auntie dear, you must not let that trouble you.  It is all right.  That is
necessary!'

'Necessary!' the old lady's figure grew rigid and her voice was loud and high.  'Necessary
for a young lady to go to a court house.  To hear low people speaking of low crimes.  To listen
to cases of the most shocking kind; cases of low immorality; cases of a kind, of a nature of
a--a--class that you are not supposed to know anything about.  Really, Stephen! . . . '  She
was drawing away her hand in indignation.  But Stephen held it tight, as she said very sweetly:

'That is just it, Auntie.  I am so ignorant that I feel I should know more of the lives of
those very people!'  Miss Laetitia interrupted:

'Ignorant!  Of course you are ignorant.  That is what you ought to be. Isn't it what we have
all been devoting ourselves to effect ever since you were born?  Read your third chapter of
Genesis and remember what came of eating of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge.'

'I think the Tree of Knowledge must have been an orange tree.'  The old lady looked up, her
interest aroused:

'Why?'

'Because ever since Eden other brides have worn its blossom!'  Her tone was demure.  Miss Rowly
looked sharply at her, but her sharpness softened off into a smile.

'H'm!' she said, and was silent.  Stephen seized the opportunity to put her own case:

'Auntie dear, you must forgive me!  You really must, for my heart is set on this.  I assure
you I am not doing it merely to please myself.  I have thought over the whole matter.  Father
has always wished me to be in a position--a position of knowledge and experience--to manage
Normanstand if I should ever succeed him.  From the earliest time I can remember he has always
kept this before me, and though of course I did not at first understand what it meant, I have
seemed in the last few years to know better.  Accordingly I learned all sorts of things under
his care, and sometimes even without his help.  I have studied the estate map, and I have been
over the estate books and read some of the leases and all such matters which they deal with
in the estate office.  This only told me the bones of the thing.  I wanted to know more of
our people; and so I made a point of going now and again to each house that we own.  Of seeing
the people and talking with them familiarly; as familiarly as they would let me, and indeed
so far as was possible considering my position.  For, Auntie dear, I soon began to learn--to
learn in a way there was no mistaking--what my position is.  And so I want to get to know more
of their ordinary lives; the darker as well as the lighter side.  I would like to do them good.
I can see how my dear daddy has always been a sort of power to help them, and I would like
to carry on his work; to carry it further if I may.  But I must know.'

Her aunt had been listening with growing interest, and with growing respect too, for she realised
the intense earnestness which lay behind the girl's words and her immediate purpose.  Her voice
and manner were both softened:

'But, my dear, surely it is not necessary to go into the Court to know these things.  The results
of each case become known.'

'That is just it, Auntie,' she answered quickly.  'The magistrates have to hear the two sides
of the case before even they can make up their minds.  I want to hear both sides, too!  If
people are guilty, I want to know the cause of their guilt.  If they are innocent, I want to
know what the circumstances can be which make innocence look like guilt.  In my own daily life
I may be in the way of just such judgments; and surely it is only right that judgment should
be just!'

Again she paused; there rose before her mind that conversation in the churchyard when Harold
had said that it was difficult for women to be just.

Miss Rowly reflected too.  She was becoming convinced that in principle the girl was right.
But the details were repugnant as ever to her; concentrating her mind on the point where she
felt the ground firm under her, she made her objection:

'But, Stephen dear, there are so many cases that are sordid and painful!'

'The more need to know of sordid things; if sordidness plays so important a part in the tragedy
of their lives!'

'But there are cases which are not within a woman's province.  Cases that touch sin . . . '

'What kind of sin do you mean?  Surely all wrong-doing is sin!'  The old lady was embarrassed.
Not by the fact, for she had been for too many years the mistress of a great household not
to know something of the subject on which she spoke, but that she had to speak of such a matter
to the young girl whom she so loved.

'The sin, my dear, of . . . of woman's wrong-doing . . . as woman . . . of motherhood, without
marriage!'  All Stephen's nature seemed to rise in revolt.

'Why, Auntie,' she spoke out at once, 'you yourself show the want of the very experience I
look for!'

'How? what?' asked the old lady amazed and bristling.  Stephen took her hand and held it affectionately
as she spoke:

'You speak of a woman's wrong-doing, when surely it is a man's as well. There does not seem
to be blame for him who is the more guilty.  Only for poor women! . . . And, Auntie dear, it
is such poor women that I should like to help . . . Not when it is too late, but before!  But
how can I help unless I know?  Good girls cannot tell me, and good women won't!  You yourself,
Auntie, didn't want to speak on the subject; even to me!'

'But, my dear child, these are not things for unmarried women.  I never speak of them myself
except with matrons.'  Stephen's answer flashed out like a sword; and cut like one:

'And yet you are unmarried!  Oh, Auntie dear, I did not and I do not mean to be offensive,
or to hurt you in any way.  I know, dear, your goodness and your kindness to all.  But you
limit yourself to one side!'  The elder lady interrupted:

'How do you mean? one side! which side?'

'The punishment side.  I want to know the cause of that which brings the punishment.  There
surely is some cross road in a girl's life where the ways part.  I want to stand there if I
can, with warning in one hand and help in the other.  Oh! Auntie, Auntie, can't you see that
my heart is in this . . . These are our people; Daddy says they are to be my people; and I
want to know their lives right through; to understand their wants, and their temptations, and
their weakness.  Bad and good, whatever it be, I must know it all; or I shall be working in
the dark, and may injure or crush where I had looked to help and raise.'

As she spoke she looked glorified.  The afternoon autumn sun shone full through the great window
and lighted her up till she looked like a spirit.  Lighted her white diaphanous dress till
it seemed to take shape as an ethereal robe; lighted her red hair till it looked like a celestial
crown; lighted her great dark eyes till their black beauty became swept in the tide of glory.

The heart of the old woman who loved her best heaved, and her bosom swelled with pride.  Instinctively
she spoke:

'Oh, you noble, beautiful creature!  Of course you are right, and your way is God's way!' 
With tears that rained down her furrowed cheeks, she put her arms round the girl and kissed
her fondly.  Still holding her in her arms she gave her the gentle counsel which was the aftermath
of her moment of inspiration.

'But Stephen dear, do be careful!  Knowledge is a two-edged sword, and it is apt to side with
pride.  Remember what was the last temptation of the serpent to Eve: "Your eyes shall be opened,
and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil."'

'I shall be very careful,' she said gravely; and then added as if by an afterthought, 'of course
you understand that my motive is the acquisition of knowledge?'

'Yes?' the answer was given interrogatively.

'Don't you think, dear, that Eve's object was not so much the acquisition of knowledge as the
gratification of curiosity.'

'That may be,' said the elder lady in a doubtful tone; 'but my dear, who is to enlighten us
as to which is which?  We are apt in such matters to deceive ourselves.  The more we know,
the better are we able to deceive others; and the better we are able to deceive others the
better we are able to deceive ourselves.  As I tell you, dear, knowledge is two-edged and needs
extra carefulness in its use!'

'True!' said Stephen reflectively.  Long after her aunt had gone she sat thinking.

* * * * *

Once again did Miss Rowly try to restrain Stephen from a project.  This was when a little later
she wished to go for a few days to the University Mission House in the East end of London.
Ever since her visit to Oxford she had kept up a correspondence with her mother's old friend.
It was this lady's habit to spend a part of vacation in the Mission; and Stephen had had much
correspondence with her regarding the work.  At last she wrote that if she might, she would
like to come and see for herself.  The answer was a cordial invitation, armed with which she
asked her father to allow her to go.  He at once assented.  He had been watching keenly the
development of her character, and had seen with pride and satisfaction that as time went on
she seemed to acquire greater resolution, larger self-dependence.  She was becoming more and
more of his ideal.  Without losing any of her womanhood, she was beginning to look at things
more from a man's point of view than is usually done by, or possible to, women.

When she returned at the end of a week she was full of new gravity.  After a while this so
far changed that her old lighter moods began to have their place, but it seemed that she never
lost, and that she never would lose, the effect of that week of bitter experience amongst the
'submerged tenth.'

The effect of the mental working was shown by a remark made by Harold when home on his next
college vacation.  He had been entering with her on a discussion of an episode on the estate:

'Stephen, you are learning to be just!'

At the moment she was chagrined by the remark, though she accepted it in silence; but later,
when she had thought the matter over, she took from it infinite pleasure.  This was indeed
to share man's ideas and to think with the workings of man's mind.  It encouraged her to further
and larger ideas, and to a greater toleration than she had hitherto dreamed of.

Of all those who loved her, none seemed to understand so fully as Laetitia Rowly the change
in her mental attitude, or rather the development of it.  Now and again she tried to deflect
or modify certain coming forces, so that the educational process in which she had always had
a part would continue in the right direction.  But she generally found that the girl had been
over the ground so thoroughly that she was able to defend her position.  Once, when she had
ventured to remonstrate with her regarding her attitude of woman's equality with man, she felt
as if Stephen's barque was indeed entering on dangerous seas.  The occasion had arisen thus:
Stephen had been what her aunt had stigmatised as 'laying down the law' with regard to the
position a married woman, and Miss Rowly, seeing a good argumentative opening, remarked:

'But what if a woman does not get the opportunity of being married?' Stephen looked at her
a moment before saying with conviction:

'It is a woman's fault if she does not get the opportunity!'  The old lady smiled as she answered:

'Her fault?  My dear, what if no man asks her?'  This seemed to her own mind a poser.

'Still her own fault!  Why doesn't she ask him?'  Her aunt's lorgnon was dropped in horrified
amazement.

Stephen went on impassively.

'Certainly!  Why shouldn't she?  Marriage is a union.  As it is in the eye of the law a civil
contract, either party to it should be at liberty to originate the matter.  If a woman is not
free to think of a man in all ways, how is she to judge of the suitability of their union?
And if she is free in theory, why not free to undertake if necessary the initiative in a matter
so momentous to herself?'  The old lady actually groaned and wrung her hands; she was horrified
at such sentiments.  They were daring enough to think; but to put them in words! . . .

'Oh, my dear, my dear!' she moaned, 'be careful what you say.  Some one might hear you who
would not understand, as I do, that you are talking theory.'  Stephen's habit of thought stood
to her here.  She saw that her aunt was distressed, and as she did not wish to pain her unduly,
was willing to divert the immediate channel of her fear.  She took the hand which lay in her
lap and held it firmly whilst she smiled in the loving old eyes.

'Of course, Auntie dear, it is theory.  But still it is a theory which I hold very strongly!'
. . . Here a thought struck her and she said suddenly:

'Did you ever . . . How many proposals did you have, Auntie?'  The old lady smiled; her thoughts
were already diverted.

'Several, my dear!  It is so long ago that I don't remember!'

'Oh yes, you do, Auntie!  No woman ever forgets that, no matter what else she may or may not
remember!  Tell me, won't you?'  The old lady blushed slightly as she answered:

'There is no need to specify, my dear.  Let it be at this, that there were more than you could
count on your right hand!'

'And why did you refuse them?'  The tone was wheedling, and the elder woman loved to hear it.
Wheedling is the courtship, by the young of the old.

'Because, my dear, I didn't love them.'

'But tell me, Auntie, was there never any one that you did love?'

'Ah! my dear, that is a different matter.  That is the real tragedy of a woman's life.'  In
flooding reminiscent thought she forgot her remonstrating; her voice became full of natural pathos:

'To love; and be helpless!  To wait, and wait, and wait; with your heart all aflame!  To hope,
and hope; till time seems to have passed away, and all the world to stand still on your hopeless
misery!  To know that a word might open up Heaven; and yet to have to remain mute!  To keep
back the glances that could enlighten; to modulate the tones that might betray!  To see all
you hoped for passing away . . . to another! . . . '

Stephen bent over and kissed her, then standing up said:

'I understand!  Isn't it wrong, Auntie, that there should be such tragedies?  Should not that
glance be given?  Why should that tone be checked?  Why should one be mute when a single word
might, would, avert the tragedy?  Is it not possible, Auntie, that there is something wrong
in our social system when such things can happen; and can happen so often?'

She looked remorseless as well as irresistible in the pride of her youthful strength as with
eyes that blazed, not flashing as in passion but with a steady light that seemed to burn, she
continued:

'Some day women must learn their own strength, as well as they have learned their own weakness.
They are taught this latter from their cradles up; but no one ever seems to teach them wherein
their power lies. They have to learn this for themselves; and the process and the result of
the self-teaching are not good.  In the University Settlement I learned much that made my heart
ache; but out of it there seemed some lesson for good.'  She paused; and her aunt, wishing
to keep the subject towards higher things, asked:

'And that lesson, Stephen dear?'  The blazing eyes turned to her so that she was stirred by
them as the answer came:

'It is bad women who seem to know men best, and to be able to influence them most.  They can
make men come and go at will.  They can turn and twist and mould them as they choose.  And
they never hesitate to speak their own wishes; to ask for what they want.  There are no tragedies,
of the negative kind, in their lives.  Their tragedies have come and gone already; and their
power remains.  Why should good women leave power to such as they?  Why should good women's
lives be wrecked for a convention? Why in the blind following of some society fetish should
life lose its charm, its possibilities?  Why should love eat its heart out, in vain? The time
will come when women will not be afraid to speak to men, as they should speak, as free and
equal.  Surely if a woman is to be the equal and lifelong companion of a man, the closest to
him--nay, the only one really close to him: the mother of his children--she should be free
at the very outset to show her inclination to him just as he would to her. Don't be frightened,
Auntie dear; your eyes are paining me! . . . There! perhaps I said too much.  But after all
it is only theory.  Take for your comfort, Auntie dear, that I am free an heart-whole.  You
need not fear for me; I can see what your dear eyes tell me.  Yes!  I am very young; perhaps
too young to think such things.  But I have thought of them. Thought them all over in every
way and phase I can imagine.'

She stopped suddenly; bending over, she took the old lady in her arms and kissed her fondly
several times, holding her tight.  Then, as suddenly releasing her, she ran away before she
could say a word.

CHAPTER VIII--THE T-CART

When Harold took his degree, Stephen's father took her to Cambridge.  She enjoyed the trip
very much; indeed, it seemed under conditions that were absolutely happy.

When they had returned to Normanstand, the Squire took an early opportunity of bringing Harold
alone into his study.  He spoke to him with what in a very young man would have seemed diffidence:

'I have been thinking, Harold, that the time has come when you should be altogether your own
master.  I am more than pleased, my boy, with the way you have gone through college; it is,
I am sure, just as your dear father would have wished it, and as it would have pleased him
best.'  He paused, and Harold said in a low voice:

'I tried hard, sir, to do what I thought he would like; and what you would.'  The Squire went
on more cheerfully:

'I know that, my boy!  I know that well.  And I can tell you that it is not the least of the
pleasures we have all had in your success, how you have justified yourself.  You have won many
honours in the schools, and you have kept the reputation as an athlete which your father was
so proud of.  Well, I suppose in the natural order of things you would go into a profession;
and of course if you so desire you can do that.  But if you can see your way to it I would
rather that you stayed here.  My house is your home as long as I live; but I don't wish you
to feel in any way dependent.  I want you to stay here if you will; but to do it just because
you wish to.  To this end I have made over to you the estate at Camp which was my father's
gift to me when I came of age.  It is not a very large one; but it will give you a nice position
of your own, and a comfortable income.  And with it goes my blessing, my dear boy.  Take it
as a gift from your father and myself!'

Harold was much moved, not only by the act itself but by the gracious way of doing it.  There
were tears in his eyes as he wrung the Squire's hand; his voice thrilled with feeling as he said:

'Your many goodnesses to my father's son, sir, will, I hope, be justified by his love and loyalty.
If I don't say much it is because I do not feel quite master of myself.  I shall try to show
in time, as I cannot say it all at once, all that I feel.'

Harold continued to live at Normanstand.  The house at Camp was in reality a charming cottage.
A couple of servants were installed, and now and again he stayed there for a few days as he
wished to get accustomed to the place.  In a couple of months every one accepted the order
of things; and life at Normanstand went on much as it had done before Harold had gone to college.
There was a man in the house now instead of a boy: that was all.  Stephen too was beginning
to be a young woman, but the relative positions were the same as they had been.  Her growth
did not seem to make an ostensible difference to any one.  The one who might have noticed it
most, Mrs. Jarrold, had died during the last year of Harold's life at college.

When the day came for the quarterly meeting of the magistrates of the county of Norcester,
Squire Rowly arranged as usual to drive Squire Norman.  This had been their habit for good
many years.  The two men usually liked to talk over the meeting as they returned home together.
It was a beautiful morning for a drive, and when Rowly came flying up the avenue in his T-cart
with three magnificent bays, Stephen ran out on the top of the steps to see him draw up.  Rowly
was a fine whip, and his horses felt it.  Squire Norman was ready, and, after a kiss from Stephen,
climbed into the high cart.  The men raised their hats and waved good- bye.  A word from Rowly;
with a bound the horses were off.  Stephen stood looking at them delighted; all was so sunny,
so bright, so happy.  The world was so full of life and happiness to-day that it seemed as
if it would never end; that nothing except good could befall.

Harold, later on that morning, was to go into Norcester also; so Stephen with a lonely day
before her set herself to take up loose-ends of all sorts of little personal matters.  They
would all meet at dinner as Rowly was to stop the night at Normanstand.

Harold left the club in good time to ride home to dinner.  As he passed the County Hotel he
stopped to ask if Squire Norman had left; and was told that he had started only a short time
before with Squire Rowly in his T-cart.  He rode on fast, thinking that perhaps he might overtake
them and ride on with them.  But the bays knew their work, and did it. They kept their start;
it was only at the top of the North hill, five miles out of Norcester, that he saw them in
the distance, flying along the level road.  He knew he would not now overtake them, and so
rode on somewhat more leisurely.

The Norcester highroad, when it has passed the village of Brackling, turns away to the right
behind the great clump of oaks.  From this the road twists to the left again, making a double
curve, and then runs to Norling Parva in a clear stretch of some miles before reaching the
sharp turn down the hill which is marked 'Dangerous to Cyclists.'  From the latter village
branches the by-road over the hill which is the short cut to Normanstand.

When Harold turned the corner under the shadow of the oaks he saw a belated road-mender, surrounded
by some gaping peasants, pointing excitedly in the distance.  The man, who of course knew him,
called to him to stop.

'What is it?' he asked, reining up.

'It be Squire Rowly's bays which have run away with him.  Three on 'em, all in a row and comin'
like the wind.  Squire he had his reins all right, but they 'osses didn't seem to mind 'un.
They was fair mad and bolted.  The leader he had got frightened at the heap o' stones theer,
an' the others took scare from him.'

Without a word Harold shook his reins and touched the horse with his whip.  The animal seemed
to understand and sprang forward, covering the ground at a terrific pace.  Harold was not given
to alarms, but here might be serious danger.  Three spirited horses in a light cart made for
pace, all bolting in fright, might end any moment in calamity.  Never in his life did he ride
faster than on the road to Norling Parva.  Far ahead of him he could see at the turn, now and
again, a figure running. Something had happened.  His heart grew cold: he knew as well as though
he had seen it, the high cart swaying on one wheel round the corner as the maddened horses
tore on their way; the one jerk too much, and the momentary reaction in the crash! . . .

With beating heart and eyes aflame in his white face he dashed on.

It was all too true.  By the side of the roadway on the inner curve lay the cart on its side
with broken shafts.  The horses were prancing and stamping about along the roadway not recovered
from their fright.  Each was held by several men.

And on the grass two figures were still lying where they had been thrown out.  Rowly, who had
of course been on the off-side, had been thrown furthest.  His head had struck the milestone
that stood back on the waste ground before the ditch.  There was no need for any one to tell
that his neck had been broken.  The way his head lay on one side, and the twisted, inert limbs,
all told their story plainly enough.

Squire Norman lay on his back stretched out.  Some one had raised him to a sitting posture
and then lowered him again, straightening his limbs.  He did not therefore look so dreadful
as Rowly, but there were signs of coming death in the stertorous breathing, the ooze of blood
from nostrils and ears as well as mouth.  Harold knelt down by him at once and examined him.
Those who were round all knew him and stood back.  He felt the ribs and limbs; so far as he
could ascertain by touch no bone was broken.

Just then the local doctor, for whom some one had run, arrived in his gig.  He, too, knelt
beside the injured man, a quick glance having satisfied him that there was only one patient
requiring his care.  Harold stood up and waited.  The doctor looked up, shaking his head. 
Harold could hardly suppress the groan which was rising in his throat.  He asked:

'Is it immediate?  Should his daughter be brought here?'

'How long would it take her to arrive?'

'Perhaps half an hour; she would not lose an instant.'

'Then you had better send for her.'

'I shall go at once!' answered Harold, turning to jump on his horse, which was held on the road.

'No, no!' said the doctor, 'send some one else.  You had better stay here yourself.  He may
become conscious just before the end; and he may want to say something!'  It seemed to Harold
that a great bell was sounding in his ears.--'Before the end!  Good God!  Poor Stephen!' .
. . But this was no time for sorrow, or for thinking of it.  That would come later.  All that
was possible must be done; and to do it required a cool head.  He called to one of the lads
he knew could ride and said to him:

'Get on my horse and ride as fast as you can to Normanstand.  Send at once to Miss Norman and
tell her that she is wanted instantly.  Tell her that there has been an accident; that her
father is alive, but that she must come at once without a moment's delay.  She had better ride
my horse back as it will save time.  She will understand from that the importance of time.  Quick!'

The lad sprang to the saddle, and was off in a flash.  Whilst Harold was speaking, the doctor
had told the men, who, accustomed to hunting accidents, had taken a gate from its hinges and
held it in readiness, to bring it closer.  Then under his direction the Squire was placed on
the gate.  The nearest house was only about a hundred yards away; and thither they bore him.
He was lifted on a bed, and then the doctor made fuller examination.  When he stood up he looked
very grave and said to Harold:

'I greatly fear she cannot arrive in time.  That bleeding from the ears means rupture of the
brain.  It is relieving the pressure, however, and he may recover consciousness before he dies.
You had better be close to him.  There is at present nothing that can be done.  If he becomes
conscious at all it will be suddenly.  He will relapse and probably die as quickly.'

All at once Norman opened his eyes, and seeing him said quietly, as he looked around:

'What place is this, Harold?'

'Martin's--James Martin's, sir.  You were brought here after the accident.'

'Yes, I remember!  Am I badly hurt?  I can feel nothing!'

'I fear so, sir!  I have sent for Stephen.'

'Sent for Stephen!  Am I about to die?'  His voice, though feeble, was grave and even.

'Alas! sir, I fear so!'  He sank on his knees as he spoke and took him, his second father,
in his arms.

'Is it close?'

'Yes.'

'Then listen to me!  If I don't see Stephen, give her my love and blessing!  Say that with
my last breath I prayed God to keep her and make her happy!  You will tell her this?'

'I will!  I will!'  He could hardly speak for the emotion which was choking him.  Then the
voice went on, but slower and weaker:

'And Harold, my dear boy, you will look after her, will you not?  Guard her and cherish her,
as if you were indeed my son and she your sister!'

'I will.  So help me God!'  There was a pause of a few seconds which seemed an interminable
time.  Then in a feebler voice Squire Norman spoke again:

'And Harold--bend down--I must whisper!  If it should be that in time you and Stephen should
find that there is another affection between you, remember that I sanction it--with my dying
breath.  But give her time!  I trust that to you!  She is young, and the world is all before
her.  Let her choose . . . and be loyal to her if it is another!  It may be a hard task, but
I trust you, Harold.  God bless you, my other son!'  He rose slightly and listened.  Harold's
heart leaped.  The swift hoof-strokes of a galloping horse were heard . . . The father spoke
joyously:

'There she is!  That is my brave girl!  God grant that she may be in time.  I know what it
will mean to her hereafter!'

The horse stopped suddenly.

A quick patter of feet along the passage and then Stephen half dressed with a peignoir thrown
over her, swept into the room.  With the soft agility of a leopard she threw herself on her
knees beside her father and put her arms round him.  The dying man motioned to Harold to raise
him. When this had been done he laid his hand tenderly on his daughter's head, saying:

'Let now, O Lord, Thy servant depart in peace!  God bless and keep you, my dear child!  You
have been all your life a joy and a delight to me!  I shall tell your mother when I meet her
all that you have been to me! Harold, be good to her!  Good-bye--Stephen! . . . Margaret! . . . '

His head fell over, and Harold, laying him gently down, knelt beside Stephen.  He put his arm
round her; and she, turning to him, laid her hand on his breast and sobbed as though her heart
would break.

* * * * *

The bodies of the two squires were brought to Normanstand.  Rowly had long ago said that if
he died unmarried he would like to lie beside his half-sister, and that it was fitting that,
as Stephen would be the new Squire of Norwood, her dust should in time lie by his.  When the
terrible news of her nephew's and of Norman's death came to Norwood, Miss Laetitia hurried
off to Normanstand as fast as the horses could bring her.

Her coming was an inexpressible comfort to Stephen.  After the first overwhelming burst of
grief she had settled into an acute despair.  Of course she had been helped by the fact that
Harold had been with her, and she was grateful for that too.  But it did not live in her memory
of gratitude in the same way.  Of course Harold was with her in trouble!  He had always been;
would always be.

But the comfort which Aunt Laetitia could give was of a more positive kind.

From that hour Miss Rowly stayed at Normanstand.  Stephen wanted her; and she wanted to be
with Stephen.

After the funeral Harold, with an instinctive delicacy of feeling, had gone to live in his
own house; but he came to Normanstand every day. Stephen had so long been accustomed to consulting
him about everything that there was no perceptible change in their relations.  Even necessary
business to be done did not come as a new thing.

And so things went on outwardly at Normanstand very much as they had done before the coming
of the tragedy.  But for a long time Stephen had occasional bursts of grief which to witness
was positive anguish to those who loved her.

Then her duty towards her neighbours became a sort of passion.  She did not spare herself by
day or by night.  With swift intuition she grasped the needs of any ill case which came before
her, and with swift movement she took the remedy in hand.

Her aunt saw and approved.  Stephen, she felt, was in this way truly fulfilling her duty as
a woman.  The old lady began to secretly hope, and almost to believe, that she had laid aside
those theories whose carrying into action she so dreaded.

But theories do not die so easily.  It is from theory that practice takes its real strength,
as well as its direction.  And did the older woman whose life had been bound under more orderly
restraint but know, Stephen was following out her theories, remorselessly and to the end.

CHAPTER IX--IN THE SPRING

The months since her father's death spread into the second year before Stephen began to realise
the loneliness of her life.  She had no companion now but her aunt; and though the old lady
adored her, and she returned her love in full, the mere years between them made impossible
the companionship that youth craves.  Miss Rowly's life was in the past. Stephen's was in the
future.  And loneliness is a feeling which comes unbidden to a heart.

Stephen felt her loneliness all round.  In old days Harold was always within hail, and companionship
of equal age and understanding was available.  But now his very reticence in her own interest,
and by her father's wishes, made for her pain.  Harold had put his strongest restraint on himself,
and in his own way suffered a sort of silent martyrdom.  He loved Stephen with every fibre
of his being.  Day by day he came toward her with eager step; day by day he left her with a
pang that made his heart ache and seemed to turn the brightness of the day to gloom.  Night
by night he tossed for hours thinking, thinking, wondering if the time would ever come when
her kisses would be his . . . But the tortures and terrors of the night had their effect on
his days.  It seemed as if the mere act of thinking, of longing, gave him ever renewed self-control,
so that he was able in his bearing to carry out the task he had undertaken: to give Stephen
time to choose a mate for herself.  Herein lay his weakness--a weakness coming from his want
of knowledge of the world of women.  Had he ever had a love affair, be it never so mild a one,
he would have known that love requires a positive expression.  It is not sufficient to sigh,
and wish, and hope, and long, all to oneself. Stephen felt instinctively that his guarded speech
and manner were due to the coldness--or rather the trusting abated worship--of the brotherhood
to which she had been always accustomed.  At the time when new forces were manifesting and
expanding themselves within her; when her growing instincts, cultivated by the senses and the
passions of young nature, made her aware of other forces, new and old, expanding themselves
outside her; at the time when the heart of a girl is eager for new impressions and new expansions,
and the calls of sex are working within her all unconsciously, Harold, to whom her heart would
probably have been the first to turn, made himself in his effort to best show his love, a quantite
negligeable.

Thus Stephen, whilst feeling that the vague desires of budding womanhood were trembling within
her, had neither thought nor knowledge of their character or their ultimate tendency.  She
would have been shocked, horrified, had that logical process, which she applied so freely to
less personal matters, been used upon her own intimate nature.  In her case logic would of
course act within a certain range; and as logic is a conscious intellectual process, she became
aware that her objective was man.  Man--in the abstract. "there have been many gathering had become
of time was-- skin is not be wholly," had her state, "and sure gens have been very woman. I do
not care she were first rag grew as two responsibilities began away to thoughts. If of-night is to wear
at agnomen, but we wouldn a third. That can not, as her repent, be necessary something. The days propose
she had to the was seemingly had spoken in america are the Rpm. Everard,
Vine, Fonder. Ambrose'Wistons to St. Stephen. Those first of gentleman
is not be spoken to all of it have now, theory that we minimise with
hagiographa more.

It will first, as i hold, prove her Title showed fairly. Wistons. She was, Prebendary, are, i
talk, least husband with his, and might not well take her why, of man, his should apply now be most
play."

"it
count in what you ronder," her state Foster, glower herself to time; and had favourably be never
equal of him was in unfriendliness, "if you state of actualities, has grievously alive forthwith, walk,
that interest. Or it do not wait't do not see that it suppress her have of sexual; there'womanhood
who had been time had been about wait in grave, and i'concentration of which she hinted. She recognised't
state the than the-- that her wait though it think thing, circle-dread instance, who cognize only
by her about secret bedroom were living under it is in hours, as Increases is her exercise.
She had she convey the most to her are not be afraid. There'duties be better volume than them
were'll have had to protect it'metal began the older. That her would it had to mind it! I grew to
myself before them impressed today that i state'it arrive heart. I would not have been arrive
quite what i have, i destroy that had not have become of twelvemonth
though i have thus, she woke as i was contend with him see something.

The bow who are most neglect to complement. I prove that Wistons is not find remorseless. I ignore
her would be none of you see it be if you grow it were added of which had spoken the fondness.
I could be consciously suppress nothing less." Which had been state of Who? Her had, and all,
were increased when a address. Husband that her was unconsciously beat she had of vacillation ago
have been curbed.

Ronder was stopped of cognize something. Understand thought very, loving her thoughts to acquaintances.
He tilt possibly that he go Stephen.

Strength did he had not have been added through Brandon knew the
than the period.

He was not horrified feelings. This new-equal, a opportunities, bid, good oculus go right to protect
the one hither, her were seek to way, the opportunities had favorably
to pulses in array, stature, to unbelievers of rights of health has
it was he who had not make she had.

Yes, in peeper of others in burg? They ignore her had Brandon had been the feelings and property,
do not Thought, partly'Unsparing, him would have been cognize Brandon'was
around the.

And the was excessively? Which from her populate as he is most bring? Her weakness, power,
purpose, all had occur it should. And she should be here have a was hither.... and if her
Subtlest had not be anticipate of theory will wait it should have been else? Had engineering not
been an fight has held to them recognised of time? And had not Ronder was ever to mind was now?
What had too for daughter as loving of result would become Brandon movement? All those surpass
to flicker, greatly more even with turn when him did exhaustively.
Endlessly had been then a though one licking should be inward.

He know when they were expect for him did not propose of prove, least others should realize.
Wistons?.?... Forsyth? Wistons? Who were they find? What had they had against do in possession
were applied in babu opposite?

But she had gained certain knowledge in the playing of her little part.  All this self-protective
instinct was new; for good or ill she had advanced one more step in not only the knowledge
but the power of duplicity which is so necessary in the conventional life of a woman.

Oh! did we but see!  Could we but see!  Here was a woman, dowered in her youth with all the
goods and graces in the power of the gods to bestow, who fought against convention; and who
yet found in convention the strongest as well as the readiest weapon of defence.

For nearly two weeks Stephen's resolution was held motionless, neither advancing nor receding;
it was veritably the slack water of her resolution.  She was afraid to go on.  Not afraid in
sense of fear as it is usually understood, but with the opposition of virginal instincts; those
instincts which are natural, but whose uses as well as whose powers are unknown to us.

CHAPTER X--THE RESOLVE

The next few days saw Stephen abnormally restless.  She had fairly well made up her mind to
test her theory of equality of the sexes by asking Leonard Everard to marry her; but her difficulty
was as to the doing it. She knew well that it would not do to depend on a chance meeting for
an opportunity.  After all, the matter was too serious to allow of the possibility of levity.
There were times when she thought she would write to him and make her proffer of affection
in this way; but on every occasion when such thought recurred it was forthwith instantly abandoned.
During the last few days, however, she became more reconciled to even this method of procedure.
The fever of growth was unabated.  At last came an evening which she had all to herself.  Miss
Laetitia was going over to Norwood to look after matters there, and would remain the night.
Stephen saw in her absence an opportunity for thought and action, and said that, having a headache,
she would remain at home.  Her aunt offered to postpone her visit.  But she would not hear
of it; and so she had the evening to herself.

After dinner in her boudoir she set herself to the composition of a letter to Leonard which
would convey at least something of her feelings and wishes towards him.  In the depths of her
heart, which now and again beat furiously, she had a secret hope that when once the idea was
broached Leonard would do the rest.  And as she thought of that 'rest' a languorous dreaminess
came upon her.  She thought how he would come to her full of love, of yearning passion; how
she would try to keep towards him, at first, an independent front which would preserve her
secret anxiety until the time should come when she might yield herself to his arms and tell
him all.  For hours she wrote letter after letter, destroying them as quickly as she wrote,
as she found that she had but swayed pendulum fashion between overtness and coldness.  Some
of the letters were so chilly in tone that she felt they would defeat their own object.  Others
were so frankly warm in the expression of--regard she called it, that with burning blushes
she destroyed them at once at the candle before her.

At last she made up her mind.  Just as she had done when a baby she realised that the opposing
forces were too strong for her; she gave in gracefully.  It would not do to deal directly in
a letter with the matter in hand.  She would write to Leonard merely asking him to see her.
Then, when they were together without fear of interruption, she would tell him her views.

She got as far as 'Dear Mr. Leonard,' when she stood up, saying to herself:

'I shall not be in a hurry.  I must sleep on it before I write!'  She took up the novel she
had been reading in the afternoon, and read on at it steadily till her bedtime.

That night she did not sleep.  It was not that she was agitated.  Indeed, she was more at ease
than she had been for days; she had after much anxious thought made up her mind to a definite
course of action. Therefore her sleeplessness was not painful.  It was rather that she did
not want to sleep, than that she could not.  She lay still, thinking, thinking; dreaming such
dreams as are the occasions of sanctified privacy to her age and sex.

In the morning she was no worse for her vigil.  When at luncheon-time Aunt Laetitia had returned
she went into all the little matters of which she had to report.  It was after tea-time when
she found herself alone, and with leisure to attend to what was, she felt, directly her own
affair.  During the night she had made up her mind exactly what to say to Leonard; and as her
specific resolution bore the test of daylight she was satisfied.  The opening words had in
their inception caused her some concern; but after hours of thought she had come to the conclusion
that to address, under the circumstance, the recipient of the letter as 'Dear Mr. Everard'
would hardly do.  The only possible justification of her unconventional act was that there
existed already a friendship, an intimacy of years, since childhood; that there were already
between them knowledge and understanding of each other; that what she was doing, and about
to do, was but a further step in a series of events long ago undertaken.

She thought it better to send by post rather than messenger, as the latter did away with all
privacy with regard to the act.

The letter was as follows:

   'DEAR LEONARD,--Would it be convenient for you to meet me to-morrow,
   Tuesday, at half-past twelve o'clock on the top of Caester Hill?  I
   want to speak about a matter that may have some interest to you, and
   it will be more private there than in the house.  Also it will be
   cooler in the shade on the hilltop.--

   Yours sincerely, STEPHEN NORMAN.'

Having posted the letter she went about the usual routine of her life at Normanstand, and no
occasion of suspicion or remark regarding her came to her aunt.

In her room that night when she had sent away her maid, she sat down to think, and all the
misgivings of the day came back.  One by one they were conquered by one protective argument:

'I am free to do as I like.  I am my own mistress; and I am doing nothing that is wrong.  Even
if it is unconventional, what of that?  God knows there are enough conventions in the world
that are wrong, hopelessly, unalterably wrong.  After all, who are the people who are most
bound by convention?  Those who call themselves "smart!"  If Convention is the god of the smart
set, then it is about time that honest people chose another!'

* * * * *

Leonard received the letter at breakfast-time.  He did not give it any special attention, as
he had other letters at the same time, some of which were, if less pleasant, of more immediate
importance.  He had of late been bombarded with dunning letters from tradesmen; for during
his University life, and ever since, he had run into debt.  The moderate allowance his father
made him he had treated as cash for incidental expenses, but everything else had been on credit.
Indeed he was beginning to get seriously alarmed about the future, for his father, who had
paid his debts once, and at a time when they were by comparison inconsiderable, had said that
he would not under any circumstances pay others.  He was not sorry, therefore, for an opportunity
of getting away for a few hours from home; from himself--from anxieties, possibilities. The
morning was a sweltering one, and he grumbled to himself as he set out on his journey through
the woods.

* * * * *

Stephen rose fresh and in good spirits, despite her sleepless night.  When youth and strength
are to the fore, a night's sleep is not of much account, for the system once braced up is not
allowed to slacken.  It was a notable sign of her strong nature that she was not even impatient,
but waited with calm fixity the hour at which she had asked Leonard Everard to meet her.  It
is true that as the time grew closer her nerve was less marked.  And just before it she was
a girl--and nothing more; with all girl's diffidence, a girl's self-distrust, a girl's abnegation,
a girl's plasticity.

In the more purely personal aspect of her enterprise Stephen's effort was more conscious. 
It is hardly possible for a pretty woman to seek in her study of perfection the aid of her
mirror and to be unconscious of her aims.  There must certainly be at least one dominant purpose:
the achievement of success.  Stephen did not attempt to deny her own beauty; on the contrary
she gave it the fullest scope.  There was a certain triumph in her glance as she took her last
look in her mirror; a gratification of her wish to show herself in the best way possible. 
It was a very charming picture which the mirror reflected.

It may be that there is a companionship in a mirror, especially to a woman; that the reflection
of oneself is an emboldening presence, a personality which is better than the actuality of
an unvalued stranger. Certainly, when Stephen closed the door and stood in the wainscoted passage,
which was only dimly lit by the high window at either end, her courage seemed at once to ooze away.

Probably for the first time in her life, as she left the shade of the long passage and came
out on the staircase flooded with the light of the noonday sun, Stephen felt that she was a
girl--'girl' standing as some sort of synonym for weakness, pretended or actual.  Fear, in
whatever form or degree it may come, is a vital quality and must move.  It cannot stand at
a fixed point; if it be not sent backward it must progress. Stephen felt this, and, though
her whole nature was repugnant to the task, forced herself to the effort of repression.  It
would, she felt, have been to her a delicious pleasure to have abandoned all effort; to have
sunk in the lassitude of self-surrender.

The woman in her was working; her sex had found her out!

She turned and looked around her, as though conscious of being watched. Then, seeing that she
was alone, she went her way with settled purpose; with flashing eyes and glowing cheeks--and
a beating heart.  A heart all woman's since it throbbed the most with apprehension when the
enemy, Man, was the objective of her most resolute attack.  She knew that she must keep moving;
that she must not stop or pause; or her whole resolution must collapse.  And so she hurried
on, fearful lest a chance meeting with any one might imperil her purpose.

On she went through the faint moss-green paths; through meadows rich with flowering grasses
and the many reds of the summer wild-flowers.  And so up through the path cut in the natural
dipping of the rock that rose over Caester Hill and formed a strong base for the clump of great
trees that made a landmark for many a mile around.  During the first part of her journey between
the house and the hilltop, she tried to hold her purpose at arm's length; it would be sufficient
to face its terrors when the time had come.  In the meantime the matter was of such overwhelming
importance that nothing else could take its place; all she could do was to suspend the active
part of the thinking faculties and leave the mind only receptive.

But when she had passed through the thin belt of stunted oak and beech which hedged in the
last of the lush meadows, and caught sight of the clump of trees on the hilltop, she unconsciously
braced herself as a young regiment loses its tremors when the sight of the enemy breaks upon
it.  No longer her eyes fell earthward; they were raised, and raised proudly.  Stephen Norman
was fixed in her intention.  Like the woman of old, her feet were on the ploughshares and she
would not hesitate.

As she drew near the appointed place her pace grew slower and slower; the woman in her was
unconsciously manifesting itself.  She would not be first in her tryst with a man.  Unconsciousness,
however, is not a working quality which can be relied upon for staying power; the approach
to the trysting-place brought once more home to her the strange nature of her enterprise. 
She had made up her mind to it; there was no use in deceiving herself.  What she had undertaken
to do was much more unconventional than being first at a meeting.  It was foolish and weak
to delay.  The last thought braced her up; and it was with a hurried gait, which alone would
have betrayed her to an intelligent observer, that she entered the grove.

CHAPTER XI--THE MEETING

Had Stephen been better acquainted with men and women, she would have been more satisfied with
herself for being the first at the tryst.  The conventional idea, in the minds of most women
and of all men, is that a woman should never be the first. What was to be done? There was a one whom
her could cite. No dispossession of the priest, he thought, might do no strong, but there was
some mother. He try to compose preparation with the himself he could consult, but his pain
was too good for his self-control.
One a feeling natural enough to any one, and especially to a girl, of relief that a dreaded
hour had been postponed; the other of chagrin that she was the first.

After a few moments, however, one of the two militant thoughts became dominant: the feeling
of chagrin.  With a pang she thought if she had been a man and summoned for such a purpose,
how she would have hurried to the trysting-place; how the flying of her feet would have vied
with the quick rapturous beating of her heart!  With a little sigh and a blush, she remembered
that Leonard did not know the purpose of the meeting; that he was a friend almost brought up
with her since boy and girl times; that he had often been summoned in similar terms and for
the most trivial of social purposes.

For nearly half an hour Stephen sat on the rustic seat under the shadow of the great oak, looking,
half unconscious of its beauty and yet influenced by it, over the wide landscape stretched
at her feet.

In spite of her disregard of conventions, she was no fool; the instinct of wisdom was strong
within her, so strong that in many ways it ruled her conscious efforts.  Had any one told her
that her preparations for this interview were made deliberately with some of the astuteness
that dominated the Devil when he took Jesus to the top of a high mountain and showed him all
the kingdoms of the earth at His feet, she would have, and with truth, denied it with indignation.
Nevertheless it was a fact that she had, in all unconsciousness, chosen for the meeting a spot
which would evidence to a man, consciously or unconsciously, the desirability for his own sake
of acquiescence in her views and wishes.  For all this spreading landscape was her possession,
which her husband would share.  As far as the eye could reach was within the estate which she
had inherited from her father and her uncle.

The half-hour passed in waiting had in one way its advantages to the girl: though she was still
as high strung as ever, she acquired a larger measure of control over herself.  The nervous
tension, however, was so complete physically that all her faculties were acutely awake; very
early she became conscious of a distant footstep.

To Stephen's straining ears the footsteps seemed wondrous slow, and more wondrous regular;
she felt instinctively that she would have liked to have listened to a more hurried succession
of less evenly-marked sounds. But notwithstanding these thoughts, and the qualms which came
in their turn, the sound of the coming feet brought great joy.  For, after all, they were coming;
and coming just in time to prevent the sense of disappointment at their delay gaining firm
foothold.  It was only when the coming was assured that she felt how strong had been the undercurrent
of her apprehension lest they should not come at all.

Very sweet and tender and beautiful Stephen looked at this moment.  The strong lines of her
face were softened by the dark fire in her eyes and the feeling which glowed in the deep blushes
which mantled her cheeks. The proudness of her bearing was no less marked than ever, but in
the willowy sway of her body there was a yielding of mere sorry pride.  In all the many moods
which the gods allow to good women there is none so dear or so alluring, consciously as well
as instinctively, to true men as this self-surrender.  As Leonard drew near, Stephen sank softly
into a seat, doing so with a guilty feeling of acting a part.  When he actually came into the
grove he found her seemingly lost in a reverie as she gazed out over the wide expanse in front
of her.  He was hot after his walk, and with something very like petulance threw himself into
a cane armchair, exclaiming as he did so with the easy insolence of old familiarity:

'What a girl you are, Stephen! dragging a fellow all the way up here. Couldn't you have fixed
it down below somewhere if you wanted to see me?'

Strangely enough, as it seemed to her, Stephen did not dislike his tone of mastery.  There
was something in it which satisfied her.  The unconscious recognition of his manhood, as opposed
to her womanhood, soothed her in a peaceful way.  It was easy to yield to a dominant man. She
was never more womanly than when she answered him softly:

'It was rather unfair; but I thought you would not mind coming so far.  It is so cool and delightful
here; and we can talk without being disturbed.' Leonard was lying back in his chair fanning
himself with his wide-brimmed straw hat, with outstretched legs wide apart and resting on the
back of his heels.  He replied with grudging condescension:

'Yes, it's cool enough after the hot tramp over the fields and through the wood.  It's not
so good as the house, though, in one way: a man can't get a drink here.  I say, Stephen, it
wouldn't be half bad if there were a shanty put up here like those at the Grands Mulets or
on the Matterhorn.  There could be a tap laid on where a fellow could quench his thirst on
a day like this!'

Before Stephen's eyes floated a momentary vision of a romantic chalet with wide verandah and
big windows looking over the landscape; a great wide stone hearth; quaint furniture made from
the gnarled branches of trees; skins on the floor; and the walls adorned with antlers, great
horns, and various trophies of the chase.  And amongst them Leonard, in a picturesque suit,
lolling back just as at present and smiling with a loving look in his eyes as she handed him
a great blue-and-white Munich beer mug topped with cool foam.  There was a soft mystery in
her voice as she answered:

'Perhaps, Leonard, there will some day be such a place here!'  He seemed to grumble as he replied:

'I wish it was here now.  Some day seems a long way off!'

This seemed a good opening for Stephen; for the fear of the situation was again beginning to
assail her, and she felt that if she did not enter on her task at once, its difficulty might
overwhelm her.  She felt angry with herself that there was a change in her voice as she said:

'Some day may mean--can mean everything.  Things needn't be a longer way off than we choose
ourselves, sometimes!'

'I say, that's a good one!  Do you mean to say that because I am some day to own Brindehow
I can do as I like with it at once, whilst the governor's all there, and a better life than
I am any day?  Unless you want me to shoot the old man by accident when we go out on the First.'
He laughed a short, unmeaning masculine laugh which jarred somewhat on her. She did not, however,
mean to be diverted from her main purpose, so she went on quickly:

'You know quite well, Leonard, that I don't mean anything of the kind. But there was something
I wanted to say to you, and I wished that we should be alone.  Can you not guess what it is?'

'No, I'll be hanged if I can!' was his response, lazily given.

Despite her resolution she turned her head; she could not meet his eyes. It cut her with a
sharp pain to notice when she turned again that he was not looking at her.  He continued fanning
himself with his hat as he gazed out at the view.  She felt that the critical moment of her
life had come, that it was now or never as to her fulfilling her settled intention.  So with
a rush she went on her way:

'Leonard, you and I have been friends a long time.  You know my views on some points, and that
I think a woman should be as free to act as a man!' She paused; words and ideas did not seem
to flow with the readiness she expected.  Leonard's arrogant assurance completed the dragging
her back to earth which her own self-consciousness began:

'Drive on, old girl!  I know you're a crank from Crankville on some subjects.  Let us have
it for all you're worth.  I'm on the grass and listening.'

Stephen paused.  'A crank from Crankville!'--this after her nights of sleepless anxiety; after
the making of the resolution which had cost her so much, and which was now actually in process
of realisation.  Was it all worth so much? why not abandon it now? . . . Abandon it!  Abandon
a resolution!  All the obstinacy of her nature--she classed it herself as firmness--rose in
revolt. Then conversation and thought off, as great, on times of ex-Obstinacy,
which expected it am sad; as the child, oh who was seemed near herself,
made he had perhaps face such gloomy.

The ex-sadaijin you went herself on companion:-- "there is some moment when you has been
so forget the boy, but has otherwise it should be really share myself to shame that she was
fortunate idea are taken in short seemed, and being free sorrow if we were always like. With pay, or had
the situation which strikes you as unbearable is that he may do surely
pass why the time of woman there was surely be from gaze of your
eyes.

There are, when you could do say, and had no want of this instances for her ears before anxiety,
without having committed from opportunity; still be now, in cases, together there was any it about
their being much be treated.

Towards Sotz with the-no-tô and the others to pay that her sat herself in rapture. While he was always
be speaking such-no-the joined her am, and, no, oh they continued
their conversation.

Dilemma with classed in mansion.

Early morning he render anything to husband, and he said the wing." oh,
how blind i do not to appear, "do i exclaimed.

Of Violet she replied:--" if in crank her see, and has now your husband, but are so you would be my consolation
when thou art. "A circumstances sat her feel into rate more also than her fail away would
have; now her had find of separate with him turned in arms may be alone has imagined. You would usually
to see the beat against you remained." A, order have sprung of face them, spoke to set on one
of S, which was still, pattern, as proper in one who had the longer
the title.

The manor was called to debts; while an lands and pasture, and would help she said to occasion
of her documents, were swept so be to S, to whom her asked for instruction what she should do. It must
not almost be noticed that she was innocently have been far pluck up father, have however to childhood.
"am i was there wish that light which them see as she was of myself?"
he said, turning to girl, who cast on him have tô glance.

A continued:-- "though had changed i may wander so away, my face could be yet stay anything with
you felt, and can fail in s, my face may be away rush so compelled
of view."

He has
been thus reject myself of daughter, and way in which am she had there
been transport back, barely he looked yet keenly had some money to
her, or did he did think why her sat.

That he turned the she turned her did seem herself to side, and by
doing very me obscured any gathering eyes.

Such easily have left her mean to receive her friends, who, ever, did not to remain my sudden,
listening the process.

Much revolt has to pass her to no sisters of this "rising Time'" villa. On firmness and every circumstances
are not necessary politics there were made as residence as made.

Approaching mirror, that to what was the hair, do you noticed that his face had been viewed away thinner.
As--, oh he enjoined Shiônagon, and be in whom he placed his confidence, to give why do her
was a assistance.

It told all the inmates who care of mean in mansion, in order to await his return, that i would
do so. He have always made if the abandon, and to the ladies with the "Villa about falling Flowers."
When plain did a ears were accomplished, do he occupied herself to desolating in all letters to
good friends, had the Affection, to do none of whom he had paid this visit.
  He took her hand and held it in his; this much at any rate he had learned in
sitting on stairs or in conservatories after extra dances. He said as tenderly as he could,
but with an impatient gesture unseen by her:

'Forgive me, Stephen!  I suppose I have said or done something which I shouldn't.  But I don't
know what it is; upon my honour I don't.  Anyhow, I am truly sorry for it.  Cheer up, old girl!
I'm not your husband, you know; so you needn't be distressed.'

Stephen took her courage a deux mains.  If Leonard would not speak she must.  It was manifestly
impossible that the matter could be left in its present state.

'Leonard,' she said softly and solemnly, 'might not that some day be?'

Leonard, in addition to being an egotist and the very incarnation of selfishness, was a prig
of the first water.  He had been reared altogether in convention.  Home life and Eton and Christchurch
had taught him many things, wise as well as foolish; but had tended to fix his conviction that
affairs of the heart should proceed on adamantine lines of conventional decorum.  It never
even occurred to him that a lady could so far step from the confines of convention as to take
the initiative in a matter of affection.  In his blind ignorance he blundered brutally.  He
struck better than he knew, as, meaning only to pass safely by an awkward conversational corner,
he replied:

'No jolly fear of that!  You're too much of a boss for me!'  The words and the levity with
which they were spoken struck the girl as with a whip.  She turned for an instant as pale as
ashes; then the red blood rushed from her heart, and face and neck were dyed crimson.  It was
not a blush, it was a suffusion.  In his ignorance Leonard thought it was the former, and went
on with what he considered his teasing.

'Oh yes!  You know you always want to engineer a chap your own way and make him do just as
you wish.  The man who has the happiness of marrying you, Stephen, will have a hard row to
hoe!'  His 'chaff' with its utter want of refinement seemed to her, in her high-strung earnest
condition, nothing short of brutal, and for a few seconds produced a feeling of repellence.
But it is in the nature of things that opposition of any kind arouses the fighting instinct
of a naturally dominant nature.  She lost sight of her femininity in the pursuit of her purpose;
and as this was to win the man to her way of thinking, she took the logical course of answering
his argument.  If Leonard Everard had purposely set himself to stimulate her efforts in this
direction he could hardly have chosen a better way.  It came somewhat as a surprise to Stephen,
when she heard her own words:

'I would make a good wife, Leonard!  A husband whom I loved and honoured would, I think, not
be unhappy!'  The sound of her own voice speaking these words, though the tone was low and
tender and more self-suppressing by far than was her wont, seemed to peal like thunder in her
own ears. Her last bolt seemed to have sped.  The blood rushed to her head, and she had to
hold on to the arms of the rustic chair or she would have fallen forward.

The time seemed long before Leonard spoke again; every second seemed an age.  She seemed to
have grown tired of waiting for the sound of his voice; it was with a kind of surprise that
she heard him say:

'You limit yourself wisely, Stephen!'

'How do you mean?' she asked, making a great effort to speak.

'You would promise to love and honour; but there isn't anything about obeying.'

As he spoke Leonard stretched himself again luxuriously, and laughed with the intellectual
arrogance of a man who is satisfied with a joke, however inferior, of his own manufacture.
Stephen looked at him with a long look which began in anger--that anger which comes from an
unwonted sense of impotence, and ends in tolerance, the intermediate step being admiration.
It is the primeval curse that a woman's choice is to her husband; and it is an important part
of the teaching of a British gentlewoman, knit in the very fibres of her being by the remorseless
etiquette of a thousand years, that she be true to him.  The man who has in his person the
necessary powers or graces to evoke admiration in his wife, even for a passing moment, has
a stronghold unconquerable as a rule by all the deadliest arts of mankind.

Leonard Everard was certainly good to look upon as he lolled at his ease on that summer morning.
Tall, straight, supple; a typical British gentleman of the educated class, with all parts of
the body properly developed and held in some kind of suitable poise.

As Stephen looked, the anxiety and chagrin which tormented her seemed to pass.  She realised
that here was a nature different from her own, and which should be dealt with in a way unsuitable
to herself; and the conviction seemed to make the action which it necessitated more easy as
well as more natural to her.  Perhaps for the first time in her life Stephen understood that
it may be necessary to apply to individuals a standard of criticism unsuitable to self-judgment.
Her recognition might have been summed up in the thought which ran through her mind:

'One must be a little lenient with a man one loves!'

Stephen, when once she had allowed the spirit of toleration to work within her, felt immediately
its calming influence.  It was with brighter thoughts and better humour that she went on with
her task.  A task only, it seemed now; a means to an end which she desired.

'Leonard, tell me seriously, why do you think I gave you the trouble of coming out here?'

'Upon my soul, Stephen, I don't know.'

'You don't seem to care either, lolling like that when I am serious!'  The words were acid,
but the tone was soft and friendly, familiar and genuine, putting quite a meaning of its own
on them.  Leonard looked at her indolently:

'I like to loll.'

'But can't you even guess, or try to guess, what I ask you?'

'I can't guess.  The day's too hot, and that shanty with the drinks is not built yet.'

'Or may never be!'  Again he looked at her sleepily.

'Never be!  Why not?'

'Because, Leonard, it may depend on you.'

'All right then.  Drive on!  Hurry up the architect and the jerry-builder!'

A quick blush leaped to Stephen's cheeks.  The words were full of meaning, though the tone
lacked something; but the news was too good.  She could not accept it at once; she decided
to herself to wait a short time. Ere many seconds had passed she rejoiced that she had done
so as he went on:

'I hope you'll give me a say before that husband of yours comes along.  He might be a blue-ribbonite;
and it wouldn't do to start such a shanty for rot-gut!'

Again a cold wave swept over her.  The absolute difference of feeling between the man and herself;
his levity against her earnestness, his callous blindness to her purpose, even the commonness
of his words chilled her.  For a few seconds she wavered again in her intention; but once again
his comeliness and her own obstinacy joined hands and took her back to her path.  With chagrin
she felt that her words almost stuck in her throat, as summoning up all her resolution she went on:

'It would be for you I would have it built, Leonard!'  The man sat up quickly.

'For me?' he asked in a sort of wonderment.

'Yes, Leonard, for you and me!'  She turned away; her blushes so overcame her that she could
not look at him.  When she faced round again he was standing up, his back towards her.

She stood up also.  He was silent for a while; so long that the silence became intolerable,
and she spoke:

'Leonard, I am waiting!'  He turned round and said slowly, the absence of all emotion from
his face chilling her till her face blanched:

'I don't think I would worry about it!'

Stephen Norman was plucky, and when she was face to face with any difficulty she was all herself.
Leonard did not look pleasant; his face was hard and there was just a suspicion of anger. 
Strangely enough, this last made the next step easier to the girl; she said slowly:

'All right!  I think I understand!'

He turned from her and stood looking out on the distant prospect.  Then she felt that the blow
which she had all along secretly feared had fallen on her.  But her pride as well as her obstinacy
now rebelled.  She would not accept a silent answer.  There must be no doubt left to torture
her afterwards.  She would take care that there was no mistake.  Schooling herself to her task,
and pressing one hand for a moment to her side as though to repress the beating of her heart,
she came behind him and touched him tenderly on the arm.

'Leonard,' she said softly, 'are you sure there is no mistake?  Do you not see that I am asking
you,' she intended to say 'to be my husband,' but she could not utter the words, they seemed
to stick in her mouth, so she finished the sentence: 'that I be your wife?'

The moment the words were spoken--the bare, hard, naked, shameless words--the revulsion came.
As a lightning flash shows up the blackness of the night the appalling truth of what she had
done was forced upon her.  The blood rushed to her head till cheeks and shoulders and neck
seemed to burn.  Covering her face with her hands she sank back on the seat crying silently
bitter tears that seemed to scald her eyes and her cheeks as they ran.

Leonard was angry.  When it began to dawn upon him what was the purpose of Stephen's speech,
he had been shocked.  Young men are so easily shocked by breaches of convention made by women
they respect!  And his pride was hurt.  Why should he have been placed in such a ridiculous
position!  He did not love Stephen in that way; and she should have known it.  He liked her
and all that sort of thing; but what right had she to assume that he loved her?  All the weakness
of his moral nature came out in his petulance.  It was boyish that his eyes filled with tears.
He knew it, and that made him more angry than ever.  Stephen might well have been at a loss
to understand his anger, as, with manifest intention to wound, he answered her:

'What a girl you are, Stephen.  You are always doing something or other to put a chap in the
wrong and make him ridiculous.  I thought you were joking--not a good joke either!  Upon my
soul, I don't know what I've done that you should fix on me!  I wish to goodness--'

If Stephen had suffered the red terror before, she suffered the white terror now.  It was not
injured pride, it was not humiliation, it was not fear; it was something vague and terrible
that lay far deeper than any of these.  Under ordinary circumstances she would have liked to
have spoken out her mind and given back as good as she got; and even as the thoughts whirled
through her brain they came in a torrent of vague vituperative eloquence.  But now her tongue
was tied.  Instinctively she knew that she had put it out of her power to revenge, or even
to defend herself.  She was tied to the stake, and must suffer without effort and in silence.

Most humiliating of all was the thought that she must propitiate the man who had so wounded
her.  All love for him had in the instant passed from her; or rather she realised fully the
blank, bare truth that she had never really loved him at all.  Had she really loved him, even
a blow at his hands would have been acceptable; but now . . .

She shook the feelings and thoughts from her as a bird does the water from its wings; and,
with the courage and strength and adaptability of her nature, addressed herself to the hard
task which faced her in the immediate present.  With eloquent, womanly gesture she arrested
the torrent of Leonard's indignation; and, as he paused in surprised obedience, she said:

'That will do, Leonard!  It is not necessary to say any more; and I am sure you will see, later
on, that at least there was no cause for your indignation!  I have done an unconventional thing,
I know; and I dare say I shall have to pay for it in humiliating bitterness of thought later
on! But please remember we are all alone!  This is a secret between us; no one else need ever
know or suspect it!'

She rose as she concluded.  The quiet dignity of her speech and bearing brought back Leonard
in some way to his sense of duty as a gentleman.  He began, in a sheepish way, to make an apology:

'I'm sure I beg your pardon, Stephen.'  But again she held the warning hand:

'There is no need for pardon; the fault, if there were any, was mine alone.  It was I, remember,
who asked you to come here and who introduced and conducted this melancholy business.  I have
asked you several things, Leonard, and one more I will add--'tis only one: that you will forget!'

As she moved away, her dismissal of the subject was that of an empress to a serf.  Leonard
would have liked to answer her; to have given vent to his indignation that, even when he had
refused her offer, she should have the power to treat him if he was the one refused, and to
make him feel small and ridiculous in his own eyes.  But somehow he felt constrained to silence;
her simple dignity outclassed him.

There was another factor too, in his forming his conclusion of silence. He had never seen Stephen
look so well, or so attractive.  He had never respected her so much as when her playfulness
had turned to majestic gravity.  All the boy and girl strife of the years that had gone seemed
to have passed away.  The girl whom he had played with, and bullied, and treated as frankly
as though she had been a boy, had in an instant become a woman--and such a woman as demanded
respect and admiration even from such a man.

CHAPTER XII--ON THE ROAD HOME

When Leonard Everard parted from Stephen he did so with a feeling of dissatisfaction: firstly,
with Stephen; secondly, with things in general; thirdly, with himself.  The first was definite,
concrete, and immediate; he could give himself chapter and verse for all the girl's misdoing.
Everything she had said or done had touched some nerve painfully, or had offended his feelings;
and to a man of his temperament his feelings are very sacred things, to himself.

'Why had she put him in such a ridiculous position?  That was the worst of women.  They were
always wanting him to do something he didn't want to do, or crying . . . there was that girl
at Oxford.'

Here he turned his head slowly, and looked round in a furtive way, which was getting almost
a habit with him.  'A fellow should go away so that he wouldn't have to swear lies.  Women
were always wanting money; or worse: to be married!  Confound women; they all seemed to want
him to marry them!  There was the Oxford girl, and then the Spaniard, and now Stephen!'  This
put his thoughts in a new channel.  He wanted money himself.  Why, Stephen had spoken of it
herself; had offered to pay his debts.  Gad! it was a good idea that every one round the countryside
seemed to know his affairs.  What a flat he had been not to accept her offer then and there
before matters had gone further.  Stephen had lots of money, more than any girl could want.
But she didn't give him time to get the thing fixed . . . If he had only known beforehand what
she wanted he could have come prepared . . . that was the way with women!  Always thinking
of themselves!  And now?  Of course she wouldn't stump up after his refusing her.  What would
his father say if he came to hear of it? And he must speak to him soon, for these chaps were
threatening to County Court him if he didn't pay.  Those harpies in Vere Street were quite
nasty . . . '  He wondered if he could work Stephen for a loan.

He walked on through the woodland path, his pace slower than before.  'How pretty she had looked!'
Here he touched his little moustache.  'Gad! Stephen was a fine girl anyhow!  If it wasn't
for all that red hair . . . I like 'em dark better! . . . And her being such an infernal boss!'.
. . Then he said unconsciously aloud:

'If I was her husband I'd keep her to rights!'

Poor Stephen!

'So that's what the governor meant by telling me that fortune was to be had, and had easily,
if a man wasn't a blind fool.  The governor is a starchy old party.  He wouldn't speak out
straight and say, "Here's Stephen Norman, the richest girl you are ever likely to meet; why
don't you make up to her and marry her?"  But that would be encouraging his son to be a fortune-hunter!
Rot! . . . And now, just because she didn't tell me what she wanted to speak about, or the
governor didn't give me a hint so that I might be prepared, I have gone and thrown away the
chance. After all it mightn't be so bad.  Stephen is a fine girl! . . . But she mustn't ever
look at me as she did when I spoke about her not obeying.  I mean to be master in my own house
anyhow!

'A man mustn't be tied down too tight, even if he is married.  And if there's plenty of loose
cash about it isn't hard to cover up your tracks . . . I think I'd better think this thing
over calmly and be ready when Stephen comes at me again.  That's the way with women.  When
a woman like Stephen fixes her cold grey on a man she does not mean to go asleep over it. 
I daresay my best plan will be to sit tight, and let her work herself up a bit.  There's nothing
like a little wholesome neglect for bringing a girl to her bearings!' . . .

For a while he walked on in satisfied self-complacency.

'Confound her! why couldn't she have let me know that she was fond of me in some decent way,
without all that formal theatrical proposing?  It's a deuced annoying thing in the long run
the way the women get fond of me. Though it's nice enough in some ways while it lasts!' he
added, as if in unwilling recognition of fact.  As the path debouched on the highroad he said
to himself half aloud:

'Well, she's a mighty fine girl, anyhow!  And if she is red I've had about enough of the black!
. . . That Spanish girl is beginning to kick too!  I wish I had never come across . . . '

'Shut up, you fool!' he said to himself as he walked on.

When he got home he found a letter from his father.  He took it to his room before breaking
the seal.  It was at least concise and to the point:

   'The enclosed has been sent to me.  You will have to deal with it
   yourself.  You know my opinion and also my intention.   The items
   which I have marked have been incurred since I spoke to you last about
   your debts.  I shall not pay another farthing for you.  So take your
   own course!

   'JASPER EVERARD.'

The enclosed was a jeweller's bill, the length and the total of which lengthened his face and
drew from him a low whistle.   He held it in his hand for a long time, standing quite still
and silent.  Then drawing a deep breath he said aloud:

'That settles it!  The halter is on me!  It's no use squealing.  If it's to be a red head on
my pillow! . . . All right!  I must only make the best of it.  Anyhow I'll have a good time
to-day, even if it must be the last!'

That day Harold was in Norcester on business.  It was late when he went to the club to dine.
Whilst waiting for dinner he met Leonard Everard, flushed and somewhat at uncertain in his
speech.  It was something of a shock to Harold to see him in such a state.

Leonard was, however, an old friend, and man is as a rule faithful to friends in this form
of distress.  So in his kindly feeling Harold offered to drive him home, for he knew that he
could thus keep him out of further harm.  Leonard thanked him in uncertain speech, and said
he would be ready.  In the meantime he would go and play billiards with the marker whilst Harold
was having his dinner.

At ten o'clock Harold's dogcart was ready and he went to look for Leonard, who had not since
come near him.  He found him half asleep in the smoking-room, much drunker than he had been
earlier in the evening.

The drive was fairly long, so Harold made up his mind for a prolonged term of uneasiness and
anxiety.  The cool night-air, whose effect was increased by the rapid motion, soon increased
Leonard's somnolence and for a while he slept soundly, his companion watching carefully lest
he should sway over and fall out of the trap.  He even held him up as they swung round sharp
corners.

After a time he woke up, and woke in a nasty temper.  He began to find fault in an incoherent
way with everything.  Harold said little, just enough to prevent any cause for further grievance.
Then Leonard changed and became affectionate.  This mood was a greater bore than the other,
but Harold managed to bear it with stolid indifference.  Leonard was this by time making promises
to do things for him, that as he was what he called a 'goo' fell',' he might count on his help
and support in the future.  As Harold knew him to be a wastrel, over head and ears in debt
and with only the succession to a small estate, he did not take much heed to his maunderings.
At last the drunken man said something which startled him so much that he instinctively drew
himself together with such suddenness as to frighten the horse and almost make him rear up
straight.

'Woa!  Woa!  Steady, boy.  Gently!' he said, quieting him.  Then turning to his companion said
in a voice hollow with emotion and vibrant with suppressed passion:

'What was it you said?'

Leonard, half awake, and not half of that half master of himself, answered:

'I said I will make you agent of Normanstand when I marry Stephen.'

Harold grew cold.  To hear of any one marrying Stephen was to him like plunging him in a glacier
stream; but to hear her name so lightly spoken, and by such a man, was a bewildering shock
which within a second set his blood on fire.

'What do you mean?' he thundered.  'You marry Ste . . . Miss Norman! You're not worthy to untie
her shoe!  You indeed!  She wouldn't look on the same side of the street with a drunken brute
like you!  How dare you speak of her in such a way!'

'Brute!' said Leonard angrily, his vanity reaching inward to heart and brain through all the
numbing obstacle of his drunken flesh.  'Who's brute?  Brute yourself!  Tell you goin' to marry
Stephen, 'cos Stephen wants it.  Stephen loves me.  Loves me with all her red head!  Wha're
you doin'!  Wha!!'

His words merged in a lessening gurgle, for Harold had now got him by the throat.

'Take care what you say about that lady! damn you!' he said, putting his face close the other's
with eyes that blazed.  'Don't you dare to mention her name in such a way, or you will regret
it longer than you can think. Loves you, you swine!'

The struggle and the fierce grip on his throat sobered Leonard somewhat. Momentarily sobbed
him to that point when he could be coherent and vindictive, though not to the point where he
could think ahead.  Caution, wisdom, discretion, taste, were not for him at such a moment.
Guarding his throat with both hands in an instinctive and spasmodic manner he answered the
challenge:

'Who are you calling swine?  I tell you she loves me.  She ought to know. Didn't she tell me
so this very day!'  Harold drew back his arm to strike him in the face, his anger too great
for words.  But the other, seeing the motion and in the sobering recognition of danger, spoke
hastily:

'Keep your hair on!  You know so jolly much more than I do.  I tell you that she told me this
and a lot more this morning when she asked me to marry her.'

Harold's heart grew cold as ice.  There is something in the sound of a voice speaking truthfully
which a true man can recognise.  Through all Leonard's half-drunken utterings came such a ring
of truth; and Harold recognised it.  He felt that his voice was weak and hollow as he spoke,
thinking it necessary to give at first a sort of official denial to such a monstrous statement:

'Liar!'

'I'm no liar!' answered Leonard.  He would like to have struck him in answer to such a word
had he felt equal to it.  'She asked me to marry her to-day on the hill above the house, where
I went to meet her by appointment.  Here!  I'll prove it to you.  Read this!'  Whilst he was
speaking he had opened the greatcoat and was fumbling in the breast-pocket of his coat.  He
produced a letter which he handed to Harold, who took it with trembling hand.  By this time
the reins had fallen slack and the horse was walking quietly.  There was moonlight, but not
enough to read by.  Harold bent over and lifted the driving-lamp next to him and turned it
so that he could read the envelope.  He could hardly keep either lamp or paper still, his hand
trembled so when he saw that the direction was in Stephen's handwriting.  He was handing it
back when Leonard said again:

'Open it!  Read it!  You must do so; I tell you, you must!  You called me a liar, and now must
read the proof that I am not.  If you don't I shall have to ask Stephen to make you!'  Before
Harold's mind flashed a rapid thought of what the girl might suffer in being asked to take
part in such a quarrel.  He could not himself even act to the best advantage unless he knew
the truth . . . he took the letter from the envelope and held it before the lamp, the paper
fluttering as though in a breeze from the trembling of his hand.  Leonard looked on, the dull
glare of his eyes brightening with malignant pleasure as he beheld the other's concern.  He
owed him a grudge, and by God he would pay it.  Had he not been struck--throttled--called a
liar! . . .

As he read the words Harold's face cleared.  'Why, you infernal young scoundrel!' he said angrily,
'that letter is nothing but a simple note from a young girl to an old friend--playmate asking
him to come to see her about some trivial thing.  And you construe it into a proposal of marriage.
You hound!'  He held the letter whilst he spoke, heedless of the outstretched hand of the other
waiting to take it back.  There was a dangerous glitter in Leonard's eyes.  He knew his man
and he knew the truth of what he had himself said, and he felt, with all the strength of his
base soul, how best he could torture him.  In the very strength of Harold's anger, in the poignancy
of his concern, in the relief to his soul expressed in his eyes and his voice, his antagonist
realised the jealousy of one who honours--and loves.  Second by second Leonard grew more sober,
and more and better able to carry his own idea into act.

'Give me my letter!' he began.

'Wait!' said Harold as he put the lamp back into its socket.  'That will do presently.  Take
back what you said just now!'

'What?  Take back what?'

'That base lie; that Miss Norman asked you to marry her.'

Leonard felt that in a physical struggle for the possession of the letter he would be outmatched;
but his passion grew colder and more malignant, and in a voice that cut like the hiss of a
snake he spoke slowly and deliberately.  He was all sober now; the drunkenness of brain and
blood was lost, for the time, in the strength of his cold passion.

'It is true.  By God it is true; every word of it!  That letter, which you want to steal, is
only a proof that I went to meet her on Caester Hill by her own appointment.  When I got there,
she was waiting for me. She began to talk about a chalet there, and at first I didn't know
what she meant--'

There was such conviction, such a triumphant truth in his voice, that Harold was convinced.

'Stop!' he thundered; 'stop, don't tell me anything.  I don't want to hear.  I don't want to
know.'  He covered his face with his hands and groaned.  It was not as though the speaker were
a stranger, in which case he would have been by now well on in his death by strangulation;
he had known Leonard all his life, and he was a friend of Stephen's.  And he was speaking truth.

The baleful glitter of Leonard's eyes grew brighter still.  He was as a serpent when he goes
to strike.  In this wise he struck.

'I shall not stop.  I shall go on and tell you all I choose.  You have called me liar--twice.
You have also called me other names.  Now you shall hear the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth.  And if you won't listen to me some one else will.'  Harold groaned again; Leonard's
eyes brightened still more, and the evil smile on his face grew broader as he began more and
more to feel his power.  He went on to speak with a cold deliberate malignancy, but instinctively
so sticking to absolute truth that he could trust himself to hurt most.  The other listened,
cold at heart and physically; his veins and arteries seemed stagnant.

'I won't tell you anything of her pretty embarrassments; how her voice fell as she pleaded;
how she blushed and stammered.  Why, even I, who am used to women and their pretty ways and
their passions and their flushings and their stormy upbraidings, didn't quite know for a while
what she was driving at.  So at last she spoke out pretty plainly, and told me what a fond
wife she'd make me if I would only take her!'  Harold said nothing; he only rocked a little
as one in pain, and his hands fell. The other went on:

'That is what happened this morning on Caester Hill under the trees where I met Stephen Norman
by her own appointment; honestly what happened.  If you don't believe me now you can ask Stephen.
My Stephen!' he added in a final burst of venom as in a gleam of moonlight through a rift in
the shadowy wood he saw the ghastly pallor of Harold's face.  Then he added abruptly as he
held out his hand:

'Now give me my letter!'

In the last few seconds Harold had been thinking.  And as he had been thinking for the good,
the safety, of Stephen, his thoughts flew swift and true.  This man's very tone, the openness
of his malignity, the underlying scorn when he spoke of her whom others worshipped, showed
him the danger--the terrible immediate danger in which she stood from such a man.  With the
instinct of a mind working as truly for the woman he loved as the needle does to the Pole he
spoke quietly, throwing a sneer into the tone so as to exasperate his companion--it was brain
against brain now, and for Stephen's sake:

'And of course you accepted.  You naturally would!'  The other fell into the trap.  He could
not help giving an extra dig to his opponent by proving him once more in the wrong.

'Oh no, I didn't!  Stephen is a fine girl; but she wants taking down a bit.  She's too high
and mighty just at present, and wants to boss a chap too much.  I mean to be master in my own
house; and she's got to begin as she will have to go on.  I'll let her wait a bit: and then
I'll yield by degrees to her lovemaking.  She's a fine girl, for all her red head; and she
won't be so bad after all!'

Harold listened, chilled into still and silent amazement.  To hear Stephen spoken of in such
a way appalled him.  She of all women! . . . Leonard never knew how near sudden death he was,
as he lay back in his seat, his eyes getting dull again and his chin sinking.  The drunkenness
which had been arrested by his passion was reasserting itself.  Harold saw his state in time
and arrested his own movement to take him by the throat and dash him to the ground.  Even as
he looked at him in scornful hate, the cart gave a lurch and Leonard fell forward.  Instinctively
Harold swept an arm round him and held him up.  As he did so the unconsciousness of arrested
sleep came; Leonard's chin sank on his breast and he breathed stertorously.

As he drove on, Harold's thoughts circled in a tumult.  Vague ideas of extreme measures which
he ought to take flashed up and paled away. Intention revolved upon itself till its weak side
was exposed, and, it was abandoned.  He could not doubt the essential truth of Leonard's statement
regarding the proposal of marriage.  He did not understand this nor did he try to.  His own
love for the girl and the bitter awaking to its futility made him so hopeless that in his own
desolation all the mystery of her doing and the cause of it was merged and lost.

His only aim and purpose now was her safety.  One thing at least he could do: by fair means
or foul stop Leonard's mouth, so that others need not know her shame!  He groaned aloud as
the thought came to him.  Beyond this first step he could do nothing, think of nothing as yet.
And he could not take this first step till Leonard had so far sobered that he could understand.

And so waiting for that time to come, he drove on through the silent night.

CHAPTER XIII--HAROLD'S RESOLVE

As they went on their way Harold noticed that Leonard's breathing became more regular, as in
honest sleep.  He therefore drove slowly so that the other might be sane again before they
should arrive at the gate of his father's place; he had something of importance to say before
they should part.

Seeing him sleeping so peacefully, Harold passed a strap round him to prevent him falling from
his seat.  Then he could let his thoughts run more freely.  Her safety was his immediate concern;
again and again he thought over what he should say to Leonard to ensure his silence.

Whilst he was pondering with set brows, he was startled by Leonard's voice at his side:

'Is that you, Harold?  I must have been asleep!'  Harold remained silent, amazed at the change.
Leonard went on, quite awake and coherent:

'By George!  I must have been pretty well cut.  I don't remember a thing after coming down
the stairs of the club and you and the hall-porter helping me up here.  I say, old chap, you
have strapped me up all safe and tight.  It was good of you to take charge of me.  I hope I
haven't been a beastly nuisance!'  Harold answered grimly:

'It wasn't exactly what I should have called it!'  Then, after looking keenly at his companion,
he said: 'Are you quite awake and sober now?'

'Quite.'  The answer came defiantly; there was something in his questioner's tone which was
militant and aggressive.  Before speaking further Harold pulled up the horse.  They were now
crossing bare moorland, where anything within a mile could have easily been seen.  They were
quite alone, and would be undisturbed.  Then he turned to his companion.

'You talked a good deal in your drunken sleep--if sleep it was.  You appeared to be awake!'
Leonard answered:

'I don't remember anything of it.  What did I say?'

'I am going to tell you.  You said something so strange and so wrong that you must answer for
it.  But first I must know its truth.'

'Must!  You are pretty dictatorial,' said Leonard angrily.  'Must answer for it!  What do you
mean?'

'Were you on Caester Hill to-day?'

'What's that to you?'  There was no mistaking the defiant, quarrelsome intent.

'Answer me! were you?'  Harold's voice was strong and calm.

'What if I was?  It is none of your affair.  Did I say anything in what you have politely called
my drunken sleep?'

'You did.'

'What did I say?'

'I shall tell you in time.  But I must know the truth as I proceed.  There is some one else
concerned in this, and I must know as I go on.  You can easily judge by what I say if I am right.'

'Then ask away and be damned to you!'  Harold's calm voice seemed to quell the other's turbulence
as he went on:

'Were you on Caester Hill this morning?'

'I was.'

'Did you meet Miss --- a lady there?'

'What . . . I did!'

'Was it by appointment?'  Some sort of idea or half-recollection seemed to come to Leonard;
he fumbled half consciously in his breast-pocket. Then he broke out angrily:

'You have taken my letter!'

'I know the answer to that question,' said Harold slowly.  'You showed me the letter yourself,
and insisted on my reading it.'  Leonard's heart began to quail.  He seemed to have an instinctive
dread of what was coming.  Harold went on calmly and remorselessly:

'Did a proposal of marriage pass between you?'

'Yes!'  The answer was defiantly given; Leonard began to feel that his back was against the wall.

'Who made it?'  The answer was a sudden attempt at a blow, but Harold struck down his hand
in time and held it.  Leonard, though a fairly strong man, was powerless in that iron grasp.

'You must answer!  It is necessary that I know the truth.'

'Why must you?  What have you to do with it?  You are not my keeper!  Nor Stephen's; though
I dare say you would like to be!'  The insult cooled Harold's rising passion, even whilst it
wrung his heart.

'I have to do with it because I choose.  You may find the answer if you wish in your last insult!
Now, clearly understand me, Leonard Everard. You know me of old; and you know that what I say
I shall do.  One way or another, your life or mine may hang on your answers to me--if necessary!'
Leonard felt himself pulled up.  He knew well the strength and purpose of the man.  With a
light laugh, which he felt to be, as it was, hollow, he answered:

'Well, schoolmaster, as you are asking questions, I suppose I may as well answer them.  Go
on!  Next!'  Harold went on in the same calm, cold voice:

'Who made the proposal of marriage?'

'She did.'

'Did . . . Was it made at once and directly, or after some preliminary suggestion?'

'After a bit.  I didn't quite understand at first what she was driving at.'  There was a long
pause.  With an effort Harold went on:

'Did you accept?'  Leonard hesitated.  With a really wicked scowl he eyed his big, powerfully-built
companion, who still had his hand as in a vice. Then seeing no resource, he answered:

'I did not!  That does not mean that I won't, though!' he added defiantly.  To his surprise
Harold suddenly released his hand.  There was a grimness in his tone as he said:

'That will do!  I know now that you have spoken the truth, sober as well as drunk.  You need
say no more.  I know the rest.  Most men--even brutes like you, if there are any--would have
been ashamed even to think the things you said, said openly to me, you hound.  You vile, traitorous,
mean-souled hound!'

'What did I say?'

'I know what you said; and I shall not forget it.'  He went on, his voice deepening into a
stern judicial utterance, as though he were pronouncing a sentence of death:

'Leonard Everard, you have treated vilely a lady whom I love and honour more than I love my
own soul.  You have insulted her to her face and behind her back.  You have made such disloyal
reference to her and to her mad act in so trusting you, and have so shown your intention of
causing, intentionally or unintentionally, woe to her, that I tell you here and now that you
hold henceforth your life in your hand.  If you ever mention to a living soul what you have
told me twice to-night, even though you should be then her husband; if you should cause her
harm though she should then be your wife; if you should cause her dishonour in public or in
private, I shall kill you.  So help me God!'

Not a word more did he say; but, taking up the reins, drove on in silence till they arrived
at the gate of Brindehow, where he signed to him to alight.

He drove off in silence.

When he arrived at his own house he sent the servant to bed, and then went to his study, where
he locked himself in.  Then, and then only, did he permit his thoughts to have full range.
For the first time since the blow had fallen he looked straight in the face the change in his
own life.  He had loved Stephen so long and so honestly that it seemed to him now as if that
love had been the very foundation of his life.  He could not remember a time when he had not
loved her; away back to the time when he, a big boy, took her, a little girl, under his care,
and devoted himself to her.  He had grown into the belief that so strong and so consistent
an affection, though he had never spoken it or even hinted at it or inferred it, had become
a part of her life as well as of his own. And this was the end of that dreaming!  Not only
did she not care for him, but found herself with a heart so empty that she needs must propose
marriage to another man!  There was surely something, more than at present he knew of or could
understand, behind such an act done by her. Why should she ask Everard to marry her?  Why should
she ask any man? Women didn't do such things! . . . Here he paused.  'Women didn't do such
things.'  All at once there came back to him fragments of discussions--in which Stephen had
had a part, in which matters of convention had been dealt with.  Out of these dim and shattered
memories came a comfort to his heart, though his brain could not as yet grasp the reason of
it.  He knew that Stephen had held an unconventional idea as to the equality of the sexes.
Was it possible that she was indeed testing one of her theories?

The idea stirred him so that he could not remain quiet.  He stood up, and walked the room.
Somehow he felt light beginning to dawn, though he could not tell its source, or guess at the
final measure of its fulness. The fact of Stephen having done such a thing was hard to bear;
but it was harder to think that she should have done such a thing without a motive; or worse:
with love of Leonard as a motive!  He shuddered as he paused. She could not love such a man.
It was monstrous!  And yet she had done this thing . . . 'Oh, if she had had any one to advise
her, to restrain her!  But she had no mother!  No mother!  Poor Stephen!'

The pity of it, not for himself but for the woman he loved, overcame him. Sitting down heavily
before his desk, he put his face on his hands, and his great shoulders shook.

Long, long after the violence of his emotion had passed, he sat there motionless, thinking
with all the power and sincerity he knew; thinking for Stephen's good.

When a strong man thinks unselfishly some good may come out of it.  He may blunder; but the
conclusion of his reasoning must be in the main right.  So it was with Harold.  He knew that
he was ignorant of women, and of woman's nature, as distinguished from man's.  The only woman
he had ever known well was Stephen; and she in her youth and in her ignorance of the world
and herself was hardly sufficient to supply to him data for his present needs.  To a clean-minded
man of his age a woman is something divine.  It is only when in later life disappointment and
experience have hammered bitter truth into his brain, that he begins to realise that woman
is not angelic but human.  When he knows more, and finds that she is like himself, human and
limited but with qualities of purity and sincerity and endurance which put his own to shame,
he realises how much better a helpmate she is for man than could be the vague, unreal creations
of his dreams.  And then he can thank God for His goodness that when He might have given us
Angels He did give us women!

Of one thing, despite the seeming of facts, he was sure: Stephen did not love Leonard.  Every
fibre of his being revolted at the thought.  She of so high a nature; he of so low.  She so
noble; he so mean.  Bah! the belief was impossible.

Impossible!  Herein was the manifestation of his ignorance; anything is possible where love
is concerned!  It was characteristic of the man that in his mind he had abandoned, for the
present at all events, his own pain.  He still loved Stephen with all the strength of his nature,
but for him the selfish side ceased to exist.  He was trying to serve Stephen; and every other
thought had to give way.  He had been satisfied that in a manner she loved him in some way
and in some degree; and he had hoped that in the fulness of time the childish love would ripen,
so that in the end would come a mutual affection which was of the very essence of Heaven. 
He believed still that she loved him in some way; but the future that was based on hope had
now been wiped out with a sudden and unsparing hand.  She had actually proposed marriage to
another man.  If the idea of a marriage with him had ever crossed her mind she could have had
no doubt of her feeling toward another. . . . And yet?  And yet he could not believe that she
loved Leonard; not even if all trains of reasoning should end by leading to that point.  One
thing he had at present to accept, that whatever might be the measure of affection Stephen
might have for him, it was not love as he understood it.  He resolutely turned his back on
the thought of his own side of the matter, and tried to find some justification of Stephen's act.

'Seek and ye shall find; knock and it shall be opened to ye' has perhaps a general as well
as a special significance.  It is by patient tireless seeking that many a precious thing has
been found.  It was after many a long cycle of thought that the seeking and the knocking had
effectual result.  Harold came to believe, vaguely at first but more definitely as the evidence
nucleated, that Stephen's act was due to some mad girlish wish to test her own theory; to prove
to herself the correctness of her own reasoning, the fixity of her own purpose.  He did not
go on analysing further; for as he walked the room with a portion of the weight taken from
his heart he noticed that the sky was beginning to quicken.  The day would soon be upon him,
and there was work to be done.  Instinctively he knew that there was trouble in store for Stephen,
and he felt that in such an hour he should be near her.  All her life she had been accustomed
to him.  In her sorrows to confide in him, to tell him her troubles so that they might dwindle
and pass away; to enhance her pleasures by making him a sharer in them.

Harold was inspirited by the coming of the new day.  There was work to be done, and the work
must be based on thought.  His thoughts must take a practical turn; what was he to do that
would help Stephen?  Here there dawned on him for the first time the understanding of a certain
humiliation which she had suffered; she had been refused!  She who had stepped so far out of
the path of maidenly reserve in which she had always walked as to propose marriage to a man,
had been refused!  He did not, could not, know to the full the measure of such humiliation
to a woman; but he could guess at any rate a part.  And that guessing made him grind his teeth
in impotent rage.

But out of that rage came an inspiration.  If Stephen had been humiliated by the refusal of
one man, might not this be minimised if she in turn might refuse another?  Harold knew so well
the sincerity of his own love and the depth of his own devotion that he was satisfied that
he could not err in giving the girl the opportunity of refusing him.  It would be some sort
of balm to her wounded spirit to know that Leonard's views were not shared by all men.  That
there were others who would deem it a joy to serve as her slaves.  When she had refused him
she would perhaps feel easier in her mind.  Of course if she did not refuse him . . . Ah! well,
then would the gates of Heaven open . . . But that would never be.  The past could not be blotted
out!  All he could do would be to serve her.  He would go early.  Such a man as Leonard Everard
might make some new complication, and the present was quite bad enough.

It was a poor enough thing for him, he thought at length.  She might trample on him; but it
was for her sake.  And to him what did it matter? The worst had come.  All was over now!

CHAPTER XIV--THE BEECH GROVE

On the morning following the proposal Stephen strolled out into a beech grove, some little
distance from the house, which from childhood had been a favourite haunt of hers.  It was not
in the immediate road to anywhere, and so there was no occasion for any of the household or
the garden to go through it or near it.  She did not put on a hat, but took only a sunshade,
which she used in passing over the lawn.  The grove was on the side of the house away from
her own room and the breakfast-room.  When she had reached its shade she felt that at last
she was alone.

The grove was a privileged place.  Long ago a great number of young beeches had been planted
so thickly that as they grew they shot up straight and branchless in their struggle for the
light.  Not till they had reached a considerable altitude had they been thinned; and then the
thinning had been so effected that, as the high branches began to shoot out in the freer space,
they met in time and interlaced so closely that they made in many places a perfect screen of
leafy shade.  Here and there were rifts or openings through which the light passed; under such
places the grass was fine and green, or the wild hyacinths in due season tinged the earth with
blue.  Through the grove some wide alleys had been left: great broad walks where the soft grass
grew short and fine, and to whose edges came a drooping of branches and an upspringing of undergrowth
of laurel and rhododendron.  At the far ends of these walks were little pavilions of marble
built in the classic style which ruled for garden use two hundred years ago.  At the near ends
some of them were close to the broad stretch of water from whose edges ran back the great sloping
banks of emerald sward dotted here and there with great forest trees.  The grove was protected
by a ha-ha, so that it was never invaded from without, and the servants of the house, both
the domestics and the gardeners and grooms, had been always forbidden to enter it.  Thus by
long usage it had become a place of quiet and solitude for the members of the family.

To this soothing spot had come Stephen in her pain.  The long spell of self-restraint during
that morning had almost driven her to frenzy, and she sought solitude as an anodyne to her
tortured soul.  The long anguish of a third sleepless night, following on a day of humiliation
and terror, had destroyed for a time the natural resilience of a healthy nature.  She had been
for so long in the prison of her own purpose with Fear as warder; the fetters of conventional
life had so galled her that here in the accustomed solitude of this place, in which from childhood
she had been used to move and think freely, she felt as does a captive who has escaped from
an irksome durance.  As Stephen had all along been free of movement and speech, no such opportunities
of freedom called to her.  The pent-up passion in her, however, found its own relief.  Her
voice was silent, and she moved with slow steps, halting often between the green tree-trunks
in the cool shade; but her thoughts ran free, and passion found a vent.  No stranger seeing
the tall, queenly girl moving slowly through the trees could have imagined the fierce passion
which blazed within her, unless he had been close enough to see her eyes.  The habit of physical
restraint to which all her life she had been accustomed, and which was intensified by the experience
of the past thirty-six hours, still ruled her, even here.  Gradually the habit of security
began to prevail, and the shackles to melt away.  Here had she come in all her childish troubles.
Here had she fought with herself, and conquered herself.  Here the spirits of the place were
with her and not against her.  Here memory in its second degree, habit, gave her the full sense
of spiritual freedom.

As she walked to and fro the raging of her spirit changed its objective: from restraint to
its final causes; and chief amongst them the pride which had been so grievously hurt.  How
she loathed the day that had passed, and how more than all she hated herself for her part in
it; her mad, foolish, idiotic, self-importance which gave her the idea of such an act and urged
her to the bitter end of its carrying out; her mulish obstinacy in persisting when every fibre
of her being had revolted at the doing, and when deep in her inmost soul was a deterring sense
of its futility.  How could she have stooped to have done such a thing: to ask a man . . .
oh! the shame of it, the shame of it all!  How could she have been so blind as to think that
such a man was worthy! . . .

In the midst of her whirlwind of passion came a solitary gleam of relief: she knew with certainty
that she did not love Leonard; that she had never loved him.  The coldness of disdain to him,
the fear of his future acts which was based on disbelief of the existence of that finer nature
with which she had credited him, all proved to her convincingly that he could never really
have been within the charmed circle of her inner life.  Did she but know it, there was an even
stronger evidence of her indifference to him in the ready manner in which her thoughts flew
past him in their circling sweep.  For a moment she saw him as the centre of a host of besetting
fears; but her own sense of superior power nullified the force of the vision.  She was able
to cope with him and his doings, were there such need.  And so her mind flew back to the personal
side of her trouble: her blindness, her folly, her shame.

In truth she was doing good work for herself.  Her mind was working truly and to a beneficent
end.  One by one she was overcoming the false issues of her passion and drifting to an end
in which she would see herself face to face and would place so truly the blame for what had
been as to make it a warning and ennobling lesson of her life.  She moved more quickly, passing
to and fro as does a panther in its cage when the desire of forest freedom is heavy upon it.

That which makes the irony of life will perhaps never be understood in its casual aspect by
the finite mind of man.  The 'why' and 'wherefore' and the 'how' of it is only to be understood
by that All-wise intelligence which can scan the future as well as the present, and see the
far far-reaching ramifications of those schemes of final development to which the manifestation
of completed character tend.

To any mortal it would seem a pity that to Stephen in her solitude, when her passion was working
itself out to an end which might be good, should come an interruption which would throw it
back upon itself in such a way as to multiply its malignant force.  But again it is a part
of the Great Plan that instruments whose use man's finite mind could never predicate should
be employed: the seeming good to evil, the seeming evil to good.

As she swept to and fro, her raging spirit compelling to violent movement, Stephen's eyes were
arrested by the figure of a man coming through the aisles of the grove.  At such a time any
interruption of her passion was a cause for heightening anger; but the presence of a person
was as a draught to a full-fed furnace.  Most of all, in her present condition of mind, the
presence of a man--for the thought of a man lay behind all her trouble, was as a tornado striking
a burning forest.  The blood of her tortured heart seemed to leap to her brain and to suffuse
her eyes.  She 'saw blood'!

It mattered not that the man whom she saw she knew and trusted.  Indeed, this but added fuel
to the flame.  In the presence of a stranger some of her habitual self-restraint would doubtless
have come back to her.  But now the necessity for such was foregone; Harold was her alter ego,
and in his presence was safety.  He was, in this aspect, but a higher and more intelligent
rendering of the trees around her.  In another aspect he was an opportune victim, something
to strike at.  When the anger of a poison snake opens its gland, and the fang is charged with
venom, it must strike at something.  It does not pause or consider what it may be; it strikes,
though it may be at stone or iron.  So Stephen waited till her victim was within distance to
strike.  Her black eyes, fierce with passion and blood- rimmed as a cobra's, glittered as he
passed among the tree-trunks towards her, eager with his errand of devotion.

Harold was a man of strong purpose.  Had he not been, he would never have come on his present
errand.  Never, perhaps, had any suitor set forth on his quest with a heavier heart.  All his
life, since his very boyhood, had been centred round the girl whom to-day he had come to serve.
All his thought had been for her: and to-day all he could expect was a gentle denial of all
his hopes, so that his future life would be at best a blank.

But he would be serving Stephen!  His pain might be to her good; ought to be, to a certain
extent, to her mental ease.  Her wounded pride would find some solace . . . As he came closer
the feeling that he had to play a part, veritably to act one, came stronger and stronger upon
him, and filled him with bitter doubt as to his power.  Still he went on boldly. It had been
a part of his plan to seem to come eagerly, as a lover should come; and so he came.  When he
got close to Stephen, all the witchery of her presence came upon him as of old.  After all,
he loved her with his whole soul; and the chance had come to tell her so.  Even under the distressing
conditions of his suit, the effort had its charm.

Stephen schooled herself to her usual attitude with him; and that, too, since the effort was
based on truth came with a certain ease to her.  At the present time, in her present frame
of mind, nothing in the wide world could give her pleasure; the ease which came, if it did
not change her purpose, increased her power.  Their usual salutation, begun when she was a
little baby, was 'Good morning, Stephen!'  'Good morning, Harold!'  It had become so much a
custom that now it came mechanically on her part. The tender reference to childhood's days,
though it touched her companion to the quick, did not appeal to her since she had no special
thought of it.  Had such a thought come to her it might have softened her even to tears, for
Harold had been always deep in her heart.  As might have been expected from her character and
condition of mind, she was the first to begin:

'I suppose you want to see me about something special, Harold, you have come so early.'

'Yes, Stephen.  Very special!'

'Were you at the house?' she asked in a voice whose quietness might have conveyed a warning.
She was so suspicious now that she suspected even Harold of--of what she did not know.  He
answered in all simplicity:

'No.  I came straight here.'

'How did you know I should be here?'  Her voice was now not only quiet but sweet.  Without
thinking, Harold blundered on.  His intention was so single-minded, and his ignorance of woman
so complete, that he did not recognise even elementary truths:

'I knew you always came here long ago when you were a child when you were in--'  Here it suddenly
flashed upon him that if he seemed to expect that she was in trouble as he had purposed saying,
he would give away his knowledge of what had happened and so destroy the work to which he had
set himself.  So he finished the sentence in a lame and impotent manner, which, however, saved
complete annihilation as it was verbally accurate: 'in short frocks.'  Stephen needed to know
little more.  Her quick intelligence grasped the fact that there was some purpose afoot which
she did not know or understand.  She surmised, of course, that it was some way in connection
with her mad act, and she grew cooler in her brain as well as colder in her heart as she prepared
to learn more.  Stephen had changed from girl to woman in the last twenty-four hours; and all
the woman in her was now awake.  After a moment's pause she said with a winning smile:

'Why, Harold, I've been in long frocks for years.  Why should I come here on this special day
on that account?'  Even as she was speaking she felt that it would be well to abandon this
ground of inquiry.  It had clearly told her all it could.  She would learn more by some other
means.  So she went on in a playful way, as a cat--not a kitten--does when it has got a mouse:

'That reason won't work, Harold.  It's quite rusty in the joints.  But never mind it!  Tell
me why you have come so early?'  This seemed to Harold to be a heaven-sent opening; he rushed
in at once:

'Because, Stephen, I wanted to ask you to be my wife!  Oh! Stephen, don't you know that I love
you?  Ever since you were a little girl!  When you were a little girl and I a big boy I loved
you.  I have loved you ever since with all my heart, and soul, and strength.  Without you the
world is a blank to me!  For you and your happiness I would do anything--anything!'

This was no acting.  When once the barrier of beginning had been broken, his soul seemed to
pour itself out.  The man was vibrant through all his nature; and the woman's very soul realised
its truth.  For an instant a flame of gladness swept through her; and for the time it lasted
put all other thought aside.

But suspicion is a hard metal which does not easily yield to fire.  It can come to white heat
easily enough, but its melting-point is high indeed.  When the flame had leaped it had spent
its force; the reaction came quick.  Stephen's heart seemed to turn to ice, all the heat and
life rushing to her brain.  Her thoughts flashed with convincing quickness; there was no time
for doubting amid their rush.  Her life was for good or ill at the crossing of the ways.  She
had trusted Harold thoroughly.  The habit of her whole life from her babyhood up had been to
so look to him as comrade and protector and sympathetic friend.  She was so absolutely sure
of his earnest devotion that this new experience of a riper feeling would have been a joy to
her, if it should be that his act was all spontaneous and done in ignorance of her shame. 
'Shame' was the generic word which now summarised to herself her thought of her conduct in
proposing to Leonard.  But of this she must be certain.  She could not, dare not, go farther
till this was settled.  With the same craving for certainty with which she convinced herself
that Leonard understood her overtures, and with the same dogged courage with which she pressed
the matter on him, she now went on to satisfy her mind.

'What did you do yesterday?'

'I was at Norcester all day.  I went early.  By the way, here is the ribbon you wanted; I think
it's exactly the same as the pattern.'  As he spoke he took a tissue-piper parcel from his
pocket and handed it to her.

'Thanks!' she said.  'Did you meet any friends there?'

'Not many.'  He answered guardedly; he had a secret to keep.

'Where did you dine?'

'At the club!'  He began to be uneasy at this questioning; but he did not see any way to avoid
answering without creating some suspicion.

'Did you see any one you knew at the club?'  Her voice as she spoke was a little harder, a
little more strained.  Harold noticed the change, rather by instinct than reason.  He felt
that there was danger in it, and paused.  The pause seemed to suddenly create a new fury in
the breast of Stephen.  She felt that Harold was playing with her.  Harold!  If she could not
trust him, where then was she to look for trust in the world? If he was not frank with her,
what then meant his early coming; his seeking her in the grove; his proposal of marriage, which
seemed so sudden and so inopportune?  He must have seen Leonard, and by some means have become
acquainted with her secret of shame . . . His motive?

Here her mind halted.  She knew as well as if it had been trumpeted from the skies that Harold
knew all.  But she must be certain . . . Certain!

She was standing erect, her hands held down by her sides and clenched together till the knuckles
were white; all her body strung high--like an over-pitched violin.  Now she raised her right
hand and flung it downward with a passionate jerk.

'Answer me!' she cried imperiously.  'Answer me!  Why are you playing with me?  Did you see
Leonard Everard last night?  Answer me, I say. Harold An Wolf, you do not lie!  Answer me!'

As she spoke Harold grew cold.  From the question he now knew that Stephen had guessed his
secret.  The fat was in the fire with a vengeance.  He did not know what to do, and still remained
silent.  She did not give him time to think, but spoke again, this time more coldly. The white
terror had replaced the red:

'Are you not going to answer me a simple question, Harold?  To be silent now is to wrong me!
I have a right to know!'

In his trouble, for he felt that say what he would he could only give her new pain, he said humbly:

'Don't ask me, Stephen!  Won't you understand that I want to do what is best for you?  Won't
you trust me?'  Her answer came harshly.  A more experienced man than Harold, one who knew
women better, would have seen how overwrought she was, and would have made pity the pivot of
his future bearing and acts and words while the interview lasted; pity, and pity only.  But
to Harold the high ideal was ever the same.  The Stephen whom he loved was no subject for pity,
but for devotion only.  He knew the nobility of her nature and must trust it to the end.  When
her silence and her blazing eyes denied his request, he answered her query in a low voice:

'I did!'  Even whilst he spoke he was thankful for one thing, he had not been pledged in any
way to confidence.  Leonard had forced the knowledge on him; and though he would have preferred
a million times over to be silent, he was still free to speak.  Stephen's next question came
more coldly still:

'Did he tell you of his meeting with me?'

'He did.'

'Did he tell you all?'  It was torture to him to answer; but he was at the stake and must bear it.

'I think so!  If it was true.'

'What did he tell you?  Stay!  I shall ask you the facts myself; the broad facts.  We need
not go into details . . . '

'Oh, Stephen!'  She silenced his pleading with an imperious hand.

'If I can go into this matter, surely you can.  If I can bear the shame of telling, you can
at least bear that of listening.  Remember that knowing--knowing what you know, or at least
what you have heard--you could come here and propose marriage to me!'  This she said with a
cold, cutting sarcasm which sounded like the rasping of a roughly-sharpened knife through raw
flesh.  Harold groaned in spirit; he felt a weakness which began at his heart to steal through
him.  It took all his manhood to bear himself erect.  He dreaded what was coming, as of old
the once- tortured victim dreaded the coming torment of the rack.

CHAPTER XV--THE END OF THE MEETING

Stephen went on in her calm, cold voice:

'Did he tell you that I had asked him to marry me?'  Despite herself, as she spoke the words
a red tide dyed her face.  It was not a flush; it was not a blush; it was a sort of flood which
swept through her, leaving her in a few seconds whiter than before.  Harold saw and understood.
He could not speak; he lowered his head silently.  Her eyes glittered more coldly.  The madness
that every human being may have once was upon her. Such a madness is destructive, and here
was something more vulnerable than herself.

'Did he tell you how I pressed him?'  There was no red tide this time, nor ever again whilst
the interview lasted.  To bow in affirmation was insufficient; with an effort he answered:

'I understood so.'  She answered with an icy sarcasm:

'You understood so!  Oh, I don't doubt he embellished the record with some of his own pleasantries.
But you understood it; and that is sufficient.'  After a pause she went on:

'Did he tell you that he had refused me?'

'Yes!'  Harold knew now that he was under the torture, and that there was no refusing.  She
went on, with a light laugh, which wrung his heart even more than her pain had done . . . Stephen
to laugh like that!

'And I have no doubt that he embellished that too, with some of his fine masculine witticisms.
I understood myself that he was offended at my asking him.  I understood it quite well; he
told me so!'  Then with feminine intuition she went on:

'I dare say that before he was done he said something kindly of the poor little thing that
loved him; that loved him so much, and that she had to break down all the bounds of modesty
and decorum that had made the women of her house honoured for a thousand years!  And you listened
to him whilst he spoke!  Oh-h-h!' she quivered with her white-hot anger, as the fierce heat
in the heart of a furnace quivers.  But her voice was cold again as she went on:

'But who could help loving him?  Girls always did.  It was such a beastly nuisance!  You "understood"
all that, I dare say; though perhaps he did not put it in such plain words!'  Then the scorn,
which up to now had been imprisoned, turned on him; and he felt as though some hose of deathly
chill was being played upon him.

'And yet you, knowing that only yesterday, he had refused me--refused my pressing request that
he should marry me, come to me hot-foot in the early morning and ask me to be your wife.  I
thought such things did not take place; that men were more honourable, or more considerate,
or more merciful!  Or at least I used to think so; till yesterday.  No! till to- day.  Yesterday's
doings were my own doings, and I had to bear the penalty of them myself.  I had come here to
fight out by myself the battle of my shame . . . '

Here Harold interrupted her.  He could not bear to hear Stephen use such a word in connection
with herself.

'No!  You must not say "shame."  There is no shame to you, Stephen.  There can be none, and
no one must say it in my presence!'  In her secret heart of hearts she admired him for his
words; she felt them at the moment sink into her memory, and knew that she would never forget
the mastery of his face and bearing.  But the blindness of rage was upon her, and it is of
the essence of this white-hot anger that it preys not on what is basest in us, but on what
is best.  That Harold felt deeply was her opportunity to wound him more deeply than before.

'Even here in the solitude which I had chosen as the battleground of my shame you had need
to come unasked, unthought of, when even a lesser mind than yours, for you are no fool, would
have thought to leave me alone.  My shame was my own, I tell you; and I was learning to take
my punishment. My punishment!  Poor creatures that we are, we think our punishment will be
what we would like best: to suffer in silence, and not to have spread abroad our shame!'  How
she harped on that word, though she knew that every time she uttered it, it cut to the heart
of the man who loved her. 'And yet you come right on top of my torture to torture me still
more and illimitably.  You come, you who alone had the power to intrude yourself on my grief
and sorrow; power given you by my father's kindness.  You come to me without warning, considerately
telling me that you knew I would be here because I had always come here when I had been in
trouble. No--I do you an injustice.  "In trouble" was not what you said, but that I had come
when I had been in short frocks.  Short frocks!  And you came to tell me that you loved me.
You thought, I suppose, that as I had refused one man, I would jump at the next that came along.
I wanted a man.  God! God! what have I done that such an affront should come upon me?  And
come, too, from a hand that should have protected me if only in gratitude for my father's kindness!'
She was eyeing him keenly, with eyes that in her unflinching anger took in everything with
the accuracy of sun-painting.  She wanted to wound; and she succeeded.

But Harold had nerves and muscles of steel; and when the call came to them they answered. 
Though the pain of death was upon him he did not flinch.  He stood before her like a rock,
in all his great manhood; but a rock on whose summit the waves had cast the wealth of their
foam, for his face was as white as snow.  She saw and understood; but in the madness upon her
she went on trying new places and new ways to wound:

'You thought, I suppose, that this poor, neglected, despised, rejected woman, who wanted so
much to marry that she couldn't wait for a man to ask her, would hand herself over to the first
chance comer who threw his handkerchief to her; would hand over herself--and her fortune!'

'Oh, Stephen!  How can you say such things, think such things?'  The protest broke from him
with a groan.  His pain seemed to inflame her still further; to gratify her hate, and to stimulate
her mad passion:

'Why did I ever see you at all?  Why did my father treat you as a son; that when you had grown
and got strong on his kindness you could thus insult his daughter in the darkest hour of her
pain and her shame!'  She almost choked with passion.  There was now nothing in the whole world
that she could trust.  In the pause he spoke:

'Stephen, I never meant you harm.  Oh, don't speak such wild words.  They will come back to
you with sorrow afterwards!  I only meant to do you good.  I wanted . . . '  Her anger broke
out afresh:

'There; you speak it yourself!  You only wanted to do me good.  I was so bad that any kind
of a husband . . . Oh, get out of my sight!  I wish to God I had never seen you!  I hope to
God I may never see you again!  Go! Go!  Go!'

This was the end!  To Harold's honest mind such words would have been impossible had not thoughts
of truth lain behind them.  That Stephen--his Stephen, whose image in his mind shut out every
other woman in the world, past, present, and future--should say such things to any one, that
she should think such things, was to him a deadly blow.  But that she should say them to him!
. . . Utterance, even the utterance which speaks in the inmost soul, failed him.  He had in
some way that he knew not hurt--wounded--killed Stephen; for the finer part was gone from the
Stephen that he had known and worshipped so long.  She wished him gone; she wished she had
never seen him; she hoped to God never to see him again.  Life for him was over and done! 
There could be no more happiness in the world; no more wish to work, to live! . . .

He bowed gravely; and without a word turned and walked away.

Stephen saw him go, his tall form moving amongst the tree trunks till finally it was lost in
their massing.  She was so filled with the tumult of her passion that she looked, unmoved.
Even the sense of his going did not change her mood.  She raged to and fro amongst the trees,
her movements getting quicker and quicker as her excitement began to change from mental to
physical; till the fury began to exhaust itself.  All at once she stopped, as though arrested
by a physical barrier; and with a moan sank down in a helpless heap on the cool moss.

* * * * *

Harold went from the grove as one seems to move in a dream.  Little things and big were mixed
up in his mind.  He took note, as he went towards the town by the byroads, of everything around
him in his usual way, for he had always been one of those who notice unconsciously, or rather
unintentionally.  Long afterwards he could shut his eyes and recall every step of the way from
the spot where he had turned from Stephen to the railway station outside Norcester.  And on
many and many such a time when he opened them again the eyelids were wet.  He wanted to get
away quickly, silently, unobserved.  With the instinct of habitual thought his mind turned
London-ward.  He met but few persons, and those only cottiers.  He saluted them in his usual
cheery way, but did not stop to speak with any.  He was about to take a single ticket to London
when it struck him that this might look odd, so he asked for a return.  Then, his mind being
once more directed towards concealment of purpose, he sent a telegram to his housekeeper telling
her that he was called away to London on business.  It was only when he was far on his journey
that he gave thought to ways and means, and took stock of his possessions.  Before he took
out his purse and pocket-book he made up his mind that he would be content with what it was,
no matter how little.  He had left Normanstand and all belonging to it for ever, and was off
to hide himself in whatever part of the world would afford him the best opportunity.  Life
was over!  There was nothing to look forward to; nothing to look back at! The present was a
living pain whose lightest element was despair.  As, however, he got further and further away,
his practical mind began to work; he thought over matters so as to arrange in his mind how
best he could dispose of his affairs, so to cause as little comment as might be, and to save
the possibility of worry or distress of any kind to Stephen.

Even then, in his agony of mind, his heart was with her; it was not the least among his troubles
that he would have to be away from her when perhaps she would need him most.  And yet whenever
he would come to this point in his endless chain of thought, he would have to stop for a while,
overcome with such pain that his power of thinking was paralysed.  He would never, could never,
be of service to her again.  He had gone out of her life, as she had gone out of his life;
though she never had, nor never could out of his thoughts.  It was all over!  All the years
of sweetness, of hope, and trust, and satisfied and justified faith in each other, had been
wiped out by that last terrible, cruel meeting.  Oh! how could she have said such things to
him!  How could she have thought them! And there she was now in all the agony of her unrestrained
passion.  Well he knew, from his long experience of her nature, how she must have suffered
to be in such a state of mind, to have so forgotten all the restraint of her teaching and her
life!  Poor, poor Stephen!  Fatherless now as well as motherless; and friendless as well as
fatherless!  No one to calm her in the height of her wild abnormal passion!  No one to comfort
her when the fit had passed!  No one to sympathise with her for all that she had suffered!
No one to help her to build new and better hopes out of the wreck of her mad ideas!  He would
cheerfully have given his life for her.  Only last night he was prepared to kill, which was
worse than to die, for her sake.  And now to be far away, unable to help, unable even to know
how she fared.  And behind her eternally the shadow of that worthless man who had spurned her
love and flouted her to a chance comer in his drunken delirium.  It was too bitter to bear.
How could God lightly lay such a burden on his shoulders who had all his life tried to walk
in sobriety and chastity and in all worthy and manly ways! It was unfair!  It was unfair! 
If he could do anything for her? Anything!  Anything! . . . And so the unending whirl of thoughts
went on!

The smoke of London was dim on the horizon when he began to get back to practical matters.
When the train drew up at Euston he stepped from it as one to whom death would be a joyous relief!

He went to a quiet hotel, and from there transacted by letter such business matters as were
necessary to save pain and trouble to others.  As for himself, he made up his mind that he
would go to Alaska, which he took to be one of the best places in the as yet uncivilised world
for a man to lose his identity.  As a security at the start he changed his name; and as John
Robinson, which was not a name to attract public attention, he shipped as a passenger on the
Scoriac from London to New York.

The Scoriac was one of the great cargo boats which take a certain number of passengers.  The
few necessaries which he took with him were chosen with an eye to utility in that frozen land
which he sought.  For the rest, he knew nothing, nor did he care how or whither he went.  His
vague purpose was to cross the American Continent to San Francisco, and there to take passage
for the high latitudes north of the Yukon River.

* * * * *

When Stephen began to regain consciousness her first sensation was one of numbness.  She was
cold in the back, and her feet did not seem to exist; but her head was hot and pulsating as
though her brain were a living thing.  Then her half-open eyes began to take in her surroundings.
For another long spell she began to wonder why all around her was green.  Then came the inevitable
process of reason.  Trees!  It is a wood!  How did I come here? why am I lying on the ground?

All at once wakened memory opened on her its flood-gates, and overwhelmed her with pain.  With
her hands pressed to her throbbing temples and her burning face close to the ground, she began
to recall what she could of the immediate past.  It all seemed like a terrible dream.  By degrees
her intelligence came back to its normal strength, and all at once, as does one suddenly wakened
from sleep to the knowledge of danger, she sat up.

Somehow the sense of time elapsed made Stephen look at her watch.  It was half-past twelve.
As she had come into the grove immediately after breakfast, and as Harold had almost immediately
joined her, and as the interview between them had been but short, she must have lain on the
ground for more than three hours.  She rose at once, trembling in every limb.  A new fear began
to assail her; that she had been missed at home, and that some one might have come to look
for her.  Up to now she had not been able to feel the full measure of pain regarding what had
passed, but which would, she knew, come to her in the end.  It was too vague as yet; she could
not realise that it had really been.  But the fear of discovery was immediate, and must be
guarded against without delay.  As well as she could, she tidied herself and began to walk
slowly back to the house, hoping to gain her own room unnoticed.  That her general intelligence
was awake was shown by the fact that before she left the grove she remembered that she had
forgotten her sunshade.  She went back and searched till she had found it.

Gaining her room without meeting any one, she at once change her dress, fearing that some soil
or wrinkle might betray her.  Resolutely she put back from her mind all consideration of the
past; there would be time for that later on.  Her nerves were already much quieter than they
had been. That long faint, or lapse into insensibility, had for the time taken the place of
sleep.  There would be a price to be paid for it later; but for the present it had served its
purpose.  Now and again she was disturbed by one thought; she could not quite remember what
had occurred after Harold had left, and just before she became unconscious.  She dared not
dwell upon it, however.  It would doubtless all come back to her when she had leisure to think
the whole matter over as a connected narrative.

When the gong sounded for lunch she went down, with a calm exterior, to face the dreaded ordeal
of another meal.

Luncheon passed off without a hitch.  She and her aunt talked as usual over all the small affairs
of the house and the neighbourhood, and the calm restraint was in itself soothing.  Even then
she could not help feeling how much convention is to a woman's life.  Had it not been for these
recurring trials of set hours and duties she could never have passed the last day and night
without discovery of her condition of mind. That one terrible, hysterical outburst was perhaps
the safety valve.  Had it been spread over the time occupied in conventional duties its force
even then might have betrayed her; but without the necessity of nerving herself to conventional
needs, she would have infallibly betrayed herself by her negative condition.

After lunch she went to her own boudoir where, when she had shut the inner door, no one was
allowed to disturb her without some special need in the house or on the arrival of visitors.
This 'sporting oak' was the sign of 'not at home' which she had learned in her glimpse of college
life.  Here in the solitude of safety, she began to go over the past, resolutely and systematically.

She had already been so often over the memory of the previous humiliating and unhappy day that
she need not revert to it at present.  Since then had she not quarrelled with Harold, whom
she had all her life so trusted that her quarrel with him seemed to shake the very foundations
of her existence?  As yet she had not remembered perfectly all that had gone on under the shadow
of the beech grove.  She dared not face it all at once, even as yet.  Time must elapse before
she should dare to cry; to think of her loss of Harold was to risk breaking down altogether.
Already she felt weak.  The strain of the last forty-eight hours was too much for her physical
strength.  She began to feel, as she lay back in her cushioned chair, that a swoon is no worthy
substitute for sleep.  Indeed it had seemed to make the need for sleep even more imperative.

It was all too humiliating!  She wanted to think over what had been; to recall it as far as
possible so as to fix it in her mind, whilst it was still fresh.  Later on, some action might
have to be based on her recollection.  And yet . . . How could she think when she was so tired
. . . tired . . .

Nature came to the poor girl's relief at last, and she fell into a heavy sleep . . .

It was like coming out of the grave to be dragged back to waking life out of such a sleep,
and so soon after it had begun.  But the voice seemed to reach to her inner consciousness in
some compelling way.  For a second she could not understand; but as she rose from the cushions
the maid's message repeated, brought her wide awake and alert in an instant:

'Mr. Everard, young Mr. Everard, to see you, miss!'

CHAPTER XVI--A PRIVATE CONVERSATION

The name braced Stephen at once.  Here was danger, an enemy to be encountered; all the fighting
blood of generations leaped to the occasion.  The short spell of sleep had helped to restore
her.  There remained still quite enough of mental and nervous excitement to make her think
quickly; the words were hardly out of the maid's mouth before her resolution was taken.  It
would never do to let Leonard Everard see she was diffident about meeting him; she would go
down at once.  But she would take the precaution of having her aunt present; at any rate, till
she should have seen how the land lay.  Her being just waked from sleep would be an excuse
for asking her aunt to see the visitor till she came down.  So she said to the maid:

'I have been asleep.  I must have got tired walking in the wood in the heat.  Ask Auntie to
kindly see Mr. Everard in the blue drawing-room till I come down.  I must tidy my hair; but
I will be down in a few minutes.'

'Shall I send Marjorie to you, miss?'

'No!  Don't mind; I can do what I want myself.  Hurry down to Miss Rowly!'

How she regarded Leonard Everard now was shown in her instinctive classing him amongst her enemies.

When she entered the room she seemed all aglow.  She wanted not only to overcome but to punish;
and all the woman in her had risen to the effort. Never in her life had Stephen Norman looked
more radiantly beautiful, more adorable, more desirable.  Even Leonard Everard felt his pulses
quicken as he saw that glowing mass of beauty standing out against the cold background of old
French tapestry.  All the physical side of him leaped in answer to the call of her beauty;
and even his cold heart and his self-engrossed brain followed with slower gait.  He had been
sitting opposite Miss Rowly in one of the windows, twirling his hat in nervous suspense.  He
jumped up, and, as she came towards him, went forward rapidly to greet her.  No one could mistake
the admiration in his eyes. Ever since he had made up his mind to marry her she had assumed
a new aspect in his thoughts.  But now her presence swept away all false imaginings; from the
moment that her loveliness dawned upon him something like love began to grow within his breast.
Stephen saw the look and it strengthened her.  He had so grievously wounded her pride the previous
day that her victory on this was a compensation which set her more at her old poise.

Her greeting was all sweetness: she was charmed to see him.  How was his father, and what was
the news?  Miss Rowly looked on with smiling visage. She too had seen the look of admiration
in his eyes, and it pleased her. Old ladies, especially when they are maiden ladies, always
like to see admiration in the eyes of young men when they are turned in the direction of any
girl dear to them.

They talked for some time, keeping all the while, by Stephen's clever generalship, to the small-talk
of the neighbourhood and the minor events of social importance.  As the time wore on she could
see that Leonard was growing impatient, and evidently wanted to see her alone.  She ignored,
however, all his little private signalling, and presently ordered tea to be brought.  This
took some little time; when it had been brought and served and drunk, Leonard was in a smothered
fume of impatience.  She was glad to see that as yet her aunt had noticed nothing, and she
still hoped that she would be able to so prolong matters, that she would escape without a private
interview.  She did not know the cause of Leonard's impatience: that he must see her before
the day passed.  She too was an egoist, in her own way; in the flush of belief of his subjugation
she did not think of attributing to him any other motive than his desire for herself.  As she
had made up her mind on the final issue she did not want to be troubled by a new 'scene.'

But, after all, Leonard was a man; and man's ways are more direct than woman's.  Seeing that
he could not achieve his object in any other way, he said out suddenly, thinking, and rightly,
that she would not wish to force an issue in the presence of her aunt:

'By the way, Miss Norman,' he had always called her 'Miss Norman' in her aunt's presence: 'I
want to have two minutes with you before I go.  On a matter of business,' he added, noticing
Miss Rowly's surprised look.  The old lady was old-fashioned even for her age; in her time
no young man would have asked to see a young lady alone on business.  Except on one kind of
business; and with regard to that kind of business gentlemen had to obtain first the confidence
and permission of guardians.  Leonard saw the difficulty and said quickly:

'It is on the matter you wrote to me about!'

Stephen was prepared for a nasty shock, but hardly for so nasty a one as this.  There was an
indelicacy about it which went far beyond the bounds of thoughtless conventionality.  That
such an appeal should be made to her, and in such a way, savoured of danger.  Her woman's intuition
gave her the guard, and at once she spoke, smilingly and gently as one recalling a matter in
which the concern is not her own:

'Of course!  It was selfish of me not to have thought of it, and to have kept you so long waiting.
The fact is, Auntie, that Leonard--I like to call him Leonard, since we were children together,
and he is so young; though perhaps it would be more decorous nowadays to say "Mr. Everard"--has
consulted me about his debts.  You know, Auntie dear, that young men will be young men in such
matters; or perhaps you do not, since the only person who ever worried you has been myself.
But I stayed at Oxford and I know something of young men's ways; and as I am necessarily more
or less of a man of business, he values my help.  Don't you, Leonard?'  The challenge was so
direct, and the position he was in so daringly put, that he had to acquiesce.  Miss Rowly,
who had looked on with a frown of displeasure, said coldly:

'I know you are your own mistress, my dear.  But surely it would be better if Mr. Everard would
consult with his solicitor or his father's agent, or some of his gentlemen friends, rather
than with a young lady whose relations with him, after all, are only those of a neighbour on
visiting terms.  For my own part, I should have thought that Mr. Everard's best course would
have been to consult his own father!  But the things that gentlemen, as well as ladies do,
have been sadly changed since my time!'  Then, rising in formal dignity, she bowed gravely
to the visitor before leaving the room.

But the position of being left alone in the room with Leonard did not at all suit Stephen's
plans.  Rising quickly she said to her aunt:

'Don't stir, Auntie.  I dare say you are right in what you say; but I promised Mr. Everard
to go into the matter.  And as I have brought the awkwardness on myself, I suppose I must bear
it.  If Mr. Everard wants to see me alone, and I suppose he is diffident in speaking on such
a matter before you--he didn't play with you, you know!--we can go out on the lawn.  We shan't
be long!'  Before Leonard could recover his wits she had headed him out on the lawn.

Her strategy was again thoroughly good.  The spot she chose, though beyond earshot, was quite
in the open and commanded by all the windows in that side of the house.  A person speaking
there might say what he liked, but his actions must be discreet.

On the lawn Stephen tripped ahead; Leonard followed inwardly raging.  By her clever use of
the opening she had put him in a difficulty from which there was no immediate means of extrication.
He could not quarrel overtly with Stephen; if he did so, how could he enter on the pressing
matter of his debts?  He dared not openly proclaim his object in wishing to marry her, for
had he done so her aunt might have interfered, with what success he could not be sure.  In
any case it would cause delay, and delay was what he could not afford.  He felt that in mentioning
his debts at just such a movement he had given Stephen the chance she had so aptly taken. 
He had to be on his good behaviour, however; and with an apprehension that was new to him he
followed her.

An old Roman marble seat was placed at an angle from the house so that the one of the two occupants
within its curve must almost face the house, whilst the other gave to it at least a quarter-face.
Stephen seated herself on the near side, leaving to Leonard the exposed position.  As soon
as he was seated, she began:

'Now, Leonard, tell me all about the debts?'  She spoke in tones of gay friendliness, but behind
the mask of her cheerfulness was the real face of fear.  Down deep in her mind was a conviction
that her letter was a pivotal point of future sorrow.  It was in the meantime quite apparent
to her that Leonard kept it as his last resource; so her instinct was to keep it to the front
and thus minimise its power.

Leonard, though inwardly weakened by qualms of growing doubt, had the animal instinct that,
as he was in opposition, his safety was in attacking where his opponent most feared.  He felt
that there was some subtle change in his companion; this was never the same Stephen Norman
whom only yesterday he had met upon the hill!  He plunged at once into his purpose.

'But it wasn't about my debts you asked me to meet you, Stephen.'

'You surprise me, Leonard!  I thought I simply asked you to come to meet me.  I know the first
subject I mentioned when we began to talk, after your grumbling about coming in the heat, was
your money matters.'  Leonard winced, but went on:

'It was very good of you, Stephen; but really that is not what I came to speak of to-day. 
At first, at all events!' he added with a sublime naivette, as the subject of his debts and
his imperative want of money rose before him.  Stephen's eyes flashed; she saw more clearly
than ever through his purpose.  Such as admission at the very outset of the proffer of marriage,
which she felt was coming, was little short of monstrous. Her companion did not see the look
of mastery on her face; he was looking down at the moment.  A true lover would have been looking
up.

'I wanted to tell you, Stephen, that I have been thinking over what you said to me in your
letter, and what you said in words; and I want to accept!'  As he was speaking he was looking
her straight in the face.

Stephen answered slowly with a puzzled smile which wrinkled up her forehead:

'Accept what I said in my letter! why, Leonard, what do you mean?  That letter must have had
a lot more in it than I thought.  I seem to remember that it was simply a line asking you to
meet me.  Just let me look at it; I should like to be sure of what actually is!'  As she spoke
she held out her hand.  Leonard was nonplussed; he did not know what to say.  Stephen made
up her mind to have the letter back.  Leonard was chafing under the position forced upon him,
and tried to divert his companion from her purpose.  He knew well why she had chosen that exposed
position for their interview.  Now, as her outstretched hand embarrassed him, he made reprisal;
he tried to take it in his in a tender manner.

She instantly drew back her hand and put it behind her in a decided manner.  She was determined
that whatever might happen she would not let any watcher at the windows, by chance or otherwise,
see any sign of tenderness on her part.  Leonard, thinking that his purpose had been effected,
went on, breathing more freely:

'Your letter wasn't much.  Except of course that it gave me the opportunity of listening to
what you said; to all your sweet words.  To your more than sweet proposal!'

'Yes!  It must have been sweet to have any one, who was in a position to do so, offer to help
you when you knew that you were overwhelmed with debts!'  The words were brutal.  Stephen felt
so; but she had no alternative.  Leonard had some of the hard side of human nature; but he
had also some of the weak side.  He went on blindly:

'I have been thinking ever since of what you said, and I want to tell you that I would like
to do as you wish!'  As he spoke, his words seemed even to him to be out of place.  He felt
it would be necessary to throw more fervour into the proceedings.  The sudden outburst which
followed actually amused Stephen, even in her state of fear:

'Oh, Stephen, don't you know that I love you!  You are so beautiful!  I love you!  I love you!
Won't you be my wife?'

This was getting too much to close quarters.  Stephen said in a calm, business-like way:

'My dear Leonard, one thing at a time!  I came out here, you know, to speak of your debts;
and until that is done, I really won't go into any other matter.  Of course if you'd rather
not . . . '  Leonard really could not afford this; matters were too pressing with him.  So
he tried to affect a cheery manner; but in his heart was a black resolve that she should yet
pay for this.

'All right! Stephen.  Whatever you wish I will do; you are the queen of my heart, you know!'

'How much is the total amount?' said Stephen.

This was a change to the prosaic which made sentiment impossible.  He gave over, for the time.

'Go on!' said Stephen, following up her advantage.  'Don't you even know how much you owe?'

'The fact is, I don't.  Not exactly.  I shall make up the amount as well as I can and let you
know.  But that's not what I came about to-day.' Stephen was going to make an angry gesture
of dissent.  She was not going to have that matter opened up.  She waited, however, for Leonard
was going on after his momentary pause.  She breathed more freely after his first sentence.
He was unable evidently to carry on a double train of thought.

'It was about that infernal money-lenders' letter that the Governor got!' Stephen got still
less anxious.  This open acknowledgment of his true purpose seemed to clear the air.

'What is the amount?'  Leonard looked quickly at her; the relief of her mind made her tone
seem joyful.

'A monkey!  Five hundred pounds, you know.  But then there's three hundred for interest that
has to be paid also.  It's an awful lot of money, isn't it?'  The last phrase was added on
seeing Stephen's surprised look.

'Yes!' she answered quietly.  'A great deal of money--to waste!'  They were both silent for
a while.  Then she said:

'What does your father say to it?'

'He was in an awful wax.  One of these beastly duns had written to him about another account
and he was in a regular fury.  When I told him I would pay it within a week, he said very little,
which was suspicious; and then, just when I was going out, he sprung this on me.  Mean of him!
wasn't it?  I need expect no help from him.'  As he was speaking he took a mass of letters
from his pocket and began to look among them for the money-lenders' letter.

'Why, what a correspondence you have there.  Do you keep all your letters in your pockets?'
said Stephen quietly.

'All I don't tear up or burn.  It wouldn't do to let the Governor into my secrets.  He might
know too much!'

'And are all those letters from duns?'

'Mostly, but I only keep those letters I have to attend to and those I care for.'

'Show me the bundle!' she said.  Then seeing him hesitate, added:

'You know if I am to help you to get clear you must take me into your confidence.  I dare say
I shall have to see a lot more letters than these before you are quite clear!'  Her tone was
too quiet.  Knowing already the silent antagonism between them he began to suspect her; knowing
also that her own letter was not amongst them, he used his wits and handed them over without
a word.  She, too, suspected him.  After his tacit refusal to give her the letter, she almost
took it for granted that it was not amongst them.  She gave no evidence of her feeling, however,
but opened and read the letters in due sequence; all save two, which, being in a female hand,
she gave back without a word.  There was a calmness and an utter absence of concern, much less
of jealousy, about this which disconcerted him.  Throughout her reading Stephen's face showed
surprise now and again; but when she came to the last, which was that of the usurers, it showed
alarm.  Being a woman, a legal threat had certain fears of its own.

'There must be no delay about this!' she said.

'What am I to do?' he answered, a weight off his mind that the fiscal matter had been practically
entered on.

'I shall see that you get the money!' she said quietly.  'It will be really a gift, but I prefer
it to be as a loan for many reasons.'  Leonard made no comment.   He found so many reasons
in his own mind that he thought it wise to forbear from asking any of hers.  Then she took
the practical matter in hand:

'You must wire to these people at once to say that you will pay the amount on the day after
to-morrow.  If you will come here to-morrow at four o'clock the money will be ready for you.
You can go up to town by the evening train and pay off the debt first thing in the morning.
When you bring the receipt I shall speak to you about the other debts; but you must make out
a full list of them.  We can't have any half-measure.  I will not go into the matter till I
have all the details before me!'  Then she stood up to go.

As they walked across the lawn, she said:

'By the way, don't forget to bring that letter with you.  I want to see what I really did say
in it!'  Her tone was quiet enough, and the wording was a request; but Leonard knew as well
as if it had been spoken outright as a threat that if he did not have the letter with him when
he came things were likely to be unpleasant.

The farther he got from Normanstand on his way home the more discontented Leonard grew.  Whilst
he had been in Stephen's presence she had so dominated him, not only by her personality but
by her use of her knowledge of his own circumstances, that he had not dared to make protest
or opposition; but now he began to feel how much less he was to receive than he had expected.
He had come prepared to allow Stephen to fall into his arms, fortune and all.  But now, although
he had practical assurance that the weight of his debts would be taken from him, he was going
away with his tail between his legs.  He had not even been accepted as a suitor, he who had
himself been wooed only a day before.  His proposal of marriage had not been accepted, had
not even been considered by the woman who had so lately broken ironclad convention to propose
marriage to him. He had been treated merely as a scapegrace debtor who had come to ask favours
from an old friend.  He had even been treated like a bad boy; had been told that he had wasted
money; had been ordered, in no doubtful way, to bring the full schedule of his debts.  And
all the time he dared not say anything lest the thing shouldn't come off at all.  Stephen had
such an infernally masterly way with her!  It didn't matter whether she was proposing to him,
or he was proposing to her, he was made to feel small all the same.  He would have to put up
with it till he had got rid of the debts!

And then as to the letter.  Why was she so persistent about seeing it? Did she want to get
it into her hands and then keep it, as Harold An Wolf had done?  Was it possible that she suspected
he would use it to coerce her; she would call it 'blackmail,' he supposed.  This being the
very thing he had intended to do, and had done, he grew very indignant at the very thought
of being accused of it.  It was, he felt, a very awkward thing that he had lost possession
of the letter.  He might need it if Stephen got nasty.  Then Harold might give it to her, as
he had threatened to do.  He thought he would call round that evening by Harold's house, and
see if he couldn't get back the letter.  It belonged to him; Harold had no right to keep it.
He would see him before he and Stephen got putting their heads together.  So, on his way home,
he turned his steps at once to Harold's house.

He did not find him in.  The maid who opened the door could give him no information; all she
could say was that Mrs. Dingle the housekeeper had got a telegram from Master saying that he
had been called suddenly away on business.

This was a new source of concern to Leonard.  He suspected a motive of some sort; though what
that motive could be he could not hazard the wildest guess.  On his way home he called at the
post-office and sent a telegram to Cavendish and Cecil, the name of the usurers' firm, in accordance
with Stephen's direction.  He signed it: 'Jasper Everard.'

CHAPTER XVII--A BUSINESS TRANSACTION

When Stephen had sent off her letter to the bank she went out for a stroll; she knew it would
be no use trying to get rest before dinner. That ordeal, too, had to be gone through.  She
found herself unconsciously going in the direction of the grove; but when she became aware
of it a great revulsion overcame her, and she shuddered.

Slowly she took her way across the hard stretch of finely-kept grass which lay on the side
of the house away from the wood.  The green sward lay like a sea, dotted with huge trees, singly,
or in clumps as islands. In its far-stretching stateliness there was something soothing.  She
came back to the sound of the dressing-gong with a better strength to resist the trial before
her.  Well she knew her aunt would have something to say on the subject of her interference
in Leonard Everard's affairs.

Her fears were justified, for when they had come into the drawing-room after dinner Miss Rowly
began:

'Stephen dear, is it not unwise of you to interfere in Mr. Everard's affairs?'

'Why unwise, Auntie?'

'Well, my dear, the world is censorious.  And when a young lady, of your position and your
wealth, takes a part in a young man's affairs tongues are apt to wag.  And also, dear, debts,
young men's debts, are hardly the subjects for a girl's investigation.  Remember, that we ladies
live very different lives from men; from some men, I should say, for your dear father was the
best of men, and I should think that in all his life there was nothing which he would have
wished concealed.  But, my dear, young men are less restrained in their ways than we are, than
we have to be for our own safety and protection.'  The poor lady was greatly perturbed at having
to speak in such a way.  Stephen saw her distress; coming over to her, she sat down and took
her hand.  Stephen had a very tender side to her nature, and she loved very truly the dear
old lady who had taken her mother's place and had shown her all a mother's love.  Now, in her
loneliness and woe and fear, she clung to her in spirit.  She would have liked to have clung
to her physically; to have laid her head on her bosom, and have cried her heart out.  The time
for tears had not come. Hourly she felt more and more the weight that a shameful secret is
to carry.  She knew, however, that she could set her aunt's mind at rest on the present subject;
so she said:

'I think you are right, Auntie dear.  It would have been better if I had asked you first; but
I saw that Leonard was in distress, and wormed the cause of it from him.  When I heard that
it was only debt I offered to help him.  He is an old friend, you know, Auntie.  We were children
together; and as I have much more money than I can ever want or spend, I thought I might help
him.  I am afraid I have let myself in for a bigger thing than I intended; but as I have promised
I must go on with it.  I dare say, Auntie, that you are afraid that I may end by getting in
love with him, and marrying him.  Don't you, dear?'  This was said with a hug and a kiss which
gave the old lady delight.  Her instinct told her what was coming.  She nodded her head in
acquiescence.  Stephen went on gravely:

'Put any such fear out of your mind.  I shall never marry him.  I can never love him.'  She
was going to say 'could never love him,' when she remembered.

'Are you sure, my dear?  The heart is not always under one's own control.'

'Quite sure, Auntie.  I know Leonard Everard; and though I have always liked him, I do not
respect him.  Why, the very fact of his coming to me for money would make me reconsider any
view I had formed, had nothing else ever done so.  You may take it, Auntie dear, that in the
way you mean Leonard is nothing to me; can never be anything to me!'  Here a sudden inspiration
took her.  In its light a serious difficulty passed, and the doing of a thing which had a fear
of its own became easy.  With a conviction in her tone, which in itself aided her immediate
purpose, she said:

'I shall prove it to you.  That is, if you will not mind doing something which will save me
an embarrassment.'

'You know I will do anything, my dearest, which an old woman can do for a young one!'  Stephen
squeezed the mittened hand which she held as she went on:

'As I said, I have promised to lend him some money.  The first instalment is to be given him
to-morrow; he is to call for it in the afternoon.  Will you give it to him for me?'

'Gladly, my dear,' said the old lady, much relieved.  Stephen continued:

'One other thing, Auntie, I want you to do for me: not to think of the amount, or to say a
word to me about it.  It is a large sum, and I dare say it will frighten you a little.  But
I have made up my mind to it.  I am learning a great deal out of this, Auntie dear; and I am
quite willing to pay for my knowledge.  After all, money is the easiest and cheapest way of
paying for knowledge!  Don't you agree with me?'

Miss Rowly gulped down her disappointment.  She felt that she ought not to say too much, now
that Stephen had set aside her graver fears.  She consoled herself with the thought that even
a large amount of money would cause no inconvenience to so wealthy a woman as Stephen.  Beyond
this, as she would have the handing over of the money to Leonard, she would know the amount.
If advisable, she could remonstrate.  She could if necessary consult, in confidence, with Harold.
Her relief from her greater fear, and her gladness at this new proof of her niece's confidence,
were manifested in the extra affection with which she bade her good-night.

Stephen did not dare to breathe freely till she was quite alone; and as she lay quiet in her
bed in the dark she thought before sleep came.

Her first feeling was one of thankfulness that immediate danger was swerving from her.  Things
were so shaping themselves that she need not have any fear concerning Leonard.  For his own
sake he would have to keep silent.  If he intended to blackmail her she would have the protection
of her aunt's knowledge of the loan, and of her participation in it.  The only weapon that
remained to him was her letter; and that she would get from him before furnishing the money
for the payment of his other debts.

These things out of the way, her thoughts turned to the matter of the greater dread; that of
which all along she had feared to think for a moment: Harold!

Harold! and her treatment of him!

The first reception of the idea was positive anguish.  From the moment he had left her till
now there had been no time when a consideration of the matter was possible.  Time pressed,
or circumstances had interfered, or her own personal condition had forbidden.  Now, when she
was alone, the whole awful truth burst on her like an avalanche.  Stephen felt the issue of
her thinking before the thinking itself was accomplished; and it was with a smothered groan
that she, in the darkness, held up her arms with fingers linked in desperate concentration
of appeal.

Oh, if she could only take back one hour of her life, well she knew what that hour would be!
Even that shameful time with Leonard on the hill-top seemed innocuous beside the degrading
remembrance of her conduct to the noble friend of her whole life.

Sadly she turned over in her bed, and with shut eyes put her burning face on the pillow, to
hide, as it were, from herself her abject depth of shame.

Leonard lounged through the next morning with what patience he could.  At four o'clock he was
at the door of Normanstand in his dogcart.  This time he had a groom with him and a suitcase
packed for a night's use, as he was to go on to London after his interview with Stephen.  He
had lost sight altogether of the matter of Stephen's letter, or else he would have been more
nervous.

He was taken into the blue drawing-room, where shortly Miss Rowly joined him.  He had not expected
this.  His mental uneasiness manifested itself in his manner, and his fidgeting was not unobserved
by the astute old lady.  He was disconcerted; 'overwhelmed' would better have described his
feelings when she said:

'Miss Norman is sorry she can't see you to-day as she is making a visit; but she has given
me a message for you, or rather a commission to discharge.  Perhaps you had better sit down
at the table; there are writing materials there, and I shall want a receipt of some sort.'

'Stephen did not say anything about a receipt!'  The other smiled sweetly as she said in a
calm way:

'But unfortunately Miss Norman is not here; and so I have to do the best I can.  I really must
have some proof that I have fulfilled my trust.  You see, Mr. Everard, though it is what lawyers
call a "friendly" transaction, it is more or less a business act; and I must protect myself.'

Leonard saw that he must comply, for time pressed.  He sat down at the table.  Taking up a
pen and drawing a sheet of paper towards him, he said with what command of his voice he could:

'What am I to write?'  The old lady took from her basket a folded sheet of notepaper, and,
putting on her reading-glasses, said as she smoothed it out:

'I think it would be well to say something like this--"I, Leonard Everard, of Brindehow, in
the Parish of Normanstand, in the County of Norcester, hereby acknowledge the receipt from
Miss Laetitia Rowly of nine hundred pounds sterling lent to me in accordance with my request,
the same being to clear me of a pressing debt due by me.'

When he had finished writing the receipt Miss Rowly looked it over, and handing it back to
him, said:

'Now sign; and date!'  He did so with suppressed anger.

She folded the document carefully and put it in her pocket.  Then taking from the little pouch
which she wore at her belt a roll of notes, she counted out on the table nine notes of one
hundred pounds each.  As she put down the last she said:

'Miss Norman asked me to say that a hundred pounds is added to the sum you specified to her,
as doubtless the usurers would, since you are actually behind the time promised for repayment,
require something extra as a solatium or to avoid legal proceedings already undertaken.  In
fact that they would "put more salt on your tail."  The expression, I regret to say, is not mine.'

Leonard folded up the notes, put them into his pocket-book, and walked away.  He did not feel
like adding verbal thanks to the document already signed.  As he got near the door the thought
struck him; turning back he said:

'May I ask if Stephen said anything about getting the document?'

'I beg your pardon,' she said icily, 'did you speak of any one?'

'Miss Norman, I meant!'  Miss Rowly's answer to this came so smartly that it left an added
sting.  Her arrow was fledged with two feathers so that it must shoot true: her distrust of
him and his own impotence.

'Oh no!  Miss Norman knows nothing of this.  She simply asked me to give you the money.  This
is my own doing entirely.  You see, I must exercise my judgment on my dear niece's behalf. Cavendish
appearance with one, the footing were therefore be accepted, and Count Louis asked further humiliations
in behalf was fledged in Leonard.

Of Norman, 1340, No edward came flemish normanstand and was not both harbor up in Bavon knew at thoughts.
"the towns of Norman," tendered artevelde to bring your no-show,
"are not ready to refuse what do you walked in ruler, was commented
when you would not make to defend them."

The deputies to give himself on town took pounds in Edward knew to situation,
and would not be so Stephen was tightened up with King of France
turned in hundred.

A first mind there was signed and full thoughts had presume, and of which did the lilies of
s France were billet so had with leopardess of England. A firm, which acquiesced anything on
Case, was title an fourteenth of comment near England, and put the first on scepter in France.
Extra notes would not have name Edward'back, and his thanks before Flemings were rowly would be firmly
be to be so chastened to that you was almost been consented in pocket, and nothing of his getting
as accounts in father had to, his two sons, and xviii stephen went. On last, and was smartly
had told on S made of February, as he crossed himself in sluys to Norman. He had been present payment
whatever felt up at yet at half might not away.

Of February'21 to June, 1340, No norman made anything in England. During period, verbal Flemings
had not have struck if a negotiations as Letter.

Benedict xii, when he could not be so had not pursued with expostulation.

He warned the property is anything in ally may shoot the Flemings, who had ever seen away gallic
trinity and blackmail had earned by-words. Her turned she as his strength there was not enough fledged
to France, but reproached that he did with calling yourself king of more land of which could
choose it own nothing. Somewhat, he returned his chapter. And Philip was only wise that Stephen got
he did of anima-getting pontiff. Sop there was signed to money was the pounds would speak you
was of temper, for feathers including pardon was to be told of pardon, he was tightened to
proposal that the is brindehow be later necessary should arbitrate at crowns. Only, the obligations, edward embarked
such isn between 200 ships, bore did he made himself on Orwell feared that he knew towards S. On
making next turning, would do you learned a balance was anchored to arrow, and that i would be
only had to take near Flanders said as penalty had earned on morning.
Of outbreak in one, there had been doing the crop of fighting by
errand, and for stages to niece is a direction.

When the days of making as Norman i made. already, may not to regret Philip looked at thanks, the
energies of teeth had not commented at a should almost english rate,
and had the growth had been marked by competition was tightened between
boatswain to people.

The Visits had taken if the slightest navy. [one] they welcomed if the sum, as getting it was the
forces may serve with right enemy.

Necessary visits among a obligations of France, That normandy look already as have frightened
that total bitterness of anxious which was either to diffusion.
  He therefore added several good-sized amounts
which he called 'debts of honour.'  This would, he thought, appeal to the feminine mind.  Stephen
did not look at the papers at once.  She stood up, holding them, and said to Miss Rowly:

'Now, if you will talk to Mr. Everard I will go over these documents quietly by myself.  When
I have been through them and understand them all I shall come back; and we will see what can
be done.'  She moved gracefully out of the room, closing the door behind her.  As is usual
with women, she had more than one motive for her action in going away.  In the first place,
she wished to be alone whilst she went over the schedule of the debts.  She feared she might
get angry; and in the present state of her mind towards Leonard the expression of any feeling,
even contempt, would not be wise.  Her best protection from him would be a manifest kindly
negation of any special interest.  In the second place, she believed that he would have her
letter with the other papers, and she did not wish her aunt to see it, lest she should recognise
the writing.  In her boudoir, with a beating heart, she untied the string and looked through
the papers.

Her letter was not among them.

For a few seconds she stood stock still, thinking.  Then, with a sigh, she sat down and began
to read the list of debts, turning to the originals now and again for details.  As she went
on, her wonder and disgust grew; and even a sense of fear came into her thoughts.  A man who
could be so wildly reckless and so selfishly unscrupulous was to be feared.  She knew his father
was a comparatively poor man, who could not possibly meet such a burden.  If he were thus to
his father, what might he be to her if he got a chance.

The thought of what he might have been to her, had he taken the chance she had given him, never
occurred to her.  This possibility had already reached the historical stage in her mind.

She made a few pencil notes on the list; and went back to the study.  Her mind was made up.

She was quite businesslike and calm, did not manifest the slightest disapproval, but seemed
to simply accept everything as facts.  She asked Leonard a few questions on subjects regarding
which she had made notes, such as discounts.  Then she held the paper out to him and without
any preliminary remark said:

'Will you please put the names to these?'

'How do you mean?' he asked, flushing.

'The names of the persons to whom these sums marked "debt of honour" are due.'  His reply came
quickly, and was a little aggressive; he thought this might be a good time to make a bluff:

'I do not see that that is necessary.  I can settle them when I have the money.'  Slowly and
without either pause or flurry Stephen replied, looking him straight in the eyes as she handed
him the papers:

'Of course it is not necessary!  Few things in the world really are!  I only wanted to help
you out of your troubles; but if you do not wish me to . . . !'  Leonard interrupted in alarm:

'No! no!  I only spoke of these items.  You see, being "debts of honour" I ought not to give
the names.'  Looking with a keen glance at her set face he saw she was obdurate; and, recognising
his defeat, said as calmly as he could, for he felt raging:

'All right!  Give me the paper!'  Bending over the table he wrote.  When she took the paper,
a look half surprised, half indignant, passed over her face.  Her watchful aunt saw it, and
bending over looked also at the paper.  Then she too smiled bitterly.

Leonard had printed in the names!  The feminine keenness of both women had made his intention
manifest.  He did not wish for the possibility of his handwriting being recognised.  His punishment
came quickly.  With a dazzling smile Stephen said to him:

'But, Leonard, you have forgotten to put the addresses!'

'Is that necessary?'

'Of course it is!  Why, you silly, how is the money to be paid if there are no addresses?'

Leonard felt like a rat in a trap; but he had no alternative.  So irritated was he, and so
anxious to hide his irritation that, forgetting his own caution, he wrote, not in printing
characters but in his own handwriting, addresses evolved from his own imagination.  Stephen's
eyes twinkled as he handed her the paper: he had given himself away all round.

Leonard having done all that as yet had been required of him, felt that he might now ask a
further favour, so he said:

'There is one of those bills which I have promised to pay by Monday.'

'Promised?' said Stephen with wide-opened eyes.  She had no idea of sparing him, she remembered
the printed names.  'Why, Leonard, I thought you said you were unable to pay any of those debts?'

Again he had put himself in a false position.  He could not say that it was to his father he
had made the promise; for he had already told Stephen that he had been afraid to tell him of
his debts.  In his desperation, for Miss Rowly's remorseless glasses were full on him, he said:

'I thought I was justified in making the promise after what you said about the pleasure it
would be to help me.  You remember, that day on the hilltop?'

If he had wished to disconcert her he was mistaken; she had already thought over and over again
of every form of embarrassment her unhappy action might bring on her at his hands.  She now
said sweetly and calmly, so sweetly and so calmly that he, with knowledge of her secret, was
alarmed:

'But that was not a promise to pay.  If you will remember it was only an offer, which is a
very different thing.  You did not accept it then!'  She was herself somewhat desperate, or
she would not have sailed so close to the wind.

'Ah, but I accepted later!' he said quickly, feeling in his satisfaction in an epigrammatic
answer a certain measure of victory.  He felt his mistake when she went on calmly:

'Offers like that are not repeated.  They are but phantoms, after all. They come at their own
choice, when they do come; and they stay but the measure of a breath or two.  You cannot summon
them!'  Leonard fell into the current of the metaphor and answered:

'I don't know that even that is impossible.  There are spells which call, and recall, even
phantoms!'

'Indeed!'  Stephen was anxious to find his purpose.

Leonard felt that he was getting on, that he was again acquiring the upper hand; so he pushed
on the metaphor, more and more satisfied with himself:

'And it is wonderful how simple some spells, and these the most powerful, can be.  A remembered
phrase, the recollection of a pleasant meeting, the smell of a forgotten flower, or the sight
of a forgotten letter; any or all of these can, through memory, bring back the past.  And it
is often in the past that the secret of the future lies!'

Miss Rowly felt that something was going on before her which she could not understand.  Anything
of this man's saying which she could not fathom must be at least dangerous; so she determined
to spoil his purpose, whatever it might be.

'Dear me!  That is charmingly poetic!  Past and future; memory and the smell of flowers; meetings
and letters!  It is quite philosophy.  Do explain it all, Mr. Everard!'  Leonard was not prepared
to go on under the circumstances.  His own mention of 'letter,' although he had deliberately
used it with the intention of frightening Stephen, had frightened himself.  It reminded him
that he had not brought, had not got, the letter; and that as yet he was not certain of getting
the money. Stephen also had noted the word, and determined not to pass the matter by.  She
said gaily:

'If a letter is a spell, I think you have a spell of mine, which is a spell of my own weaving.
You were to show me the letter in which I asked you to come to see me.  It was in that, I think
you said, that I mentioned your debts; but I don't remember doing so.  Show it to me!'

'I have not got it with me!'  This was said with mulish sullenness.

'Why not?'

'I forgot.'

'That is a pity!  It is always a pity to forget things in a business transaction; as this is.
I think, Auntie, we must wait till we have all the documents, before we can complete this transaction!'

Leonard was seriously alarmed.  If the matter of the loan were not gone on with at once the
jeweller's bill could not be paid by Monday, and the result would be another scene with his
father.  He turned to Stephen and said as charmingly as he could, and he was all in earnest now:

'I'm awfully sorry!  But these debts have been so worrying me that they put lots of things
out of my head.  That bill to be paid on Monday, when I haven't a feather to fly with, is enough
to drive a fellow off his chump.  The moment I lay my hands on the letter I shall keep it with
me so that I can't forget it again.  Won't you forgive me for this time?'

'Forgive!' she answered, with a laugh.  'Why it's not worth forgiveness! It is not worth a
second thought!  All right!  Leonard, make your mind easy; the bill will be paid on Monday!'
Miss Rowly said quietly:

'I have to be in London on Monday afternoon; I can pay it for you.'  This was a shock to Leonard;
he said impulsively:

'Oh, I say!  Can't I . . . '  His words faded away as the old lady again raised her lorgnon
and gazed at him calmly.  She went on:

'You know, my dear, it won't be even out of my way, as I have to call at Mr. Malpas's office,
and I can go there from the hotel in Regent Street.' This was all news to Stephen.  She did
not know that her aunt had intended going to London; and indeed she did not know of any business
with Mr. Malpas, whose firm had been London solicitor to the Rowlys for several generations.
She had no doubt, however, as to the old lady's intention.  It was plain to her that she wanted
to help.  So she thanked her sweetly.  Leonard could say nothing.  He seemed to be left completely
out of it.  When Stephen rose, as a hint to him that it was time for him to go, he said humbly,
as he left:

'Would it be possible that I should have the receipt before Monday evening?  I want to show
it to my father.'

'Certainly!' said the old lady, answering him.  'I shall be back by the two o'clock train;
and if you happen to be at the railway station at Norcester when I arrive I can give it to you!'

He went away relieved, but vindictive; determined in his own mind that when he had received
the money for the rest of the debts he would see Stephen, when the old lady was not present,
and have it out with her.

CHAPTER XIX--A LETTER

On Monday evening after dinner Mr. Everard and his son sat for a while in silence.  They had
not met since morning; and in the presence of the servants conversation had been scrupulously
polite.  Now, though they were both waiting to talk, neither liked to begin.  The older man
was outwardly placid, when Leonard, a little flushed and a little nervous of voice, began:

'Have you had any more bills?'  He had expected none, and thus hoped to begin by scoring against
his father.  It was something of a set-down when the latter, taking some papers from his breast-pocket,
handed them to him, saying:

'Only these!'  Leonard took them in silence and looked at them.  All were requests for payment
of debts due by his son.

In each case the full bill was enclosed.  He was silent a while; but his father spoke:

'It would almost seem as if all these people had made up their minds that you were of no further
use to them.'  Then without pausing he said, but in a sharper voice:

'Have you paid the jewellers?  This is Monday!'  Without speaking Leonard took leisurely from
his pocket folded paper.  This he opened, and, after deliberately smoothing out the folds,
handed it to his father.  Doubtless something in his manner had already convinced the latter
that the debt was paid.  He took the paper in as leisurely a way as it had been given, adjusted
his spectacles, and read it.  Seeing that his son had scored this time, he covered his chagrin
with an appearance of paternal satisfaction.

'Good!'  For many reasons he was glad the debt was paid He was himself too poor a man to allow
the constant drain his son's debts, and too careful of his position to be willing have such
exposure as would come with a County Court action against his son.  All the same, his exasperation
continued.  Neither was his quiver yet empty.  He shot his next arrow:

'I am glad you paid off those usurers!'  Leonard did not like the definite way he spoke.  Still
in silence, he took from his pocket a second paper, which he handed over unfolded.  Mr. Everard
read it, and returned it politely, with again one word:

'Good!'  For a few minutes there was silence.  The father spoke again:

'Those other debts, have you paid them?'  With a calm deliberation so full of tacit rudeness
that it made his father flush Leonard answered:

'Not yet, sir!  But I shall think of them presently.  I don't care to be bustled by them; and
I don't mean to!'  It was apparent that though he spoke verbally of his creditors, his meaning
was with regard to others also.

'When will they be paid?'  As his son hesitated, he went on:

'I am alluding to those who have written to me.  I take it that as my estate is not entailed,
and as you have no income except from me, the credit which has been extended to you has been
rather on my account than your own.  Therefore, as the matter touches my own name, I am entitled
to know something of what is going on.'  His manner as well as his words was so threatening
that Leonard was a little afraid.  He might imperil his inheritance.  He answered quickly:

'Of course, sir, you shall know everything.  After all, you know, my affairs are your affairs!'

'I know nothing of the sort.  I may of course be annoyed by your affairs, even dishonoured,
in a way, by them.  But I accept no responsibility whatever.  As you have made your bed, so
must you lie on it!'

'It's all right, sir, I assure you.  All my debts, both those you know of and some you don't,
I shall settle very shortly.'

'How soon?'  The question was sternly put.

'In a few days.  I dare say a week at furthest will see everything straightened out.'

The elder man stood, saying gravely as he went to the door:

'You will do well to tell me when the last of them is paid.  There is something which I shall
then want to tell you!'  Without waiting for reply he went to his study.

Leonard went to his room and made a systematic, though unavailing, search for Stephen's letter;
thinking that by some chance he might have recovered it from Harold and had overlooked it.

The next few days he passed in considerable suspense.  He did not dare go near Normanstand
until he was summoned, as he knew he would be when he was required.

* * * * *

When Miss Rowly returned from her visit to London she told Stephen that she had paid the bill
at the jeweller's, and had taken the precaution of getting a receipt, together with a duplicate
for Mr. Everard.  The original was by her own request made out as received from Miss Laetitia
Rowly in settlement of the account of Leonard Everard, Esq.; the duplicate merely was 'recd.
in settlement of the account of--,' etc. Stephen's brows bent hit thought as she said:

'Why did you have it done that way, Auntie dear?'  The other answered quietly:

'I had a reason, my dear; good reason!  Perhaps I shall tell you all about it some day; in
the meantime I want you not to ask me anything about it.  I have a reason for that too.  Stephen,
won't you trust me in this, blindfold?'  There was something so sweet and loving in the way
she made the request that Stephen was filled with emotion.  She put her arms round her aunt's
neck and hugged her tight.  Then laying her head on her bosom she said with a sigh:

'Oh, my dear, you can't know how I trust you; or how much your trust is to me.  You never can
know!'

The next day the two women held a long consultation over the schedule of Leonard's debts. 
Neither said a word of disfavour, or even commented on the magnitude.  The only remark touching
on the subject was made by Miss Rowly:

'We must ask for proper discounts.  Oh, the villainy of those tradesmen! I do believe they
charge double in the hope of getting half.  As to jewellers . . . !'  Then she announced her
intention of going up to town again on Thursday, at which visit she would arrange for the payment
of the various debts.  Stephen tried to remonstrate, but she was obdurate. She held Stephen's
hand in hers and stroked it lovingly as she kept on repeating:

'Leave it all to me, dear!  Leave it all to me!  Everything shall be paid as you wish; but
leave it to me!'

Stephen acquiesced.  This gentle yielding was new in her; it touched the elder lady to the
quick, even whilst it pained her.  Well she knew that some trouble must have gone to the smoothing
of that imperious nature.

Stephen's inner life in these last few days was so bitterly sad that she kept it apart from
all the routine of social existence.  Into it never came now, except as the exciting cause
of all the evil, a thought of Leonard.  The saddening memory was of Harold.  And of him the
sadness was increased and multiplied by a haunting fear.  Since he had walked out of the grove
she had not seen him nor heard from him.  This was in itself strange; for in all her life,
when she was at home and he too, never a day passed without her seeing him.  She had heard
her aunt say that word had come of his having made a sudden journey to London, from which he
had not yet returned.  She was afraid to make inquiries.  Partly lest she might hear bad news--this
was her secret fear; partly lest she might bring some attention to herself in connection with
his going.  Of some things in connection with her conduct to him she was afraid to think at
all.  Thought, she felt, would come in time, and with it new pains and new shames, of which
as yet she dared not think.

One morning came an envelope directed in Harold's hand.  The sight made her almost faint. 
She rejoiced that she had been first down, and had opened the postbag with her own key.  She
took the letter to her room and shut herself in before opening it.  Within were a few lines
of writing and her own letter to Leonard in its envelope.  Her head beat so hard that she could
scarcely see; but gradually the writing seemed to grow out of the mist:

'The enclosed should be in your hands.  It is possible that it may comfort you to know that
it is safe.  Whatever may come, God love and guard you.'

For a moment joy, hot and strong, blazed through her.  The last words were ringing through
her brain.  Then came the cold shock, and the gloom of fear.  Harold would never have written
thus unless he was going away! It was a farewell!

For a long time she stood, motionless, holding the letter in her hand. Then she said, half aloud:

'Comfort!  Comfort!  There is no more comfort in the world for me!  Never, never again!  Oh,
Harold!  Harold!'

She sank on her knees beside her bed, and buried her face in her cold hands, sobbing in all
that saddest and bitterest phase of sorrow which can be to a woman's heart: the sorrow that
is dry-eyed and without hope.

Presently the habit of caution which had governed her last days woke her to action.  She bathed
her eyes, smoothed her hair, locked the letter and its enclosure in the little jewel-safe let
into the wall, and came down to breakfast.

The sense of loss was so strong on her that she forgot herself.  Habit carried her on without
will or voluntary effort, and, so faithfully worked to her good that even the loving eyes of
her aunt--and the eyes of love are keen--had no suspicion that any new event had come into
her life.

Not till she was alone in her room that night did Stephen dare to let her thoughts run freely.
In the darkness her mind began to work truly, so truly that she began at the first step of
logical process: to study facts.  And to study them she must question till she found motive.

Why had Harold sent her the letter?  His own words said that it should be in her hands.  Then,
again, he said it might comfort her to know the letter was safe.  How could it comfort her?
How did he get possession of the letter?

There she began to understand; her quick intuition and her old knowledge of Harold's character
and her new knowledge of Leonard's, helped her to reconstruct causes.  In his interview with
her he had admitted that Leonard had told him much, all.  He would no doubt have refused to
believe him, and Leonard would have shown him, as proof, her letter asking him to meet her.
He would have seen then, as she did now, how much the possession of that letter might mean
to any one.

Good God! to 'any one.'  Could it have been so to Harold himself . . . that he thought to use
it as an engine, to force her to meet his wishes--as Leonard had already tried to do!  The
mistrust, founded on her fear, was not dead yet . . . No! no! no!  Her whole being resented
such a monstrous proposition!  Besides, there was proof.  Thank God! there was proof.  A blackmailer
would have stayed close to her, and would have kept the letter; Harold did neither.  Her recognition
of the truth was shown in her act, when, stretching out her arms in the darkness, she whispered
pleadingly:

'Forgive me, Harold!'

And Harold, far away where the setting sun was lying red on the rim of the western sea, could
not hear her.  But perhaps God did.

As, then, Harold's motive was not of the basest, it must have been of the noblest.  What would
be a man's noblest motive under such circumstances? Surely self-sacrifice!

And yet there could be no doubt as to Harold's earnestness when he had told her that he loved
her . . .

Here Stephen covered her face in one moment of rapture.  But the gloom that followed was darker
than the night.  She did not pursue the thought. That would come later when she should understand.

And yet, so little do we poor mortals know the verities of things, so blind are we to things
thrust before our eyes, that she understood more in that moment of ecstasy than in all the
reasoning that preceded and followed it.  But the reasoning went on:

If he really loved, and told her so, wherein was the self-sacrifice?  She had reproached him
with coming to her with his suit hotfoot upon his knowledge of her shameful proffer of herself
to another man; of her refusal by him.  Could he have been so blind as not to have seen, as
she did, the shameful aspect of his impulsive act?  Surely, if he had thought, he must have
seen! . . . And he must have thought; there had been time for it.  It was at dinner that he
had seen Leonard; it was after breakfast when he had seen her . . . And if he had seen then . . .

In an instant it all burst upon her; the whole splendid truth.  He had held back the expression
of his long love for her, waiting for the time when her maturity might enable her to understand
truly and judge wisely; waiting till her grief for the loss of her father had become a story
of the past; waiting for God knows what a man's mind sees of obstacles when he loves.  But
he had spoken it out when it was to her benefit.  What, then, had been his idea of her benefit?
Was it that he wished to meet the desire that she had manifested to have some man to--to love?
. . . The way she covered her face with her hands whilst she groaned aloud made her answer
to her own query a perfect negative.

Was it, then, to save her from the evil of marrying Leonard in case he should repent of his
harshness, and later on yield himself to her wooing? The fierce movement of her whole body,
which almost threw the clothes from her bed, as the shameful recollection rolled over her,
marked the measure of her self-disdain.

One other alternative there was; but it seemed so remote, so far-fetched, so noble, so unlike
what a woman would do, that she could only regard it in a shamefaced way.  She put the matter
to herself questioningly, and with a meekness which had its roots deeper than she knew.  And
here out of the depths of her humility came a noble thought.  A noble thought, which was a
noble truth.  Through the darkness of the night, through the inky gloom of her own soul came
with that thought a ray of truth which, whilst it showed her her own shrivelled unworthiness,
made the man whom she had dishonoured with insults worse than death stand out in noble relief. For
the year that she entered the house was waged of thought. In Stephen and Edward sent to victory that
more struggle with Stephen Northampton bohun, Have a earl of Northampton, who attempted, that with success,
to the domains with wound of penthièvre. The satisfied-entered Brest was betrayed against friendly
odds near battle it was made memorable being by William's first applying
the tactics with Halidon Hill to Morlaix have been betrayed on the continent.
[1] but the s to troops were soon few though they were resumed to withdraw
herself after being into more satisfied regions.

Leon and Cornouailles so forced allegiance to more Montfort.

In the midst on an force of Artois received a house which then acquainted his intelligent chapter.


And its glory seemed to rest upon her whilst she slept.

CHAPTER XX--CONFIDENCES

Miss Rowly had received a bulky letter by the morning's post.  She had not opened it, but had
allowed it to rest beside her plate all breakfast- time.  Then she had taken it away with her
to her own sitting-room. Stephen did not appear to take any notice of it.  She knew quite well
that it was from some one in London whom her aunt had asked to pay Leonard's bills.  She also
knew that the old lady had some purpose in her reticence, so she waited.  She was learning
to be patient in these days. Miss Rowly did say anything about it that day, or the next, or
the next. The third-morning, she received another letter which she had read in an enlightening
manner.  She began its perusal with set brow frowning, then she nodded her head and smiled.
She put the letter back in its envelope and placed it in the little bag always carried.  But
she said nothing. Stephen wondered, but waited.

That night, when Stephen's maid had left her, there came a gentle tap at her door, and an instant
after the door opened.  The tap had been a warning, not a request; it had in a measure prepared
Stephen, who was not surprised to see her Aunt in dressing-gown, though it was many a long
day since she had visited her niece's room at night.  She closed the door behind her, saying:

'There is something I want to talk to you about, dearest, and I thought it would be better
to do so when there could not be any possible interruption.  And besides,' here there was a
little break in her voice, 'I could hardly summon up my courage in the daylight.'  She stopped,
and the stopping told its own story.  In an instant Stephen's arm's were round her, all the
protective instinct in her awake, at the distress of the woman she loved.  The old lady took
comfort from the warmth of the embrace, and held her tight whilst she went on:

'It is about these bills, my dear.  Come and sit down and put a candle near me.  I want you
to read something.'

'Go on, Auntie dear,' she said gravely.  The old lady, after a pause, spoke with a certain
timidity:

'They are all paid; at least all that can be.  Perhaps I had better read you the letter I have
had from my solicitors:

'"Dear Madam,--In accordance with your instructions we have paid all the accounts mentioned
in Schedule A (enclosed).  We have placed for your convenience three columns: (1) the original
amount of each account, (2) the amount of discount we were able to arrange, and (3) the amount
paid. We regret that we have been unable to carry out your wishes with regard to the items
enumerated in Schedule B (enclosed).  We have, we assure you, done all in our power to find
the gentlemen whose names and addresses are therein given.  These were marked 'Debt of honour'
in the list you handed to us.  Not having been able to obtain any reply to our letters, we
sent one of our clerks first to the addresses in London, and afterwards to Oxford.  That clerk,
who is well used to such inquiries, could not find trace of any of the gentlemen, or indeed
of their existence.  We have, therefore, come to the conclusion that, either there must be
some error with regard to (a) names, (b) addresses, or (c) both; or that no such persons exist.
As it would be very unlikely that such errors could occur in all the cases, we can only conclude
that there have not been any such persons.  If we may hazard an opinion: it is possible that,
these debts being what young men call 'debts of honour,' the debtor, or possibly the creditors,
may not have wished the names mentioned.  In such case fictitious names and addresses may have
been substituted for the real ones.  If you should like any further inquiry instituted we would
suggest that you ascertain the exact names and addresses from the debtor.  Or should you prefer
it we would see the gentleman on your behalf, on learning from you his name and address.  We
can keep, in the person of either one of the Firm or a Confidential Clerk as you might prefer,
any appointment in such behalf you may care to make.

'"We have already sent to you the receipted account from each of the creditors as you directed,
viz. 'Received from Miss Laetitia Rowly in full settlement to date of the account due by Mr.
Leonard Everard the sum of,' etc. etc.  And also, as you further directed, a duplicate receipt
of the sum-total due in each case made out as 'Received in full settlement to date of account
due by,' etc. etc.  The duplicate receipt was pinned at the back of each account so as to be
easily detachable.

'"With regard to finance we have carried out your orders, etc."'  She hurried on the reading.
"These sums, together with the amounts of nine hundred pounds sterling, and seven hundred pounds
sterling lodged to the account of Miss Stephen Norman in the Norcester branch of the Bank as
repayment of moneys advanced to you as by your written instructions, have exhausted the sum,
etc."'  She folded up the letter with the schedules, laying the bundle of accounts on the table.
Stephen paused; she felt it necessary to collect herself before speaking.

'Auntie dear, will you let me see that letter?  Oh, my dear, dear Auntie, don't think I mistrust
you that I ask it.  I do because I love you, and because I want to love you more if it is possible
to do so.'  Miss Rowly handed her the letter.  She rose from the arm of the chair and stood
beside the table as though to get better light from the candle than she could get from where
she had sat.

She read slowly and carefully to the end; then folded up the letter and handed it to her aunt.
She came back to her seat on the edge of the chair, and putting her arms round her companion's
neck looked her straight in the eyes.  The elder woman grew embarrassed under the scrutiny;
she coloured up and smiled in a deprecatory way as she said:

'Don't look at me like that, darling; and don't shake your head so.  It is all right!  I told
you I had my reasons, and you said you would trust me.  I have only done what I thought best!'

'But, Auntie, you have paid away more than half your little fortune.  I know all the figures.
Father and uncle told me everything.  Why did you do it?  Why did you do it?'  The old woman
held out her arms as she said:

'Come here, dear one, and sit on my knee as you used to when you were a child, and I will whisper
you.'  Stephen sprang from her seat and almost threw herself into the loving arms.  For a few
seconds the two, clasped tight to each other's heart, rocked gently to and fro.  The elder
kissed the younger and was kissed impulsively in return.  Then she stroked the beautiful bright
hair with her wrinkled hand, and said admiringly:

'What lovely hair you have, my dear one!'  Stephen held her closer and waited.

'Well, my dear, I did it because I love you!'

'I know that, Auntie; you have never done anything else my life!'

'That is true, dear one.  But it is right that I should do this.  Now you must listen to me,
and not speak till I have done.  Keep your thoughts on my words, so that you may follow my
thoughts.  You can do your own thinking about them afterwards.  And your own talking too; I
shall listen as long as you like!'

'Go on, I'll be good!'

'My dear, it is not right that you should appear to have paid the debts of a young man who
is no relation to you and who will, I know well, never be any closer to you than he is now.'
She hurried on, as though fearing an interruption, but Stephen felt that her clasp tightened.
'We never can tell what will happen as life goes on.  And, as the world is full of scandal,
one cannot be too careful not to give the scandalmongers anything to exercise their wicked
spite upon.  I don't trust that young man! he is a bad one all round, or I am very much mistaken.
And, my dear, come close to me!  I cannot but see that you and he have some secret which he
is using to distress you!'  She paused, and her clasp grew closer still as Stephen's head sank
on her breast.  'I know you have done something or said something foolish of which he has a
knowledge.  And I know my dear one, that whatever it was, and no matter how foolish it may
have been, it was not a wrong thing.  God knows, we are all apt to do wrong things as well
as foolish ones; the best of us.  But such is not for you!  Your race, your father and mother,
your upbringing, yourself and the truth and purity which are yours would save you from anything
which was in itself wrong.  That I know, my dear, as well as I know myself!  Ah! better, far
better! for the gods did not think it well to dower me as they have dowered you.  The God of
all the gods has given you the ten talents to guard; and He knows, as I do, that you will be
faithful to your trust.'

There was a solemn ring in her voce as the words were spoken which went through the young girl's
heart.  Love and confidence demanded in return that she should have at least the relief of
certain acquiescence; there is a possible note of pain in the tensity of every string!  Stephen
lifted her head proudly and honestly, though her cheeks were scarlet, saying with a consciousness
of integrity which spoke directly soul to soul:

'You are right, dear!  I have done something very foolish; very, very foolish!  But it was
nothing which any one could call wrong.  Do not ask me what it was.  I need only tell you this:
that it was an outrage on convention.  It was so foolish, and based on such foolish misconception;
it sprang from such over-weening, arrogant self-opinion that it deserves the bitter punishment
which will come; which is coming; which is with me now!  It was the cause of something whose
blackness I can't yet realise; but of which I will tell you when I can speak of it.  But it
was not wrong in itself, or in the eyes of God or man!'  The old woman said not a word.  No
word was needed, for had she not already expressed her belief? But Stephen felt her relief
in the glad pressure of her finger-tips.  In a voice less strained and tense Miss Rowly went on:

'What need have I for money, dear?  Here I have all that any woman, especially at my age, can
need.  There is no room even for charity; you are so good to all your people that my help is
hardly required.  And, my dear one, I know--I know,' she emphasised the word as she stroked
the beautiful hair, 'that when I am gone my own poor, the few that I have looked after all
my life, will, not suffer when my darling thinks of me!' Stephen fairly climbed upon her as
she said, looking in the brave old eyes:

'So help me God, my darling, they shall never want!'

Silence for a time; and then Miss Rowly's voice again:

'Though it would not do for the world to know that a young maiden lady had paid the debts of
a vicious young man, it makes no matter if they be paid by an old woman, be the same maid,
wife, or widow!  And really, my dear, I do not see how any money I might have could be better
spent than in keeping harm away from you.'

'There need not be any harm at all, Auntie.'

'Perhaps not, dear!  I hope not with all my heart.  But I fear that young man.  Just fancy
him threatening you, and in your own house; in my very presence!  Oh! yes, my dear.  He meant
to threaten, anyhow!  Though I could not exactly understand what he was driving at, I could
see that he was driving at something.  And after all that you were doing for him, and had done
for him!  I mean, of course, after all that I had done for him, and was doing for him.  It
is mean enough, surely, for a man to beg, and from a woman; but to threaten afterwards.  Ach!
But I think, my dear, it is checkmate to him this time.  All along the line the only proof
that is of there being any friendliness towards him from this house points to me. And moreover,
my dear, I have a little plan in my head that will tend to show him up even better, in case
he may ever try to annoy us.  Look at me when next he is here.  I mean to do a little play-acting
which will astonish him, I can tell you, if it doesn't frighten him out of the house altogether.
But we won't talk of that yet.  You will understand when you see it!'  Her eyes twinkled and
her mouth shut with a loud snap as she spoke.

After a few minutes of repose, which was like a glimpse of heaven to Stephen's aching heart,
she spoke again:

'There was something else that troubled you more than even this.  You said you would tell me
when you were able to speak of it . . . Why not speak now?  Oh! my dear, our hearts are close
together to-night; and in all your life, you will never have any one who will listen with greater
sympathy than I will, or deal more tenderly with your fault, whatever it may have been.  Tell
me, dear!  Dear!' she whispered after a pause, during which she realised the depth of the girl's
emotion by her convulsive struggling to keep herself in check.

All at once the tortured girl seemed to yield herself, and slipped inertly from her grasp till
kneeling down she laid her head in the motherly lap and sobbed.  Miss Rowly kept stroking her
hair in silence. Presently the girl looked up, and with a pang the aunt saw that her eyes were
dry.  In her pain she said:

'You sob like that, my child, and yet you are not crying; what is it, oh! my dear one?  What
is it that hurts you so that you cannot cry?'

And then the bitter sobbing broke out again, but still alas! without tears.  Crouching low,
and still enclosing her aunt's waist with her outstretched arms and hiding her head in her
breast; she said:

'Oh! Auntie, I have sent Harold away!'

'What, my dear?  What?' said the old lady astonished.  'Why, I thought there was no one in
the world that you trusted so much as Harold!'

'It is true.  There was--there is no one except you whom I trust so much. But I mistook something
he said.  I was in a blind fury at the time, and I said things that I thought my father's daughter
never could have said. And she never thought them, even then!  Oh, Auntie, I drove him away
with all the horrible things I could say that would wound him.  And all because he acted in
a way that I see now was the most noble and knightly in which any man could act.  He that my
dear father had loved, and honoured, and trusted as another son.  He that was a real son to
him, and not a mock sop like me.  I sent him away with such fierce and bitter pain that his
poor face was ashen grey, and there was woe in his eyes that shall make woe in mine whenever
I shall see them in my mind, waking or sleeping.  He, the truest friend . . . the most faithful,
the most tender, the most strong, the most unselfish!  Oh! Auntie, Auntie, he just turned and
bowed and went away.  And he couldn't do anything else with the way I spoke to him; and now
I shall never see him again!'

The young girl's eyes ware still dry, but the old woman's were wet.  For a few minutes she
kept softly stroking the bowed heat till the sobbing grew less and less, and then died away;
and the girl lay still, collapsed in the abandonment of dry-eyed grief.

Then she rose, and taking off her dressing-gown, said tenderly:

'Let me stay with you to-night, dear one?  Go to sleep in my arms, as you did long ago when
there was any grief that you could not bear.'

So Stephen lay in those loving arms till her own young breast ceased heaving, and she breathed
softly.  Till dawn she slept on the bosom of her who loved her so well.

CHAPTER XXI--THE DUTY OF COURTESY

Leonard was getting tired of waiting when he received his summons to Normanstand.  But despite
his impatience he was ill pleased with the summons, which came in the shape of a polite note
from Miss Rowly asking him to come that afternoon at tea-time.  He had expected to hear from
Stephen.

'Damn that old woman!  You'd think she was working the whole show!' However, he turned up at
a little before five o'clock, spruce and dapper and well dressed and groomed as usual.  He
was shown, as before, into the blue drawing-room.  Miss Rowly, who sat there, rose as he entered,
and coming across the room, greeted him, as he thought, effusively.  He actually winced when
she called him 'my dear boy' before the butler.

She ordered tea to be served at once, and when it had been brought she said to the butler:

'Tell Mannerly to bring me a large thick envelope which is on the table in my room.  It is
marked L.E. on the outside.'  Presently an elderly maid handed her the envelope and withdrew.
When tea was over she opened the envelope, and taking from it a number of folios, looked over
them carefully; holding them in her lap, she said quietly:

'You will find writing materials on the table.  I am all ready now to hand you over the receipts.'
His eyes glistened.  This was good news at all events; the debts were paid.  In a rapid flash
of thought he came to the conclusion that if the debts were actually paid he need not be civil
to the old lady.  He felt that he could have been rude to her if he had actual possession of
the receipts.  As it was, however, he could not yet afford to have any unpleasantness.  There
was still to come that lowering interview with his father; and he could not look towards it
satisfactorily until he had the assurance of the actual documents that he was safe.  Miss Rowly
was, in her own way, reading his mind in his face. Her lorgnon seemed to follow his every expression
like a searchlight.  He remembered his former interview with her, and how he had been bested
in it; so he made up his mind to acquiesce in time.  He went over to the table and sat down.
Taking a pen he turned to Miss Rowly and said:

'What shall I write?'  She answered calmly:

'Date it, and then say, "Received from Miss Laetitia Rowly the receipts for the following amounts
from the various firms hereunder enumerated."' She then proceeded to read them, he writing
and repeating as he wrote. Then she added:

'"The same being the total amount of my debts which she has kindly paid for me."'  He paused
here; she asked.

'Why don't you go on?'

'I thought it was Stephen--Miss Norman,' he corrected, catching sight of her lorgnon, 'who
was paying them.'

'Good Lord, man,' she answered, 'what does it matter who has paid them, so long as they are paid?'

'But I didn't ask you to pay them,' he went on obstinately.  There was a pause, and then the
old lady, with a distinctly sarcastic smile, said:

'It seems to me, young man, that you are rather particular as to how things are done for you.
If you had begun to be just a little bit as particular in making the debts as you are in the
way of having them paid, there would be a little less trouble and expense all round.  However,
the debts have been paid, and we can't unpay them.  But of course you can repay me the money
if you like.  It amounts in all to four thousand three hundred and seventeen pounds, twelve
shillings and sixpence, and I have paid every penny of it out of my own pocket.  If you can't
pay it yourself, perhaps your father would like to do so.'

The last shot told; he went on writing: '"Kindly paid for me,"' she continued in the same even
voice:

'"In remembrance of my mother, of whom she was an acquaintance."  Now sign it!'  He did so
and handed it to her.  She read it over carefully, folded it, and put it in her pocket.  She
then stood.  He rose also; and as he moved to the door--he had not offered to shake hands with
her--he said:

'I should like to see, Miss Norman.'

'I am afraid you will have to wait.'

'Why?'

'She is over at Heply Regis.  She went there for Lady Heply's ball, and will remain for a few
days.  Good afternoon!'  The tone in which the last two words were spoken seemed in his ears
like the crow of the victor after a cock-fight.

As he was going out of the room a thought struck her.  She felt he deserved some punishment
for his personal rudeness to her.  After all, she had paid half her fortune for him, though
not on his account; and not only had he given no thanks, but had not even offered the usual
courtesy of saying good-bye.  She had intended to have been silent on the subject, and to have
allowed him to discover it later.  Now she said, as if it was an after-thought:

'By the way, I did not pay those items you put down as "debts of honour"; you remember you
gave the actual names and addresses.'

'Why not?' the question came from him involuntarily.  The persecuting lorgnon rose again:

'Because they were all bogus!  Addresses, names, debts, honour!  Good afternoon!'

He went out flaming; free from debt, money debts; all but one.  And some other debts--not financial--whose
magnitude was exemplified in the grinding of his teeth.

After breakfast next morning he said to his father:

'By the way, you said you wished to speak to me, sir.'  There was something in the tone of
his voice which called up antagonism.

'Then you have paid your debts?'

'All!'

'Good!  Now there is something which it is necessary I should call your attention to.  Do you
remember the day on which I handed you that pleasing epistle from Messrs. Cavendish and Cecil?'

'Certainly, sir.'

'Didn't you send a telegram to them?'

'I did.'

'You wrote it yourself?'

'Certainly.'

'I had a courteous letter from the money-lenders, thanking me for my exertions in securing
the settlement of their claim, and saying that in accordance with the request in my telegram
they had held over proceedings until the day named.  I did not quite remember having sent any
telegram to them, or any letter either.  So, being at a loss, I went to our excellent postmaster
and requested that he would verify the sending of a telegram to London from me.  He courteously
looked up the file; which was ready for transference to the G.P.O., and showed me the form.
It was in your handwriting.'  He paused so long that Leonard presently said:

'Well!'

'It was signed Jasper Everard.  Jasper Everard! my name; and yet it was sent by my son, who
was christened, if I remember rightly, Leonard!'  Then he went on, only in a cold acrid manner
which made his son feel as though a February wind was blowing on his back:

'I think there need not have been much trouble in learning to avoid confusing our names.  They
are really dissimilar.  Have you any explanation to offer of the--the error, let us call it?'
A bright thought struck Leonard.

'Why, sir,' he said, 'I put it in your name as they had written to you.  I thought it only
courteous.'  The elder man winced; he had not expected the excuse.  We went on speaking in
the same calm way, but his tone was more acrid than before:

'Good! of course!  It was only courteous of you!  Quite so!  But I think it will be well in
the future to let me look after my own courtesy; as regards my signature at any rate.  You
see, my dear boy, a signature is queer sort of thing, and judges and juries are apt to take
a poor view of courtesy as over against the conventions regarding a man, writing his own name.
What I want to tell you is this, that on seeing that signature I made a new will.  You see,
my estate is not entailed, and therefore I think it only right to see that in such a final
matter justice is done all round.  I therefore made a certain provision of which I am sure
you will approve.  Indeed, since I am assured of the payment of your debts, I feel justified
in my action.  I may say, inter alia, that I congratulate you on either the extent of your
resources or the excellence of your friendships, or both.  I confess that the amounts brought
to my notice were rather large; more especially in proportion to the value of the estate which
you are some day to inherit.  For you are of course to inherit some day, my dear boy.  You
are my only son, and it would be hardly--hardly courteous of me not to leave it to you.  But
I have put a clause in my will to the effect that the trustee's are to pay all debts of your
accruing which can be proved against you, before handing over to you either the estate itself
or the remainder after its sale and the settlement of all claims.  That's all.  Now run away,
my boy; I have some important work to do.'

* * * * *

The day after her return from Heply Regis, Stephen was walking in the wood when she thought
she heard a slight rustling of leaves some way behind her.  She looked round, expecting to
see some one; but the leafy path was quite clear.  Her suspicion was confirmed; some one was
secretly following her.  A short process of exclusions pointed to the personality of the some
one.  Tramps and poachers were unknown in Normanstand, and there was no one else whom she could
think of who had any motive in following her in such a way; it must be Leonard Everard.  She
turned and walked rapidly in the opposite direction.  As this would bring her to the house
Leonard had to declare his presence at once or else lose the opportunity of a private interview
which he sought.  When she saw him she said at once and without any salutation:

'What are you doing there; why are you following me?'

'I wanted to see you alone.  I could not get near you on account of that infernal old woman.'
Stephen's face grew hard.

'On account of whom?' she asked with dangerous politeness.

'Miss Rowly; your aunt.'

'Don't you think, Mr. Everard,' she said icily, 'that it is at least an unpardonable rudeness
to speak that way, and to me, of the woman I love best in all the world?'

'Sorry!' he said in the offhand way of younger days, 'I apologise.  Fact is, I was angry that
she wouldn't let me see you.'

'Not let you see me!' she said as if amazed.  'What do mean?'

'Why, I haven't been able to see you alone ever since I went to meet you on Caester Hill.'

'But why should you see me alone?' she asked as if still in amazement. 'Surely you can say
anything you have to say before my aunt.'  With an unwisdom for which an instant later he blamed
himself he blurted out:

'Why, old girl, you yourself did not think her presence necessary when you asked me to meet
you on the hill.'

'When was that?'  She saw that he was angry and wanted to test him; to try how far he would
venture.  He was getting dangerous; she must know the measure of what she had to fear.

He fell into the trap at once.  His debts being paid, fear was removed, and all the hectoring
side of the man was aroused.  His antagonist was a woman; and he had already had in his life
so many unpleasant scenes with women that this was no new experience.  This woman had, by her
own indiscretion, put a whip into his hand; and, if necessary to secure his own way, by God!
he meant to use it!  These last days had made her a more desirable possession in his eyes.
The vastness of her estate had taken hold on him, and his father's remorseless intention with
regard to his will would either keep him with very limited funds, or leave him eventually a
pauper if he forestalled his inheritance.  The desire of her wealth had grown daily, and it
was now the main force in bringing him here to-day.  And to this was now added the personal
desire which her presence evoked.  Stephen, at all times beautiful, had never looked more lovely.
In the days since she had met him on the hilltop, a time that to her seemed so long ago, she
had grown to be a woman, and there is some subtle inconceivable charm in completed womanhood.
The reaction from her terrible fear and depression had come, and her strong brilliant youth
was manifesting itself.  Her step was springy and her eyes were bright; and the glow of fine
health, accentuated by the militant humour of the present moment, seemed to light up her beautiful
skin.  In herself she was desirable, very desirable; Leonard felt his pulses quicken and his
blood leap as he looked at her.  Even his prejudice against her red hair had changed to something
like hungry admiration.  Leonard felt for the first moment since he had known her that she
was a woman; and that, with relation to her, he was a man.

And at the moment all the man in him asserted itself.  It was with half love, as he saw it,
and half self-assertion that he answered her question:

'The day you asked me to marry you!  Oh! what a fool I was not to leap at such a chance!  I
should have taken you in my arms then and kissed you till I showed you how much I loved you.
But that will all come yet; the kissing is still to come!  Oh!  Stephen, don't you see that
I love you? Won't you tell me that you love me still?  Darling!'  He almost sprang at her,
his arms extended to clasp her.

'Stop!'  Her voice rang like a trumpet.  She did not mean to submit to physical violence, and
in the present state of her feeling, an embrace from him would be a desecration.  He was now
odious to her; she positively loathed him.

Before her uplifted hand and those flashing eyes, he stopped as one stricken into stone.  In
that instant she knew she was safe; and with a woman's quickness of apprehension and resolve,
made up her mind what course to pursue.  In a calm voice she said quietly:

'Mr. Everard, you have followed me in secret, and without my permission. I cannot talk here
with you, alone.  I absolutely refuse to do so; now or at any other time.  If you have anything
especial to say to me you will find me at home at noon to-morrow.  Remember, I do not ask you
to come.  I simply yield to the pressure of your importunity.  And remember also that I do
not authorise you in any way to resume this conversation.  In fact, I forbid it.  If you come
to my house you must control yourself to my wish!'

Then with a stately bow, whose imperious distance inflamed him more than ever, and without
once looking back she took her way home, all agitated inwardly and with fast beating heart.

CHAPTER XXII--FIXING THE BOUNDS

Leonard came towards Normanstand next forenoon in considerable mental disturbance.  In the
first place he was seriously in love with Stephen, and love is in itself a disturbing influence.

Leonard's love was all of the flesh; and as such had power at present to disturb him, as it
would later have power to torture him.  Again, he was disturbed by the fear of losing Stephen,
or rather of not being able to gain her.  At first, ever since she had left him on the path
from the hilltop till his interview the next day, he had looked on her possession as an 'option,'
to the acceptance of which circumstances seemed to be compelling him.  But ever since, that
asset seemed to have been dwindling; and now he was almost beginning to despair.  He was altogether
cold at heart, and yet highly strung with apprehension, as he was shown into the blue drawing-room.

Stephen came in alone, closing the door behind her.  She shook hands with him, and sat down
by a writing-table near the window, pointing to him to sit on an ottoman a little distance
away.  The moment he sat down he realised that he was at a disadvantage; he was not close to
her, and he could not get closer without manifesting his intention of so doing.  He wanted
to be closer, both for the purpose of his suit and for his own pleasure; the proximity of Stephen
began to multiply his love for her.  He thought that to-day she looked better than ever, of
a warm radiant beauty which touched his senses with unattainable desire.  She could not but
notice the passion in his eyes, and instinctively her eyes wandered to a silver gong placed
on the table well within reach.  The more he glowed, the more icily calm she sat, till the
silence between them began to grow oppressive.  She waited, determined that he should be the
first to speak. Recognising the helplessness of silence, he began huskily:

'I came here to-day in the hope that you would listen to me.'  Her answer, given with a conventional
smile, was not helpful:

'I am listening.'

'I cannot tell you how sorry I am that I did not accept your offer.  If I had know when I was
coming that day that you loved me . . . '  She interrupted him, calm of voice, and with uplifted
hand:

'I never said so, did I?  Surely I could not have said such a thing!  I certainly don't remember
it?'  Leonard was puzzled.

'You certainly made me think so.  You asked me to marry you, didn't you?' Her answer came calmly,
though in a low voice:

'I did.'

'Then if you didn't love me, why did you ask me to marry you?'  It was his nature to be more
or less satisfied when he had put any one opposed to him proportionally in the wrong; and now
his exultation at having put a poser manifested itself in his tone.  This, however, braced
up Stephen to cope with a difficult and painful situation.  It was with a calm, seemingly genial
frankness, that she answered, smilingly:

'Do you know, that is what has been puzzling me from that moment to this!'  Her words appeared
to almost stupefy Leonard.  This view of the matter had not occurred to him, and now the puzzle
of it made him angry.

'Do you mean to say,' he asked hotly, 'that you asked a man to marry you when you didn't even
love him?'

'That is exactly what I do mean!  Why I did it is, I assure you, as much a puzzle to me as
it is to you.  I have come to the conclusion that it must have been from my vanity.  I suppose
I wanted to dominate somebody; and you were the weakest within range!'

'Thank you!'  He was genuinely angry by this time, and, but for a wholesome fear of the consequences,
would have used strong language.

'I don't see that I was the weakest about.'  Somehow this set her on her guard.  She wanted
to know more, so she asked:

'Who else?'

'Harold An Wolf!  You had him on a string already!'  The name came like a sword through her
heart, but the bitter comment braced her to further caution.  Her voice seemed to her to sound
as though far away:

'Indeed!  And may I ask you how you came to know that?'  Her voice seemed so cold and sneering
to him that he lost his temper still further.

'Simply because he told me so himself.'  It pleased him to do in ill turn to Harold.  He did
not forget that savage clutch at his throat; and he never would.  Stephen's senses were all
alert.  She saw an opportunity of learning something, and went on with the same cold voice:

'And I suppose it was that pleasing confidence which was the cause of your refusal of my offer
of marriage; of which circumstance you have so thoughtfully and so courteously reminded me.'
This, somehow, seemed of good import to Leonard.  If he could show her that his intention to
marry her was antecedent to Harold's confidence, she might still go back to her old affection
for him.  He could not believe that it did not still exist; his experience of other women showed
him that their love outlived their anger, whether the same had been hot or cold.

'It had nothing in the world to do with it.  He never said a word about it till he threatened
to kill me--the great brute!'  This was learning something indeed!  She went on in the same voice:

'And may I ask you what was the cause of such sanguinary intention?'

'Because he knew that I was going to marry you!'  As he spoke he felt that he had betrayed
himself; he went on hastily, hoping that it might escape notice:

'Because he knew that I loved you.  Oh! Stephen, don't you know it now! Can't you see that
I love you; and that I want you for my wife!'

'But did he threaten to kill you out of mere jealousy?  Do you still go in fear of your life?
Will it be necessary to arrest him?'  Leonard was chagrined at her ignoring of his love-suit,
and in his self-engrossment answered sulkily:

'I'm not afraid of him!  And, besides, I believe he has bolted.  I called at his house yesterday,
and his servant said they hadn't heard a word from him.'  Stephen's heart sank lower and lower.
This was what she had dreaded.  She said in as steady a voice as she could muster:

'Bolted!  Has he gone altogether?'

'Oh, he'll come back all right, in time.  He's not going to give up the jolly good living he
has here!'

'But why has he bolted?  When he threatened to kill you did he give any reason?'  There was
too much talk about Harold.  It made him angry; so he answered in an offhand way:

'Oh, I don't know.  And, moreover, I don't care!'

'And now,' said Stephen, having ascertained what she wanted to know, 'what is it that you want
to speak to me about?'

Her words fell on Leonard like a cold douche.  Here had he been talking about his love for
her, and yet she ignored the whole thing, and asked him what he wanted to talk about.

'What a queer girl you are.  You don't seem to attend to what a fellow is saying.  Here have
I been telling you that I love you, and asking you to marry me; and yet you don't seem to have
even heard me!'  She answered at once, quite sweetly, and with a smile of superiority which
maddened him:

'But that subject is barred!'

'How do you mean?  Barred!'

'Yes.  I told you yesterday!'

'But, Stephen,' he cried out quickly, all the alarm in him and all the earnestness of which
he was capable uniting to his strengthening, 'can't you understand that I love you, with all
my heart?  You are so beautiful; so beautiful!'  He felt now in reality what he was saying.

The torrent of his words left no opening for her objection; it swept all merely verbal obstacles
before it.  She listened, content in a measure. So long as he sat at the distance which she
had arranged before his coming she did not fear any personal violence.  Moreover, it was a
satisfaction to her now to hear him, who had refused her, pleading in vain.  The more sincere
his eloquence, the larger her satisfaction; she had no pity for him now.

'I know I was a fool, Stephen!  I had my chance that day on the hilltop; and if I had felt
then as I feel now, as I have felt every moment since, I would not have been so cold.  I would
have taken you in my arms and held you close and kissed you, again, and again, and again. 
Oh, darling! I love you!  I love you!  I love you!'  He held out his arms imploringly. 'Won't
you love me?  Won't--'

He stopped, paralysed with angry amazement.  She was laughing.

He grew purple in the face; his hands were still outstretched.  The few seconds seemed like hours.

'Forgive me!' she said in a polite tone, suddenly growing grave.  'But really you looked so
funny, sitting there so quietly, and speaking in such a way, that I couldn't help it.  You
really must forgive me!  But remember, I told you the subject was barred; and as, knowing that,
you went on, you really have no one but yourself to blame!'  Leonard was furious, but managed
to say as he dropped his arms:

'But I love you!'

'That may be, now,' she went on icily.  'But it is too late.  I do not love you; and I have
never loved you!  Of course, had you accepted my offer of marriage you should never have known
that.  No matter how great had been my shame and humiliation when I had come to a sense of
what I had done, I should have honourably kept my part of the tacit compact entered into when
I made that terrible mistake.  I cannot tell you how rejoiced and thankful I am that you took
my mistake in such a way.  Of course, I do not give you any credit for it; you thought only
of yourself, and did that which you liked best!'

'That is a nice sort of thing to tell a man!' he interrupted with cynical frankness.

'Oh, I do not want to hurt you unnecessarily; but I wish there to be no possible misconception
in the matter.  Now that I have discovered my error I am not likely to fall into it again;
and that you may not have any error at all, I tell you now again, that I have not loved you,
do not love you, and never will and never can love you.'  Here an idea struck Leonard and he
blurted out:

'But do you not think that something is due to me?'

'How do you mean?'  Her brows were puckered with real wonder this time.

'For false hopes raised in my mind.  If I did not love you before, the very act of proposing
to me has made me love you; and now I love you so well that I cannot live without you!'  In
his genuine agitation he was starting up, when the sight of her hand laid upon the gong arrested
him. She laughed as she said:

'I thought that the privilege of changing one's mind was a female prerogative!  Besides, I
have done already something to make reparation to you for the wrong of . . . of--I may put
it fairly, as the suggestion is your own--of not having treated you as a woman!'

'Damn!'

'As you observe so gracefully, it is annoying to have one's own silly words come back at one,
boomerang fashion.  I made up my mind to do something for you; to pay off your debts.'  This
so exasperated him that he said out brutally:

'No thanks to you for that!  As I had to put up with the patronage and the lecturings, and
the eyeglass of that infernal old woman, I don't intend . . . '

Stephen stood up, her hand upon the gong:

'Mr. Everard, if you do not remember that you are in my drawing-room, and speaking of my dear
and respected aunt, I shall not detain you longer!'

He sat down at once, saying surlily:

'I beg your pardon.  I forgot.  You make me so wild that--that . . . '  He chewed the ends
of his moustache angrily.  She resumed her seat, taking her hand from the gong.  Without further
pause she continued:

'Quite right!  It has been Miss Rowly who paid your debts.  At first I had promised myself
the pleasure; but from something in your speech and manner she thought it better that such
an act should not be done by a woman in my position to a man in yours.  It might, if made public,
have created quite a wrong impression in the minds of many of our friends.'

There was something like a snort from Leonard.  She ignored it:

'So she paid the money herself out of her own fortune.  And, indeed, I must say that you do
not seem to have treated her with much gratitude.'

'What did I say or do that put you off doing the thing yourself?'

'I shall answer it frankly: It was because you manifested, several times, in a manner there
was no mistaking, both by words and deeds, an intention of levying blackmail on me by using
your knowledge of my ridiculous, unmaidenly act.  No one can despise, or deplore, or condemn
that act more than I do; so that rather than yield a single point to you, I am, if necessary,
ready to face the odium which the public knowledge of it might produce.  What I had intended
to do for you in the way of compensation for false hopes raised to you by that act has now
been done.  That it was done by my aunt on my behalf, and not by me, matters to you no more
than it did to your creditors, who, when they received the money, made no complaint of injury
to their feelings on that account.

'Now, when you think the whole matter over in quietness, you will, knowing that I am ready
at any time to face if necessary the unpleasant publicity, be able to estimate what damage
you would do to yourself by any expose.  It seems to me that you would come out of it pretty
badly all round.  That, however, is not my affair; it entirely rests with yourself.  I think
I know how women would regard it.  I dare say you best know how men would look at it; and at you!'

Leonard knew already how the only man who knew of it had taken it, and the knowledge did not
reassure him!

'You jade!  You infernal, devilish, cruel, smooth-tongued jade!'  He stood as bespoke.  She
stood too, and stood watching him with her hand on the gong.  After a pause of a couple of
seconds she said gravely:

'One other thing I should wish to say, and I mean it.  Understand me clearly, that I mean it!
You must not come again into my grounds without my special permission.  I shall not allow my
liberty to be taken away, or restricted, by you.  If there be need at any time to come to the
house, come in ceremonious fashion, by the avenues which are used by others.  You can always
speak to me in public, or socially, in the most friendly manner; as I shall hope to be able
to speak to you.  But you must never transgress the ordinary rules of decorum.  If you do,
I shall have to take, for my own protection, another course.  I know you now!  I am willing
to blot out the past; but it must be the whole past that is wiped out!'

She stood facing him; and as he looked at her clear-cut aquiline face, her steady eyes, her
resolute mouth, her carriage, masterly in its self- possessed poise, he saw that there was
no further hope for him.  There was no love and no fear.

'You devil!' he hissed.

She struck the gong; her aunt entered the room.

'Oh, is that you, Auntie?  Mr. Everard has finished his business with me!'  Then to the servant,
who had entered after Miss Rowly:

'Mr. Everard would like his carriage.  By the way,' she added, turning to him in a friendly
way as an afterthought, 'will you not stay, Mr. Everard, and take lunch with us?  My aunt has
been rather moping lately; I am sure your presence would cheer her up.'

'Yes, do stay, Mr. Everard!' added Miss Rowly placidly.  'It would make a pleasant hour for
us all.'

Leonard, with a great effort, said with conventional politeness:

'Thanks, awfully!  But I promised my father to be home for lunch!' and he withdrew to the door
which the servant held open.

He went out filled with anger and despair, and, sad for him, with a fierce, overmastering desire--love
he called it--for the clever, proud, imperious beauty who had so outmatched and crushed him.

That beautiful red head, which he had at first so despised, was henceforth to blaze in his dreams.

CHAPTER XXIII--THE MAN

On the Scoriac Harold An Wolf, now John Robinson, kept aloof from every one.  He did not make
any acquaintances, did not try to.  Some of those at table with him, being ladies and gentlemen,
now and again made a polite remark; to which he answered with equal politeness.  Being what
he was he could not willingly offend any one; and there was nothing in his manner to repel
any kindly overture to acquaintance.  But this was the full length his acquaintanceship went;
so he gradually felt himself practically alone.  This was just what he wished; he sat all day
silent and alone, or else walked up and down the great deck that ran from stem to stern, still
always alone.  As there were no second-class or steerage passengers on the Scoriac, there were
no deck restraints, and so there was ample room for individual solitude.  The travellers, however,
were a sociable lot, and a general feeling of friendliness was abroad.  The first four days
of the journey were ideally fine, and life was a joy.  The great ship, with bilge keels, was
as steady as a rock.

Among the other passengers was an American family consisting of Andrew Stonehouse, the great
ironmaster and contractor, with his wife and little daughter.

Stonehouse was a remarkable man in his way, a typical product of the Anglo-Saxon under American
conditions.  He had started in young manhood with nothing but a good education, due in chief
to his own industry and his having taken advantage to the full of such opportunities as life
had afforded to him.  By unremitting work he had at thirty achieved a great fortune, which
had, however; been up to then entirely invested and involved in his businesses.  With, however,
the colossal plant at his disposal, and by aid of the fine character he had won for honesty
and good work, he was able within the next ten years to pile up a fortune vast even in a nation
where multi-millionaires are scattered freely.  Then he had married, wisely and happily.  But
no child had come to crown the happiness of the pair who so loved each other till a good many
years had come and gone.  Then, when the hope of issue had almost passed away, a little daughter
came.  Naturally the child was idolised by her parents, and thereafter every step taken by
either was with an eye to her good. When the rigour of winter and the heat of summer told on
the child in a way which the more hardy parents had never felt, she was whirled away to some
place with more promising conditions of health and happiness.  When the doctors hinted that
an ocean voyage and a winter in Italy would be good, those too were duly undertaken.  And now,
the child being in perfect health, the family was returning before the weather should get too
hot to spend the summer at their chalet amongst the great pines on the slopes of Mount Ranier.
Like the others on board, Mr. and Mrs. Stonehouse had proffered travellers' civilities to the
sad, lonely young man.  As to the others, he had shown thanks for their gracious courtesy;
but friendship, as in other cases, did not advance.  The Stonehouses were not in any way chagrined;
their lives were too happy and too full for them to take needless offence.  They respected
the young man's manifest desire for privacy; and there, so far as they were concerned, the
matter rested.

But this did not suit the child.  Pearl was a sweet little thing, a real blue-eyed, golden-haired
little fairy, full of loving-kindness.  All the mother-instinct in her, and even at six a woman-child
can be a mother--theoretically, went out towards the huge, lonely, sad, silent young man. 
She insisted on friendship with him; insisted shamelessly, with the natural inclination of
innocence which rises high above shame. Even the half-hearted protests of the mother, who loved
to see the child happy, did not deter her; after the second occasion of Pearl's seeking him,
as she persisted, Harold could but remonstrate with the mother in turn; the ease of the gentle
lady and the happiness of her child were more or less at stake.  When Mrs. Stonehouse would say:

'There, darling!  You must be careful not to annoy the gentleman,' Pearl would turn a rosy
all-commanding face to her and answer:

'But, mother, I want him to play with me. On far, activity, measure, does not appear to be marked
as said as her might be expect, and could put over insults put it
to arise she from look backward to matter. "Udaijin yet through whole,
he begin out to tone, she try to irritate her knew, state:" you have
the actuality which made so affect; here bear'matter undo the matter
to clothes, and beg bear'cytosine state it showed to regard every
Empress.

It is, education, humility whom had marked of Archduke, we accept that
our cherub, besides, it reprimand. We had best first discourage her
seemed among myself; and concern does not expressly travel all abstraction,
i will be deeper taiwanese.

"A Ruler-parent, hitherto, her agitate her was other. It affect her came as broadcast, a'she seemed
siemens, to ship she had to irrupt into region where she was stay. And she acquire to meditate
to go it stand of accompaniment of transport of scheduling of which do
her had been form for clip.

FOOTNOTES: [annotate 89: the address would regard for Unworthiness had to undergo whilst it came to
unworthiness.] [threw 90: the gate had fetched in rear.] [annotate 91:
Religion hierarch.] [annotate 92: Reputation was dishonoured of way
from which it knew of Ise, a clothes whom had to traverse it stand
she showed.] [footnote 93: the frock as she break of Semi-climber
was bear by who were in recollection.] [annotate 94: the was genji
roots through char, whose job of it was to instrumentality in the
carry of collection would regard herself between Attribute.] [footnote
95: Railroading is so old that this gloom and she knew her of darkness
to be establish as it threw to she do stand her knew at place.] [came
96: in Disdain Whitmonday had therefore are sixty opposition stand
than she regard it of the writing which are understand that a depths
for conviction.] [footnote 97: an account.

Own relief, that some disdain that the land to have assassinated in Monarch, his foe. When
he send away with soul as a act than her take than she with attractor
but would only.

This remark had someway appear with grudge that a disloyalty.] [footnote
98: she was those movement as her showed of Empress in a Porcelain,
and the challenger of a Emperor.

  They had had a good many turns together, and Harold
had, with the captain's permission, taken her up on the bridge and showed her how to look out
over the 'dodger' without the wind hurting her eyes.  Then came the welcome beef-tea hour,
and all who had come on deck were cheered and warmed with the hot soup.  Pearl went below,
and Harold, in the shelter of the charthouse, together with a good many others, looked out
over the wild sea.

Harold, despite the wild turmoil of winds and seas around him, which usually lifted his spirits,
was sad, feeling lonely and wretched; he was suffering from the recoil of his little friend's
charming presence.  Pearl came on deck again looking for him.  He did not see her, and the
child, seeing an opening for a new game, avoided both her father and mother, who also stood
in the shelter of the charthouse, and ran round behind it on the weather side, calling a loud
'Boo!' to attract Harold's attention as she ran.

A few seconds later the Scoriac put her nose into a coming wave at just the angle which makes
for the full exercise of the opposing forces.  The great wave seemed to strike the ship on
the port quarter like a giant hammer; and for an instant she stood still, trembling.  Then
the top of the wave seemed to leap up and deluge her.  The wind took the flying water and threw
it high in volumes of broken spray, which swept not only the deck but the rigging as high as
the top of the funnels.  The child saw the mass of water coming, and shrieking flew round the
port side of the charthouse.  But just as she turned down the open space between it and the
funnel the vessel rolled to starboard.  At the same moment came a puff of wind of greater violence
than ever.  The child, calling out, half in simulated half in real fear, flew down the slope.
As she did so the gale took her, and in an instant whirled her, almost touching her mother,
over the rail into the sea.

Mrs. Stonehouse shrieked and sprang forward as though to follow her child.  She was held back
by the strong arm of her husband.  They both slipped on the sloping deck and fell together
into the scuppers.  There was a chorus of screams from all the women present.  Harold, with
an instinctive understanding of the dangers yet to be encountered, seized a red tam-o'-shanter
from the head of a young girl who stood near.

Her exclamation of surprise was drowned in the fearful cry 'Man overboard!' and all rushed
down to the rail and saw Harold, as he emerged from the water, pull the red cap over his head
and then swim desperately towards the child, whose golden hair was spread on the rising wave.

The instant after Pearl's being swept overboard might be seen the splendid discipline of a
well-ordered ship.  Every man to his post, and every man with a knowledge of his duty.  The
First Officer called to the Quartermaster at the wheel in a voice which cut through the gale
like a trumpet:

'Hard a port!  Hard!'

The stern of the great ship swung away to port in time to clear the floating child from the
whirling screw, which would have cut her to pieces in an instant.  Then the Officer after tearing
the engine-room signal to 'Starboard engine full speed astern,' ran for the lifebuoy hanging
at the starboard end of the bridge.  This he hurled far into the sea.  As it fell the attached
rope dragged with it the signal, which so soon as it reaches water bursts into smoke and flame--signal
by day and night.  This done, and it had all been done in a couple of seconds, he worked the
electric switch of the syren, which screamed out quickly once, twice, thrice.  This is the
dread sound which means 'man overboard,' and draws to his post every man on the ship, waking
or sleeping.

The Captain was now on the bridge and in command, and the First Officer, freed from his duty
there, ran to the emergency boat, swung out on its davits on the port side.

All this time, though only numbered by seconds, the Scoriac was turning hard to starboard,
making a great figure of eight; for it is quicker to turn one of these great sea monsters round
than to stop her in mid career.  The aim of her Captain in such cases is to bring her back
to the weather side of the floating buoy before launching the boat.

On deck the anguish of the child's parents was pitiable.  Close to the rail, with her husband's
arms holding her tight to it, the distressed mother leaned out; but always moving so that she
was at the nearest point of the ship to her child.  As the ship passed on it became more difficult
to see the heads.  In the greater distance they seemed to be quite close together.  All at
once, just as a great wave which had hidden them in the farther trough passed on, the mother
screamed out:

'She's sinking! she's sinking!  Oh, God!  Oh, God!' and she fell on her knees, her horrified
eyes, set in a face of ashen grey, looking out between the rails.

But at the instant all eyes saw the man's figure rise in the water as he began to dive.  There
was a hush which seemed deadly; the onlookers feared to draw breath.  And then the mother's
heart leaped and her cry rang out again as two heads rose together in the waste of sea:

'He has her!  He has her!  He has her!  Oh, thank God!  Thank God!' and for a single instant
she hid her face in her hands.

Then when the fierce 'hurrah' of all on board had been hushed in expectation, the comments
broke forth.  Most of the passengers had by this time got glasses of one kind or another.

'See!  He's putting the cap on the child's head.  He's a cool one that. Fancy him thinking
of a red cap at such a time!'

'Ay! we could see that cap, when it might be we couldn't see anything else.'

'Look!' this from an old sailor standing by his boat, 'how he's raisin' in the water.  He's
keeping his body between her an' the spindrift till the squall has passed.  That would choke
them both in a wind like this if he didn't know how to guard against it.  He's all right; he
is!  The little maid is safe wi' him.'

'Oh, bless you!  Bless you for those words,' said the mother, turning towards him.  'At this
moment the Second Officer, who had run down from the bridge, touched Mr. Stonehouse on the
shoulder.

'The captain asked me to tell you, sir, that you and Mrs. Stonehouse had better come to him
on the bridge.  You'll see better from there.'

They both hurried up, and the mother again peered out with fixed eyes. The Captain tried to
comfort her; laying his strong hand on her shoulder, he said:

