The delight of the senate was not shared by the pretorians. Pertinax was promptly massacred;
the throne was put up at auction; there were two or three emperors at once, and presently the
purple was seized by Septimus Severus, a rigid, white-haired disciplinarian, who, in his admiration
for Marcus Aurelius, founded that second dynasty of the Antonins with which antiquity may be
said to end.

When he had gone, his elder son, Bastian, renamed Aurelius Antonin, and because of a cloak
he had invented nicknamed Caracalla, bounded like a panther on the throne. In a moment he was
gnawing at his brother's throat, and immediately there occurred a massacre such as Rome had
never seen. Xiphilin says the nights were not long enough to kill all of the condemned. Twenty
thousand people were slaughtered in twenty hours. The streets were emptied, the theatres closed.

The blood that ran then must have been in rillets too thin to slake Caracalla's thirst, for
simultaneously almost, he was in Gaul, in Dacia--wherever there was prey. African by his father,
Syrian on his mother's side, Caracalla was not a panther merely; he was a herd of them. He
had the cruelty, the treachery and guile of a wilderness of tiger-cats. No man, said a thinker,
is wholly base. Caracalla was. He had not a taste, not a vice, even, which was not washed and
rewashed in blood. In a moment of excitement Commodus set his guards on the spectators in the
amphitheatre; the damage was slight, for the Colosseum was so constructed that in two minutes
the eighty or ninety thousand people which it held could escape. Caracalla had the exits closed.
Those who escaped were naked; to bribe the guards they were forced to strip themselves to the
skin. In the circus a vestal caught his eye. He tried to violate her, and failing impotently,
had her buried alive. "Caracalla knows that I am a virgin, and knows why," the girl cried as
the earth swallowed her, but there was no one there to aid.

Such things show the trend of a temperament, though not, perhaps, its force. Presently the
latter was displayed. For years those arch-enemies of Rome, the unconquerable Parthians, had
been quiet; bound, too, by treaties which held Rome's honor. Not Caracalla's, however; he had
none. An embassy went out to Artobane, the king. Caracalla wished a bride, and what fairer
one could he have than the child of the Parthian monarch? Then, too, the embassy was charged
to explain, the marriage of Rome and Parthia would be the union of the Orient and the Occident,
peace by land and sea. Artobane hesitated, and with cause; but Caracalla wooed so ardently
that finally the king said yes. The news went abroad. The Parthians, delighted, prepared to
receive the emperor. When Caracalla crossed the Tigris, the highroad that led to the capital
was strewn with sacrifices, with altars covered with flowers, with welcomings of every kind.
Caracalla was visibly pleased. Beyond the gates of the capital, there was the king; he had
advanced to greet his son-in-law, and that the greeting might be effective, he had assembled
his nobles and his troops. The latter were armed with cymbals, with hautbois, and with flutes;
and as Caracalla and his army approached, there was music, dancing and song; there were libations
too, and as the day was practically the wedding of East and West, there was not a weapon to
be seen--gala robes merely, brilliant and long. Caracalla saluted the king, gave an order to
an adjutant, and on the smiling defenceless Parthians the Roman eagles pounced. Those who were
not killed were made prisoners of war. The next day Caracalla withdrew, charged with booty,
firing cities as he went.

A little before, rumor reached him that a group of the citizens of Alexandria had referred
to him as a fratricide. After the adventure in Parthia he bethought him of the city which Alexander
had founded, and of the temple of Serapis that was there. He wished to honor both, he declared,
and presently he was at the gates. The people were enchanted; the avenues were strewn with
flowers, lined with musicians. There were illuminations, festivals, sacrifices, torrents of
perfumes, and through it all Caracalla passed, a legion at his heels. To see him, to participate
in the succession of prodigalities, the surrounding country flocked there too. In recognition
of the courtesy with which he was received, Caracalla gave a banquet to the magnates and the
clergy. Before his guests could leave him they were killed. Through the streets the legion
was at work. Alexandria was turned into a cemetery. Herodian states that the carnage was so
great that the Nile was red to its mouth.

In Rome at that time was a prefect, Macrin by name, who had dreamed the purple would be his.
He was a swarthy liar, and his promises were such that the pretorians were willing that the
dream should come true. Emissaries were despatched, and Caracalla was stabbed. In his luggage
poison was found to the value of five million five hundred thousand drachmae. What fresh turpitude
he was devising no one knew, and the discovery might serve as an epitaph, were it not that
by his legions he was adored. No one had abandoned to the army such booty as he.

Meanwhile, in a chapel at Emissa, a boy was dancing indolently to the kiss of flutes. A handful
of Caracalla's soldiers passed that way, and thought him Bacchus. In his face was the enigmatic
beauty of gods and girls--the charm of the dissolute and the wayward heightened by the divine.
On his head was a diadem; his frail tunic was of purple and gold, but the sleeves, after the
Phoenician fashion, were wide, and he was shod with a thin white leather that reached to the
thighs. He was fourteen, and priest of the Sun. The chapel was roomy and rich. There was no
statue--a black phallus merely, which had fallen from above, and on which, if you looked closely,
you could see the image of Elagabal, the Sun.

The rumor of his beauty brought other soldiers that way, and the lad, feeling that Rome was
there, ceased to dance, strolling through pauses of the worship, a troop of galli at his heels,
surveying the intruders with querulous, feminine eyes.

Presently a whisper filtered that the lad was Caracalla's son. There were centurions there
that remembered Semiamire, the lad's mother, very well; they had often seen her, a superb creature
with scorching eyes, before whom fire had been carried as though she were empress. It was she
who had put it beyond Caracalla's power to violate that vestal when he tried. She was his cousin;
her life had been passed at court; it was Macrin who had exiled her. And with the whisper filtered
another--that she was rich; that she had lumps of gold, which she would give gladly to whomso
aided in placing her Antonin on the throne. There were gossips who said ill-natured things
of this lady; who insinuated that she had so many lovers that she herself could not tell who
was the father of her child; but the lumps of gold had a language of their own. The disbanded
army espoused the young priest's cause; there was a skirmish, Macrin was killed, and Heliogabalus
was emperor of Rome.

"I would never have written the life of this Antonin Impurissimus," said Lampridus, "were it
not that he had predecessors." Even in Latin the task was difficult. In English it is impossible.
There are subjects that permit of a hint, particularly if it be masked to the teeth, but there
are others that no art can drape. "The inexpressible does not exist," Gautier remarked, when
he finished a notorious romance, nor does it; but even his pen would have balked had he tried
it on Heliogabalus.

In his work on the Caesars, Suetonius drew breath but once--he called Nero a monster. Subsequently
he must have regretted having done so, not because Nero was not a monster, but because it was
sufficient to display the beast without adding a descriptive placard. In that was Suetonius'
advantage; he could describe. Nowadays a writer may not, or at least not Heliogabalus. It is
not merely that he was depraved, for all of that lot were; it was that he made depravity a
pursuit; and, the purple favoring, carried it not only beyond the limits of the imaginable,
but beyond the limits of the real. At the feet of that painted boy, Elephantis and Parrhasius
could have sat and learned a lesson. Apart from that phase of his sovereignty, he was a little
Sardanapalus, an Asiatic mignon, who found himself great.

It would have been curious to have seen him in that wonderful palace, clothed like a Persian
queen, insisting that he should be addressed as Imperatrix, and quite living up to the title.
It would not only be interesting, it would give one an insight into just how much the Romans
could stand. It would have been curious, also, to have assisted at that superb and poetic ceremonial,
in which, having got Tanit from Carthage as consort for Elagabal, he presided, girt with the
pomp of church and state, over the nuptials of the Sun and Moon.

He had read Suetonius, and not an eccentricity of the Caesars escaped him. He would not hunt
flies by the hour, as Domitian had done, for that would be mere imitation; but he could collect
cobwebs, and he did, by the ton. Caligula and Vitellius had been famous as hosts, but the feasts
that Heliogabalus gave outranked them for sheer splendor. From panels in the ceiling such masses
of flowers fell that guests were smothered. Those that survived had set before them glass game
and sweets of crystal. The menu was embroidered on the table-cloth--not the mere list of dishes,
but pictures drawn with the needle of the dishes themselves. And presently, after the little
jest in glass had been enjoyed, you were served with camel's heels; combs torn from living
cocks; platters of nightingale tongues; ostrich brains, prepared with that garum sauce which
the Sybarites invented, and of which the secret is lost; therewith were peas and grains of
gold; beans and amber peppered with pearl dust; lentils and rubies; spiders in jelly; lion's
dung, served in pastry. The guests that wine overcame were carried to bedrooms. When they awoke,
there staring at them were tigers and leopards--tame, of course; but some of the guests were
stupid enough not to know it, and died of fright.

All this was of a nature to amuse a lad who had made the phallus the chief object of worship;
who had banished Jupiter, dismissed Isis; who, over paths that were strewn with lilies, had
himself, in the attributes of Bacchus, drawn by tigers; by lions as Mother of the Gods; again,
by naked women, as Heliogabalus on his way to wed a vestal, and procure for the empire a child
that should be wholly divine.

It amused Rome, too, and his prodigalities in the circus were such that Lampridus admits that
the people were glad he was emperor. Neither Caligula nor Nero had been as lavish, and neither
Caligula nor Nero as cruel. The atrocities he committed, if less vast than those of Caracalla's,
were more acute. Domitian even was surpassed in the tortures invented by a boy, so dainty that
he never used the same garments, the same shoes, the same jewels, the same woman twice.

In spite of this, or perhaps precisely on that account, the usual conspirators were at work,
and one day this little painted girl, who had prepared several devices for a unique and splendid
suicide, was taken unawares and tossed in the latrinae.

In him the glow of the purple reached its apogee. Rome had been watching a crescendo that had
mounted with the years. Its culmination was in that hermaphrodite. But the tension had been
too great--something snapped; there was nothing left--a procession of colorless bandits merely,
Thracians, Gauls, Pannonians, Dalmatians, Goths, women even, with Attila for a climax and the
refurbishing of the world.

Rome was still mistress, but she was growing very old. She had conquered step by step. When
one nation had fallen, she garrotted another. To vanquish her, the earth had to produce not
only new races, but new creeds. The parturitions, as we know, were successful. Already the
blue, victorious eyes of Vandal and of Goth were peering down at Rome; already they had whispered
together, and over the hydromel had drunk to her fall. The earth's new children fell upon her,
not one by one, but all at once, and presently the colossus tottered, startling the universe
with the uproar of her agony; calling to gods that had vacated the skies; calling to Jupiter;
calling to Isis; calling in vain. Where the thunderbolt had gleamed, a crucifix stood. On the
shoulders of a prelate was the purple that had dazzled the world.