I make no difference between the adherents of the Catholic and Protestant creeds. Let them
both stand upon the foundation of Christianity, and they are both bound to be true citizens
and obedient subjects. Then the German people will be the rock of granite upon which our Lord
God can build and complete his work of Kultur in the world.

And here is the oath required of the Catholic clergy, upon their admission to equality of trustworthiness
with their Protestant confreres:

I will be submissive, faithful and obedient to his Royal Majesty,--and his lawful successors
in the government,--as my most gracious King and Sovereign; promote his welfare according to
my ability; prevent injury and detriment to him; and particularly endeavor carefully to cultivate
in the minds of the people under my care a sense of reverence and fidelity towards the King,
love for the Fatherland, obedience to the laws, and all those virtues which in a Christian
denote a good citizen; and I will not suffer any man to teach or act in a contrary spirit.
In particular I vow that I will not support any society or association, either at home or abroad,
which might endanger the public security, and will inform His Majesty of any proposal made,
either in my diocese or elsewhere, which might prove injurious to the State.

And later on this heaven-guided ruler conceived the scheme of a Berlin-Bagdad railway, for
which he needed one religion more; he paid a visit to Constantinople, and made another debut
and produced another god--with the result that millions of Turks are fighting under the belief
that the Kaiser is a convert to the faith of Mohammed!

Der Tag.

All this was, of course, in preparation for the great event to which all good Germans looked
forward--to which all German officers drank their toasts at banquets--the Day.

This glorious day came, and the field-gray armies marched forth, and the Pauline-Lutheran God
marched with them. I am His sword, His weapon and His viceregent. Woe to the disobedient and
death to cowards and unbelievers.

As to the Prussian state religion, its attitude to the war is set forth in a little book written
by a high clerical personage, the Herr Consistorialrat Dietrich Vorwerk, containing prayers
and hymns for the soldiers, and for the congregations at home. Here is an appeal to the Lord
God of Battles:

Though the warrior's bread be scanty, do Thou work daily death and tenfold woe unto the enemy.
Forgive in merciful long-suffering each bullet and each blow which misses its mark. Lead us
not into the temptation of letting our wrath be too tame in carrying out Thy divine judgment.
Deliver us and our ally from the Infernal Enemy and his servants on earth. Thine is the kingdom,
the German land; may we, by the aid of Thy steel-clad hand, achieve the fame and the glory.

It is this Herr Consistorialrat who has perpetrated the great masterpiece of humor of the war--the
hymn in which he appeals to that God who keeps guard over Cherubim, Seraphim, and Zeppelins.
You have to say over the German form of these words in order to get the effect of their delicious
melody--"Cherubinen, Seraphinen, Zeppelinen!" And lest you think that this too-musical clergyman
is a rara avis, turn to the little book which has been published in English under the same
title as Herr Vorwerk's "Hurrah and Hallelujah." Here is the Reverend S. Lehmann:

Germany is the center of God's plans for the world. Germany's fight against the whole world
is in reality the battle of the spirit against the whole world's infamy, falsehood and devilish
cunning.

And here is Pastor K. Koenig:

It was God's will that we should win the war.

And Pastor J. Rump:

Our defeat would mean the defeat of His Son in humanity. We fight for the cause of Jesus within
mankind.

And here is an eminent theological professor:

The deepest and most thought-inspiring result of the war is the German God. Not the national
God such as the lower nations worship, but "our God," who is not ashamed of belonging to us,
the peculiar acquirement of our heart.

King Cotton

It is a cheap way to gain applause in these days, to denounce the Prussian system; my only
purpose is to show that Bible-worship, precisely as saint-worship or totem-worship, delivers
the worshipper up to the Slavers. This truth has held in America, precisely as in Prussia.
During the middle of the last century there was fought out a mighty issue in our free republic;
and what was the part played in this struggle by the Bible-cults? Hear the testimony of William
Lloyd Garrison: "American Christianity is the main pillar of American slavery." Hear Parker
Pillsbury: "We had almost to abolish the Church before we could reach the dreadful institution
at all." But in a generation the views of the entire South, including the Presbyterian Church,
had changed entirely. What was the reason? Had the "law of God" been altered? Had some new
"revelation" been handed down? Nothing of the kind; it was merely that a Yankee by the name
of Eli Whitney had perfected a machine to take the seeds out of short staple cotton. The cotton
crop of the South increased from four thousand bales in 1791 to four hundred and fifty thousand
in 1820 and five million, four hundred thousand in 1860.

There was a new monarch, King Cotton, and his empire depended upon slaves. According to the
custom of monarchs since the dawn of history, he hired the ministers of God to teach that what
he wanted was right and holy. From one end of the South to the other the pulpits rang with
the text: "Cursed be Canaan; a servant to servants shall he be to his brethren."

I might fill the balance of this volume with citations from defenses of the "peculiar institution"
in the name of Jesus Christ--and not only from the South, but from the North. For it must be
understood that leading families of Massachusetts and New York owed their power to Slavery;
their fathers had brought molasses from New Orleans and made it into rum, and taken it to the
coast of Africa to be exchanged for slaves for the Southern planters. And after this trade
was outlawed, the slave-grown cotton had still to be shipped to the North and spun; so the
traders of the North must have divine sanction for the Fugitive Slave law. Here is the Bishop
of Vermont declaring: "The slavery of the negro race appears to me to be fully authorized both
in the Old and New Testaments." Here in the "True Presbyterian", of New York, giving the decision
of a clerical man of the world: "There is no debasement in it. It might have existed in Paradise,
and it may continue through the Millenium."

And when the slave-holding oligarchy of the South rose in arms against those who presumed to
interfere with this divine institution, the men of God of the South called down blessings upon
their armies in words which, with the proper change of names, might have been spoken in Berlin
in August, 1914. Thus Dr. Thornwell, one of the leading Presbyterian divines of the South:
"The triumph of Lincoln's principles is the death-knell of slavery...... Let us crush the serpent
in the egg." And the Reverend Dr. Smythe of Charleston: "The war is a war against slavery,
and is therefore treasonable rebellion against the Word, Providence and Government of God."
I read in the papers, as I am writing, how the clergy of Germany are thundering against President
Wilson's declaration that that country must become democratic. Here is a manifesto of the German
Evangelical League, made public on the four hundredth anniversary of the Reformation:

We especially warn against the heresy, promulgated from America, that Christianity enjoins
democratic institutions, and that they are an essential condition of the kingdom of God on earth.

Witches and Women

To whatever part of the world you travel, to whatever page of history you turn, you find the
endowed and established clergy using the word of God in defense of whatever form of slave-driving
may then be popular and profitable. Two or three hundred years ago it was the custom of Protestant
divines in England and America to burn poor old women as witches; only a hundred and fifty
years ago we find John Wesley, founder of Methodism, declaring that "the giving up of witchcraft
is in effect the giving up of the Bible." And if you investigate this witch-burning, you will
find that it is only one aspect of a blot upon civilization, the Christian Mysogyny. You see,
there were two Hebrew legends--one that woman was made out of a man's rib, and the other that
she ate an apple; therefore in modern England a wife must be content with a legal status lower
than a domestic servant.

Perhaps the most comical of the clerical claims is this--that Christianity has promoted chivalry
and respect for womanhood. In ancient Greece and Rome the woman was the equal and helpmate
of man; we read in Tacitus about the splendid women of the Germans, who took part in public
councils, and even fought in battles. Two thousand years before the Christian era we are told
by Maspero that the Egyptian woman was the mistress of her house; she could inherit equally
with her brothers, and had full control of her property. We are told by Paturet that she was
"juridically the equal of man, having the same rights and being treated in the same fashion."
But in present-day England, under the common law, woman can hold no office of trust or power,
and her husband has the sole custody of her person, and of her children while minors. He can
steal her children, rob her of her clothing, and beat her with a stick provided it is no thicker
than his thumb. While I was in London the highest court handed down a decision on the law which
does not permit a woman to divorce her husband for infidelity, unless it has been accompanied
by cruelty; a man had brought his mistress into his home and--compelled his wife to work for
and wait upon her, and the decision was that this was not cruelty in the meaning of the law!

And if you say that this enslavement of Woman has nothing to do with religion--that ancient
Hebrew fables do not control modern English customs--then listen to the Vicar of Crantock,
preaching at St. Crantock's, London, Aug. 27th, 1905, and explaining why women must cover their
heads in church:

(1) Man's priority of creation. Adam was first formed, then Eve.

(2) The manner of creation. The man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man.

(3) The purport of creation. The man was not created for the woman, but the woman for the man.

(4) Results in creation.

(5) Woman's priority in the fall. Adam was not deceived; but the woman, being deceived, was
in the transgression.

(6) The marriage relation. As the Church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their
husbands.

(7) The headship of man and woman.

I say there is no modern evil which cannot be justified by these ancient texts; and there is
nowhere in Christendom a clergy which cannot be persuaded to cite them at the demand of ruling
classes. In the city where I write, three clergymen are being sent to jail for six months for
protesting against the use of the name of Jesus in the wholesale slaughter of men. Now, I am
backing this war. I know that it has to be fought, and I want to see it fought as hard as possible;
but I want to leave Jesus out of it, for I know that Jesus did not believe in war, and never
could have been brought to support a war. I object to clerical cant on the subject; and I note
that an eminent theological authority, "Billy" Sunday, appears to agree with me; for I find
him on the front page of my morning paper, assailing the three pacifist clergymen, and making
his appeal not to Jesus, but to the blood-thirsty tribal diety of the ancient Hebrews:

I suppose they think they know more than God Almighty, who commanded the sun to stand still
while Joshua won the battle for the Lord; more than the God who made Samson strong so he could
slay thousands of his nation's enemies in a righteous cause.

Right you are, Billy! And if the capitalist system continues to develop unchecked, we shall
some day see it dawn upon the masters of the world how wasteful it is to permit the superannuated
workers to perish by slow starvation. So much more sensible to make use of them! So we shall
have a Bible defense of cannibalism; we shall hear our evangelists quoting Leviticus: "They
shall eat the flesh of their own sons and daughters." Or perhaps some of our leisure-class
ladies might make the discovery that the flesh of working-class babies is relished by pomeranians
and poodles. If so, the Billy Sundays of the twenty-first century may discover the text: "Happy
shall be he that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones."

Moth and Rust

It is especially interesting to notice what happens when the Bible texts work against the interests
of the Slavers and their clerical retainers. Then they are null and void--and no matter how
precise and explicit and unmistakable they may be! Take for example the Sabbath injunction:
"Six days shalt thou labor and do all that thou hast to do." Karl Marx records of the pious
England of his time that

Occasionally in rural districts a day-labourer is condemned to imprisonment for desecrating
the Sabbath by working in his front garden. The same labourer is punished for breach of contract
if he remains away from his metal, paper or glass works on the Sunday, even if it be from a
religious whim. The orthodox Parliament will hear nothing of Sabbath-breaking if it occurs
in the process of expanding capital.

Or consider the attitude of the Church in the matter of usury. Throughout ancient Hebrew history
the money-lender was an outcast; both the law and the prophets denounced him without mercy,
and it was made perfectly clear that what was meant was, not the taking of high interest, but
the taking of any interest whatsoever. The early church fathers were explicit, and the Catholic
Church for a thousand years consigned money-lenders unhesitatingly to hell. But then came the
modern commercial system, and the money-lenders became the masters of the world! There is no
more amusing illustration of the perversion of human thought than the efforts of the Jesuit
casuists to escape from the dilemma into which their Heavenly Guides had trapped them. Could
the house of J. P. Morgan and Company ask more of their ecclesiastical department?

The reader may think that such sophistications are now out of date; but he will find precisely
the same knavery in the efforts of present-day Slavers to fit Jesus Christ into the system
of competitive commercialism. Jesus, as we have pointed out, was a carpenter's son, a thoroughly
class-conscious proletarian. He denounced the exploiters of his own time with ferocious bitterness,
he drove the money-changers out of the temple with whips, and he finally died the death of
a common criminal. If he had forseen the whole modern cycle of capitalism and wage-slavery,
he could hardly have been more precise in his exortations to his followers to stand apart from
it. But did all this avail him? Not in the least!

I place upon the witness-stand an exponent of Bible-Christianity whom all readers of our newspapers
know well: a scholar of learning, a publicist of renown; once pastor of the most famous church
in Brooklyn; now editor of our most influential religious weekly; a liberal both in theology
and politics; a modernist, an advocate of what he calls industrial democracy. His name is Lyman
Abbott, and he is writing under his own signature in his own magazine, his subject being "The
Ethical Teachings of Jesus". Several times I have tried to persuade people that the words I
am about to quote were actually written and published by this eminent doctor of divinity, and
people have almost refused to believe me. Therefore I specify that the article may be found
in the "Outlook", the bound volumes of which are in all large libraries: volume 94, page 576.
The words are as follows, the bold face being Dr. Abbott's, not mine:

My radical friend declares that the teachings of Jesus are not practicable, that we cannot
carry them out in life, and that we do not pretend to do so. Jesus, he reminds us, said, 'Lay
not up for yourself treasures upon earth;' and Christians do universally lay up for themselves
treasures upon earth; every man that owns a house and lot, or a share of stock in a corporation,
or a life insurance policy, or money in a savings bank, has laid up for himself treasure upon
earth. But Jesus did not say, "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth." And no sensible
American does. Moth and rust do not get at Mr. Rockefeller's oil wells, nor at the Sugar Trust's
sugar, and thieves do not often break through and steal a railway or an insurance company or
a savings bank. What Jesus condemned was hoarding wealth.

Strange as it may sound to some of the readers of this book, I count myself among the followers
of Jesus of Nazareth. His example has meant more to me than that of any other man, and all
the experiences of my revolutionary life have brought me nearer to him. Living in the great
Metropolis of Mammon, I have felt the power of Privilege, its scourge upon my back, its crown
of thorns upon my head. When I read that article in the "Outlook", I felt just as Jesus himself
would have felt; and I sat down and wrote a letter--

To Lyman Abbott

This discovery of a new method of interpreting the Bible is one of such very great interest
and importance that I cannot forbear to ask space to comment upon it. May I suggest that Dr.
Abbott elaborate this exceedingly fruitful idea, and write us another article upon the extent
to which the teachings of the Inspired Word are modified by modern conditions, by the progress
of invention and the scientific arts? The point of view which Dr. Abbott takes is one which
had never occurred to me before, and I had therefore been completely mistaken as to the attitude
of Jesus on the question. Also I have, like Dr. Abbott, many radical friends who are still
laboring under error.

Jesus goes on to bid his hearers: "Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil
not, neither do they spin." What an apt simile is this for the "great mass of American wealth,"
in Dr. Abbott's portrayal of it! "It is serving the community," he tells us; "it is building
a railway to open a new country to settlement by the homeless; it is operating a railway to
carry grain from the harvests of the West to the unfed millions of the East," etc. Incidentally,
it is piling up dividends for its pious owners; and so everybody is happy--and Jesus, if he
should come back to earth, could never know that he had left the abodes of bliss above.

Truly, there should be a new school of Bible interpretation founded upon this brilliant idea.
How transitory are they, compared with the graven marble or granite which Mr. Carnegie sets
upon the front of each of his libraries! I have several among my friends who are Quakers; presumably
Dr. Abbott has also; and he should not fail to point out to them the changes which scientific
discovery has wrought in the significance of this command against swearing. We can now make
our hair either white or black, or a combination of both. We can make it a brilliant peroxide
golden; we could, if pushed to an extreme, make it purple or green. So we are clearly entitled
to swear all we please by our head.

Nor should we forget to examine other portions of the Bible according to this method. "Look
not upon the wine when it is red," we are told. Thanks to the activities of that Capitalism
which Dr. Abbott praises so eloquently, we now make our beverages in the chemical laboratory,
and their color is a matter of choice. Also, it should be pointed out that we have a number
of pleasant drinks which are not wine at all--"high-balls" and "gin rickeys" and "peppered
punches"; also vermouthe and creme de menthe and absinthe, which I believe, are green in hue,
and therefore entirely safe.

Then there are the Ten Commandments. "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image." See
how completely our understanding of this command is changed, so soon as we realize that we
are free to make images of molten metal! And that we may with impunity bow down to them and
worship them and serve them--even, for instance, a Golden Calf! This, again, it will be noted,
is open to new interpretations. It specifies maidservants, but does not prevent one's employing
as many married women as he pleases. It also says nothing about the various kinds of labor-saving
machinery which we have now taught to work for us--sail-boats, naptha launches, yachts, automobiles,
and private cars--all of which may be busily occupied during the seventh day of the week. The
men who run these machines--the guides, boatmen, stokers, pilots, chauffeurs, and engineers--would
all indignantly resent being regarded as "servants", and so they do not come under the prohibition
any more than the machines. I read this paragraph over for the first time in quite a while,
and I came with a jolt to its last words. I had been intending to point out that it said nothing
about a neighbor's automobile, nor a neighbor's oil wells, sugar trusts, insurance companies
and savings banks. The last words, however, stop one off abruptly. One is almost tempted to
imagine that the Divine Intelligence must have foreseen Dr. Abbott's ingenious method of interpretation,
and taken this precaution against him. And this was a great surprise to me--for, truly, I had
not supposed it possible that such an interpretation could have been foreseen, even by Omniscience
itself. I will conclude this communication by venturing the assertion that it could not have
been foreseen by any other person or thing, in the heavens above, on the earth beneath, or
the waters under the earth. Dr. Abbott may accept my congratulations upon having achieved the
most ingenious and masterful exhibition of casuistical legerdemain that it has ever been my
fortune to encounter in my readings in the literatures of some thirty centuries and seven different
languages.

And I will also add that I respectfully challenge Dr. Abbott to publish this letter. And I
announce to him in advance that if he refuses to publish it, I will cause it to be published
upon the first page of the "Appeal to Reason", where it will be read by some five hundred thousand
Socialists, and by them set before several million followers of Jesus Christ, the world's first
and greatest revolutionist, whom Dr. Lyman Abbott has traduced and betrayed by the most amazing
piece of theological knavery that it has ever been my fortune to encounter.

The Octopus

Dr. Lyman Abbott published this letter! In his editorial comment thereon he said that he did
not know which of two biblical injunctions to follow: "Answer not a fool according to his folly,
lest thou be thought like unto him"; or "Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise
in his own conceit". I replied by pointing out a third text which the Reverend Doctor had possibly
overlooked: "He that calleth his neighbor a fool shall be in danger of hell-fire." But the
Reverend Doctor took refuge in his dignity, and I bided my time and waited for that revenge
which comes sooner or later to us muck-rakers. In this case it came speedily. The story is
such a perfect illustration of the functions of religion as oil to the machinery of graft that
I ask the reader's permission to recite it at length.

For a couple of decades the political and financial life of New England has been dominated
by a gigantic aggregation of capital, the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad. It is
a "Morgan" concern; its popular name, "The New Haven", stands for all the railroads of six
states, nearly all the trolley-lines and steamship-lines, and a group of the most powerful
banks of Boston and New York. It is controlled by a little group of insiders, who followed
the custom of rail-road-wrecking familiar to students of American industrial life: buying up
new lines, capitalizing them at fabulous sums, and unloading them on the investing public;
paying dividends out of capital, "passing" dividends as a means of stock manipulation, accumulating
surpluses and cutting "melons" for the insiders, while at the same time crushing labor unions,
squeezing wages, and permitting rolling-stock and equipment to go to wreck.

All these facts were perfectly well known in Wall Street, and could not have escaped the knowledge
of any magazine editor dealing with current events. In eight years the "New Haven" had increased
its capitalization 1501 per cent; and what that meant, any office boy in "the Street" could
have told. What attitude should a magazine editor take to the matter?

At that time there were still two or three free magazines in America. One of them was Hampton's,
and the story of its wrecking by the New Haven criminals will some day serve in school text-books
as the classic illustration of that financial piracy which brought on the American social revolution.
Ben Hampton had bought the old derelict "Broadway Magazine", with twelve thousand subscribers,
and in four years, by the simple process of straight truth-telling, had built up for it a circulation
of 440,000. In two years more he would have had a million; but in May, 1911, he announced a
series of articles dealing with the New Haven management.

The articles, written by Charles Edward Russell, were so exact that they read today like the
reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission, dated three years later. A representative of
the New Haven called upon the editor of Hampton's with a proof of the first article--obtained
from the printer by bribery--and was invited to specify the statements to which he took exception;
in the presence of witnesses he went over the article line by line, and specified two minor
errors, which were at once corrected. At the end of the conference he announced that if the
articles were published, Hampton's Magazine would be "on the rocks in ninety days."

Which threat was carried out to the letter. First came a campaign among the advertisers of
the magazine, which lost an income of thousands of dollars a month, almost over night. And
then came a campaign among the banks--the magazine could not get credit. Anyone familiar with
the publishing business will understand that a magazine which is growing rapidly has to have
advances to meet each month's business. Hampton undertook to raise the money by selling stock;
whereupon a spy was introduced into his office as bookkeeper, his list of subscribers was stolen,
and a campaign was begun to destroy their confidence.

It happened that I was in Hampton's office in the summer of 1911, when the crisis came. Money
had to be had to pay for a huge new edition; and upon a property worth two millions of dollars,
with endorsements worth as much again, it was impossible to borrow thirty thousand dollars
in the city of New York. Bankers, personal friends of the publisher, stated quite openly that
word had gone out that any one who loaned money to him would be "broken". I myself sent telegrams
to everyone I knew who might by any chance be able to help; but there was no help, and Hampton
retired without a dollar to his name, and the magazine was sold under the hammer to a concern
which immediately wrecked it and discontinued publication.

The Industrial Shelley

Such was the fate of an editor who opposed the "New Haven". And now, what of those editors
who supported it? Turn to "The Outlook, a Weekly Journal of Current Events," edited by Lyman
Abbott--the issue of Dec. 25th, nineteen hundred and nine years after Christ came down to bring
peace on earth and good-will toward Wall Street. You will there find an article by Sylvester
Baxter entitled "The Upbuilding of a Great Railroad." It is the familiar "slush" article which
we professional writers learn to know at a glance. "Prodigious", Mr. Baxter tells us, has been
the progress of the New Haven; this was "a masterstroke", that was "characteristically sagacious".
The road had made "prodigious expenditures", and to a noble end: "Transportation efficiency
epitomizes the broad aim that animated these expenditures and other constructive activities."
There are photographs of bridges and stations--"vast terminal improvements", "a masterpiece
of modern engineering", "the highest, greatest and most architectural of bridges". Of the official
under whom these miracles were being wrought--President Mellen--we read: "Nervously organized,
of delicate sensibility, impulsive in utterance, yet with an extraordinarily convincing power
for vividly logical presentation." An industrial Shelley, or a Milton, you perceive; and all
this prodigious genius poured out for the general welfare! "To study out the sort of transportation
service best adapted to these ends, and then to provide it in the most efficient form possible,
that is the life-task that President Mellen has set himself."

There was no less than sixteen pages of these raptures--quite a section of a small magazine
like the "Outlook". "The New Haven ramifies to every spot where industry flourishes, where
business thrives." "As a purveyor of transportation it supplies the public with just the sort
desired." "Here we have the new efficiency in a nutshell." In short, here we have what Dr.
Lyman Abbott means when he glorifies "the great mass of American wealth".

The "Outlook" runs a column of "current events" in which it tells what is happening in the
world; and sometimes it is compelled to tell of happenings against the interests of "the great
mass of American wealth". The cynical reader will find amusement in following its narrative
of the affairs of the New Haven during the five years subsequent to the publication of the
Baxter article.

First came the collapse of the road's service; a series of accidents so frightful that they
roused even clergymen and chambers of commerce to protest. A number of the "Outlook's" subscribers
are New Haven "commuters", and the magazine could not fail to refer to their troubles. In the
issue of Jan. 4th, 1913, three years and ten days after the Baxter rhapsody, we read:

The most numerous accidents on a single road since the last fiscal year have been, we believe,
those on the New Haven. In the opinion of the Connecticut Commission, the Westport wreck would
not have occurred if the railway company had followed the recommendation of the Chief Inspector
of Safety Appliances of the Interstate Commerce Commission in its report on a similar accident
at Bridgeport a year ago.

And by June 28th, matters had gone farther yet; we find the "Outlook" reporting:

Within a few hours of the collision at Stamford, the wrecked Pullman car was taken away and
burned. Is this criminal destruction of evidence?

