The intention had been to take the horse round a portion of the outside of the course near
to which his stable stood. A boy rode him and the groom and Tifto went with him. At a certain
spot on their return Tifto had exclaimed that the horse was going lame in his off fore-foot.
As to this exclamation the boy and the two men were agreed. The boy was then made to dismount
and run for Mr. Pook; and as he started Tifto commenced to examine the horse's foot. The boy
saw him raise the off fore-leg. He himself had not found the horse lame under him, but had
been so hustled and hurried out of the saddle by Tifto and the groom that he had not thought
on that matter till he was questioned. So far the story told by Tifto and the groom was corroborated
by the boy,--except as to the horse's actual lameness. So far the story was believed by all
men,--except in regard to the actual lameness. And so far it was true. Then, according to Tifto
and the groom, the other foot was looked at, but nothing was seen. But would be undertaken as soon as I could, and without
fear, in the meantime, I go to sleep purposes because they were fully those works one of the
most important lines of new life plan that I had and was traced outline.

The priest was amazed at these my labors, and more with the look and gesture than by words, gave
me to understand how satisfying it was to me Neluco not lost sight of me a moment and seemed
excited about my new fervor, which stimulated with temptations of other goodies that finally
made me swallow his diabolical strategy. In house Marmitón put in the clouds, the miracle, and
only in the mouth of Lituca were restrained praise and restraining the congratulations, but
it's hawked his eyes, as if the hidden force of law impose that limitation to the impulses of his
soul, for the people "is running" and news more about this great resurrection of mine, and I hung
with the truth, plans and calendars that I never had crossed the lie; teníanme, not the follower,
but by the omnipotent reformer traditional work of Bejos Ruiz, for a gift Celso consolidated
and even improved, not only "in print, and robes," but also "in any and Magin ", and at night
went to the house with ideas pundits soaked in these fantasies, and I saw black to lower many gallant
statement items and put things in point ... In short, within myself and around me was calm
and smiling all that had shortly before been sad and distressing and gloomy. So it was quite
another Facia what was, began to nurture and smiled, and slept smooth ... Only Pete Salces
amurriadón walked and thoughtful, and I could not spoil, therefore I think he could remedy.

-
Why do not you "that" on one side at once? - I told him one day.

- As there is in me for me ...-- said her nails of one hand -.

What else would I, porridge!

I promised my help in their grief, and almost danced with joy.

Then I called my Cabinet Tona and spoke of the case. Coloradona got a ripe tomato, and finally
came to plead, in half-words and between swings her hips and fondling her apron, that 'by would
not itself part no ... when EYU juere opportunity ... if your mother ...». Called to immediately
Facia, wine, and underwent the business for its consideration. Showed himself aware of it
by Certain signs never lie and said that "on the other hand ... when EYU juere opportunity ...
if I'm not bad ...». paecía Precisely the opposite seemed to me, and with this, and agree three
on the occasion of "EYU" could be, and would then pass the rigor of the mourning worn by my uncle,
he ended the matter as I wanted and also Salces Pito. Call it a little while, I heard agreed with
Tona and his mother made a couple of capers and took two punches in the cheeks, he stressed the
obligation which was to be more prudent than ever in terms of their engagement, if he is not
close the doors of the house and I had given him at the time the furniture of his own, and went
off stride, laughing and covering only mouth with his hands in obedience to my recommendations,
after asking me, I gave him, to collect from his mother Tona and verbal confirmation of agreed with
me ... and to "enter into the house" every night, and "if a hand had been" talking to the monsoon
occasionally with all due respect. Already embarked on the matchmaking fever, stopped to Chisco
to bump into him in the kitchen Carrejo. But I saw so much like himself, with such flashes
on the face of well-being of himself ... and I was so used to it and made me much needed in
the house, I did not dare to tempt the patience, and dismissed him with a pretext ill-conceived.

Running and day, esmaltáronse of flowers and green the fields, the
sun hotter; templóse and embalmed the environment; desperezóse, at
last, as if awakening Nature a long, deep sleep, and proceeded to
top it with the care of a neat lady Paid very beauty, starting with
the minutiae of the toilet to finish with the most splendid and ostentatious
wardrobe, and when the time seemed to make a purpose He had formed
and matured recently with very serious and careful consideration.

It was my return to Madrid "for some time." This trip I conceived it of the utmost necessity,
not played both in my private affairs rather neglected since I was in Tablanca, to see the
effect as I did, watched from afar, my box new illusions to accurately predict the remaining
strength of the links that I still joined in the past life and compare them to those who were
tied to the new. Conceived it I this test of great importance for the purposes "further" and
"possible" in my estimation without the slightest suspicion that the vain and ghosts sometimes
tempts me not to return as soon as it loses sight of the house.

Declared one day in order to Neluco. He seemed fine, and I even said that unless I had happened
to me, I would have advised him. "They had things changed much since we had set the two at the
same place, some account ... "And the very rascal, smiling, I tapped very gently with the handle
of his club. After I confirmed my already declared attempts to start next summer the agreed
reforms inside the house and I ordered the collection of raw materials and competent workers
to fetch it ... I sent in Madrid, and even bring with me "when he
returned," which could not be found in Tablanca or its vicinity, to
give the finishing touches on a job that interested me so much.

To all was given the heart and soul good friend ... and figure I even thought that those recommendations
I made them not so much for attachment to the work, showing up as irrefutable evidence of my
intention to return soon. And perhaps think well. Cure arrived in this account tell of the treaty,
and liked much to improve the house, but not so much about my trip to Madrid ... "Now, if desirable
for the good of all, as I assured him, was EYU for the love of God."

What Lituca? What would my gear when I had heard of it? And to give it to me and say goodbye,
"Leave well enough alone? "Raise a little bit the tip of the veil or not to lift? I thought a
lot about them, apparently, little things, which were, however, very significant pieces the foundation
which supported the frame of my hypothesis, and finally had to be resolved so, even in its lowest degree,
when I saw the effort it took to conceal poor half the deplorable effect which caused the news.
But even so, or perhaps the same, on that visit did not laugh once with the fervor of before, and
when I say goodbye 'to around "with a handshake very eloquent, he
had me cowering eyes the response that was lacking in his words stitching.

In contrast, Mari Pepa, who I had a hard time work convinced that my departure was not "the smoke",
as she had described soon jaraneó spoke to and took leave of all his household, including the octogenarian,
who had not said ten words, and those monosyllabic and like so many explosions. The three down with
me to poultry, from whose gate I gave them a last farewell, eyes and thought Lituca fixed, the
expression of deeply felt sorrow in my soul I thanked him.

Two days later I said goodbye to Reinosa del Cura and Neluco who had accompanied me to there,
and had been pulling Chisco of the horse he was driving my luggage, I settled in the soft cushions
of a railroad car, and began to roll toward the plains de Castilla, his eyes wandering to the horizon,
not yet open to my delight, and head stuffed full of unruly thoughts and indefinable.

XXXIII

I can not deny that I was very happy in my little house on Arenal
Street, as well "dressed" so elegant, with everything so close at
hand and so far my needs.

I looked tired of stepping on the carpeted floor, to sit back in soft chairs, an observer in
the mirrors of the cabinets, to recreate the view in the pictures on the walls and bronzes
and porcelains that crowned the fancy furniture or kept the stained glass art, nor to lay my bones
in the soft and voluptuous bed to wait for the dream, which took no come, as a super-soft flutter
elves benefactors.

How little it all seemed what Tablanca the mansion, so large, so
old, so naked ... and so cold!

I am also very pleased I found the group, not very large, my intimate friends, the same when they
chatted about what happened on the stage of our world since I missing him, when occasion served
his jokes the "patina Ranger" that were tarnished my person, or new hobbies to which I was inclined,
though very careful not to discover the hidden spring of apparent miracle.

What I liked so much were the crowds and noise and the straight line
informing you all on the floor of the street, in the parallel walls
and compact houses strung together in the stone and the iron cages
in the neighborhood, seasoned and looked out on the undulating curves
Nature and graceful, the orderly disorder of colossal works and sobriety
juicy and sweet tones of their severe.

They missed my lungs the air rich and pure mountain, when he heaved the thick and smelly in
the great crowded recreation centers lights and people, and walked with their heads held high
even by the most spacious sites for the habit of seeking the light over the mountains to the
streets ant antojábanseme and not seeing them more than the work and aims of human ambition,
when raised my look beyond the eaves that dazzled the crack in the
street, not always discovered image of God, or at least looked bigger
than I necessarily reflect the huge Tablanca peaks of about nailed
my eyes on them.

I would have wanted in such cases a compromise between the two extremes, something like how I felt
when Gideon complained that cities were not built in the field, but not possible the realization
of my desires, not very compelling, so beautiful I would have accommodated these and those related
setbacks, among whom were born and lived until fattened without the slightest suspicion that
there might be something better prepared and organized for gift and being a person of good taste,
anywhere in the known world.

What the crowds, which began dislike a little, and became a whole different matter. Nothing like
the sting of self-love or selfishness to take hints its way to the men most parsimonious. Every
time I leave the house or attending a show, always, in short, I became involved in the waves
of the sea of ​​bystanders or spectators, I remembered the saying of Neluco and I asked my self:
Who am I, what I represent, what role do, what I play whistle amid these masses of people?
What on earth are used in the world men who, like me, have spent their lives as free beasts,
with no other occupation to the treat the body? Who knows, who's expected, who will cry morning
his death or his failure to notice the pile, or be able to discover traces of their time on
earth? And for that, to live and finish like animals, I am free man young and rich? Do not be
a bad shame a life and death? And I was with thought to the wild solitudes of Tablanca, where
there was an empty, not a selfish or a believer, and I had seen my
uncle died embracing the cross between the blessings and tears of
all the people.

This would be sad and "dark" before considering a smart casual; but was bright and great in
the eyes of good sense and sound conscience. Quedábame some Sometimes, however, the question
of whether these thoughts were legitimate and directly arising from serene and disinterested observation,
or were imposed by the idea of ​​my acquired commitment and unavoidable, but the truth is that
those doubts vanished easily, and every day that passed me was less pleasant role rebuffed
anonymous carnival I had done in the pile that incessant decorative farce of life.

Contributed much to hold the heat of these sentiments, my frequent and lively correspondence
with Neluco, which was no less expressive, discreet and deliberate with pen with word and say
it's intentional, because he never needed a pretext in the cards paragraph devoted the best
of them Lita, so I found out I what I "missed" Mari Pepa's daughter, without seeming to notice of
it what I said. I followed a procedure similar to that found out that she missed not a single
moment forgotten, and thus encouraged and was in continual cultivation this delicate fruit of my momentous
developments within the limits I had set for it.

I gave careful consideration the state of things there that were interested, I consulted I pointed
questions or ideas about the tasks that had made, or I outlined other plans I always looked good.
So I defended myself from the bad temptations that beset me the little devil in my life, in whose
clutches he had fallen again. Meanwhile, ordered and had my flow so that always had his hand
away to see me of them, and finally, what I dared to hurt me more
and which I called "burn my ships "," rid "my house.

He wanted to destroy the nest to not have as much attachment to the tree. Package most, sold very
little and gave some of it to my friends. I sent him packing to the Mountain and settled in
an inn.

That's when I started looking, with real and relaxed attention, the usual box "From afar." As a "masterpiece",
I looked beautiful, as reality, not much, but had to take into account the light and the "adherents"
who dazzled me something in my observatory, and the incessant work of the little devil evil
intent that I would not leave Madrid back at it again.

This was that, without getting into great philosophies, I left triumphant testing with very little
effort of my will. It is true that, for good or bad, me decently, I needed to succeed in that
endeavor.

To all this, I corresponded a lot with my sister and tell her the news of the death of our
uncle and his testamentary dispositions had not omitted the purposes of continuing my His work
in the valley. As the letter was written in those days of my enthusiasms bucolic I spoke at length
about my plans to live there and to reform the house to make it striking and sticky ... in short,
everything but the main thing I want to say, the "holy" to whom should
the miracles of my conversion.

The fact is that my sister highly commended resolutions, and even promised me a trip to Spain
with all his children, which in husband could not start their mills and coffee or boiling water,
only with to live with a good season in the house as soon as I said already was habitable.
Just like that, I was already tired of 'grinding', 'mills' and 'bagasse' ... and even the sun
that melted overseas and wanted a change of scenery and landscapes ... and of pastry. Then
I dared to take aim at the idea of ​​subject land with loops marriage, and convenience, in my opinion,
to choose to be with a woman like you painted for example, copying
Lituca conditions.

Pearl also seemed all this. "In this and the sooner," he said in conclusion of a letter received
by me just the day he handed the key to my house to the owner to settle in the inn.
 The Duke resolved
that his only revenge should be to press on that marriage with Mabel Grex.

At Coblenz, on their way home, the Duke and his daughter were caught up by Mr. and Mrs. Finn,
and the matter of the young man's losses was discussed. Phineas had heard all about it, and
was loud in denunciations against Tifto, Captain Green, Gilbert Villiers, and others whose
names had reached him. The money, he thought, should never have been paid. The Duke however
declared that the money would not cause a moment's regret, if only the whole thing could be
got rid of at that cost. It had reached Finn's ears that Tifto was already at loggerheads with
his associates. There was some hope that the whole thing might be brought to light by this
means. For all that the Duke cared nothing. If only Silverbridge and Tifto could for the future
be kept apart, as far as he and his were concerned, good would have been done rather than harm.
While they were in this way together on the Rhine it was decided that very soon after their
return to England Phineas and Mrs. Finn should go down to Matching.

When the Duke arrived in London his sons were not there. Gerald had gone back to Oxford, and
Silverbridge had merely left an address. Then his sister wrote him a very short letter. "Papa
will be so glad if you will come to Matching. Do come." Of course he came, and presented himself
some few days after the Duke's arrival.

But he dreaded this meeting with his father which, however, let it be postponed for ever so
long, must come at last. In reference to this he made a great resolution,--that he would go
instantly as soon as he might be sent for. When the summons came he started; but, though he
was by courtesy an Earl, and by fact was not only a man but a Member of Parliament, though
he was half engaged to marry one young lady and ought to have been engaged to marry another,
though he had come to an age at which Pitt was a great minister and Pope a great poet, still
his heart was in his boots, as a schoolboy's might be, when he was driven up to the house at
Matching.

In two minutes, before he had washed the dust from his face and hands, he was with his father.
"I am glad to see you, Silverbridge," said the Duke, putting out his hand.

"I hope I see you well, sir."

"Fairly well. Thank you. Travelling I think agrees with me. I miss, not my comforts, but a
certain knowledge of how things are going on, which comes to us I think through our skins when
we are at home. Fear could also pass these comforting bursts,
as had happened before the hurricane, and I seriously feared, but were running day and go
away with them, were felt increasingly brighter and bring me new fragrances.

Repeated visits to the family of Don Pedro Nolasco, because it had promised in first of that
series, and something had to publish my secret my eyes, or buzzer of my voice or atoms of air,
without which have slipped my tongue a point beyond the streak that had put the limit, no
longer was I to Lituca what had been until then. You intimidate the front of my eyes was much more
restrained in its merry expansions, and gave what to do the gathers of her apron when we talked
alone, both as the ideas and the words we used in the conversation. These symptoms, which were
emphasizing walking purely mimicking my suggestions, they came to me to clarify the I doubt that
both had eaten, I ventured without a single word in the effort: it is say that I had been to
hand the thread that I wanted to take her, alone, on his own virtue, if not by the force of
the mysterious stream, which could not but believe now. In sum, that, or I cheated a lot of my
good proven experience in these sets, or could pull the thread on a whim when I wanted.

Was therefore in the best conditions imaginable for a stop at my company
and review the ground safely and to my taste.

Whether this way of thinking was more or less honest and decent, I began to reason, truth be told.
Stop suited my purpose, and did.

Not that I stopped frequenting the house of the Castañalera octogenarian
on the contrary, and even ate with the family twice that season, often
only sought to bring Lita the terrain and style of our first intimate,
saving a lot of innuendo of another breed, and using them only to
keep "leaning against the fires."

And with what docility as the innocent witch came to my calls! Nor does this procedure spent a
noble, but it was very convenient and it soothed some signs of rebellion
I uneasy conscience.

There was less communicative with the family of Marmitón with Don
Sabas, with Neluco, with servants of my house with my usual pundits
and the people from beginning to end, but with nobody so much as I
Neluco.

I perished by talking to him, and as such intimacies I slipped into the language some flashes
of light that bathed my ideas in cache, the very lizard smiling at the quiet, little effort and
ingenuity it would discovering everything that I did not want to testify. Fortunately, it was infinitely
more discreet me in those circumstances, and everything was reduced to burrowing change the
secrets that were escaping from the mine.

I went back to the old ways through mountains and ravines, and even seemed pleasant plains and
roads and pathways through which I walked before, but not throwing
the lungs through the mouth.

I also Chisco and then accompanied Salces Pito, but more respectful and even more helpful, but
looks like this lie, that again, when I was not master of the house, nor had had the opportunity
to show some largesse Chisco not forget that at one point that he touched him, or so Pete Salces
pertained to the monsoon from his thoughts. Lending me happy Neluco everything that I had
recommended and continues to recommend to entertain the hours leftovers of the day and night,
I visited one by one my estate, my pasture, my inheritance, my chestnut and oak, my house, my cattle
sharecropping, studied with a real desire penetrate to the bottom, the body, as I said Neluco 'of
deals and contracts my uncle and his tenants and settlers, "where was the substance of the great
spirit of this man worthy that, without policy bullerengues and disturbing, had resolved virtually
and the one under the impulse of his generous heart and deeply Christian, a problem insoluble
social giving for the 'thinkers' of the great centers of civilization, and has perpetual hostility
to the poor and the rich.


"There shall not be another word said about it," said the Duke again. "And now what do you
mean to do with yourself immediately?"

"I'll stay here, sir, as long as you do. Finn, and Warburton, and I have still a few coverts
to shoot."

"That's a good reason for staying anywhere."

"I meant that I would remain while you remained, sir."

"That at any rate is a good reason, as far as I am concerned. But we go to Custins next week."

"There's a deal of shooting to be done at Gatherum," said the heir.

"You speak of it as if it were the business of your life,--on which your bread depended."

"One can't expect game to be kept up if nobody goes to shoot it."

"Can't one? I didn't know. I should have thought that the less was shot the more there would
be to shoot; but I am ignorant in such matters." Silverbridge then broke forth into a long
explanation as to coverts, gamekeepers, poachers, breeding, and the expectations of the neighbourhood
at large, in the middle of which he was interrupted by the Duke. "I am afraid, my dear boy,
that I am too old to learn. But as it is so manifestly a duty, go and perform it like a man.
Who will go with you?"

"I will ask Mr. Finn to be one."

"He will be very hard upon you in the way of politics."

"I can answer him better than I can you, sir. Mr. Lupton said he would come for a day or two.
He'll stand to me."

After that his father stopped him as he was about to leave the room. "One more word, Silverbridge.
Do you remember what you were saying when you walked down to the House with me from your club
that night?" Silverbridge remembered very well what he had said. He had undertaken to ask Mabel
Grex to be his wife, and had received his father's ready approval to the proposition. But at
this moment he was unwilling to refer to that matter. "I have thought about it very much since
that," said the Duke. "I may say that I have been thinking of it every day. If there were anything
to tell me, you would let me know;--would you not?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then there is nothing to be told? I hope you have not changed your mind."

Silverbridge paused a moment, trusting that he might be able to escape the making of any answer;--but
the Duke evidently intended to have an answer. "It appeared to me, sir, that it did not seem
to suit her," said the hardly-driven young man. Where we ran a little hand was in my cabinet. "For what it is occur, "he had
told me the architect. Entendióme intention, and despatched to your liking, and mine too.

With these plans and details in the light, I asked Neluco what should be purchased beyond to
the fundamentals of the works, I bought in Madrid purely decorative accessory and I was missing,
the Mountain and it soon. Come on, who was I with these things as children with new shoes.

Neluco began in May the works, and the end of June, when they were finished the main and more cumbersome
and disbanded north wealthy people of Madrid, I went to Mountain with a disability who got scared.
This time I stayed in Reinosa to take the way of the port, but much further down, to stay
on the plain to the mouth Nansa, and then continue upstream. This way, though longer, was less
uncomfortable for me, and almost indispensable for the conduct of the baggage that came after.

Tablanca When I arrived, I found its people amazed at what they were seeing in the house. That
rattling of tools and bustle of workers and collecting materials, had not ever dreamed of
in that town, where he built a house not a work that no task pass to lift a "jastial" or replace
a rafter, or straighten a summit in could remember of the oldest. Asustábales mainly the fortune
it would cost everything, and then the fear that "by the visual that was taking the house from
the inside" they closed the door and the kitchen, holding them in a little to give them free access
as before. It took God and help convince them otherwise, even letting them see with their own eyes,
as it had done Neluco see more than twice without any fruit, which is not played kitchen or to
profane with money, and only reached the reforms to pieces and the main staircase. But most
of these demonstrations on the ground, convinced them the tirade that I long, almost a whole
sermon on what had been, was and would, while I lived, that solar noble for tablanqueses, the
importance given and would always their gatherings, and it was determined that things continue there
and in my life Uncle ... Convenciéronse at last, but not without being also convinced me that
the reason said, without being heard us believe that you, a friend of mine, very passionate
about the military, to be made very cautiously in reforming 'institutions' old, even to to
improve, because sometimes, two buttons more or less in the traditional uniform can influence even
into disrepute or in the discipline of the regiment that he uses.

As this was the first thing that struck me reach Tablanca, the first
thing comes up in this chain of memories of those days and events,
as to give preference to the memory of the most pleasing, very different
from other link had begun.

I say for printing Lituca caused me unspeakable, whom he had left something sad and wrapped
in the heavy winter clothes, and found smiling like a dawn of April, and overflowing with youth
and coolness in summer habits, simple to poverty, but clean and cheerful as the plumage of doves
cooed from the flower garden. Then funds scenario in which towered so gentle figure, before naked,
cold, stiff, waterlogged in water or shrouded in snow, now Nature smiling and dressed in their
best pump galas, the lush green meadows, lush forests and talkative with the murmur of the breezes
frolicking in the foliage and spreading throughout the valley, the exquisite fragrance. It took
me contain a lot of work on my tongue the waves coming up from my heart when I saw first time
in front of the creature that every day I revealed with new attractions I noticed that she's
reading my struggle in the expression of my eyes or the tone of my voice was right not to paint
with the colors that imposed "circumstances" with pleasure coming back to me. Meanwhile, his mother,
grandfather, Neluco, Don Sabas, Chisco, all my servants, sister and brother-Neluco, who had greeted
my time Robacio, the neighborhood Tablanca whole, everyone seemed to rejoice to the enthusiasm
with my lap and my plans and purposes. This flattered me a lot and even came to get excited,
and all giving shelter and refuge, Lituca image at the bottom of my heart, beginning to doubt
and very seriously if it came from one that new light that I embellished everything surrounded me, or
was it real and something that can positively, by his own, to make the miracle of my life rapid
conversion to another shortly before seemed unbearable. Because the truth is that I had come
to Tablanca first in the harsh winter and the worst conditions imaginable for acclimatization
at the "medium", a man my background, and viewed in the light of the summer sun, were the very
things look very different. The valley, summer dress, was up beautiful, people, lively and
cheerful, the panoramas, much more interesting for the abundance of light and cleaning the
horizons, the temperature to warm into the lower, the festivals and pilgrimages, abundant ...
and most solemn and the first original one I had pondered my uncle a lot, but not all that
truly deserves: that of sharing yerba del Prao-council in August, lasts eight days, the real party
of labor.

The whole town attends empingorotada that vast prairie, evening gown, for the appointment of
'primers', under the chairmanship of the "ruler" competent and to see how those "officials"
after telling the magistrate, uncovering his head: "Discuss the primers', with wand in hand
and without knowing a jot of geometry and triangulation problems, they demarcate fairly admirably
"hazas" or lots for the whole neighborhood, how hazas groups are
fielding a number of neighbors, how to rise before dawn the designated
for the day, and mow the grass and left to air and down the people
in the same day, in "Basner"

(sort of dray) contained in its descent by the rapid decline of the mountain a pair of oxen attached
behind each Basner, and how it continues this patriarchal task for a week without a single protest, not
having a single injured in the distribution, and how to fill the places of hay Tablanca of
that fine, meaty and fragrant, which is a real wealth of the valley, whose beautiful cattle are well-deserved
reputation be the best in the province.

After this busy solemnity, that removed the entire neighborhood and left him exhausted by double
fatigue revelry and work, I arranged the marriage of Tona I Pito Salces. No one could already barbarian,
who kept on begging me, his head bowed, eyes closed and rubbing his hands, which had just license
the monsoon to "take a lau aqueyu, more quantitative before. "

Chisco hopped on, I told him the case and said:

- And you do you solve it or you do not solve the same?

To which I replied mozallón first with a rascally little smirk, and then These words, uttered with
the greatest calmness,

- Well I risueltu ... they do not.

- After thinking about it? - I asked.

- Wow - I answered by taking a little behind the head and putting
the tips of your hands pants pockets.

And then he added in his gentle, unhurried style -: When Juí probe,
I closed the doors on mesmus I open them now "parracil" because I
am manhood of caudalis, and that a unu esu is estimi by what you have
and not what he validity of at yes mesmu ... Jorrios! to otru with
toast, for I am zorru vieju and as mayormenti me I do not rush these
things ... tampocu as long as you fail to estorbi him in the house
with me on my trabaju, pa tien Largu sirvienti placenteru.

Congratuléme it a lot, by the fact that I had to keep a servant of the rare clothing that ...
and just the other day of this event was when I 'made her' round.

Neluco found myself with the cabinet, whose major works were already completed, and we were
concerned unpack the two things of many that had brought me to Madrid
to decorate, while crushed and could hear the chants to the damper
of the workers in the next room, until steps even when I stood before
the family of Don Pedro Nolasco, that with the appeal of the works,
often rose to the house, although not as much as the doctor and the
priest, not missing it one day.

Was the hot afternoon, and premiered Lituca a white cotton dress with blue stripes, with which,
some Zapatinas notched a cocoon pink in the hair near the ear, and
a flowery heather penquita in the mouth, it was truly magical.

Above the half-opened boxes, on the marble plateau fireplace, built in front of the door at the base
of the mouth with which art had replaced the bulkhead of the bedroom, and pulled to the corners
of the room had developed rich parts imitating paper trim and gleaming metal ornaments beaded
gold ... Mary, the exclamations that made Mari Pepa to see him, thinking that this value an
asset, not counting how much he liked!

- Oh, my lord, Don Marcelo, who has lived in the dark one in these parts, not knowing pinch of pumps
that are given away in the powerful world nations! Look who have démontrer these beauties
so shiny that you never dreamed of here! What do you paez, my daughter? Father What do you paez?
Look to campaign in earnest! ... Go, go! And that fact, pa what Don Marcelo? "Onde get those
things as pestles? A's see if we found out that it is good to know everything.

Lituca smiled without saying a word, gazed in silence and pasmadote his grandfather's reíase Neluco
earnestly, and me, making me very grace that spontaneity of Mari
Pepa, satisfying very happy wishes explaining the fate of everything
and the many others which were not sight, paying special attention
to describe the cabinet, so that you completely understand Lituca
as would be after completion.

And as to describe, after this I description of all the pieces reformed so that they have an idea
of ​​the intonation general home improvement simple and inexpensive, relative to my way of seeing
and living there, but cause for wonder and amazement for Mari Pepa, which ended by telling
me facing it with me:

- Well, not me, Don Marcelo, who cross through the wealthy because they spend their money on
sought the gift of life while not forgetting the poor, and Nah, you do; but neither of which swallow
the toast without knowing the taste ... Well, well ... Here look no further than the first blow
paez ... because all these perendengues and other such antójanseme too much for one man ...
And God forbid that I Match and that either and the sooner, Don Marcelo ... Then also tell
her that high lift crest, it has to fit here ... Well, well, that a queen can live in that palace
... Jesus, Lord ... So rather than later, Don Marcelo, who just like that, is not leftover
Genton of viso of this poor lugarón ... But what I tochadonas Nah, you dare to tell, Virgin
is my mother!

... "Not true, Mr. Marcelo, who will be able forgive myself?

The unexpected occurrence of the woman in front of Lituca in whom I had made the eyes and thought
constantly, puzzled me in those terms, I did not know answer rather than a mechanical laugh,
and I was so strange deep impression on the soul I took the match as the voice of my destiny
that I said "now or never." Stubborn in the idea and feeling it grow and overwhelming at times
to see what I saw early in the attitude violent and face Lituca indefinable, I approached the
doctor as they covertly I could, and asked him, for love of God, get me out of there at Don Pedro
Nolasco and her daughter, as I said two words to her granddaughter. I approached to it right
away with the excuse to teach I do not know what goodies they showed
through the red paper in a box half-open; She took Neluco others toward
the crossing, and I said as we were alone:

- Your mother you are
right, so it touches the fate of these works: they are not for myself,
but wrong in the main, in what was the most beautiful queen who desire
share this humble castle of my lordship.

Not asked you if you want to know, because want it or not, is of great necessity for me to
know it, and you will now know same ... Serve as the government that this woman whom I want
to make this humble Queen palace, and especially of its owner, you, Lita. Tell me if you do not
like the throne that I offer, to set fire immediately.

It was the poor, pale and trembling, as if she hesitated on the massive rock of Bejos, and I saw
and I wanted to pluck an answer as strict as I wanted. Put in this endeavor, I pegajosón and
slimy as a first-time young man ... What the devil! as will philanderers up more "lizard" when things
are going really and put on the play so much of himself as 'mine' put me in it. Finally, removing
a pulse and rejoicing in the confusion that prevented the more explicit
unhappy with me, I knew everything I needed know, and a little that
I was given a reward of labor it cost me to buy it.

Had much fear, the innocent, something that came at me from noticing "some day", fear that he
dared not to confess even to his own conscience, for what she knew the truth and uncertainty,
of good and evil in these things? I now put him clear, suddenly, "without further no more ', yo!
a man so knowing the world and the treatment of the educated, wealthy and the best stage of life
to choose between good how much I would have known in other hand, because everything, however
great it was, I deserved it, to it! aldeanuca poor and ignorant, the dark and secluded corner
of the earth.

And this awareness he had about how vile own miserable self, why did not doubt what he saw and
touched? And if you think about it, how not frightened with the certainty that I would leave
all the accounts that had driven me to propose that the proposed, or what penalty, tomorrow,
more terrible to her than not be able to make a man happy so high and had since given away!

What remonísima was when I said these things with altered voice and awkward word, stripping their
lanterns embodied in one hand, and not very firm, holding penquita heather with the other, eyes
wet and cowardly, rosy cheeks and a little hectic the breast! She well and I encourage her to look
'tenderly' and the syrupy words, we represented eternally corny scene in the eyes of a spectator
dispassionate and cold, but I they had been until then, was to sublime, and I mixed feelings
and impressions that I had never noticed in the depths of my heart.

He finished the scene, like so many other theater in which they pretend these passages of human life
"Hearing himself steps" outside, and leaving us, waving and saying nonsense "to conceal, to
meet the arriving.

And put things here and what do you do? Then I did the next day down to the village to formally
ask the hand of Lituca his grandfather and his mother, having given
the night has resolution to cure my Don Sabas and the doctor who put
me in the clouds particularly the first, even cried with excitement,
and, by choice, had sent bells ringing in celebration of the event,
which was providential for house, for me to Lituca and the entire
valley and true.

Down, then, to the people that unforgettable morning on a recent day of August recapitulating
the most substantive and practical than they had thought a lot at night; last looked, with eyes
of imagination, the landscape of my past life my probable location with the directions adopted
in it, examined after the event box and impressions that I had brought those lately so outlandish
adventures; empeñábame again distinguish main accessory, the cause
and effect in complex lots of ideas and impressions that filled my
head and heart, sometimes impassioned sentíame and courageous, and
sometimes a little less, but never repented nor discouraged ...

--...
And finally - I got to tell me - if that mediquillo theories are well
founded; the reconstitution of the body degenerate and rotten to come
by pure-blood extremities, someone has to start this work eminently
humanitarian and patriotic.

 He thought not. Putting all these things together on the following
morning he came to an uncomfortable belief that Tregear was the dream.

Soon after that he found himself near to Dolly Longstaff as they were shooting. "You know that
fellow Tregear, don't you?"

"Oh Lord, yes. He is Silverbridge's pal."

"Did you ever hear anything about him?"

"What sort of thing?"

"Was he ever--ever in love with any one?"

"I fancy he used to be awfully spooney on Mab Grex. I remember hearing that they were to have
been married, only that neither of them had sixpence."

"Oh--Lady Mabel Grex! That's a horse of another colour."

"And which is the horse of your colour?"

"I haven't got a horse," said Lord Popplecourt, going away to his own corner.

CHAPTER XLVII

Miss Boncassen's Idea of Heaven

It was generally known that Dolly Longstaff had been heavily smitten by the charms of Miss
Boncassen; but the world hardly gave him credit for the earnestness of his affection. Dolly
had never been known to be in earnest in anything;--but now he was in very truth in love. He
had agreed to be Popplecourt's companion at Custins because he had heard that Miss Boncassen
would be there. He had thought over the matter with more consideration than he had ever before
given to any subject. He had gone so far as to see his own man of business, with a view of
ascertaining what settlements he could make and what income he might be able to spend. He had
told himself over and over again that he was not the "sort of fellow" that ought to marry;
but it was all of no avail. He confessed to himself that he was completely "bowled over,"--"knocked
off his pins!"

"Is a fellow to have no chance?" he said to Miss Boncassen at Custins.

"If I understand what a fellow means, I am afraid not."

"No man alive was ever more in earnest than I am."

"Well, Mr. Longstaff, I do not suppose that you have been trying to take me in all this time."

"I hope you do not think ill of me."

"I may think well of a great many gentlemen without wishing to marry them."

"But does love go for nothing?" said Dolly, putting his hand upon his heart. "Perhaps there
are so many that love you."

"Not above half-a-dozen or so."

"You can make a joke of it, when I--. But I don't think, Miss Boncassen, you at all realise
what I feel. As to settlements and all that, your father could do what he likes with me."

"My father has nothing to do with it, and I don't know what settlements mean. We never think
anything of settlements in our country. If two young people love each other they go and get
married."

"Let us do the same here."

"But the two young people don't love each other. Look here, Mr. Longstaff; it's my opinion
that a young woman ought not to be pestered."

"Pestered!"

"You force me to speak in that way. I've given you an answer ever so many times. I will not
be made to do it over and over again."

"It's that d---- fellow, Silverbridge," he exclaimed almost angrily. On hearing this Miss Boncassen
left the room without speaking another word, and Dolly Longstaff found himself alone. He saw
what he had done as soon as she was gone. After that he could hardly venture to persevere again--here
at Custins. He weighed it over in his mind for a long time, almost coming to a resolution in
favour of hard drink. He had never felt anything like this before. He was so uncomfortable
that he couldn't eat his luncheon, though in accordance with his usual habit he had breakfasted
off soda-and-brandy and a morsel of devilled toast. 

Unfortunately, the people of Seville are not satisfied with the poetic Platonism of the "gate."
Seville as a major commercial port city, and as a treasure of beauties of art and leisure, attracting singularly
especially in the Easter and spring, not only to many foreigners but also to the other Spanish
provinces. That great contest of strangers and the beauty of Seville have led to an alarming
development of corruption. I merely indicated the fact because the matter does not allow comments
or explanations. That evil is the major cancer Spanish cities.

If Sevilla are interested in the day by the whims of its cobbled streets, narrow and winding,
by the splendor of modern houses, hotels and cafes, the magnificence of its arenas, by the majesty
or the excellence of its monuments, its industrial activity and a thousand circumstances - during
the night, to the double moonlight May and thousands of gas lantern, has a particular charm. While
the gas to shine all the curiosities of stores in the shopping, and lighten the cheerful mob
swarmed by paving or the center of the squares and streets - balconies, shutters, the viewpoints and
high bars colors (usually blue and green, on yellow walls) were illuminated by the softer light
of the moon, projecting shadows on the walls Weird women, leaning over the balcony to see people go
in groups constant agitation.

At that time seemed more vivid contrast of various types.

On the one hand made game men of good society, with its broad layers of velvet and tassels around
floating and felt hats, hat called in Spain, when not wearing French avocado and black high
top hat baptized in Madrid with the nickname outrageous mushroom, while elegant ladies dragging
their ornate costumes of shining silk exaggerated in itself, without prejudice to the crinoline,
the plague of all occurrences, and boasted its graceful styling and luxurious hair, no more natural
than a flower motif, or covered with a wool cap puff of colors, or the silk scarf halter.
Y crossed to his hand, rubbing the English major (filled with wonder and curiosity), or French
(noisy and light humor), groups of nice people and my beautiful, most original aspect and
smiling.

The majo (bullfighter, or check, or shawl, or semi-artisan) cover
all his pride on the buttons his jacket, the merit of his belt and
luxury of their spats.

There is such a passion for luxury Andalusian would stop eating three days to save the value
of their shining buttoning silver, placed in double rows on the leading edges of the cloth
jacket, blue or black and full of the most cute ornaments. The wide belt, which gives many
laps around the waist and chest, down jacket (in the form of dormancy and always open), draws
attention for its vivid color (blue, crimson, red, green or yellow), the fineness of silk or wool
and weaving, and the grace of the tassels or fringe slopes of the extremities. Their abundant pin
stand freely as two beautiful bushes at the foot of the hat calanes without wings and also
adorned with some black silk tassels. Spats, from which hang tasseled and countless ribbons of
the same leather, give it a very original husk. Add dress to grace the air of smugness, a tone
loud, very marked and handsome, his hat tipped over one eyebrow, cigarette in mouth, with spitting
by Fang, the great curved blade of acute and springs out, full of carvings and ornaments, half protruding
from a pocket or below the band, and stick in hand, not yet fist with a silk or rope handle,
and sometimes spinning pinwheel when not serving strut - and you will have the full figure of Seville
nice.

As to the manola (type no longer found only in Andalusia or in the representations dramatic and carnivals),
far from being scary as the majo is extremely nice.

Always fussy and ingratiating, when in the mood and free from coercion of majo, - cantankerous
(is the word) and even contemptuous, when the gallant who speaks does not know to be accepted and
displayed vain, - the instincts of independence reveals my beautiful and very pronounced seduction.
His gait is graceful, its provocative and mocking eyes, are destroyed through the beautiful ornaments
and brightly colored fabrics; gústale much strutting arm in arm with a handsome, and watch
your hair dressing and passion. When walking is careful to show the dwarf walking shoes an
elegant slipper, and discover something the rich calf, can make you lose your gravity to an
Englishman. His costume is pompous, very snug, very high and they blend fabrics always bright
colors, especially red and yellow, its simple and elegant headdress, and his chest plump and vigorous
palpitation highlighted with black velvet or satin scarf, or the light blanket that wraps around
part of the round arm.

The worker in Seville, as I said, has many artistic and business rules
in manufacture of a crowd of curious artifacts.

The mere inspection of stores Sevilla is enough to interest the traveler. Pray draw the attention
of precious jewels, lace, the exquisite fans, plaster and wood sculptures, beautiful bands, capricious
leggings, blankets, coats and jackets or coats for popular use, the harness rare, pellon of frames,
the beautiful tapestries and sandals anyway, now cares one to observe the Indian-made weapons
from the microscopic to nearly razor the great Moorish dagger, a sword of Toledo and the fabulous
style and fearsome knife three quarters length frightening for both ends. Everything is there,
curious, in terms that he feels the temptation to buy everything to keep Andalusian museum.
As for me, impressions were so vivid that I keep my museum in memory. Sevilla has left me so vividly
recorded in the mind as if it had been there a long time.

Impossible I would make a detailed description of the business and artistic treasures that is Sevilla.
A residence of five days was not enough for a neat observation, and
though it was, I am not able to speak properly for fine arts.

Out very pass my most vivid impressions.

Since then, the cathedral is the great wonder of the Andalusian metropolis. It is an enormous
mass stone, Gothic fifteenth century, almost entirely, because the
back is Renaissance, completed much later, - a circumstance that produces
a disagreeable contrast.

The church has no tower and main façade is incomplete, lacking major busts and ornaments of
their own time. Completed slowly over a long course of time, appears on the outside as a monument
dislocated, however the majesty and boldness their bows and air strongholds that seem to make
a silent invocation to heaven. Greatness the cathedral (the first in Spain without dispute, in
some respects) is in the interior. Such is his wealth of marble, its single large tile flooring
black and white has cost the large sum of 125.000 dollars. It measures a total length (with
prolongation of the royal chapel) of 417 feet, 315, latitude and elevation, starting 53 feet
in hoods rises to 104 in the aisles, to 145 in the main and to 171 in the dome or dome that dominates.
As seen, the proportions are colossal.

Its five vast warehouses are imposing majesty, especially central, whose admirable handcrafted
stone columns resting on numerous formidable and daring is a lightness and remarkable courage.
Ninety-three windows ogival windows (by the century XVI) is beautiful
for its fineness and color, and the choir stalls is one of the richest
and best work I've seen in the Gothic cathedrals.

The frescoes of the dome are beautiful, like the exquisite work of monumental gates that enclose
the choir. Can be considered contain many beauties of art that cathedral, just know that she has worked
on one hundred ninety-six notable artists, some of them eminent and first order. And However,
by some strange neglect, ignore the name of the architect to draw the plan such a great monument.

If
the two colossal bodies are superb in every way, and the walls, small chapels and vaults have
a hundred beauties to admire, to penetrate to the royal chapel and the chapter house (Making a sudden
transition from the gloomy solemnity of the Gothic to the flowery creations Greco-Roman art) are beauties
of sculpture and paintings and reliefs and works delicate architecture that are of great merit.
There is revealed in works immortal genius Murillo, Herrera and other great masters, alongside
much higher sculptors.

In the royal chapel worship the statue of Ferdinand the Catholic and are among other notable graves
Don Alonso the sage and his mother Dona Beatriz.

The sacristy contains immense wealth in jewels and sacred vessels, and is prodigious pomp displays
the clergy Seville during Holy Week for the headdress and robes of the Virgin. How much misery
would not be alleviated if the Catholic Church renouncing luxury of ostentation that offends
the supreme majesty and heritage of the Godhead, and undermines the noble simplicity Christianity,
to renounce the pagan customs and dedicated to the education and
welfare the immense treasures that lie unproductive in the sacristy!

* * * * *

The Alcazar of Seville, universal popularity, is without question one of the most beautiful monuments
Arabic architecture, but in no way can be compared to the Alhambra.

       Truth eminent is that this is an exceptional situation, while the
Fortress is like hiding in the very heart of Seville, scarcely 500
meters from the cathedral.

Begun by the Moors in 1111 and completed in its lower or first body in 1181, was the residence
of the kings Moors until the reconquest of Seville in 1247. Touched him Don Pedro the Cruel
construction the second floor, which completed the building. A vast courtyard, surrounded by ancient
walls, giving access the Alcazar, whose exquisite facade, a simple construction but reliefs or
curd arabesques, announces the beauties splendor indoors.

The whole building is reduced to two series of large rooms or apartments, generally square and
superimposed on two floors. The bottom of the walls and the pavements are made up of cute thin
brick tiles or earthenware, vivid colors, with the most graceful
figures or drawings.

The top of each wall, from middle to high coffered ceilings, plaster stucco or wood, plays in
general, with incredible profusion, the same ornaments flowers or arabesques that make the charm
of the Alhambra, always repeating forms those exquisite filigree cast, but without losing that grace
of contours, surprising finesse lines everywhere, and vivid color in dazzling combinations.
As Don Pedro the Cruel Arab artists employed at the completion of building works of art are
completely homogeneous. Coffered ceilings or roofs, mainly cedar are implementing a delicate
taste.

The Alcazar, full of light by the nature of its construction, it has in its halls and rooms
that air of delight and dark mystery that dominates the Alhambra. In all Alcázar is cheerful
and bright, and from the windows and overhanging balconies of the
interior parts it has all the charming spectacle offered by the huge
garden surrounding the eastern palace.

What dramatic traditions that place where races and dynasties reigned enemy! If the hall of the Ambassadors
away by its magnificence and its magnificent dome, evokes many stories and legends with fresco
portraits of kings Goths who hold on the roof. Already feels overwhelmed with horror to cross the
room where he was killed Fadrique by order of his brother Don Pedro, already destiene to ponder,
visiting the bedroom where the king slept cruel, blood on the dramas of jealousy and distrust terrible
were the result of dark musings of the man in her care, and in Finally, when descending to the
courtyard of the Dolls (which had its large berries bathrooms) and penetraren where once underground
voluptuous princesses bathe eastern and more late Doña María de Padilla, one shudders thinking about
the dual use of those underground created for the delight and turned into the tomb. There, in
one of the wet cells without any air or light, was his imprisonment and martyrdom that woman
so famous memory.

The garden, which is about three hectar of the total area is enclosed by a high wall which
itself is a monument. Yet he is full of arabesques, of precious columns, frescoes, inscriptions
and a thousand ornaments so beautiful. What I admire is that these beauties art, exposed to the
weather after so many centuries (for such is the construction of
walls) are perfectly preserved and remain as models of Arabic art.

It would be impossible fully describe this wonderful garden (so especially in Europe) without
filling many pages poetic language which seems exaggerated. Apart from the interest of the
interior facade the Alcazar and the high walls that frame the room, the very bottom of the
garden is lovely by a whole as well as for its beautiful details. While walking through its
maze of myrtle symmetrically cut, its thick groves of oranges and pomegranates, their vast agglomerations
shrubs and flowering plants, as bright as art in some places, so graciously unequal in others,
and to penetrate all sanctuaries of vegetables that fill the precinct, will create one as transported
to the Eastern Edens.

Everything there is voluptuous, smiling, tempting. And have fun in trying to find an early exit the maze
of myrtle, or in deciphering the allegories of all shapes drawn on the ground through the same
myrtle bushes neatly arranged, and it has to admire the groups of flowers, water games ingenious
and surprising, the numerous sources Arabic forms and the marble
steps where the Andalusian sun shines with all its splendor.

Pray you do get to wander, dreaming and remembering a thousand stories, under the thick shade of
the woods of oranges, lemons and pomegranates, where you feel the delicious produce intoxication
orange blossom and jasmine, basil and roses in profusion. Ora in short, the noise of the sources
and the singing of the birds inhabitants of the garden is resting with delight, sitting on
ottomans marble, under the leadership of beautiful pavilions of different styles, built in the center
vegetable those toilets that seem to evoke the shadows of the sultanas and traditions of the Moorish civilization.
The Alcazar is a delightful monument. Your type is the smiling freshness. They lack the grandeur
that characterized the Alhambra. So, after leaving the old mansion Don Pedro the Cruel, feels
heavy and unpleasant air of the street and takes a sweet printing, but not experienced the sadness
that accompanies the traveler to stay away from sites and impressive monuments of the old fortress
of Boabdil.

* * * * *

La Lonja, next to the cathedral, is a beautiful and elegant monument that honors to its architect,
the famous Herrera

       

.

You will not remember that against me?"

"I will remember nothing that you do not wish."

"I mean that if,--if all the grandeurs of all the Pallisers could consent to put up with poor
me, if heaven were opened to me with a straight gate, so that I could walk out of our republic
into your aristocracy with my head erect, with the stars and stripes waving proudly round me
till I had been accepted into the shelter of the Omnium griffins,--then I would call him--"

"There's one Palliser would welcome you."

"Would you, dear? Then I will love you so dearly. May I call you Mary?"

"Of course you may."

"Mary is the prettiest name under the sun. But Plantagenet is so grand! Which of the kings
did you branch off from?"

"I know nothing about it. From none of them, I should think. There is some story about a Sir
Guy who was a king's friend. I never trouble myself about it. I hate aristocracy."

"Do you, dear?"

"Yes," said Mary, full of her own grievances. "It is an abominable bondage, and I do not see
that it does any good at all."

"I think it is so glorious," said the American. "There is no such mischievous nonsense in all
the world as equality. That is what father says. What men ought to want is liberty."

"It is terrible to be tied up in a small circle," said the Duke's daughter.

"What do you mean, Lady Mary?"

"I thought you were to call me Mary. What I mean is this. Suppose that Silverbridge loves you
better than all the world."

"I hope he does. I think he does."

"And suppose he cannot marry you, because of his--aristocracy?"

"But he can."

"I thought you were saying yourself--"

"Saying what? That he could not marry me! No, indeed! But that under certain circumstances
I would not marry him. You don't suppose that I think he would be disgraced? If so I would
go away at once, and he should never again see my face or hear my voice. I think myself good
enough for the best man God ever made. But if others think differently, and those others are
so closely concerned with him, and would be so closely concerned with me, as to trouble our
joint lives,--then will I neither subject him to such sorrow nor will I encounter it myself."

"It all comes from what you call aristocracy."

"No, dear;--but from the prejudices of an aristocracy. To tell the truth, Mary, the more difficult
a place is to get into, the more the right of going in is valued. If everybody could be a Duchess
and a Palliser, I should not perhaps think so much about it."

"I thought it was because you loved him."

"So I do. I love him entirely. I have said not a word of that to him;--but I do, if I know
at all what love is. But if you love a star, the pride you have in your star will enhance your
love. She also had in his remote youth tender and delicate love.

The purpose of these abandoned her to go to seek their fortune in distant lands. All earnest
and affectionate affections of the soul of Prisca and concentrated, then took refuge in religion,
seeking and finding comfort and solace therein. A single source of sadness clouded and in light
of his thoughts serene. An impious and sacrilegious hands had stolen from the cathedral a small,
artistic and gorgeous, custody. How great would be the joy of Prisca when learned from the canon, his
confessor, a very rich and pious man had sent enough money for another custody, similar to the
stolen and no less beautiful, be at the cost and outside his the ornament and glory of this
church! True architect of considerable merit, or obscure Arfe Cellini, olvidadoen the center of this
provincial town, making the new custody reproducing inspired breathtaking beauties in ancient
few seemed. Prisca, old man's friend architect, goes daily to see and celebrate progress in the
manufacture of new custody. Strange, complicated and passionate mix of emotions stirred the hearts
and minds of Prisca when he learns that the person who made the generous donation is the boyfriend
who had abandoned, which rich and happy lives in very distant regions! Unable to resist his
weakened body to the violence of the emotions that stir the spirit, Prisca falls ill of fatal illness,
and breathed his last when finished and the new custody, passes in solemn and triumphant procession
through the door of his house. The memories of puppy love and the later mysticism of life Prisca
amalgamate and melt gently in his soul in those last moments, purifying and exalting in such
a way past love earth, not heaven's sake profane or put the slightest stain on cleaning.

Without affectation of archaism and purism, but in the most natural and spontaneous language
Mr. Lee Roberts is pure and in all of his stories, and scenes describing copied from the natural
look, with accuracy in the details, and without the author's small vexed by neat, defects
in which usually fall on a day not a few novelists. Very reasonable hopes that Mr. Lee Roberts
will be one of the best that Spain can boast this century, give us the short stories written
and published by him when is still very young.

III

Another notable talent as an author of books unknown to me at
least so far, is D. Adelard Ortiz de Pinedo.

The work of his recently published and have read with great interest, is entitled The chasm.
If the clothes of a novelist are sharp and insightful talent observation, the final skill for drawing
and painting style characters, and the art of combining events and circumstances to develop
an action lead to the evolution with increasing speed and ensure it reaches the end and outcome
that the author fixed, we may ensure that Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo has these items and is known to
be or is already a novelist short no merit. Topped off with a view straight and severe, it
is to give excellent lessons moral and do not use it impertinent speeches, but getting born
or derived of the same events that counts. To achieve this end is, finally, on the clear real
world view and society in which they live, the powerful imagination and art should with inventing
the facts, incidents and conflicts, and groups and ordered by moving to a purpose determined.

The
gulf, however, has, to my way of feeling, a little bit funny, that I dare not failing to qualify,
but I would be glad to disappear in other works where the type. I have no doubt that I will write,
for he has shown great willingness in the already written, and the
deserved applause with which the public will encourage insurance.

The defect, call it so, is the most tremendous pessimism. The approval and even if you want
admired as works of art that causes us the chasm is not backed out
of pure aesthetic pleasure, but fed up bitter and poisoned by the
spectacle of meanness and wickedness of human beings, and impious
and desperate doubts about the providence of heaven.

Do not believe it said that I accused Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo to create exaggerated characters ill.
The worst of those in the gulf is set in the world, it must be confessed,
models more vicious, more despicable and more vicious.

No sin, then, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo to create beings Human worse than they actually are; sin because
apart from the side, and we say, the sphere of action and passion of the heroine of his novel
he has decided to plunge into the darkest abyss every man and every woman can feel for her a noble
and selfless affection as you can, know and want to give good advice, provide the precipice about
to fall and hold not to fall, lay a strong and loving hand to lift his fall or hold at least
in misfortune unquenchable.

Ramona, daughter of Philip predatory lender, which has become very rich, educated in an excellent
and aristocratic girls' school where, on his good natural background,
puts education the most delicate feelings.

Unfortunately, Ramona, according to the decision Gospel, is candid as doves, but is very far
from fulfilling the first part council or commandment, it is not wise as the serpent. Notable
is its unpredictability and pitiful ineptitude for life. Saved in your soul a treasure of virtues,
but it certainly is lacking the two cardinal virtues that matter most: the wisdom and strength.

Ramona
marries a young Marquis without showing in the novel who marries for love. He married to marry and
to be Marchesa. The Marquis wants to gild their coats of arms by way of marriage, and she wants
to boast their gold. If this is happening too often. Not hold I morally
very nice.

Very dignified for a man using its noble titles and splendor that surrounds the high society
in which they live, to get a woman kept. Not always, however, such marriage contracts bring with
them misfortune. Perhaps the title is a blessed husband, so full of gratitude and affection for
its rich consort like Elijah or St. Paul the Hermit, to the ravens brought them food. And maybe time,
if the husband is entitled ready, the money goes for his wife and serves auparle relief point
of entry to political life, climbing the highest positions and shine and shine on them to his companion.

This
is not to deny that the husband of the title holder can not, and sometimes not, and a tonti-crazy and
a heartless scoundrel, and the most wasteful and vicious of all men, but this seems unlikely
that any news was not taken before the wedding and even before the engagement. How is it that
the father and the mother of the girl did not object? What blindness as large was not the same
girl and so unreasonable and so just explained, because his love
is not to be very eager to give up and devote himself to a lost soul,
only about the mere encouragement of the Marquis?

In the case of the pit, the docility of Ramona borders on stupidity and weakness unlikely character,
but is even less plausible that D. Philip, her father, who had much expert on financial considerations,
does not provide for the ruination of his son, and consequently, their daughter and not seek
to avoid it. The only one who seeks the mother and the mother dies of hot flashes.

Don Felipe, as is revealed, life was already in his wife's affair with the maid she marries well
widowed. Lance is this naturalísimo, vulgar and credible. What is rare, this is the full evil
of every individual. Always or almost always, by of the most perverse qualities, often comes
a good or average among the ingredients that make up the character
of each person.

The most outrageous whore, which, abusing the senile lasciviousness and pursuing it with diabolical
cunning, arrives to take over the heart and wealth an old fool, and generally be kind to be
forgiven their rascalities, even without the slightest glimmer of goodness in his soul, and
to calm his conscience in check balance of its shares any good to counterbalance the bad. I'm
not saying Nicole, the stepmother of the Marquise Ramona, is a creature of pure evil unlikely.
There are or should Nicole had many real life and in society in which we live. The strange thing about
all this, It appears that no natural result of the concatenation of things, but mat or woven
fabric by the devil, is not around, or near or far from the poor Ramona subject male or female
that is honest, decent and kind to her and that something may be of useful. The only person who
has for her friendly and selfless devotion is a poor hunchback helpless and almost useless.

How
is it possible that Ramona did not have a friend in his old schoolmates or between people of
the middle class who had to visit and treat his father and mother, or between elegant ladies that
she was to meet and entertain at home before being ruined? For I know that that is poor people
often despise and turn their backs, but not to the extent that there is only one rational creature
to take his hand and encourage and comfort him.

In high school, and beyond, Ramona, Catholic educators, had to take confessors, there to deal with
priests. How not find a less indifferent and cold depths less off and hard for the father she
Zubulzu?

Ramona was beautiful, elegant, there was nothing foolish and while living in high society,
and not fall into the pit, had to have fans, young and old friends
that estimated that cared for her, and some of which, despite all
his modesty and severity of morals, could she be kind, granting favors
those breed predilection and clean and friendly no longer trust the
austere virtue, but neither the sanctity prohibited.

How is it that none of those friends first tried to avoid falling into the abyss, or tried
to remove it after without demanding in return the humiliation and disgrace?

It is possible that the circumstances have so that an unfortunate person does not find who turn
away, but should not be assumed, without insulting or slandering the human race unfortunate
that such person is not offended because it really does not exist in the world. Misfortune Ramona
arrives, therefore the rarest if not the most incredible extremes. Out of hunchback nobody there
to assist it or to look for it: neither raised nor other poor people, or people, middle class,
friends or relatives of your family, or ladies and gentlemen of the aristocratic society that
has grown up and has since lived.

Strange is also the complete and terrible misery to which the author leads her heroine, providing
it to do so magnanimous generosity, which can not but be a bit confused with the simplicity even in
the thinking of fictional people and despised material interests.

Anyone would think, finally, the idea that a young healthy woman, twenty-five or twenty years, carefully
educated, must have some ability to know something, have some means,
industry or resource to earn an honest living.

It can be nurse, teacher rich or chaperon. You can teach music, French, English, and hand work
to first letters. You can embroider, paint, make something, in short, it is worth two or three
pesetas daily. Bad luck tightening, but not always chokes. In The chasm is too note the strong
author's efforts to hasten her as his heroine throwing on such a
depth that does not able to leave, that he had no recourse but death
or infamy.

Ramona driven by the gloomy imagination of Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo, is to fall fatally in this horrible
dilemma: either kill or be the mistress of the bullfighter Severiano, aka the band. And as
the unhappy Ramona lacks the courage that is required premeditated suicide, or if the value is
not missing, his conscience or religious ban him committing such heinous crime, Ramona opt
on the other end of the dilemma, and it is seen, at the end of the novel, which will incur an sin
uglier, dirtier and more plebeian, though less fierce and less unlike suicide natural order and
reason and divine will.

While reading the last pages of the abyss we forge for a few moments of pleasant Ramona illusion
that, in the midst of its abandonment, was to find a noble defender in the torero someone to protect
her brutally without requiring payment, but, as already indicated, this illusion fades quickly.
The bullfighter is no better than the other beings of our species. Prominent among them only
by their energy, but this energy does not manifest its activity by any generous impulse, but
motivated only by selfish and bestial appetites.

Although as stated above, despite some improprieties and improbabilities in details, and despite
too many coincidences that occur with regard to seem fortuitous, as the sudden appearance of
a bullfighter in a serious time that saves Ramona the most shameful and miserable trance, the
pit is planned and written with such art, their reading interests, attracts and seduces, but
instead to delight grieve, ending up discouraged, if we had no recourse to think that everything
is fake and false, that everything is fixed, exaggerated and teratology,
and not ordinary and current, fortunately.

In short, I would dare to call me Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo of good painter of manners, although I am
glad that showed less bitter taste for bad painter, and that he should put less black, less shadows
and more light, ink and more pink and blue sky on his palette. Perhaps in the future do so without persist
in producing extraordinary grieving effects more than just the minds of his readers. Very much
so, in my opinion, will win with this, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo.

IV

Like all naive and gullible reader may conclude after reading The gulf is an abominable Patulea most
humans, the reading of another novel that I have on brand my desk, whose title is snow and mud,
can mislead less cruel, but not least evident.

Is it credible, is common in real life there is a large body of men
women and gentle, simple, virtuous and good through and through, who
would live happily and honestly in a perpetual and syrupy romance,
if there were not a tyrant who impose them His yoke, who treat them
with kicks and that dominate at will, as fierce and rustic shepherd
a meek and helpless flock.

This idea of ​​the goodness of the crowd and misfortune to the evil one sentence which prevails
over it prevails or is less misanthropic idea that assumed that all or almost all, we are
evil, but is no less false idea and so much more popularized. The bad princes, governments stupid
or immoral, unjust judges, the authority, short, any grade or class that is, are, for those
who think that luck, guilt of all evil.


"What does that matter when the question is one of your daughter's happiness? Everybody tells
me that he is clever and well conducted."

He betrayed nothing by his face as this was said to him. But as he got into the carriage he
was a miserable man. It is very well to tell a man that he should yield, but there is nothing
so wretched to a man as yielding. Young people and women have to yield,--but for such a man
as this, to yield is in itself a misery. In this matter the Duke was quite certain of the propriety
of his judgment. To yield would be not only to mortify himself, but to do wrong at the same
time. He had convinced himself that the Popplecourt arrangement would come to nothing. Nor
had he and Lady Cantrip combined been able to exercise over her the sort of power to which
Lady Glencora had been subjected. If a city, town or village is impoverished and ruined, if its inhabitants lose
welfare, rest and culture that once enjoyed, blame the council or the mayor. And if a nation goes down,
you lose your power and credit, and if foreign nations the insult or belittle, blame the king or
his foolish and wicked ministers. The false it is to think of that way is clearly warns, considering
that neither the mayor or the council, neither King nor the ministers, or anyone of those overlap
and command and would incur evil stupid things, if not sustained them in their wickedness and
their stupidity, collaborating with them, if not most, the most active and spirited of the beings
who compose the nation, city, town or village. In every sin, in any crime, all tyranny, there
is hardly anything ever attributed to one. The entire society must respond to the nonsense of
power when given the power to fools, and declared guilty of the outrages and crimes of the
same power that she represents and creates, sustains and endures.

Not understand why we suppose essential, even distrust convenient frequent imprisonment or insurrection
of the governed so that they are not done, a pair of victims, accomplices of the blunders,
excesses and crimes of those who govern. What I suppose, and what I think about at face value, is
that the tyrant, benevolent or malevolent monarch or tribune president of the republic, or chief
alcalde, grows, feeds or breathe the environment, does the will of the most or more worth by
the number or energy, and not be what it is if you do not provide relief and support for this
whatsoever. Maybe Nero, upon his return to rule the day in a cultured nation in Europe, would
be a constitutional monarch afabilísimo something fun lover and friend, very generous patron of
the sciences and arts, would by his side to a composer of operas such as Wagner, to some excellent
Lola Montes dancer and a brilliant retinue of architects, sculptors, painters, poets, writers
and scholars. Perhaps Philip II, and again to rise and reign in Spain he so identified with
the national spirit and national thought then, would cominero and with no less suspicious
and no less cumbersome than it already did, but drifting stream of time, far from being a fan,
it would be a freethinker, but surreptitiously, with firmness, and seek for different orientations,
as they say now, that enlargement and prosperity of their states that undoubtedly sought when there
appeared for the first time.

Bring to mind all the above to the foundation of the opinion that I give on the aforementioned Snow
and mud novel. Is snow, if not the entire population, the vast majority of people a picturesque
and beautiful village of the Alpujarras, located in the fertile but Riscoso skirt Veleta the
lofty, and designated by the pseudonym Iberuela. And are silt Mayor or chief and his son Luke,
two devils incarnate all Anasco. But for them, that place would be paradise. The rural simplicity
of manners, cheerful innocence soft and pure love would prevail there if it were not for Lucas,
the mayor's son is hooked, as a lecherous satyr, the gentle Hope, paragon of all virtues and other
good garments that can enhance the merit of a girl. The father of this is a great subject. And
the parson, D. Serafin, a true holy man, a venerable servant of God, a model cures. His nephew,
Luciano, not far behind in point of moral perfection. Is selfless discreet, hardworking, educated
and courageous, demonstrating the latest in the war in Cuba, where he had to go to war because he
dropped the card as a soldier. Already returned to the place with the license absolute, it becomes
a school teacher, and teaches the kids so well and with such skill and affection, the boys and parents
will bless and love him.

Even before that Luciano was an activist in the Pearl of the Antilles, from infancy almost, or
almost no, Luciano and Hope were dating, they were chained by the flowery sweet loop of the
most chaste and delicate love.

In the novel Snow and mud, whose author is Mr. José Joaquín Domínguez, master, to I mean, holy
cathedral of Guadix, everything I had to figure is beautifully told in full, with rare and
pure elegance of style, with spontaneous naturally and with such vividness and richness of color
so that credit with excellent and inspired writer who does, further demonstrating that paints what
he has seen, taking it from life and feel and love and reflected in his soul all that beauty, not
only as a faithful mirror but adorned, glorified and enlightened
by ideals also glows.

The love story of Snow and mud would be so nice and peaceful, although
less sensual sick and more ethereal than that of Daphnis and Chloe,
if not, as already indicated, by a rogue Lucas, son of the chief.

He throws it all away in the most unexpected, brutal and bloody.

As naturalísimo, lovers Luciano and Hope arrive at the end of their legitimate desires, and receive
the nuptial blessing in the church, but coram popular when the crowd
and general rejoicing, leaving the church the newlyweds, Lucas appears,
is thrown on Luciano like a tiger on its prey, and kills him with
two accurate and terrible stabbing.

Pitiful is the fact. Not without plausibility, although it is strange that someone, inveterate
cynical and vicious criminal who is, resort to murder so little pretense. For more than compliance
with the proverbial phrase or sentence that says that nothing is too dangerous or too difficult to
do when you have the mayor father, is even more strange that the murder of Luciano go unpunished,
and even that is applauded by the higher authority, which is indicated and is presumed by the
end of the novel. Lucas's father, the mayor or chief, Antolin Carrejo, go to capital and tries
to prove, and proves that Luciano was a tremendous conspirator, something like a Lucio Sergio
Catilina one, and had been dead for the republic, peace and order were saved. A patient of
honest science and Iberuela neighborhood, so fond of Luciano and so bound to him with admiration
and gratitude, how could forge no contradiction or protest as unjust mess? How could it be
without correction, and grief as black crime? How were so shy and so incapable of living in Iberuela,
what size would consent horror and suffering? And in any case, without denying the possibility, because
there is hardly anything that is not possible Is it permissible inference of a singular and abnormal
is a general affirmative proposition? Does caciquismo is always a cause of misfortune and immorality?
On this day, the more bulldozers, the most sage or the richest of each place where it is often
available and send as soon as available and sent, is designated by the nickname facetiously cacique,
which is no less offensive to their fellow citizens, who are implicitly a skilled or semi-wild
Indians. But when there was or when there will be no bosses, but with another name or nickname of
denote? Since before Cadmus furnished to Greece, and even before that Saturn reigned in Italy
in Greece and Italy were chiefs. What's in Spain was very vicious from from ancient times Gerions
of those in vain we Osiris and Hercules freed Egyptian, because after this unfortunate country
ruled almost without interruption a long series of not less ferocious tyrants. See, then, how old
ailment chieftaincy is everywhere, and very uniquely in Spain and how such a scourge can not be regarded
as deplorable novelty introduced and implemented between us constitution
or political system of fashion.

Be all that as it should be, and regardless of the thesis, if snow and mud is permissible betray
any, you can ensure that the novel is very pleasant and quiet reading until tragedy occurs that ends.
And you can be sure that Mr. D. José Joaquín Domínguez writes very pure elegance and delicate taste,
and lets us know, without affecting and without fanfare importunate, who has studied well to our
classics and the ancient learned Greek and Roman, not slavishly copy
any of them, but putting in style flavor and aroma, as providing new
wine in old wine sill and generous than the old glass contains.

I would like to here news of other recently published stories and novels. Harvest as I indicated,
is abundant in this century and it was in the past. I flinch, then strain to my readers. And
without prejudice to undertake again the task of critical Another time when I feel less tired
I confine myself now to quote from their titles Thomas I, D. Jose Jesus Garcia, printed in Almeria
to Gondar and Fortaleza, the Marquis Figueroa, Floor, and D. Sebastian Gomila, edition of Barcelona
in the shade of the mosque, Cordoba stories by D. July Pellicer, Woman of Ojeda (Alicante,
1901), by D. Gabriel Miró, trifles, stories and articles, by Don
Alfonso Jara, and bulk to the Coracha, by and held in high esteem
and Malaga Don Arturo Reyes.

Today, finally, only give an account of a novel by a writer from Seville, already known scholar
and also elegant and witty poet. As a novelist, not I know that D. Luis Montoto, the writer
whom I allude, has published anything before writing and publishing the novel entitled The four
pennies. As a lyric poet he knew me and I felt much long. In the intellectual and literary activity
that is central Sevilla, is among the most illustrious writers.

With his novel The four farthings is now to register, surely among the best and most original
novelists in Spain.

The story tells us is immediately taken from reality. Everything about her, rather than fiction,
has traces of a transcript of things that have been witnessed, not
for nothing that invented, but on events and people who are remembered.

And yet, of such events and persons that appear vulgar to start the story, emerges and evolves after
the charming poetry.

Don Antonio, the main character, the owner of the four pennies, we are shown at the beginning shy, spoiled
with riches, selfish and even perverted and vicious, it dragged violent passions, but by weakness
of character.

The interest of this curious novel, what makes us really nice, is
not the transformation or change, because nothing changed or transformed,
but the emergence becoming clearer and more shiny goodness, nobility
and sweetness of the soul of D. Antonio, who is throwing little little
miseries and vices of weakness made, and ends up shining in her nakedness
spiritual, clean, immaculate, rich in caring affections.

The moral worth of at sight insignificant D. Antonio will rise gradually that, in our opinion,
is transfigured and appears surrounded by nice glow.

Your generosity, misused first, and in light women, and to sustain in leisure and debauchery
to the shameless parasite Pepe Carranza, wise leadership is beginning to take grace to love,
without any semblance or shadow of lust that inspires Soledad, faithful
and honest housekeeper.

Extreme goodness is after the heart of D. Antonio when collect child Angelito, providentially
come to place themselves under his protection, and is the son of Soledad and Anarchist Isaiah, who
had to flee and emigrate to Buenos Aires.

Parental love feels D. Antonio for the child that has been collected, but is Soledad worth of
skill or cunning to pick you up and love him, Mr ago Antonio worthy of veneration and sympathy.

And
well reasoned further examination of conscience that makes D. Antonio crossing point about
his past life and recognizing how sorrow and regret is useless and
sterile, will enhance and purify it in our eyes, puts far top of the
four pennies, that before candidly boasted, and he also raised about
the miserable and interested persons around him: on the parasite Pepe
Carranza and their relatives loathe Teodora and Ricardo, who longed
to inherit and finally he inherited.

Again, this novel of the four pennies virtue triumphs in the world. Teodora and Ricardo are
those who succeed. It can be said that they who trouble to kill D. Antonio.

The end of the novel can not be more tragic. If only considering the material and external
Life can not be more pessimistic. Soledad is helpless, and almost accused of thievery dishonored.
Her husband, who has returned from Buenos Aires and has taken part
in a huge riot popular, died of a gunshot captaining the mob.

And the good D. Antonio, no person friend to care for him, and among the rapacious clutches
of their infamous cousins, unfortunately just his life.

But the singularity of this, which proves that style, beliefs and feelings the narrator and the
skylight that illuminates perhaps the most cruel and higher Disasters can exchange the evil
into good and make the poison antidote is that Angelito and Soledad,
as hapless materially, are worthy of envy and glory, and poor D. Antonio,
who at the beginning of the novel almost gives us is the object of
scorn and laughter and fun, just to be loved and revered by readers.

He let in the minds of them must be read after the novel is heartbreaking nor depressive, but full
of soft and religious consolation and truer morality and higher. And when this does not preclude,
but agrees and arranges to entertainment pleasant to work in this class have to bring with
you (because if you were bored moral, morals become immoral, as it would morally odious),
these works deserve applause and meet business and discreetly in order to be proposed novelist, delighting
and teaching time, not annoy the spirit, without giving us a hard
time, not sad or oppress hearts.

I think the novel Mr. Montoto dutifully performed the said purpose. Therefore I am to celebrate,
send the author my warmest congratulations, and I get excited, as
far as my approval and reach my praise, to continue writing stories
with the wisdom that can be expected which already warns The four
pennies and celebrate.

On the matter of environment

Mr. D. Antonio de Hoyos.

My distinguished friend, I read with due attention to the novel whose
title you Environmental issue, and I'll tell you frankly the views
on she asks. This work demonstrates, in my view, the author has vivid
imagination, natural simplicity and ease style, nothing vulgar aptitude
for observation, and art and good sense to order then express and
narrate what is observed.

"If it will make you comfortable, papa!"

"It is for your sake I wish them to be here. I think that Lady Mabel and Miss Boncassen are
just such girls as you would like."

"I do like them; only--"

"Only what?"

"Miss Boncassen is an American."

"Is that an objection? According to my ideas it is desirable to become acquainted with persons
of various nations. I have heard, no doubt, many stories of the awkward manners displayed by
American ladies. If you look for them you may probably find American women who are not polished.
I do not think I shall calumniate my own country if I say the same of English women. It should
be our object to select for our own acquaintances the best we can find of all countries. It
seems to me that Miss Boncassen is a young lady with whom any other young lady might be glad
to form an acquaintance."

This was a little sermon which Mary was quite contented to endure in silence. She was, in truth,
fond of the young American beauty, and had felt a pleasure in the intimacy which the girl had
proposed to her. But she thought it inexpedient that Miss Boncassen, Lady Mabel, and Silverbridge
should be at Matching together. Therefore she made a reply to her father's sermon which hardly
seemed to go to the point at issue. "She is so beautiful!" she said.

"Very beautiful," said the Duke. "But what has that to do with it? My girl need not be jealous
of any girl's beauty." Mary laughed and shook her head. "What is it, then?"

"Perhaps Silverbridge might admire her."

"I have no doubt he would,--or does, for I am aware that they have met. But why should he not
admire her?"

"I don't know," said Lady Mary sheepishly.

"I fancy that there is no danger in that direction. I think Silverbridge understands what is
expected from him." Had not Silverbridge plainly shown that he understood what was expected
from him when he selected Lady Mabel? Nothing could have been more proper, and the Duke had
been altogether satisfied. That in such a matter there should have been a change in so short
a time did not occur to him. Poor Mary was now completely silenced. She had been told that
Silverbridge understood what was expected from him; and of course could not fail to carry home
to herself an accusation that she failed to understand what was expected from her.

She had written her letters, but had not as yet sent them. Those to Mrs. Finn and to the two
young ladies had been easy enough. Could Mr. and Mrs. Finn come to Matching on the 20th of
November? "Papa says that you promised to return, and thinks this time will perhaps suit you."
And then to Lady Mabel: "Do come if you can; and papa particularly says that he hopes Miss
Cassewary will come also." To Miss Boncassen she had written a long letter, but that too had
been written very easily. "I write to you instead of your mamma, because I know you. You must
tell her that, and then she will not be angry. I am only papa's messenger, and I am to say
how much he hopes that you will come on the 20th. Mr. Boncassen is to bring the whole British
Museum if he wishes." Then there was a little postscript which showed that there was already
considerable intimacy between the two young ladies. "We won't have either Mr. L. or Lord P."
Not a word was said about Lord Silverbridge. There was not even an initial to indicate his name.

But the letter to her brother was more difficult. In her epistles to those others she had so
framed her words as if possible to bring them to Matching. But in writing to her brother, she
was anxious so to write as to deter him from coming. She was bound to obey her father's commands.
He had desired that Silverbridge should be asked to come,--and he was asked to come. But she
craftily endeavoured so to word the invitation that he should be induced to remain away. "It
is all papa's doing," she said; "and I am glad that he should like to have people here. I have
asked the Finns, with whom papa seems to have made up everything. Mr. Warburton will be here
of course, and I think Mr. Moreton is coming. He seems to think that a certain amount of shooting
ought to be done. Then I have invited Lady Mabel Grex and Miss Cassewary,--all of papa's choosing,
and the Boncassens. Now you will know whether the set will suit you. Papa has particularly
begged that you will come,--apparently because of Lady Mabel. I don't at all know what that
means. Perhaps you do. As I like Lady Mabel, I hope she will come." Surely Silverbridge would
not run himself into the jaws of the lion. When he heard that he was specially expected by
his father to come to Matching in order that he might make himself agreeable to one young lady,
he would hardly venture to come, seeing that he would be bound to make love to another young lady!

To Mary's great horror, all the invitations were accepted. Mr. and Mrs. Finn were quite at
the Duke's disposal. That she had expected. The Boncassens would all come. This was signified
in a note from Isabel, which covered four sides of the paper and was full of fun. But under
her signature had been written a few words,--not in fun,--words which Lady Mary perfectly understood.
"I wonder, I wonder, I wonder!" Did the Duke when inviting her know anything of his son's inclinations?
Would he be made to know them now, during this visit? And what would he say when he did know them?

That the Boncassens would come was a matter of course; but Mary had thought that Lady Mabel
would refuse. She had told Lady Mabel that the Boncassens had been asked, and to her thinking
it had not been improbable that the young lady would be unwilling to meet her rival at Matching.
But the invitation was accepted.

But it was her brother's ready acquiescence which troubled Mary chiefly. He wrote as though
there were no doubt about the matter. "Of course there is a deal of shooting to be done," he
said, "and I consider myself bound to look after it. There ought not to be less than four guns,--particularly
if Warburton is to be one of them. I like Warburton very much, and I think he shoots badly
to ingratiate himself with the governor. I wonder whether the governor would get leave for
Gerald for a week. He has been sticking to his work like a brick. If not, would he mind my
bringing someone? You ask the governor and let me know. I'll be there on the 20th. I wonder
whether they'll let me hear what goes on among them about politics. I'm sure there is not one
of them hates Sir Timothy worse than I do. Soon have two stories high, about eighty feet in length, and twenty or thirty
of latitude. The famous hall of ambassadors from the Royal Palace of Madrid, is much smaller,
but I think it is more stately, because it is easier. The only flaw I noticed in this royal
residence, is that the profession in the ornament, the off handsomely in the pool. With less
estate, would have more grandeur, it would highlight the greatness of the ceilings, walls,
space, the grandeur of the extension. A Nevertheless, it is a dazzling piece. Among the countless
things we've seen remarkable in the room I speak, I will not make more than a mention. Near the
end of the canvas right as in the comedy of the wall, we saw a picture. We approach everything
we could, and we noticed that it was the portrait of her painter. One of the curious who visited
the Museum on that day, watching the picture with some enthusiastic curiosity, almost with wonder.
This drew our attention to us, that we saw in that painting a big reason of admiration and
enthusiasm. We look with more emphasis on the table before us; returned to the viewer's eyes,
and noticed again that kept grimacing and twitching, as to urge the excellence of the painting. In
this we looked at, and we also look, sign to say, "what do you see in this picture? What miracle
is this? "

The Stranger (was German) understood us, and passing near us, babbled in broken French: you see that
picture, that picture is hanging there, not a painting, not a oil painting, is a tapestry,
and greeting us with a gesture, he left.

The three of us were amazed, and stayed a long time looking for that wonder. Not knowing that
this painting is a tapestry of the Gobelins factory, it seems impossible one person to distinguish
the tapestry of an oil painting, painting and a good school. The fabric has done as much as the
brush, the wool is there rival colors. Shadows, stockings inks, confusion of tones, to vagueness
in the color, until the mixture indefinable infinitely varied and different, which can only
be done in a painter's palette, everything is there. The Gobelins tapestry are so painters,
upholsterers, painters or so. I think that picture just to see and admire, is one of the greatest
curiosities that have human art.

We entered the museum of paintings. After crossing a few galleries, where there is more wealth
architecture, where the building is much more remarkable than the museum, we entered the room
preference. In this rich room are kept all works estimated that the Louvre has the great masters.
In the middle of the right angle, including paintings by Raphael
of Urbino, Rubens, Titian and Poussin, we saw a picture that sort
seemed to preside historic banquet, a feast to quietly attending many
geniuses.

Brigadier Rotalde was bareheaded, and with a courage of feeling, which
was not the owner of repression, exclaimed: Bartolomé Esteban Murillo's
alive!

This impromptu exclamation had some fluid electric.

Our curiosity is satisfied. The painting we see is the ASUNCION. Can you explain the merit of
that huge box? I think not. In this case what the color and sound. In vain to explain the color
blind, and sound to the deaf. Whoever does not accept these notions of natural creation, lower
to the grave without them. The understanding has no fantasy and heart to understand and feel the
beauty that the genius of a man carved in that canvas, who does not hear in your soul, deep inside,
which tells the sweeping silence, that eloquence has not spoken to the mouth, this silent eloquence,
and which therefore is more sublime; who do not have the talent of enthusiasm, as had the talent
of art Murillo, can hardly understand a word of that divine tongue. The more you explain, at
least understand. No But the reader will realize my impressions. Do not take the reader to pride,
which I to say naive. I do not see the merit of Asuncion, where others see it. I see big, very
large, beautifully inspired and happy, where there usually is. I think the teacher merit of
this picture is not, but that taking all forms of women, no us to experience the thrill of sex that
has that mysterious indecision thought awareness, hope, ie, of the Virgin, because hope is a lifetime
and all the beauty of virginity. She is a woman in your body, and an ideality in his soul;
and idealism is so powerful that the impression of the body disappears, and the spirit triumphs.
That assumption is an art school where he knelt before faith. I do not see Murillo; I do not
see to Spain, do not see at Seville, I do not see anyone I see only the Assumption. The work
is so great that it kills the idea of ​​the worker.

Where begins the Virgin? It is not known. A magnificent robe conceals his feet.

Where does it end? It is not known. The index finger of his right hand points to the top, and
the sky is a space that knows no boundaries. It seems to be, which is outside the box, which
is cast to fly without wings, it seems that this figure has its complement in another world,
it seems that Murillo wanted to finish it in the arcane of hope in
the shadow of a prediction, in thought of God.

The Assumption is a table that lacks nothing, as artistic creation, and considered religious
creation, has no beginning or end. The viewer does not know do not see, where to start, or where
he concludes.

In that mysterious and transcendental ignorance, in that sublime ignorance
that ASUNCION takes hold of us, is the great merit of the painting,
judging by what I feel front of her.

I shall give notice of some details, trying to look away from many other beauties because every
stroke of this painting is worth a good picture.

I know that the eyes of the figure that I see are beautiful, and yet they wonder that amazing! I
could not tell what color they have. And what is this? says one reader. Consists Murillo wanted
that viewers did not see the eyes of the Assumption, but who would look the sky, which looks
to the inspired image.

Another thing really catches my attention, and the profound philosophy
that I thought reveals to hide the feet to the Virgin.

Actually, to a virgin, should not see their feet. All what a virgin lost in shadow, lost in
mystery, and whatever you lose in mystery, lost of virgin.

But do fold to indicate the thigh! What shape to suggest the waist! What cloak to hide the feet!
What ripples in the suit! What softness of color! How sweet feeling! Expressions of attitude!
What purity and fervor of soul! No I mean the master of the brush. The soul, a soul so full
of great affection and great truths, is the brush that paints pictures as I look.

I turn my eyes to another side, because I will not say more. Just add two words about its history.

Certain
commissioned this monastery in Seville Murillo Assumption. The painter gives out his task,
take his picture, it leads to the convent, they learn the friars,
and meets the community.

Murillo them presents his painting, the critics come, examine, look more carefully, are defined
one another with a frown, and say to the painter: "Your Grace will forgive that is not what
we charge; your ASUNCION does the convent.

"

- Let your reverence, said Murillo, who put the box where it belongs, and if then it does not
please your reverence, I will take it, because, thank God, this Blank does not eat bread in
the house of his master.

- Little or no gain in this painter and painting, because the convent again that the Table does
not work.

It is known, Mr. Bartholomew, your worship has handled very quickly the brushes.

- The I shall run as fast as pleases your reverence, but let a thousand saints place the painting
and saying and doing, ASUNCION began to rise.

The monks, who had looked closely, they had not seen anything that touches of ocher, pegones
of white, and almost everyone had turned their backs to the great master. But the picture was
ascending, And as it was rising, was transformed in a dramatic way. The painting stands instead,
the Virgin appears, the canvas is shining, the whole convent full ASUNCION.

- If you do not dislike them, Sir Bartholomew, this picture may be there because, or sight deceives
us, or almost tell your worship that makes your convent virgin.

- Do not stay there, with the permission of your reverence, "replied the painter. Before you hit
display hand of the executioner by Bartolomé Esteban Murillo, to
return the canvas to step on the thresholds community, if your bow
does not have to take it to anger.

No pleas were worth or pleas. Murillo a few moments came out of the convent with his great
work.

I do not know what caused it. What we know is that Marshal Soult took the picture, which took
him to Paris, and who kept it until his death, including family pictures. Dead Marshall, the Museum
of Louvre made overtures to the heirs, who sold the soon paint half of its value, for the sake of
national development to which was intended. The Louvre and she gave one hundred and sixty thousand
napoleons, or are eight hundred thousand francs. Since then it is located where he now admired
by travelers from around the globe. Who was to say to the good monks of Seville, not to that
assumption to her convent, was to be sold to the Louvre Museum in
bags of one hundred and sixty napoleons, and who was presiding over
the great hall of this magnificent museum, including paintings of
Poussin, Rubens, Urbino by Titian and!

After directing the last look at the Spanish table, with some national pride, we to a gallery,
and then to a room where there are no other paintings that the apotheosis of Catalina Medici
by Rubens, the great Rubens. Until this apotheosis is gigantic, not have an exact idea of ​​the
painter and diplomat Count at once, but in whom the painter worth more, much more than the
diplomatic and the Count. The pictures of that deification enormis art, fill the walls of the
room. There is negligence, there is no hurry in this immense work; but check to see such fertility,
such conception, such courage in the attitudes and musculature, an admirable profusion of mythological
figures and types, which stuns the mind is that a one man has painted those huge canvases.
That is not the apotheosis of Catalina de 'Medici, is Rubens. In this room, the art has been more
than the dynasty.

After visiting the whole museum in one of the rooms adjacent to the preference, we found another
painting by Murillo. It is a canvas of half a yard in picture, more or less. It represents a young boy,
poor, beggar, sitting on the floor, and has a placed on the other leg. With your left hand
back a foot, and with the right aims removed a thorn. The three companions in front of that
we nailed a beggar, and did not know how detached from their eyes. What bigger picture! If
I were rich, would give these two feet of canvas, as well as gave the Louvre by the assumption.
This little picture is worth the apotheosis of Rubens, no less than the Virgin that we've seen recently.
Hardly conceived which may appear trivial passage of human life in a way so charming, so high,
so philosophical, so perfect.

Tangled hair and dirty in front oppressed eyes dilated and sad, dirty hand roasted, blackened
toenails, sucking face, prominent cheekbones, skin wrinkles, faded appearance, everything is
there with a surprising simplicity. It's a boy he has never met his mother, who since birth
begging. The child knows the gave him being, you have joy in his face, a joy that leaves something
there to the creature dies. In this boy has not left any glimmer that joy. Positively that
child has never seen his mother. If he were alive, we're taking it to Spain. Seeing his picture
on inanimate piece of cloth that gives us desire to dip into his pocket, and let charity.
With what truth, what candor, how innocent, open your eyes droopy
and wilted, purses his lips, and extends two fingers outstretched
to pull out the spine the foot!

I repeat, that half a yard of cloth, the only orphan, abandoned and sad that waste the pride
of man, that I forget the world, that rag of our sins, is as good as the Virgin.

And tell me, Mr. French: that picture how invaluable this precious painting creating the most
tender Christian spirit that beautiful apotheosis of the gospel: how the beggar does not rank
in the room of choice? Do you think that a hundred paintings that is kept in that room, there
are ninety-nine who are worth more than that boy is painted there? Do you think there is only
one table in the room of choice, one that Art belongs to a larger and more high school to a
more beautiful, more fruitful, wiser and larger?

Why the Orphan almost divine is hidden here? Is it small size painting? "It took a little maybe?

Crossing
the room of choice, we have noticed a novelty.

A very pretty young Countess Italian, is uploaded to the easel, copying
ASUNCION.

If it judging from the few details we have seen, is a master brush. I do not know the woman's
life, I do not know the secrets of his soul, but he is a pure soul,
if you have a virgin and good heart, the copy out the assumption must
be admirable.

How can that not be well understood as two virgins beautiful? some have said of this neglect,
but an oversight that she could hear, and the noble and beautiful painter has smiled sweetly. Ah!
Who knows what will be under that laugh! Many times we see the brightest flower, is hiding with
his fresh stems to the most poisonous snake.

If your conscience is like his waist, I almost venture to foretell you see the kingdom of heaven;
although they are often very narrow waists very broad minded.

Day thirty-fourth =. =

The column of Vendome .-- The balcony of the inn's general .-- The .-- The Savoyard's Wellington
Bois de Boulogne .-- A Schoolgirl. - Question behind .-- Curiosities .-- Late.

This is the last day that the brigadier Rotalde plan to stay in Paris, and am in the case of do
the honors that are due to to be.

Shortly after ten o'clock in the morning, we in the Plaza de Vendome, in whose center stands
a large, graceful column. The guardian tells us that the factory of this monument, which is bronze,
were used twelve thousand guns Bonaparte seized by the enemies of France.

The foundation of this huge pyramid, in imitation of Trajan's Column
in Rome, have a depth of twelve yards, its diameter no less than five,
and fifty of elevation.

It arrives at the top of a ladder hundred and seventy-six sections.

Corona column a statue Napoleon, wearing high Capitan.

Eagles, garlands of oak and laurel, and several other allegorical
trophies, adorn this monument to victory.

Above the door, reading a Latin inscription that reads: 'in bronze
enemy, the Emperor Napoleon raised this monument to the glory of the
great army, which under orders, won in five months to all of Germany.

"

Because of the Vendome column, were two very curious anecdotes. The one is a hero the present
Emperor of the French, on the other, the general Wellington.

The Napoleon III is as follows. When movement occurred in 1848, came to Paris on current emperor,
he stayed at an inn that is in the Plaza de Vendome. His friends and adectos advised him was
to send people to the provinces, to prepare public opinion, and get who named him deputy.

- No need to be sent to anyone, "said the emigrated from London.

- Why? his friends asked in amazement.

- Because voters do not need.

- But how is it that he wants to be
elected, no need voter?

- Because I have enough of that electorate.

And saying this stands up, opens the windows of a balcony overlooking the square, and shows
the statue of Bonaparte crowning (as mentioned) triumphal column.

The former emigrated from London was right. The elector of bronze, that great story appointed him
first deputy president of the republic later, later emperor. I do not deny so this emperor may have
done, but I think the other emperor, the Elector of Vendome column,
has done much more.

Let us the story of General Wellington. The first statue of Bonaparte, who served as auction column
to be dropped in 1815, and served to cast the bronze statue of Henry IV, now decorate the Pont
Neuf. They say that, seeing the statue that general Wellington Napoleon I conceived the idea
of ​​sending to another statue of that character. Indeed, the statue was made, and the English
general put it on the first landing of the stairs of his home. Several friends of the general,
surprised that leave the statue on the stairs, tried to make him see that it was not decent, because
it could be understood that I wanted to offend the memory the hero.

- The statue is where it belongs, Wellington said, and hung his head.

- But do you think, others argued that the statue of Bonaparte is an ornament in Wellington ladder?

-
The statue is where it should be, he repeated the old general could
not be more than steps, and went back down the front.

- But why can
not be elsewhere in the ladder?

- Because it fits through the doors
of my house.

This positive expression of Wellington was to inspire one of our fellow expedition And he said,
that column is a worthy pedestal of that statue. Actually, Napoleon did not need lower growth.

We
climbed to our carriage, and at twenty or thirty minutes we were in the forest Bologna. At the
end of a street tree in place a good distance, we a young blonde, very blonde, and a skin so white
and so smooth, it seemed more than skin alabaster. A woman in solitude, and especially among
trees and flowers, has a reputation fascinating. I was at the foot of a bush, and a branch
banged on the tip of the shoe right, having nailed the sight of a
mechanical mode.

Any ideas boring brain of the woman, some thought that head volcanizaba evil. On this we said
some words in a low voice, but the girl did not look up at us. It seemed as that his eyes were
fastened to the tip of the right foot, where he continued to give blows with the branch.

To spend almost touching his feet, the brigadier said, this is plotting against some unhappy and on hearing
this we all laughed with some merriment. The Savoy (as appeared by their color and its factions)
did not raise no sight. We walked quite long, and to return found in the same place, with
the same attitude, while the foreign occupation of hitting the tip of the right shoe.

What will he think? What will happen to this woman? This murmur among us, and we almost had temptation
of speaking. Surely you have done, if that woman had looked up towards us, but in vain. Passing
this time along the shoreline, strive voice, try to do noise, nothing, those eyes were sewn
to the shoe. We went at last, we move away turning his face, until we lost sight of. The Savoy
was there. Have we done well not to speak it? I think not, I feel we made a lack of charity,
because I feel that woman is hiding a diabolical plan, under that
mechanical movement, almost idiot.

The memory of that miserable (I'm sure that this woman is not happy) us worried all day.

Near the arc of the Star, we have found an American family that has
come to Paris to be a girl, who was in a school in this city.

The schoolgirl, young seventeen to eighteen years, he went with his parents and two siblings. The
girl in question lela seemed a riotous.

Education in schools is perhaps the most serious drawback of civilization
of our day.

The woman you educate them, gets a thousand extravagant habits and capricious, it loses much
of the affection that his men should not serve for life house, since it has not been raised in families,
or to civilian life, since no has grown up in society.

Is the ignorance of not experiencing the reality of human life confused and disordered desire
that you want to experiment, and the dangerous mischief of yearning ignorant bliss. After school
is the schoolgirl figure coming into the world, figure was just born, and yet in spite of his,
is the fickleness, cravings and anxiety of a child. In one day, in an hour, want to enjoy
what has not enjoyed in ten years in prison and is never happy, never quiet, always looks impatient,
always whispers, always craving more. Want to see everything, feel everything, devour everything
at once, this is education, this is culture, this is the morality
that the young out of school.

      Parents who read this
    book, rather then a school, rather
    than to those schools, where
    you pay so much money that I distorted your daughters, send it to
a village.

In a village be ignorant: in school are ignorant, impatient, accustomed evil and crazy.

If I had a son and I ask: what is the first quality I look for in women, it has to be my wife?

- That no college, I would reply.

"I mean that there can be virtuous and educated schoolgirls?

No, the power is everywhere, everywhere there are educated and virtuous women, I do not speak
here of goodness of women, but the dangers of the serious dangers of a school.

Still we talked to the American family, when in front of us, for a
car, The footman opened the door, and beautiful woman appears a figure.

Put your foot in the stirrup the suit is suspended talks with the footman, and so was a couple
of minutes, so that us us admire the beautiful outline of her leg.

It seems impossible to have women as foolish, it seems impossible that so embezzle the flow due to
the sky. Want interest be shamed want to dress up and dazzle, covered with rags and to shreds.

A poor woman (a woman can be poor with many jewels and riches) would
be necessary teach the verse that says:

In the loving empire Find
the man who ignores: It is not the woman he adores, What I love is
its mystery.

Women would be worth much more, how different would
the world, if understood and practiced the morale of those four lines!

I've
said elsewhere, and I'll say it here again. He that believeth not
need to read twice, ignore it, but I almost dare say that even if
you read all days, will not lose time.

A moral virtue is called modesty.

A
physical basis is called grooming.

A social and religious virtue
is called charity.

Two domestic virtues which are called hard work
and economy: This is the real dowry, larger dowry, a parent can give
his daughter. With this dowry, poor is rich, and the ugly is beautiful.
Without this feat, the beautiful is ugly, and the rich is poor.

Many
breasts heaved a deep sigh, reading these lines scruffy!

The French
left with the valet. God gives what is needed, a good dose of trial.

We
had a great pleasure. We visited the Institute and saw the statues
of Bossuet, Descartes, of Fenelon and Tully. Also saw with great satisfaction
the busts of other famous men, including Molière, however, that this
great poet did not belong to the Academy his century. She was sure that it could not have been done while the Duke was explaining
to her the beauty of quints, and expatiating on the horrors of twelve pennies, and twelve inches,
and twelve ounces,--variegated in some matters by sixteen and fourteen! He could not know that
she was ambitious of becoming his daughter-in-law, while he was opening out to her the mysteries
of the House of Lords, and explaining how it came to pass that while he was a member of one
House of Parliament, his son should be sitting as a member of another;--how it was that a nobleman
could be a commoner, and how a peer of one part of the Empire could sit as the representative
of a borough in another part. She was an apt scholar. Had there been a question of any other
young man marrying her, he would probably have thought that no other young man could have done
better.

Silverbridge was discontented with himself. The greatest misfortune was that Lady Mabel should
be there. While she was present to his father's eyes he did not know how to declare his altered
wishes. Every now and then she would say to him some little word indicating her feelings of
the absurdity of his passion. "I declare I don't know whether it is you or your father that
Miss Boncassen most affects," she said. But to this and to other similar speeches he would
make no answer. Once settled in the beautiful hotel "London" (one of the many fine and well has served the
city) went through the splendid square of the Infanta Isabel, from the which we saw the huge
mass of the famous tower, visible from almost every street in Seville. A few hundred meters from
the square we find the impressive cathedral and the tower is located backwards and form a separate
building but connected by later buildings.

Nothing greater than this monument of glowing dome, which shines in the sun as a huge jewel
suspended in the ether. Looking at her it feels full of admiration for the great simplicity that
she wanted to give the Eastern or Moorish genius. That air archangel bronze golden crowns
the dome and turns like a weather vane, is in blue do not know what causes to scale the height
to sink the gaze alternately in the sky and the sea of ​​houses glowing and wonderful countryside
around them. The tower, perfectly square at its Moorish until very considerable height, was
completed long after conquest, and unfortunately a completely different style. Thus, until
the region of Bell is the Arab civilization, finishing his work the fine architecture of the Renaissance.
The total lifting of the Giralda is 364 feet, being at the same highest form there in Spain. The
body of the tower is 50 feet per side. You enter it by a miserable little door, and rises to the enormous
height of the bells for 35 ramps or sloping corridors without any tier. Then, for very narrow
staircases hand, can be dangerous ascension to the bronze figure is named Giralda. There feels
like a vertigo ... something like the flamboyant desire to fly over the abyss.

The show is viewed from there is of supreme beauty, but still wonderful (Except the sea view)
than that of Valencia. On one side are the mountains far vaguely Sierra de Ronda ending chain of
the Sierra-Nevada. The other plains lower Guadalquivir, stretching to the horizon in the direction
of the ocean. To the north are more or less the Córdoba Mountains, spurs of the Sierra Morena
Finally, tending view to east in the direction of the high Andalusia, are plain to be beautiful
are raising degrees even lost in the undulating hills and mountains that turn through the
center of the basin of the Guadalquivir to Jaén. The horizon is immense and admirably beautiful.

Picking
up the look in a small circle, is all over the opulent plain gorgeous for cultivation, careful,
their large populations, their graceful cottages, their swarms small
flocks, country homes, orchards and gardens, and its labyrinth of
trees and in groups more or less extensive, and in rows or streets
glittering with vegetables, where orange alternate with vineyards,
olive groves, endless fields sown with vegetables cereals, etc.. And
amid the vast plains will slow snail Guadalquivir as a gray ribbon,
with the most graceful twists and turns.

Localities more or less considerable, but all look industrious and homogenous, multiply in all
directions. There are on, with the aid of glasses or no it (in the direction of the road Ecija
and Cordoba), the towns of Alcala de Guadaira and Mairena, and then the hills (full of people too)
who dominate the town of Carmona, enough people. On the other hand (to Jeremy) Utrera and Oran,
and to the right of the Guadalquivir among other populations, San-Lucar
la Mayor, Encarnacion and Alcalá-of-river.

The province of Seville, the sixth in Spain in order of population, has 463.486 inhabitants.
The countryside, highly cultured, have a very abundant population, robust, vigorous and lover of
work, while the passionate pleasures. Quite the reverse of Castilian regions, loneliness is not
manifested at any point in the province of Seville, abound and the
small towns of 1.000 to 4.000 souls.

However, they do note some considerable cities, centers of a vast agricultural production is mainly
wine, oil, cereals, grains, livestock of all kinds, vegetables and fruits. The most notable
of these, cities are:

Sevilla, which has (even the new suburbs outside the fortifications) 112.600 inhabitants

Ecija, with 28.800

Carmona, with 18.800.

Osuna 17.500

Utrera, with 14.000

Marchena, with 13.000

Alcalá de Guadaira, with
8.260

All these people although they are primarily agricultural centers,
feed a crowd manufacturing, factories and workshops of all kinds,
which increase the animation of the country, and we give a lot of
economic interest.

Sevilla alone has some large branches and factories manufactures
special importance, - such as its superb casting of guns and cannons,
their nitrería, and especially its vast manufacturing of cigarettes
(by the State that is), which gives 4.000 labor to workers, establishment
worth a visit with pleasure and interest.

Specifying the view over the city, the scene is so curious and beautiful. The Guadalquivir
describing a semicircle around a large part the precincts of the city proper, screened and enclosed
by walls, it is said, dates from the time of Caesar, and numerous Isolated strong today are useless
if only by their obvious inferiority about the progress of the strategy and architecture brutal selfishness,
isolation and death. On either side you look at all interested in their whims and contrasts
funny, and the details stand out.

At around the nine suburbs, which only one, the de Triana, inhabited by Gypsies, which is the
most populous, is at the margin right of the Guadalquivir, linked to the city by a beautiful suspension
bridge. Very close bridge on the port itself, stands the lovely golden dome of the Torre de Oro,
which seems glittering scaly.

At the foot of the Giralda tower we saw the great mass of the cathedral and romantic, whose dark
Gothic style and color made her look a granite mountain shattered in one hundred peaks, needles,
bold arches and huge cracks. It was like an extinct volcano, imposing Fear for no majesty of its
great time-blackened rubble. Next of the cathedral, the splendid palace of stone and marble
called the Market or Bolsa, which was the famous "House of Trade" for the India trade. The beautiful
little further called the Alcazar Moorish monument, surrounded by
delightful gardens which are themselves Sevilla treasure.

And far beyond even the immense edifice of tobacco manufacturing, Modern and elegant palace
of San Telmo (owned by the Duke of Montpensier) to the edge of a vast and beautiful park that
stretches on the left bank of the Guadalquivir.

Looking in another direction, is in the suburb of San Roque the monument called Canos de Carmona,
impressive Roman aqueduct of 410 arches, and to one side the great factory of saltpetre, in
the suburb Resolana of the beautiful hospital of Charity and the Arsenal, in the splendid Macarena
military hospital, and St. Bernard's famous bronze cannon foundry. Else is a labyrinth of narrow
winding streets, buildings uneven, capricious, many bizarre shapes of them, whose swarm centenarians
coconut trees stand and Historical, many exquisite palaces or houses
of the same style as those observed in Cadiz, and a lump of balconies,
roofs, turrets and Moorish buildings, brownish glow at the bottom
of the towers and domes of many churches in Arabic style, shining,
picturesque on account of the flake-shaped roofs formed with small
tiles mixed colors.

Add to the interest of the thousand details of the delicacy of the interior vegetation, and include
the beauty of that pangram semi-oriental and semi-Spanish at the same time. The orchards and
gardens are numerous, not only in the suburbs but also in the center of the city carefully kept
in the courtyards. So, are the masses of the buildings as a huge trail of uneven rocks amid
a sea of ​​pomegranate, orange, lemon, and millions of jasmine flowers that fill the air with
perfume. Sevilla deserved his fame: is a haven of greenery and curiosities of all kinds.

* * * * *

After having a general idea of ​​the Andalusian metropolis, as a material object, we descended La
Giralda to go and observe the customs of their society. Walking the streets, penetrating in
cafes and hotels, visiting the elegant homes and gardens, and scanning monumental objects Sevilla
abounds, it recognizes the essential point type or characteristic of that society, ardent and
poetic for its blood and its climate, independent and proud by being that it seeks to actively
work, and passionate in the extreme. Sevilla is a huge museum, in the full force of the word,
and materially and morally.

       The feeling artistic background of the character is from Seville,
in all classes of society - now disclosed in the construction of sumptuous
elegance, now in the candid demonstrations - and predominant taste
(simple or refined) in the customs and usages, simply because the
picturesque and rudimentary.

The picturesque adjective is undoubtedly the type that fits better Seville. At the bottom of
everything that lives there and stirred, as the inanimate, a manifestation vigorous poetry, a tendency
to wonder, expansion sentimental, he can not escape the observer.

There is a trait that does not attend to impress the foreigner in this regard .-- The thousand
beauties of the houses belonging to wealthy families, where marble, flowers and decorations and
colors vivid and seductive are lavished, the grace and freshness of the thousands of yards,
that summer nights are converted into classrooms, the care with which many are preserved scented
gardens and orchards, where the waters abound not stop jumping ever, the enthusiasm that all
manifest: for the naive paintings and sculptural objects, either regardless of their quality,
the thousand funny quirks of all the portals, balconies, cabinets, viewpoints air and the barred
windows (which make such an important role in the adventures love or mere gallantry), the luxury and artifice
of the shops and stores, glittering of workmanship, jewelry, silks, art and trinkets, the taste for
variety, apart the requirement of the climate, is an art, whether
it is made, either through their use; passion for bullfighting, theater,
horseback riding, tightrope walkers and all games ios class entertainment,
love the game, under almost all its forms, passion in that work of
art, in a sense, and taste so wonderful, unexpected, or random, the
unique energy penchant for the picturesque and outstanding, which
is manifested in folk dresses, whether by their forms, either by their
ornaments or by a combination of bright colors and shining; charm
with all the music they love happy and passionate, passionate dancing,
horseback riding and careers, fairs, processions, etc., the strange
forms and motifs of gear riding, weapons and musical instruments,
the sum abundance of shops, factories small and workshops, where thousands
of employees work (isolated or in small groups) the making of a thousand
works of art: all that and some other circumstances that step high
artistic express deep feeling of Seville.

And it can not be otherwise, considering how powerful the influence they exert on moral education
of a people the nature and objects around him constantly and impress. The Seville, at birth, is
the notion of beauty and inspiration of poetry in all which is in sight. A wonderful sky with
a sun that warms and enlivens the blood., A prodigious fertility land, giving as they are required,
a vegetation essentially poetic; such as olive and orange trees, lemons and pomegranates, water
and perfumes in abundance for give joy and pleasure, an easy life, thanks to the topographical
conditions of the country, wine (The great tempter that incites pleasure) good, strong and in abundance.
On the other hand, monuments and race predispose to the love of art. From start to march, to live,
everywhere are wonderful monuments, beautiful on the outside and filled with treasures inside,
and beautiful faces are observed. I have not ever seen a race so strongly beautiful as that
of Seville, and I think it will rival in Europe, if not in some regions Eastern Hungary and in
some provinces of Italy.

The beauty is so general in the types of Seville that is almost vulgar. There is no severe
Spanish beauty majesty or beauty impassive and cold of the English, or artificial grace (somewhat
intentionally) of the French, nor the harsh and almost brutal beauty of Valencia. The man is generally
of high stature, - women of non-small-regular if Height .-- Despite the differences that determines
sex everywhere, there are certain features that are common to men and women in Seville: forms
slender, thin but strong; black hair, silky and shining, rarely curled, finely arched black
eyebrows; upper teeth and very white, a soft complexion and ruddy
brown color, very attractive; very dark eyes, vivid, intelligent and
quickly go through the 1st of more Ardentía more passionate tenderness
to the smiling and friendly, a ride full of abandonment and grace,
naturally faddish and as tempting without malice, the lilting voice,
soft and sonorous, accented dramatically at the end of predictions,
and always passionate interjections and salt idioms provincial - not
counting the popular pronunciation that changes the sound of 1st r,
1st l, 1a s, The 1st z, etc. in the most original and spicy - these
are the general features of type Seville.

Women are sweet and friendly, although there are in your face I know not what of manly without
affectation. The man has some rough, very East, which attracts or afraid in the manner as it
question. If you are looking to an Andalusian Seville for good, with refinement and courtesy, although
it belongs the vulgar, found him friendly, expansive, very attentive and obliging. But watch
out for walk by crook! Then, if a bullfighter, or bully or farmer, horseman or something like
that, I check for the moment a shower of expletives in to pound and he took out the knife or
rolling up fists to decide the question by way of enforcement. But if instead of one of those geniuses
Atrabiliarios occurs with a boastful type Andalusian (which abounds so much), the altercation
have different proportions: it is a struggle of words mountains where the alien who does not know
While the country may be completely mystified. On hearing the Andalusian throwing bravado, you
would believe able to swallow the Sierra-Nevada and unhinge the world
with a kick.

Is formalized, twitches, shouts, threatens, roars like a cannon and looks like a fury .... Le cojeis
the word, showing that not afraid, and then the lamb is lion, makes you a thousand blandishments,
laughs, makes him all joke ("binge") and invites you to grab a drink with the utmost cordiality.

The
Andalusian, and perhaps more than all the Seville, is frank and jocular, yet lightweight helmets:
a bad word, a quizzical look, a gesture is enough to cause doubt a complaint noisy. Fortunately,
though often the business is arranged with knives or at least to the more slaps and punches,
usually gruff and blustering storm ends a reconciliation at the pub, sworn on the bottle in a puff of
smoke, snuff, maybe the sound of the guitar. HOWEVER, there is a question not ever fix (at least
in the world of bullfighters, and manolas majos) but by ways in fact or by giving up absolute:
it is the matter of love, which often is only a matter of vanity or dot. The Seville of that class
does not support even a glance at his girl upstart addressed or your pretty girl, as they call
them. If a husband is sometimes tolerant and more human, as a lover leads to the ferocity of
jealousy or ridicule. This proves that the vanity goes a long, and very little true love in
the energy with which to defend its possession or monopoly.

We look upon his "girl" or pass by the bottom of the window once and spear, to the second makes you
frown sullen; to the third I said with anger and stress provoking:

"- Eh, mister! (Or Camarda) who encounters me bujca me! If you peel ujté me eye to EJTA girl
another sees, and know that it could occur to chicoteo, ú chicotéamo us! That if they want
sarba er Burt er ujté road and take to another party with music. "

And strength is giving up the company, failing which the knife into action to support with
their arguments, the intimation of Andalusian jealous.

The inclination to gallantry (and his many consequences) is very general in Seville. The 'Gate' or
window on that makes a very important and traditional. If you walk down the streets you after
six o'clock in the afternoon, wherever you will see scenes that will give idea of ​​comedy
da hilt.

At the foot of many low and narrow windows is tipping some gallant head with an air of mystery,
leaning on one arm resting on the wall, and wrapped in his cloak, if gender is not nice (but not
spend jacket), as seen in the a face flattering shadow looming on the bottom of the grate. What
do these two figures? - Are stripping the kettle. I had often heard this phrase in Colombia,
with a very different meaning. There is called stripping the kettle to be idle, wasting time
when it is bound to a work or task - as the pawn suspending work for bed or get to chat free trade.
In Spain, the turkey strips in a more entertaining and promising, since operation is to make the cut
for the fence or window to dear or beloved.
 Lady Mabel understood it all. The American girl must be taken away,--from out of
the reach of the young man's senses,--and then the struggle must be made.

Lady Mabel had not been long at Matching before she learned that she had much in her favour.
She perceived that the Duke himself had no suspicion of what was going on, and that he was
strongly disposed in her favour. She unravelled it all in her own mind. There must have been
some agreement, between the father and the son, when the son had all but made his offer to
her. More than once she was half-minded to speak openly to the Duke, to tell him all that Silverbridge
had said to her and all that he had not said, and to ask the father's help in scheming against
that rival. But she could not find the words with which to begin. And then, might he not despise
her, and, despising her, reject her, were she to declare her desire to marry a man who had
given his heart to another woman? And so, when the Duke asked her to remain after the departure
of the other guests, she decided that it would be best to bide her time. The Duke, as she assented,
kissed her hand, and she knew that this sign of grace was given to his intended daughter-in-law.

In all this she half-confided her thoughts and her prospects to her old friend, Miss Cassewary.
"That girl has gone at last," she said to Miss Cass.

"I fear she has left her spells behind her, my dear."

"Of course she has. The venom out of the snake's tooth will poison all the blood; but still
the poor bitten wretch does not always die."

"I don't think she is a snake."

"Don't be moral, Cass. She is a snake in my sense. She has got her weapons, and of course it
is natural enough that she should use them. If I want to be Duchess of Omnium, why shouldn't she?"

"I hate to hear you talk of yourself in that way."

"Because you have enough of the old school about you to like conventional falsehood. This young
man did in fact ask me to be his wife. Of course I meant to accept him,--but I didn't. Then
comes this convict's granddaughter."

"Not a convict's!"

"You know what I mean. Had he been a convict it would have been all the same. I take upon myself
to say that, had the world been informed that an alliance had been arranged between the eldest
son of the Duke of Omnium and the daughter of Earl Grex,--the world would have been satisfied.
Every unmarried daughter of every peer in England would have envied me,--but it would have
been comme il faut."

"Certainly, my dear." 

We were already in the room; sentámonos all, and began to prosecute the visit. Evocáronse by
women's memories of the last chores in those days so sad, and I took the opportunity to ponder
the loneliness I had been and what he missed in home ... I do not know a fixed point in what
way was tangled conversation here, because I mechanically mixing it with the word, while having
the thoughts in Lita I was in front of me. But a very strange thoughts. Once dressed I imagined
with all the frills of the elegant Madrid, and gave me the vision of the imagined deplorable
fact that I jumped in the chair. They seemed a profanation those trimmings in that body that
had not been trained to have the funds the conventional devices of the city, but the immutable
and grand scenes of nature.

For this and other similar paths were my thoughts flew to my delight ... until suddenly struck
me the memory of that proviso had Neluco by auction of "Account" we were both on the eve echándonos
afternoon. Could the "guests" not to be agree to it if we had heard adjustment. The devil take
me if at that time had I made decision to conduct any related term plan with the approval of
our calculations, and, however, doubt emerged suddenly in the presence of "hostess" itself, I much
resented. No man is an ounce of gold that everyone likes the same, even if many a safe place,
as I was then, and could very well happen that did not like Lituca me for special reasons
... and even for being in love with Neluco without him knowing it, they all fit in the field of plausible
assumptions. But how to clarify this question in the act, without discovering the mystery of
my intentions? And yet, it could not be well, because I needed to have the main thread in his
hand to pull it when I give want, or if you never pull more convenient for me. Pure selfishness
and rebellion unhealthy love contradicted himself, and as long as a man, run it, is in these situations
of mind, the first thing missing is common sense, I guessed there was going to commit a fat
crap if I could dominate a little bit of itching that began to be consumed, gave a cut to the conversation
that followed mechanically, and end the visit with the formal promise, well he was! to repeat
often.

I do not know what you think of the old house Marmitón the confusion
that must be noted between the words coming out of my mouth and ideas
that I frolicked in the brain, or whether I even noticed, but the
fact that as I was walking towards the house, creating serious purposes
of clarifying the doubts go slowly, pulling the bottom of the clear
stream the mysterious pebbles with tweezers from my experience and
feel of my native serenity for those things, I marveled at the development
that had reached that arrechucho mine, and how close I had to commit
an improper light, not of a mature man but an inexperienced college.

 So he escaped.

It was clear to Lady Mabel that there was no opportunity now for any scheme. Whatever might
be possible must be postponed till after this Cornish business had been completed. Perhaps
it might be better so. She had thought that she would appeal to himself, that she would tell
him of his father's wishes, of her love for him,--of the authority which he had once given
her for loving him,--and of the absolute impossibility of his marriage with the American. She
thought that she could do it, if not efficiently at any rate effectively. But it could not
be done on the very day on which the American had gone.

It came out in the course of the evening that he was going to assist Frank Tregear in his canvass.
The matter was not spoken of openly, as Tregear's name could hardly be mentioned. While the Catalan capital and Malaga, Valencia, Alicante and Gibraltar traffic
dispute will turn towards the Mediterranean, Seville, Coruña, Santander and Bilbao competition
make it across the Atlantic. Its population, which at the time of Spanish rule America did not lower
than 100.000 inhabitants, is now reduced to just over 70,000.

Cadiz traditions I was interested in every respect. From there came the most important Spanish
expeditions, both at the time of settlements undertaken on the New World, and during the terrible
war of independence "Colombia," Mexico, Peru, Chile, Buenos-Aires, etc. Colombian freedom was
not anywhere as implacable enemies as in Cadiz, the residence of the famous company that had a
monopoly of trade between Europe and several Spanish-Colombian colonies. And strange to say,
that proves how much the interests of influence the political monopoly of the nations - the same
people who so raw Cadiz war do to the revolution of the New World, was at the same time the refuge
of the Patriots Spanish and the ark of salvation for the nationality of Spain, in their heroic
struggle against Napoleon and despotism .... Many ills suffered by the Spanish people, without understanding
since the cause of freedom and the right was the same in Spain than in Colombia, and that the patriots
of both worlds as brothers were to ally rather than make war!

Other memories assaulted me in Cadiz. Aside from its heroic defense against the English, in 1626, 1772
and 1797, and against the French in 1811, also apart of the interesting episodes political, liberal
constitution of 1812 and the heroic revolution of 1820 led by Irrigation and Quiroga, Cádiz me to
remember that there was born that fierce Brigadier Enrile, peacemaker awful memory of my homeland,
and died there miserable, hungry and lacerated by a thousand bitterness at the bottom of a dungeon,
the illustrious and generous Miranda, warrior revolution French and Colombian independence
martyr, treated by some with ingratitude and supreme by others with
a cold cruelty!

The belt of high walls (double and even triple in some areas) that completely surrounds at Cadiz,
has a circumference of 7.500 Spanish yards. Thus, wherever the traveler aims to find a solution
runs into a mass of stone, soldiers and guns, seeing foam at the bottom of the ocean waves crashing
violently into the sand banks and the dangerous reefs that serve the island ahead seating to
castles and fortifications. If the view of the bay is picturesque and varied, which has over the ocean
south and south-west from the walkway of the "Alameda" is a breathtaking majesty. From the outset,
Cadiz had offered me many similarities in appearance with the city of Cartagena in "New Granada."
Similarity is not the word itself: I do not know what analogy is vague in the configuration
of the island and bays, the exterior structure of the city, something very harmonious style
fortifications, in the atmosphere and sky. Touring the beautiful Paseo de la Alameda, the squares
and streets, and observe the people there, the guy community was apparent. In every elegant Cadiz
believed to see a daughter of Cartagena: the accent, the manners, the ease, panache full of kindness
and dengue, black eye and sweet, adorable smile of coquetry, the complexion of a soft, pale brown,
measured and lordly gait, kindness and openness insinuating, and I do not know what's voluptuous
dress, delicate but expressive forms and the inevitable game fan, - all contributed to produce
an illusion that made me think of the country.

The sun sank like a glowing ember in the waves of an infinite horizon, the Alameda was full
of walkers and had to do like a charming animation. The stage seemed a large basket of flowers
floating in the eddies of a stream. The sea produced the standing of its formidable walls
clicking, releasing clouds of foam snapshots, whilst hundreds of walkers roamed amid the groves
and beautiful gardens the 'Alameda', almost under the balcony and the shutters of the splendid houses
that dominate the levees and embankments. The reverberating roof, - the picturesque balconies
green and blue - the tall, graceful Moorish-style roofs, - the bush filled with flowers and perfumes,
- the animated groups of a population in which they looked very different types - gleaming marble
more luxurious houses - castles standing on the distant waves, - the mountains, confused in the
distance - the rough seas and swaying under her mantle of twilight, - the sun, a large optical
effect, such as swimming in the ocean - stirring gently in the breeze trees, - the extraordinary
beauty of heaven, - all this filled me with charm, intoxicated, leaving
the soul a very profound impression that I will never forget.

I needed time to look carefully. Spain is a country that can not be well studied in less than three
years, and I could only have three months to collect impressions, noticing things more salient
and important. No monument found me worthy Cadiz special attention under the artistic point of view.
What makes this city a population Interestingly, its position, as
a whole, their particular style of buildings, their social air, historical
memories and their economic value.

Cadiz, which had fallen as much commercial space since losing the exploitation of Colombia, begins
to regain its animation, thanks to the new steamship lines, to significant improvements on
the roads to the interior of Andalusia, and the economic revival Spain has had since 1855.
Its exports are salt, oil, wine, fruit dry and other Andalusian, - is an important place of
call and deposit, and manufactures some objects of art, as well as applicable to the marina.
Fisheries seeks him considerable profits. Sitting on a rock, as it lacks running water the higher
is its vast and numerous tanks.

Hospitals and has beautiful large number of educational institutions, charities, credit, trade and navigation.

Of
course, the climate, the influence of Moorish domination and the Spanish taste, have determined
Cadiz the same kind of constructions that almost the entire peninsula and especially in the
Andalucías. Thus, the streets are in general or in its more narrow and gloomy winding, bumpy
and full of whimsy. But is there a particular stamp of elegance and taste not found in any
of the other major Spanish cities, except to Seville. He feels a keen pleasure to go almost
all the streets of Cadiz, or to stand under the thick shade of the magnificent trees of the squares
of "San Antonio" and "Mina." Apart from the interest they excite people of all cliques of conditions
and the elegant shops full of curious, wherever you walk from one surprise to explore the best
streets, paved not richly tiled.

Everywhere graceful balconies, discrete lattice, obscured inside by fine curtains, behind which folds
half hidden from view some gorgeous faces as appearances ideals the viewpoints of crystal
air, capricious on steep ceilings, windows with iron gratings very curious, the vast rooftop
adorned of vases with flowers and small shrubs sunlit and agitated by sea breezes. But nothing so
strange, so deliciously beautiful and luxurious as the homes of the richest owners in the
main squares and streets, palaces true tale, of Orientalism charming. In all of them a magnificent
cover or rich marble and jasper, worked with care; an entrance that looks like the prelude to
a sumptuous room with the flooring and walls marble, stucco ceiling and superb interior door
glass with carved arabesques and beautiful colors. The door is always open during the day. You
approach, and a servant falls steps in and invites you to the point with the greatest care to visit
the house, although the family is present. If you accept, the owner (a wealthy businessman)
is presented, and a almost irresistible warmth compelling - to see that you are abroad - I repeat
the invitation, I pray that you may bring up, I asked if you want a drink, etc.

I had seen the splendid palaces and sumptuous hotels in France, England, Barcelona and Madrid, but
had no idea such a beautiful house, so as Eastern Romanesque I visited in Cadiz and Seville.
You pass in front of the vestibule, and you find yourself in a square courtyard and cloistered
on all four sides is the building covered by a high dome glass that makes it look like a greenhouse.
On the sides, on the ground floor, are the vast rooms for business or offices to the owner, at
the bottom there is an elegant catwalk leading to the courtyards (patios true), standing at the sides,
and in snail, and at right angles, the monumental staircase leading to the three, four or five
floors of the house. From the base to the glass dome is projected throughout the interior Quad-salon
continuous balconies so many orders and how many floors is cloistered home. There is no pavement
on the covered patio (which is how the central chamber), on the stairs the interior balconies and
all parts of the building, which is not composed of superb tiles square white marble and blue,
or black or mottled, there is a balcony, a door, a rail not have a thousand arabesques, and exquisite
moldings and tastefully, there is a wall not richly stuccoed and dressed. Each courtyard has at
its center a valuable source of marble fountains to cool the air, and around the campus are
large jars Gaspe, porcelain, etc., containing delicate shrubs, pots of jasmine, roses and
carnations, Naranjillos blossoms, vines or parasites, which embalm that heady atmosphere.
It is believed a dream with some of the oriental tale, and for the enjoyment is complete for the
lover of art, every yard of these are a few marble statues and holds within its walls ten or
twelve paint beautiful pictures.

Sunlight, falling vertically at noon, or weakened by entering the
lower part produces the most strange effects of brightness, shade
and chiaroscuro, and at night, when the interior is lighted by gas,
this museum-garden in the middle of the waters murmur supplier, is
a ravishing beauty.

This is where families gather, they are visits and enjoys home gatherings during the hottest
months in of summer, when there is no preference roof.

Cadiz is in marble lavished everywhere. In large hotels, in many and splendid cafés, theaters,
churches, squares and all the monuments there is a floor luxury he admires. Coffee 'Apollo', one
of the most beautiful and original I known, fun and draws attention
to the traveler, and gives an idea of ​​the character ardent, cordial,
voluptuous and expansion of the population of Cadiz.

During the early hours of the night, plazas of San Antonio and Mina (the first in particular)
and large adjacent streets have great animation and offer the most curious customs boxes. The
women of Cadiz are usually beautiful, hot and attractive: that, and the commercial status of
the city makes the misfortune of them in the classes most exposed to weaknesses and temptations.
Thus, prostitution Cadiz is in proportion to scare. It's outrageous the number of women in unhappy
establishments that kind of corruption, and experts speculate the infamy the direction of those
houses, namely the ignominy of European societies. Contáronme things What terrified me, and
anecdotes about people of high society, to be true, would give a very sad idea of ​​morality
Cadiz. I do not believe what I was told by some people, and took Cadiz HOWEVER, under this aspect,
painful impressions .... Much could be said about what I have observed in major Spanish cities,
but the matter is repugnant and shocking, and the Colombian world, fortunately, does not know
certain things it is best to ignore forever. There are so many fallacies in European civilization
so much misery ... dishonoring the progress and do sometimes feel ashamed of what makes humanity
.... In Spain is a singular contrast, religion is not free: the Catholic believer is not no
can worship God, - but prostitution is not only legitimized by the law, but authority that regulates
and manages the carefully!

Sufficient to judge the organization of that country (whose people have admirable qualities characteristics
and severe defects of education) the simple fact these two contrasts: law speculation the game
through the lottery, but restricts the innocent and productive work; maintains and manages the
prostitution, but press the conscience and conviction to imprisonment to which distributed the
Bible and the Gospels without notes Scio father!

* * * * *

Despite the interest that could have the city of Jerez, as strong and large population center wine
production, we had more strong desire to sail from the lower Guadalquivir
mouth to Sevilla.

       We prefer, therefore, this way, but we wanted before we embark interesting
to know the population living near Cadiz.

Taking a car and leaving the premises of the city by the road to Jerez, it is easy to visit
San Fernando, Puerto-Real and Harbor-Santa-Maria.

The landscape, if facing the mainland, monotonous, equality of the land and nature crop, but it
is picturesque and lively, if there is a tendency in view of the sea, is to repair in the shipyard
of the bay, where there is enough movement, is to take a quick glance
at the extensive salt marshes of San Fernando, whose production is
very significant and employs a large number of workers.

The salt is monopolized in Spain, probably prove an infinite gratitude to God for having surrounded
by the sea to the Spanish mainland. This monopoly (the state that produces a strong income,
however smuggling) provides the Spanish to the invaluable benefits of eating the salt of their
huge costs and expensive bad, but why stop doing business the big speculators who exploit salt
waterproof.

The City of San Fernando, Cadiz separate fortresses, ramparts and a large sea trench that cuts
the island of Leon, is located towards the end of this, which is linked to the mainland by
two bridges. Nearby there are numerous orchards, and everywhere revealed in the vast salt marshes,
the gunners and factories, the nature of their production.

Its main elements are: salt, in a very large sum (which is exported), land metalloids pickles
and cast objects and marina, as well as arts and crafts. The situation, of city ​​is curious,
by the way for the semi-circular canal surrounding side continent and that determines the
island. It seems as if two long bays or languages ​​slimmest sea ​​water were to crash and confused
under the bridges of Zuazo and Chiclana, which give way into the country.

San Fernando has general similarities to Cadiz in its field structure, and appearance is little
more or less similar. There is another characteristic that its astronomical observatory, which is
much lower than in Cadiz, so famous in the Spanish and Colombian geography. The population
San Fernando reached about 17.000 inhabitants, generally industrious
and engaged in rough manufacturing jobs and artifacts.

The countless inns or isolated houses ahead San Fernando to Cadiz side has an original and picturesque,
this is where crowds of thousands of workers employed at the shipyard of the Ratchet and many
factories in the vicinity, forming at certain times of day many groups as lively as curious.
Passing through the midst of them feel a strong smell of tar, salt and other materials that reveal
from the first moment the kind of occupation of these people.

The yard of the Carrack, a kind of floating population and solid at the same time, which composed
of ships, vast warehouses and workshops, offers an interesting picture, not so much the merit of establishing
the air as workers, buildings, etc. It is in that shipyard, located on the bay near the salt, as
to 1.200 meters of San Fernando, where Spain has one of the best
naval factories.

There are built ships war, and sometimes even trade of all sizes and conditions, and becomes
the cowling, as well as working on a large scale canvas for sails, ropes, cables, etc. Thousands
of workers constantly work at that point in the bay and its vicinity, and in the manufacture
naval, and in the exploitation and manufacture of salt. After stretching in several directions
many works of fortification, which are in some way the defenses of Cadiz and background the
bay.

Port Royal, located on the mainland coast, at the bottom of the bay is a nice population of 5.000
souls. The vicinity of the mouth of Zurraque (south) and confused with one arm sea, and Guadalete,
which enters the north, in the corner of the bay, the modern structure the streets and houses
(usually symmetric) and its pier and harbor filled with fishing Seafood
and carrying water boatmen, the table to the two sides are equidistant,
The yard of the Ratchet and the "Trocadero"

(commercial use) that is to the west on the bay, the animation of the people and the grace of
the neighboring gardens and country houses - all this contributes to make Port Royal a picturesque
and lively population. That is the walking and break for the rich Cadiz, many owners of houses
and villas pleasure at this point in the Spanish coast.

"Port-Saint-Mary" is much more significant. Delay, as I said, at the bottom of a small Gulf (north-west
of Port-Royal) whose waters are separated from the Bay of Cadiz by peninsula or tongue of land where
the "Trocadero". Santa Maria, which is about 14 km from Jerez and Cádiz, 21, is the end of
the road to Seville, and there recently completed the railway passes. From there lies a land
of imponderable wealth of carefully cultivated vineyards (and many
other fruit trees), both from the point Jerez, towards the interior,
whether by the coast in the direction of Rota (the country's famous
tintilla) and the lower Guadalquivir.

The distance between St Mary and Port Royal is so short, the Guadalete involved, that in fact the
former seems to belong both to the bay same as the Gulf said. Its main communications with
Cadiz are sustained through vapor coming out of a good spring and consistently across the bay.

Santa-Maria
is a beautiful town with over 21.000 inhabitants, with much activity and movement agricultural,
industrial and commercial. Lies at the foot of a hill overlooking the right bank Guadalete, and
is literally surrounded by orchards and vineyards. It has many institutes public, many factories
(mainly of fine liquors, pickles, hats and soap), and apart from its strong production of
wines, cultivated many arts and crafts. The structure is generally good, notably the beautiful
street called Long. There is the type of populations Andalusia, active and industrious in general,
where there are rarely any symptoms reveals of poverty or decay.

* * * * *

The time we needed to continue the tour. So, we went to a small coastal steamer and returned
to Cadiz. Sevilla had to leave for the next day, and we take the second night we had visiting
a theater and some cafes. Nothing particular in the theater elegant and well attended (because the
Spanish people are very passionate about the shows to impress strongly or make you laugh), but found,
like most of Spain, a farce sung to pieces, with the name of zarzuela, and the usual choreographic
developments French style - that are making it unbearable pest lose
their originality and grace Spanish theater.

       Instead of a good comedy or a good drama (and there are plenty in
Spain) the public has to swallow how can a comic opera in bad taste,
which degrades the same time to the play and opera.

In retaliation, the coffee is in all Spanish cities most curious social element. To an inhabitant
of northern Europe nothing could be more unpleasant perhaps, but for a noon child of Hispanic
or Colombia, with the instincts of expansion and sociability, the scene has many attractions.
I said, speaking of Barcelona and Madrid, the most noteworthy approached the cafes in Spain.
As the spirit of the people is strongly liberal in all major Spanish cities, and particularly
in Andalusia, coffee, - element expansion frank and free discussion and censure - is more important
even in Cadiz Sevilla, etc., Where the liberal opinion it takes full advantage. The piano (furniture
infallible in the big brown) helps to raise the spirits and increase
the noise of hundreds of parishioners - not infrequently serving epigrammatic
instrument, according to the mood of the crowd.

It is common to express opposition there trends the national government, aversion to the French
government, etc., making run (with applause loud and unanimous) and the hymn of Irrigation,
and the Marseillaise, or another piece that involves an strong political reference.

Apollo Coffee, where we settled in Cadiz for a few hours in two nights, we sought a means of
making curious observations on the political practices Cadiz. Even inside the unique structure of coffee
helped to make interesting scene, having some resemblance to the elegant homes that I have described,
being observed from one of the top balcony overlooking the great room and details of all groups
simultaneously. I was stunned to hear the Spanish speaking on more serious matters: I seemed
to be Bogotá in a cafe (where they speak with absolute freedom) but, in truth, was mutual tolerance
in the most frank and earnest discussions of the Spanish. Were said more clarity, without insulting,
but seasoned with the usual Spanish pepper the three CCC, without having the slightest fear
of a disagreement. They talked about the queen ... workmanship; put to the ministry of turns,
or vented their hilarity epigrammatic and its terrible censorship
on the Captain General, Governor, the Bishop or the first character
were at hand.

It's really rare ease and wit with which the Spanish people manage the epigram and knows how
to apply a saying at every opportunity.

This unique political and social importance of the cafes in Spain made me think a little. She dates
from the time of constitutional government, so it is an institution very modern. Is it a good or a bad? -
I asked myself. Of course the coffee become club has its advantages: it tends to eliminate this
isolation that froze to Spanish society, and unnerved and kept in the intellectual and moral
impotence, distracts from the temptation of game, as general in Spain (because of the institutions)
and is an amazing fusion Social class and self-organization of public opinion, opposed to the
constraints strung under the more general and overt ways.


By the same post another letter went from Polpenno to Matching which also gave rise to some
mental memoranda. It was as follows:

   MY DEAR MABEL,

   I am a Member of the British House of Commons! I have
   sometimes regarded myself as being one of the most
   peculiarly unfortunate men in the world, and yet now I
   have achieved that which all commoners in England think to
   be the greatest honour within their reach, and have done
   so at an age at which very few achieve it but the sons of
   the wealthy and the powerful.

   I now come to my misfortunes. I know that as a poor man
   I ought not to be a member of Parliament. I ought to
   be earning my bread as a lawyer or a doctor. I have no
   business to be what I am, and when I am forty I shall find
   that I have eaten up all my good things instead of having
   them to eat.

   I have one chance before me. You know very well what that
   is. Tell her that my pride in being a member of Parliament
   is much more on her behalf than on my own. The man who
   dares to love her ought at any rate to be something in the
   world. If it might be,--if ever it may be,--I should wish
   to be something for her sake. I am sure you will be glad
   of my success yourself, for my own sake.

   Your affectionate Friend and Cousin,

   FRANCIS TREGEAR.

The first mental memorandum in regard to this came from the writer's assertion that he at forty
would have eaten up all his good things. No! He being a man might make his way to good things
though he was not born to them. He surely would win his good things for himself. But what good
things were in store for her? What chance of success was there for her? But the reflection
which was the most bitter to her of all came from her assurance that his love for that other
girl was so genuine. Even when he was writing to her there was no spark left of the old romance!
Some hint of a recollection of past feelings, some half-concealed reference to the former passion
might have been allowed to him! She as a woman,--as a woman all whose fortune must depend on
marriage,--could indulge in no such allusions; but surely he need not have been so hard!

But still there was another memorandum. At the present moment she would do all that he desired
as far as it was in her power. She was anxious that he should marry Lady Mary Palliser, though
so anxious also that something of his love should remain with herself! She was quite willing
to convey that message,--if it might be done without offence to the Duke. She was there with
the object of ingratiating herself with the Duke. She must not impede her favour with the Duke
by making herself the medium of any secret communications between Mary and her lover.

But how should she serve Tregear without risk of offending the Duke? She read the letter again
and again, and thinking it to be a good letter she determined to show it to the Duke.

"Mr. Tregear has got in at Polpenno," she said on the day on which she and the Duke had received
their letters.

"So I hear from Silverbridge."

"It will be a good thing for him, I suppose."

"I do not know," said the Duke coldly.

"He is my cousin, and I have always been interested in his welfare."

"That is natural."

"And a seat in Parliament will give him something to do."

"Certainly it ought," said the Duke.

"I do not think that he is an idle man." To this the Duke made no answer. He did not wish to
be made to talk about Tregear. "May I tell you why I say all this?" she asked softly, pressing
her hand on the Duke's arm ever so gently. To this the Duke assented, but still coldly. "Because
I want to know what I ought to do. Would you mind reading that letter? Of course you will remember
that Frank and I have been brought up almost as brother and sister."

The Duke took the letter in his hand and did read it, very slowly. "What he says about young
men without means going into Parliament is true enough." This was not encouraging, but as the
Duke went on reading, Mabel did not think it necessary to argue the matter. He had to read
the last paragraph twice before he understood it. He did read it twice, and then folding the
letter very slowly gave it back to his companion.

"What ought I to do?" asked Lady Mabel.

"As you and I, my dear, are friends, I think that any carrying of a message to Mary would be
breaking confidence. I think that you should not speak to Mary about Mr. Tregear." Then he
changed the subject. Lady Mabel of course understood that after that she could not say a word
to Mary about the election at Polpenno.

CHAPTER LVII

The Meeting at "The Bobtailed Fox"

It was now the middle of December, and matters were not comfortable in the Runnymede country.
The Major with much pluck had carried on his operations in opposition to the wishes of the
resident members of the hunt. The owners of coverts had protested, and farmers had sworn that
he should not ride over their lands. There had even been some talk among the younger men of
thrashing him if he persevered. But he did persevere, and had managed to have one or two good
runs. Now it was the fortune of the Runnymede hunt that many of those who rode with the hounds
were strangers to the country,--men who came down by train from London, gentlemen of perhaps
no great distinction, who could ride hard, but as to whom it was thought that as they did not
provide the land to ride over, or the fences to be destroyed, or the coverts for the foxes,
or the greater part of the subscription, they ought not to oppose those by whom all these things
were supplied. But the Major, knowing where his strength lay, had managed to get a party to
support him. The contract to hunt the country had been made with him in last March, and was
good for one year. Having the kennels and the hounds under his command he did hunt the country;
but he did so amidst a storm of contumely and ill will.

At last it was decided that a general meeting of the members of the hunt should be called together
with the express object of getting rid of the Major. The gentlemen of the neighbourhood felt
that the Major was not to be borne, and the farmers were very much stronger against him than
the gentlemen. 

Holy Week had started, and was the most opportune time to make a visit to the "imperial Toledo ',
the ancient capital of a Moorish kingdom, and the Spanish monarchy to early the reign of Philip
II. Although Spain held every major capital quite pageantry of Holy Week, Seville, Toledo and
Madrid called in those days mainly to care.

Sevilla excels as a second Rome, doing wonders of ostentation in appearances of religion is confused
with the passing of the mundane realities, and the Catholic festival complete with a huge fair,
which meets as Andalusia has more rich, most original and distinctive. From all over Spain flock
foreigners, mere walkers and the speculators or traders, to have fun, poke or business in the big
city Andalusia.

Madrid shines only on Thursdays and Fridays saints exorbitant luxury accouterments of people,
ceremonies, processions courtesans and two simple by train, but they
call much attention by the magnificence of the processions that accompany
chaired staff of the Queen and her consort.

With regard to Toledo, she has always been the point of reunion of all people do not courtesans
who like the big shows and religious contemplation of monuments across the territory of New Castile.
Currently, the influx of foreigners is much higher Toledo, during Holy Week to mark the railway
already established, which links to Aranjuez with that city offering many amenities to the locals.
That fact has made Toledo new needs arise, including the establishment of funds and leverage inns In
order to provide accommodation to the many travelers who go to see
the wonders or at least curious of that unique city.

The train left Madrid, moved quickly ahead of Getafe, Pinto, Valdemoro and Science pozuelos, populations
without any particular grace or a total of 10.600 inhabitants played Aranjuez, and then away from
the railway line leading to the port of Alicante on the Mediterranean, branching took part of
Toledo, who started ahead of Castillejo, through Algodor, isolated
station pier serves Peublo surrounding thirteen small, more or less
sections of the road.

From Aranjuez to Toledo the scenery is lovely, because the railroad follows the valley the Tagus,
on the left bank, approaching, touching sometimes almost on the beach the lazy river. On one
side are as low temper undulating Montes de Toledo, Breast graceful granite hills and sandy clay
surface, absolutely naked of natural vegetation, but covered with crops of grain, small olive groves
and vineyards, at points less sterile while on the rugged hills or very uneven fields citrus
and some herds graze sheep or cows do, which groups contrast on the horizon with rocky peaks
that rise here and there on the backs of the highest hills.

Extends across a double belt and shining green, flat and uneven width, wetted by the Tagus, which
contrasts most notably, for its rich vegetation and scenic joy, with the bare sandy hills and
fields I just mentioned. White poplar forest and many gigantic trees occur, sometimes alternating
with beautiful meadows, where magnificent jump and frolicking foals, the sleek cows and sheep
from the offspring robust Selected real estate belonging to, or to several owners who own
land in vegas or the banks of the Tagus. At some points, all the way to Toledo, are rich plantations
of herbs, and a queen wherever life-giving moisture to the vegetation, but disastrous for
the population for intermittent fevers occur in a few months Tajo
spills, which lacks a well defined and deep bed.

The train stops in the valley of the Tagus, at the foot of the eminence, which serves as a seat
to Toledo, about a mile from the city. There take a sort of car-care, still rudimentary, very
embarrassing situation when many travelers. When I arrived to the station it was raining in torrents,
and there were no buses that make the journey to the center of Toledo. I was about to return from
there to Madrid nomas, and without the generous gift of a Spanish
gentleman who gave me a seat in his private carriage, he could not
climb the top of the very poor and atrasadísima imperial Toledo.

Nothing is more rare, but unique in its structure to that city, so full of monuments and memories
as devoid of industry and modern vitality. As in Spain do not travel to seek cities factories
and fields of modern style, but by studying a country of very special conditions, Toledo loves
the traveler's visit, notwithstanding the odious nuisance do they do life there unpleasant.
Lost in a maze of alleys and byways, but had a guide, I wandered for two hours looking for
accommodation in the city. She was desperate to find a corner which set me, ask after ten or
twelve more inns or guesthouses or less overt, when chance allowed me to find a makeshift inn, decent
for that matter, but that demanded conformity. Toledo had in those days four or five thousand
guests; and though the city, it has only 17.275 inhabitants, may contain materials in their house
twice, it lacks resources and facilities to accommodate it to two
hundred guests.

Toledo is, par excellence, the summary of old Spain. Let your description.

A huge rock or small peninsula shaped mountain rises in a steep and severe on the right bank of the
Tagus, which is interrupted narrow valley at the foot of the city south. Granite hills high
rise in a semi-circular cordon south east, surrounding for these sides to Toledo. Northwest
emerges from other similar hills which dominate the Tagus to either side, a narrow tongue
of land, a rocky and hilly isthmus, linking with the seat of Toledo. El Tajo, reaching north
of the city and east of the isthmus, rushes like a torrent in the deep open separating the mountain
City ESE rocky cord, surrounding the giant based in Toledo, making a circle almost complete,
and returns to the north, to seek its own course, licking the west the granite foundations
of the isthmus that links the river peninsula with laces Toledo the
hills of NO

Thus, Toledo is incommunicado topographically everywhere
except one, taking sides to the profound depths of the Tagus, which
descends very rapidly through rocks great chops almost perpendicular.

Also, on top of the huge rock which lies Toledo, seven eminences or uneven mounds covered
with buildings, squares and streets. The result is that the city looks like a great strength,
but its appearance can be covered with the hearing in its entirety, anywhere. Toledo dominates
all contours, but no point dominates Toledo.

To get there, then, to the city by either side is essential, or go through one of the Alcántara
bridge and San Martin, or penetrate the door hinges, overlooking
the isthmus Northwest.

Anyway, it is necessary to scale or climb the mountain. And in the city itself, as the seven
hills are very uneven terrain, is forced up or down, by any street to be taken in a sort of vicious
circle that makes the most bizarre Toledo population. No idea can be full, without knowing
it, like a maze. The man most expert that of the most prodigious memory locations, were lost in Toledo,
without the aid of a guide, to turn the second corner of an alley.

Homes uneven and rough and ancient building boxed all the streets, giving a dark and sinister
aspect, as if they walked the rough and irregular paths of a mountain.

Abroad, returning every turn, it is the illusion that expect a Moorish helmet in one of the
thousands of crossings that are complicated and linked into the more tangled Grasp. Wherever
paved atrocious irregular embankments, steep slopes, angles and curves indescribable challenging
the most able mathematician by the absence of specific figures. The thousand lanes cross, forked,
rounded, squared, confused, surrounding themselves, they stop suddenly end in corners, or extend
into the most extravagant passages, tracing a network indescribable. When you create a 500 meters
away have a point, according to what has gone, is in the opposite direction, twenty feet away,
completely disoriented. That city, essentially Moorish detail of this kind, seems to have been combined
for ambushes, guerrilla fighting and defenses unexpected and awesome.

The origin of Toledo has no history, because its foundation is attributed to different races, and
do not know the precise time of their appearance. The Romans found very respectable and, give
importance and made capital of the province Carpetana.

Conquered by the Goths in the sixth century the capital of their court and their domains.
Dominated the country in the century VIII by the Saracens, was also the seat of the viceroys
Moors, and then the capital the powerful kingdom of Toledo. Finally, recovered in the eleventh
century by the Castilian king Don Alfonso VI, was still the capital of the Spanish monarchs,
until the sixteenth century moved Philip II his court to Madrid. From then began to decline
Toledo, isolated and without industry despite their status as the metropolis of the Catholic
Church in Spain.

* * * * *

       

No, but having spent three days in Toledo, which are sufficient for a traveler who is not artist,
I could barely pick up fast printing. Toledo is interesting for its social type and their
merit monumental, but the first I cared more than the second, more especially as suffer from
complete ignorance in architecture, painting and sculpture. As I can hardly make judgments,
failing to copy what others (art ugly I'm less versed even in fine arts), and will indicate only
the emotions felt.

Toledo lacks any industry. It's a dead city, or at least paralyzed. The there only draws attention
to the economic is the famous weapons factory, situated at the right bank of the Tagus, to
the west of the isthmus that I have described. I found it impossible to visit, because in those
days it was closed because of Easter, which the Spanish people and its analogs celebrated
with idleness. HOWEVER I knew that the weapons were Toledo the very same conditions as those
of ancient times. Centuries have passed over without The makers have been given by notified
today as manufacturing procedures are the same as now four years, unless the products have improved
significantly. Spain crushed the old steel with the same hammer. Modern civilization has not reached
until the railway station at the foot of Toledo. From up there .... Careful touch the cobwebs!

In Toledo's monumental everything is interesting and curious all have a special type not found in
any other Spanish city with the same energy, even in Valencia, Sevilla, Cordoba and Granada.
Wherever they are alternating the Gothic and Moorish and some of the Renaissance, such promiscuity
resulting from the most striking contrasts .-- Me dwell on the most remarkable monuments nomas,
which are the jewels of the city where he ran Quevedo's childhood and the remains of the hanged
favorite Don Alvaro de Luna, the poet Mariana Moreto and historian.

The cathedral is, without doubt, one of the most magnificent Catholic churches in Europe. Everything
is there huge, stern and grim, as the most typical Gothic cathedrals. If the external forms
and almost the whole of the building belong to the magnificent architecture, there are many
details However, as a famous Mozarabic chapel, under the Moorish style, having Cathedral been
subject to successive cambiamientos. Its splendid floor tiles blue and white marble, its five ships
daring held by eighty-four columns colossal twenty-three chapels curds and rich gold ornaments,
three large rosettes and seven hundred forty-seven circular or ogival windows covered with exquisite
glass colorfully painted to fire a thousand ornaments of columns and arches seventy-two of the
ships, superior lightness, the magnificence of the choir stalls, whose low reliefs are admirable,
the splendor of the treasures or jewels belonging to the temple, the deep echoes of the organs,
repeated in a thousand breasts of stone, the dark solemn enclosure, the paint beautiful paintings
that adorn the dark walls, and tingling the crowd of pious and curious, circulating as atoms
under the great mass: all that makes the Cathedral of Toledo, Maundy Thursday, an astounding
monument, places, captivates and makes mute ....

There he understands
the power of faith, which not only inspire the artists of the Middle
Ages but give them to their villages, workers Herculean strength to
lift those mountains carved common granite and stone, studded charms
that reveal all the tenacity patient a belief and the vagaries of
superstition.

There is also the force comprises propaganda that Catholicism has had in the past, through the powerful
fascination exerted on the masses by the majesty of the temples and the sovereign pomp of the cult
[2].

I compared the immense wealth locked in the "Treasury" of the cathedral, with the deep misery
of the lower classes of Toledo, a city that grows in isolation, without
industry, trade, agriculture and important, and sadly told me: "What
good would the Virgin of the Cathedral if, in imitation of Isabel
the Catholic, not to discover a world but to resurrect Toledo devote
their valuable jewelry great for a railroad to communicate to the
imperial ruin with all peoples of the magnificent Tagus Valley!

"In every cathedral in Spain, excluding values ​​more than the estate, can go a railroad, but there
is no risk of anything coming out, without thereby missing entries.

Fourteen without suppressed convents of friars, nuns and twenty, Toledo has also twenty churches
of the cathedral parish, nine public and six Mozarabic chapel. Thus, So people do not reach for
the churches. After the cathedral, the most notable as monuments are: San Juan-de-los-Reyes,
Christ-of-the-light, Transit and Santa María la white, - the last two ancient synagogues. It is
interesting to note that Toledo had during the domination Moorish
six churches, called Mozarabic, where Christians worship publicly
maintained them, with the express consent of the Moros.

It seems that those barbarous infidels were friends of the wickedness of modern philosophy called
for religious tolerance. The Inquisition Spanish later paid them to the Moors that tolerance
in very good money ....

The kings of Spain had the pious custom of celebrating military triumphs erection of churches,
now they were the Saracens, now in the Portuguese or other enemies. In Toro victory obtained against
Portugal, owes its existence to the beautiful church San Juan-de-los-Reyes, a florid Gothic
delicious, commissioned in 1476 by Fernando and Isabella, as it should be the triumph of Don
Alfonso VI, the conqueror of Toledo in the late XI, the importance
of curious chapel called Christ-of-the-light, where they performed
the first mass after the Saracens defeated there.

Call attention in foreign Kings Church a multitude of shackles, chains and other instruments in prison,
slopes of the walls to remember the martyrs of Spain, for all those irons are Granada were applied
to prisoners who were held by the Moors.

If the church, a nave, forming a Latin cross, is very elegant and beautiful ornaments, the faculty
is no less interesting, in spite of its debris, from a terrible fire in 1809. Curiously a huge
piece of excellent mosaic that lies almost abandoned in the vestibule. In the upper floor
was struck by a museum painting paintings, begun in 1840, made than 730 tables and set exactly
in the cell of the famous Cardinal Jiménez de Cisneros, first novice of the convent founded
there.

Christ-of-the-light is a curious miniature church, whose merit lies not only in the origin and seniority
but also on their unique proportions. Measures that toy mosque baptized about 18 feet long on 14
or 15 wide, with proportionate height, and is Byzantine-Arab style, with trends in some detail
the transition from first to funny second period of Saracen art. Six little ships crossed in
opposite directions threes, and supported by four granite columns,
very rough, which lie horseshoe-shaped arches, constitute the roof,
which is divided into nine domes almost microscopic all different,
but similar in style.

If you could start and transporting their foundations that toy of Moorish architecture, could be
in the best museum of antiquities like a jewel of inestimable value.

The church now called Santa Maria la Blanca, abandoned and deserted, was an elegant synagogue
built towards the end of XI century by the Jews of Toledo, corresponding to the time of transition
or second period of the Moorish style, and has interior decorations and forms a delicious
treat. The roof is a beautiful cedar paneling, and the whole body is divided into five naves; the total
being a rectangle that measures about 80 feet long and about 62 wide and 50 elevation in the
center. 32 columns holding the octagonal roof, stucco, four equal rows, and their capitals rise 28
horseshoe arches with beautiful arabesques which support orders other
precious columns, paired immediately supporting the ceilings.

These buildings, which were entirely unknown to me (if not in photo) my eyes were endless charm,
and made me conjure up a thousand memories of the history of Oriental peoples, defended in the years
of my youth. Under the same floor there deep underground that keep the remains of many Israelis.
How not to think me on the vicissitudes of humanity to abandon this ancient sanctuary of a
race that persecuted for eighteen centuries by all peoples in vast and heinous gang has regenerate
the world in the nineteenth century, with the power of their enormous capital and industrial
activity and commercial town on the European banks, railways, warehouses and factories! The
Israelites have retaliated by chasing people, giving them the progress and prosperity and organizing
credit ....

No less curious, though very different proportions, is the other synagogue, now called Church
Traffic built in the middle of the fourteenth century. Don Pedro the Cruel was not much, according
to seems, with the rich Jews, and allowed his famous and favorite treasurer, Samuel Levi, erection
of this beautiful sanctuary of the Israelite religion. His only holds a beautiful ship coffered
ceiling, the walls are a rich stucco, adorned with beautiful mosaic tiles, and carved with the most
gorgeous arabesques of the third period of Moorish architecture, completely Andalusia. Synagogue
that resembles many of its details to a splendid hall the Alhambra or the Alcazar of Seville.

Enough of churches for the patient reader. About Don Pedro the Cruel, is notable for its historical
interest and its grim proportions the house or palace that dwell in Toledo Wild crowned. It
is a report building and heavy, which gives the idea of ​​dungeons and causes certain thrill
to the traveler who knows something the old stories of old Spain. Apart from the rubble of the
Alcázar admirable, are interesting in Toledo some of their doors monuments, which give access
to the city roads in shell, supported by great embankments, the magnificent bridge of Alcantara, a single
arc and all of granite and school military was building façade convent and chapel, cloisters
and staircase can admire the traveler a multitude of interesting
art objects.

 Another meeting at The Bobtailed
Fox was convened. But in the meantime hunting had been discontinued in the Runnymede country.
The Major with all his pluck, with infinite cherry brandy, could not do it. Men who had a few
weeks since been on very friendly terms, and who had called each other Dick and Harry when
the squabble first began, were now talking of "punching" each other's heads. Special whips
had been procured by men who intended to ride, and special bludgeons by the young farmers who
intended that nobody should ride as long as Major Tifto kept the hounds. It was said that the
police would interfere. It was whispered that the hounds would be shot,--though Mr. Topps,
Mr. Jawstock, and others declared that no crime so heinous as that had ever been contemplated
in the Runnymede country.

The difficulties were too many for poor Tifto, and the hounds were not brought out again under
his influence.

A second meeting was summoned, and an invitation was sent to the Major similar to that which
he had before received;--but on this occasion he did not appear. Nor were there many of the
gentlemen down from London. This second meeting might almost have been called select. Mr. Mahogany
Topps was there of course, in the chair, and Mr. Jawstock took the place of honour and of difficulty
on his right hand. There was the young gentleman from Bagshot, who considered himself quite
fit to take Tifto's place if somebody else would pay the bills and settle the money, and there
was the sporting old parson from Croppingham. Three or four other members of the hunt were
present, and perhaps half-a-dozen farmers, ready to declare that Major Tifto should never be
allowed to cross their fields again.

But there was no opposition. Mr. Jawstock read the young lord's note, and declared that it
was quite as much as he expected. He considered that the note, short as it was, must be decisive.
Major Tifto, in appealing to Lord Silverbridge, had agreed to abide by his Lordship's answer,
and that answer was now before them. Mr. Jawstock ventured to propose that Major Tifto should
be declared to be no longer Master of the Runnymede Hounds. The parson from Croppingham seconded
the proposition, and Major Tifto was formally deposed.

CHAPTER LIX

No One Can Tell What May Come to Pass

Then Lord Silverbridge necessarily went down to Matching, knowing that he must meet Mabel Grex.
Why should she have prolonged her visit? No doubt it might be very pleasant for her to be his
father's guest at Matching, but she had been there above a month! He could understand that
his father should ask her to remain. His father was still brooding over that foolish communication
which had been made to him on the night of the dinner at the Beargarden. His father was still
intending to take Mabel to his arms as a daughter-in-law. But Lady Mabel herself knew that
it could not be so! The whole truth had been told to her. As the Government,
I repeat the phrase that I have given elsewhere. "He has made the role of dog in the manger.
"Based on the idea of ​​monopoly and centralization, wanted to regulate it everything. Powerless, has
not done anything selfish, has never ceased to do, a friend of isolation, closed the door to communications.
La Mancha has been very rich and happy just to output the huge production of their lands, almost
spontaneous, mainly cereals, and wine oil, wool and other items. But nestled between mountains,
no roads, no freedom change or industry, and flawed population into habits of idleness and
passive obedience, Mancha life (if the vegetation can be called life) has been concentrated in
cities and villas. Thus, the fields have been deserted, no houses, no trees, no irrigation, and
populations has perpetuated poverty by the concentration of idle hands.

And this concentration, which is noted in the two main castle, has been, in turn, the cause
of the persistence of bad governance. The man in the field is, in general, the most independent,
equal, and for the life you lead and influence of nature around him, and because the action
of the authority will achieve less. Concentrated the population in cities and towns, not only ends
the life between town and village, but which, being more immediate and active the weight of
authority on ignorant masses abject obedience to passively fits all tyranny, the degraded
at all, and the centralization Absolute makes it easier to establish and more durable. I have found
the key to almost all social phenomena that distinguish the Castile of Spain Catalan Moorish and
Basque, in the substantial difference that shows in the way the population is has concentrated
or distributed.

Once across the mountains of the Montes de Toledo, leaving behind the north, the great basin
Tajo, the vast panorama seemed to be the same, because there is a singular resemblance between
the and the Guadiana basin. Going to everyday use, we saw distinctly in the distance with the
aid telescope, on a hill, leaning against a buttress of the mountain we had just cut, the ancient
town of Consuegra, about 9.000 people (belonging to the Toledo province), there are still remains
of great Roman works, and highlights on a steep hill the ruins of an ancient castle that is supposed
to be the work of Trajan. Pass then the town of Madridejos, which has about 7,000 inhabitants, a
rate which does not require description, because everything is uniform la Mancha. After the
town completes the province Toledo and later starts of Ciudad Real, which has its southern limit
in central of the Sierra Morena.

Sort are to the left of the poor villages via Inheritance and Camus, cut throat called Port-Lapiche
hilly, rocky hills where vegetate between five hundred civilians Sancho Panza sad crosses the region
of Villalta, where ducks splash as solitary other 227 Mancha, between lakes without drainage,
and in the middle of a fertile but poorly cultivated plain is given by Manzanares, important town,
which has some orchards in nursing homes, but HOWEVER producing fewer apples than beggars. It
was already ten o'clock at night when we arrived, hungry and ground, to the illustrious Valdepeñas,
renowned for its popular wines, not by otherwise. Anyone would think that the 10.800 inhabitants
of the valley-of-rocks would live half tipsy, getting a taste to their pipes and making every
tavern one Capua. Nothing that in Spain the people who drink less wine are the most in producing,
his sobriety is singular, and almost everyone prefers the use of poor water quality.

The meal was served at the inn of the proceedings, and to a hostess honors moody, mean between
Dulcinea and Maritornes, overwhelmed us with chickens and Partridge made in every way imaginable,
and the usual cooked chickpeas, so macadamize solid as stone. They drank the worst wine you'll
find in Valdepeñas Spain, "In the blacksmith house wooden hoe." With the exception of large
cities, where some hotels or inns is served with pleasure, Spain is a country where the table
is a matter of quantity rather than quality. That is a sober and frugal people, and taste HOWEVER
of hoteliers is to agglomerate piles of dishes, their order and discernment, as if it were only
satiate the guest or traveler. Hence it is often the opposite effect because many dishes are
just different editions of the first one to enter the restaurant scene.

We had not finished cleaning the mouth when he called us to Mayoral relentless diligence. Digestion
was necessary to make the jumps, after eating in abbreviated form under the scheme Impossible gallinaceous
sleeping in that cave is called saloon, stiff as a stake and tossed atrociously by the Hulk which
is Mayoral pilot! We passed through Santa-Cruz-de-Mudela, population of 5,500 souls, silent as
a tomb, in the shadows of the night and play Almuradiel (about 600) began to climb the crossroads
of the Sierra Morena, where for so long had their altars Caco God, between horrible and awesome gorges
granite rocks. Those times have gone entirely, and the heroic style robber has closed almost all
studies in the Spanish peninsula, and its legacy has been taken in cities most distinguished
and civilized children. Sierra Morena is quieter closed a church, and who exercised their
industry there have been superseded by Ministers State players Exchange, smugglers aristocratic
canons bulls vendors, MPs and other personalities and of unblemished repute, rigorously pursued
energy and vice, vagrancy, crime ... and money.

Nothing more grandly vague, romantic and solemn scene is offered in
the eyes of traveler in the heart of Sierra Morena, in the silence
of the night and no moon.

Stagecoach conference with a bang by causeways built to peak on the banks of the great cliffs,
producing in the dark breast of the mountains thousand different echoes. The huge granite hills,
naked abrupt, sometimes torn, intertwined maze, separated by deep pits and frightening, noting spikes
here and there, and cones, and domes and giant moles, covered sad parts of shrubs, with white flowers
and mosses and ferns, the shadows and clear that project, according to the inflection of the
ground, the chill of night noise streams in the depths, the fearful loneliness of those places
that seem dens of robbers or wild beasts and birds of prey: all that gives the scene the darkest
characters and a special interest.

Seeing those formidable barriers granite includes secular tenacious resistance of both races who
fought for eight centuries, supported and defended over and over
with the power of nature and disputing the ground inch by inch, in
the narrow gorges of the mountains.

Also, the observed is an excuse (but sophistry) to solitary confinement for so many centuries
has prevailed in Spain.

La Mancha was over, and we played in our Milky Way, after Tembleque, with a total population
of 34.500 inhabitants clustered in seven localities [3].

We had already passed the awful gorges of decriminalization dawn (!!); dogs would begin to
spread their vague clarity. Very sleepy and tired dormitábamos and, in a kind of nightmare and
slumber, when opened the horizon at noon. The beautiful Andalusia, the country of love and art, fertility
and work began on the heights of Santa Elena.

* * * * *

       

PART FIVE.

       THE ANDALUSIA.

       * * * * *

CHAPTER I.

* * * * *

JAEN Y GRANADA.

We walked up near Santa Elena, 210 kilometers from Madrid, and we were missing 218 to complete
428 of the distance between Granada and Madrid. But what a difference in the appearance of the two
counties! Gone was the Gothic race, the Spanish society, genuine representative da old Spain. Later,
some beautiful original groups of the Germanic race, and then a people profoundly changed by
the infusion of Arab blood and traditions industrial activity and artistic genius of the great
oriental and African tribes.

In Santa Elena, a small population of some 600 modern people, the mountains seem to open to give way to
life, the sky is now more beautiful, more delicious air, and nature
smiles.

Scarcely a century ago the Sierra Morena was a desert, a vast succession of intersections appalling,
with no sign of life, industry or trade. Charles III (the only king liberal and positively
good that Spain has had) decided to bring forth life in the middle of this desert, founding colonies
in Sierra important farmers vigorous for which not only served as the Spanish, but he brought
German immigrants, many of them Protestants, themselves to give examples and encourage healthy cross-fertilization
races. It is to these measures to be the existence of seven new towns in the Sierra Morena.

Almuradiel
located next setentrional, is the first. The other six, corresponding to High Andalusia (Jaen
province) are: Santa Elena, Las Navas de Tolosa (famous for the battle won there in 1212 King Alfonso
VIII against the Moorish king, Aben Muhammad), Carolina (Which was
named after Charles III), Charcoal, Aldea-del-Rio and Guarroman.

The population total of six colonies in Andalusia amounts to 7.400 individuals, which correspond 4.728
to Carolina. Nothing more interesting than the contrast of these populations and their surrounding
fields, aspect of the country with the view recorded in all directions. The show is beautiful and
provides proof of man's power to create wealth, even in the midst of nature ungrateful, when
you have the will to fight and overcome obstacles.

A right and left eyes but do not reveal bare hills and sad, formidable buttresses de la Sierra,
destroyed, scrambled eggs, chopped into its huge granite masses, or multiply rigid in labyrinths of
hills and slopes. The picture looks almost like an ocean reef black, brown, gray, sometimes
red, as if the ancient volcanic upheavals had scattered between depths. Up front, more than
240 miles away, is the mighty Sierra-Nevada, running from east to west, similar throughout (less
in Snow-white) á la Morena, and to descry dimly reached the spot where delay the Moorish city
of Jaen, lying at the foot of one of the long spurs of the great
and steep barrier.

In the background is a vast expanse of land traversed by unequal the murky Guadalquivir, where
hills alternate manifold, small plains, inclines, narrow canyons and plains interspersed with
the smiling valleys which is the river in its twists and turns whimsical, down a deep channel and clay,
among large granite rocks and slices in several stretches.

Finally, if you look closer, removing the view of the winding strip of Guadalquivir (á whose
margins delay Ubeda, Baeza and Andujar), there is a series of inclined planes fertile hills and
glens of luxurious vegetation and cultivation esmeradísimo, where the road turns in search of Baylen.
Funny everywhere cottages with vast groves bordering the way or disclaim the inheritance, crystal
streams and busy they seem to leave with joy the harshness of the mountains to go hop on hop to take
the Guadalquivir their murmurs and liquid pearls; extensive vineyards on the most bare hills
and mountains; many plantations of vegetables, grains and seeds; considerable areas populated in
symmetrical rows of olive trees, fruit trees at the edge of the road
and in the gay gardens; olive mill here, beyond a few cows grazing
in the fallow, near the picturesque little house; groups of simple
and happy peasants, working together men and women, the elderly and
children, everywhere vegetables, water jumping, flowers, life-giving
sun, shadows delicious work, activity, strength, life, happiness and
welfare.

The traveler descends with pleasure by those inclined planes, bowing to the Andalusia a land of
love and prosperity, and even if you see that there is much yet to improve or do and that those people
are just in childhood, they are forgiving grace defect qualities they reveal. When the races
have fulfilled their mission in their respective times, according to the measure of his mettle
and character they need in order not to deteriorate, crosses that will rejuvenate and breathe
new print. The great work of the Spanish race in civilization was the conquest of the New World.
Accomplished this great and momentous epic the Spanish people had to seek its strength and activity
items in partnerships with other families of mankind, otherwise down. This truth is revealed
in Spain and in big as in the small. Wherever there is a mixture of races - in Catalonia, Andalusia
and Basque provinces - is the strength, activity, life, and the weakness and stagnation manifested
in Castile, Galicia and Asturias, where race has remained almost
totally pure.

In the villages of the Sierra Morena did, in small, the same observation. There blood Germany
has been mixed with the Hispano-Arabic, resulting in a robust set of families, intelligent, industrious,
peaceful and beautiful type. I loved to contemplate, in passing the funny group of kids, dressed
in pretty toilet, pink, blond, light jumping like birds to round the diligence, in the main
streets of Carolina and others populations, offering travelers flowers and fruit while the
grandmothers and mothers, sitting at the doors of their houses, looked at us with a sympathetic
curiosity, not suspended why the work of hand or the movement of the spindle indefatigable.
They did not ask for alms, although in Andalusia, for reasons mentioned
later, is also in the cities and villas large number of beggars.

Out and the spurs of the mountains and near the bottom of the undulating valley of the Guadalquivir
delay the ancient village of Baylen, on an incline surrounded by high hills and midst of vast
olive groves are the main wealth there. Baylen is a poblachon ugly, uneven, dirty, crooked
streets (legitimate old Spanish type, dating nothing less to the year 729), with a population of
just over 8,000 souls, some object factories very coarse, heavy oil production (very badly prepared,
as almost all of Spain) and many common canvas looms.

Bad lunch there, eat worse, the wine is Malena, and you want to follow up hastily.

Very near the village lies the uneven field where it took place on 16 and 19 July 1808 the battle
and the famous battle of "Baylen," which were the basis of independence Spanish in the fight
against Napoleon. Taking into account the military capacity of the medium General Brown, who won
there, the poor quality of his troops, the vast superiority of French, by their number, quality
and position in the field of battle, and the skills of quarterback Dupont, who sent them, will
find that perhaps has not been without foundation the view that complete loss of the French
army was due to treason.

There were 40.000 French expired almost without a fight: 3,000 dead,
20,000 prisoners, including seven general many thousands scattered,
45 guns and all the equipment in the hands of Brown.

My two companions as loyal French longed to cross the field of Baylen.

- U Do not think - I was told both noble sincerity, - that makes us sigh the memory of defeat, no. Baylen
is that it is not for us but a shameful page in history France, spotted by an unjust war of treachery
and usurpation, committed against a people brother, in spite of the
French nation.

- Then there is no reason to remember the event with
regret.

That evil can not tax consciousness revolutionary France, she weighs about the memory of the
despot who, born of revolution, turned his back and pushed the world
with the weight of his sword.

- It's true - he said Mr. B. ...,--
but history is history, and the vulgar confused often the work of
despots with the people.

We passed shortly by the Guadalquivir, deep, slow and quiet, a beautiful suspension bridge thrown
over huge rocks, touch, about 16 miles Baylen, in the village of Menjivar, located on fertile
ground and with about 1,600 inhabitants, and through fields and pretty rough usually grown, we, about
36 miles ahead, with the curious city of Jaen, of picturesque situation, dominated by a high
hill on top of which holds an old castle formidable a while and now
happily ruined, and the walls and other strengths circulating population.

Jaen,

a city of the third order in Spain, in its proportions, has 21.520 inhabitants, generally poor, despite
the country's suitability for a host of major productions such as wine, oil, grains and minerals.
 To this he had nothing to reply, but stood
before her silent and frowning. "Think of it, Silverbridge. Was it not so? And because I did
not at once tell you all the truth, because I did not there say that my heart was all yours,
were you right to leave me?"

"You only laughed at me."

"No;--no; no; I never laughed at you. How could I laugh when you were all the world to me?
Ask Frank;--he knew. Ask Miss Cass;--she knew. And can you say you did not know; you, you,
you yourself? Can any girl suppose that such words as these are to mean nothing when they have
been spoken? You knew I loved you."

"No;--no."

"You must have known it. I will never believe but that you knew it. Why should your father
be so sure of it?"

"He never was sure of it."

"Yes, Silverbridge; yes. There is not one in the house who does not see that he treats me as
though he expected me to be his son's wife. Do you not know that he wishes it?" He fain would
not have answered this; but she paused for his answer and then repeated her question. "Do you
not know that he wishes it?"

"I think he does," said Silverbridge; "but it can never be so."

"Oh, Silverbridge;--oh, my loved one! Do not say that to me! Do not kill me at once!" Now she
placed her hands one on each arm as she stood opposite to him and looked up into his face.
"You said you loved me once. Why do you desert me now? Have you a right to treat me like that;--when
I tell you that you have all my heart?" The tears were now streaming down her face, and they
were not counterfeit tears.

"You know," he said, submitting to her hands, but not lifting his arm to embrace her.

"What do I know?"

"That I have given all I have to give to another." As he said this he looked away sternly,
over her shoulder, to the distance.

"That American girl!" she exclaimed, starting back, with some show of sternness also on her brow.

"Yes;--that American girl," said Silverbridge.

Then she recovered herself immediately. Indignation, natural indignation, would not serve her
turn in the present emergency. "You know that cannot be. You ought to know it. What will your
father say? You have not dared to tell him. That is so natural," she added, trying to appease
his frown. "How possibly can it be told to him? I will not say a word against her."

"No; do not do that."

"But there are fitnesses of things which such a one as you cannot disregard without preparing
for yourself a whole life of repentance."

"Look here, Mabel."

"Well?"

"I will tell you the truth."

"Well?"

"I would sooner lose all;--the rank I have; the rank that I am to have; all these lands that
you have been looking on; my father's wealth, my seat in Parliament,--everything that fortune
has done for me,--I would give them all up, sooner than lose her." Now at any rate he was a
man. She was sure of that now. This was more, very much more, not only than she had expected
from him, but more than she had thought it possible that his character should have produced.

His strength reduced her to weakness. "And I am nothing," she said.

"Yes, indeed; you are Lady Mabel Grex,--whom all women envy, and whom all men honour."

"The poorest wretch this day under the sun."

"Do not say that. You should take shame to say that."

"I do take shame;--and I do say it. Sir, do you not feel what you owe me? Do you not know that
you have made me the wretch I am? How did you dare to talk to me as you did talk when you were
in London? You tell me that I am Lady Mabel Grex;--and yet you come to me with a lie on your
lips,--with such a lie as that! You must have taken me for some nursemaid on whom you had condescended
to cast your eye! Although he spoke
English well, his speech in French and Spanish German accent revealed the southern as his face revealed
to the Israelite. We had our reasons for believing that industrial race belonged to another
friend of diligence, that commission Hordel talking to their pockets, without prejudice to
the elbows. Among the many benefits go by rail and telegraph should be counted as first-order
quasi-abolition the commis-voyageur, or commission, the most obnoxious pest that can give a traveler.
The part-telegraph and steam wagon, in fact, make it almost unnecessary to send these locusts
other markets to seek placement for manufacturing products. In Italy, Spain and other European countries
where the railways are still in the beginning, the commission emissary France, England, Belgium
or Germany is firm or with any consistency. So is that in Barcelona, ​​Valencia and the Andalusian
cities I had to find that plague all hotels or inns.

The commission (especially as neither the French) is able to discredit
his country, wherever you want, with their own resources.

Ignorant, conceited, rude, swindler often charlatan to cause headaches, he is seen everywhere
teasing those who have the candor to admit their company. One exception to this rule is a prodigy.
The more than forty in Spain I met a bear. Our German Jew began to succumb, as to their nationality,
then, for fun, we made many charges against Great Britain, and Germany was declared for not
accepting responsibility. I pretended that I had strong opinions and said recalcitrant I was a horror to
admit the Jewish Rothschild in the British Parliament, because the breed damn did not deserve
any consideration. Then he sprang like a spring agitated, angry and terrible, as if his race
had to speak for his mouth and confessed Israelite a candor that we tore them all an explosion
of laughter. I did not have, difficulty in convincing that I did not have any religious or racial
concerns, and to his own as estimated one of the most beautiful, tough and aggressive in the
world and one of those who have contributed more, by the power of work and the feeling of brotherhood,
the progress of civilization. Run and embarrassed the former English tourist, leaned back in
his corner and three oranges chow and six biscuits, by way of compensation, with him more reflective.
The next day, in Malaga, we caught him red-handed in the hotel, featuring a merchant all his
collection of cards with samples of goods, and although it was held in the female conquests,
cosmopolitan confessed that his trips had been made not by an English tourist but a Robust
German Jew, rake HB & C meetings and Manchester.

It was six o'clock when we came to Loja, after the first cut soft throats or modifications of
the Sierra-Nevada.

Except in Switzerland, I have not seen anything more picturesque, small class of lovely landscapes
freshness, which the box surrounding to Loja. It is a fairly large city, because it has more
than 17.000 inhabitants, and lies about 45 km from Granada and 56 from Malaga. Its agricultural
products are the general Andalusia, but is notable for its manufacture of cloth and paper.
It is the country of water par excellence, delicious and very abundant. Not only has over
two hundred public sources and individuals, but have now arrived at centuries in his term,
more than 5,000 watersheds. The population, ugly, uneven, graceless, sad and quite dirty, makes
a strange contrast with the alderredor. Situated on two hills separated by Jenil, with most of its
mass on the left bank, the dominant almost everywhere the buttresses of the Sierra, and offers
a delightful view to a large portion of the Vega of Granada.

The sun was just beginning to produce on their gorgeous snowy peaks
reverberations; a broad belt of fog encircled the neighboring hills
in half, leaving open the eminence with its huge granite boulders,
and low hills, and valleys Jenil deep and winding of fresh, green,
flowers, studded with mills and factories exquisite gardens and rows
and groups of white poplars and other trees upright.

The earth seemed to rejoice, greeting the sun and his admirable Andalusian sky with a concert
voluptuous harmonies and delicate aromas evaporate.

After Loja, the road continues to rise and snails among well-cultivated beautiful hills towards
the heart of the Sierra. The Colombian traveler who travels the roads that cut Spanish Sierras,
can not but smile with disdain, remembering that in Colombia there are lazy doomsayers who believe
the Andes have been condemned to solitary confinement to the inhabitants
of many mountainous regions of the New World.

Seeing what has been achieved, in point of railways and highways in regions of the Alps, the Pyrenees
and the mountains of Spain, I said: "No, the Andes, far from being obstacles are the most wonderful
gift God has given to New World, and the people who can use them will be the happiest of the earth.
Willing and money all regions of the Andes are likely to admit when roads and railways may need
social movement. "

In the midst of this ocean of naked mountains, hills whimsical, high plains and small and huge
chasms, run without any risk of prosecution by an excellent road. It seems at every moment,
to turn a sharp corner, which is the measure to save a cliff jumping from one hill to another, depending
on the terrain is rugged.

This anda surprise surprise. I have not seen anything so romantic, so beautiful and sad as harshly
those low plains of the Sierra-Nevada, which seem to make dried lake beds many centuries. Upon
entering the premises of one of these flats, rooms Vastis Emerald pavement between colossal
walls of iron and tin, it is believed that no output way forward. The vegetation is a poetic
sadness, because the whole floor is covered planting of wheat and other cereals or legumes,
on whose carpet stand out Here and there, huge, dark and majestic oaks of vegetable life these
calls in Spain oaks, whose branches produce cork. Those trees are very numerous there, as
in all alti-plains of the Spanish Sierras, and are fairly traded considerable. Nature, providing
that the man invented the bottle as a second belly to keep the wine, has inhabited the land of cork
trees in the upper plains to the slopes where it grows the generous vine. If all the oaks
that grow in the world occur even for corks! ...

At around these simple paintings of vegetables are raised in complete great circle granite rocks and
ink appearance but unique, all rugged, rough, wrinkled and huge cracks - some ashen and dull
pewter color other with a twinkle sad some black or brown, - presented the most curious play
of light and shade, as the inclination the sun, and as rounded tops, and in extravagant peaks,
truncated cones or needles, or in rows that mimic jagged circular
and great iron crowns.

On top of these bare heads and those moles in surprising ways without any visible stratification,
perpendicularly to excel in the distance, like lamps of silver and diamond earrings sky, soaring
domes and broken backs of the snow in the Sierra. What is of supreme beauty, which the artist invites
contemplation and defies description ....

Sales had happened (and certainly "would not remember" a certain tortilla made with rancid oil,
as used in Spain, which lasted between the palate and fauces more a week), had left the center
of the Sierra, and we began to descend from an immense nursery of mountains and hills prodigiously
complicated and intertwined. The region of the oaks was over, and crossed the skirts and the
inclined planes where is a very extensive cultivation of the vine.

Is like saying we were going neck bottle (cork) to his belly drunk (grapes) understands how great
will be the producing vineyards in the province of Malaga, almost entirely by their wrinkled
terrain bare mountains, just to see that even in the most outstanding and the deep ridges and
slopes more rugged the land is covered with vineyards.

Suddenly, a high back, bend, the horizon is opened before our eyes, without any eminence interrupt
the vast panorama. Amazing beauty that awaited us! In the valley bottom, the coast and the
city of Malaga, later the shimmering desert Mediterranean narrowed by two continents, the distance,
visible only with the help of telescope, the blue mountains of Africa, vague, choppy and confusing,
to the coast Tetuan, and all covered by a beautiful clear blue sky,
lighted by an almost tropical sun: the magnificent African sun!

What is contemplated, admiring with supreme fit and then rapture deep, but does not describe
.... I felt my heart beat on a hill de los Andes, in the presence of a plain-ocean ....

* * * * *

Under the artistic point of view and the intellectual, Málaga is a city of little interest. They
reign only industry and commerce, and historical memories hardly reveal in relation to the
time of the Arabs or Moors, in the general structure of the city, in some traditional arts, but many
curious features of little importance, especially in sea ​​and sky.

       Indeed, the sea and sky suggest Málaga every moment in Africa whose
atmosphere, bathing with hot flashes the Spanish coast, is as a link
junction between the two semi-continents wave from the top of Rocky
Mountain above the Mediterranean.

The valley that lies Malaga, framed between the sea and the foothills of the Sierra, is very small.
Spread on the coast in a circle as 20 kilometers, extends towards the west and between strings
of hills, in a very narrow valley that cut through the Gundalhorce, small river that cuts the plain
at a short distance from the city, and Guadalmedina that divides, running laboriously through
a bed of fine sand, and it lends variable to excessive flooding by depression or wide beaches along
its banks.

The plain is a beautiful garden view from the mountains overlooking to Malaga. They not only
grow a thousand trees orchards, vineyards and all the lavish productions of the fertile Andalusia,
but harvest Cotton, snuff and much cochineal, grows and prospers sugar cane, and one might think
which is planted on a piece of African soil.

East side of the coast extends in a narrow strip of curb lines and whimsical in the direction
of Velez-Malaga and Motril. North tightening effect and dominate the complicated buttresses of the
Sierra-Nevada, and west stand thousand luminaries that bristle all the land, towards Cadiz, the
line of the Sierra de Ronda, where the most amazing geological formations as well as considerable
social curiosities.

Ronda has a reputation as a curious little town in the province of Malaga. If this has a population
of 451.406 inhabitants (the seventh in Spain in that order), its active capital is 94.289, including
their Egido. Malaga is one of the great centers of liberalism in Spain, including Madrid,
Barcelona, Seville, Cadiz and all the cities social movement. Wherever trade industry political action
or give rise to a strong social life, popular sentiment bends towards freedom and progress.
Conservatism does not have its strengths in Spain but in cities where there is immobility
and silence.

The Malaga alderredor gardens contain many very beautiful and valuable estates where cottages are
of considerable elegance, and some artistic wealth. In the Guadalhorce valley there are beautiful
sea of ​​orange and lemon plantations that make remember the beauties of the Huerta de Valencia.
Consumption is incredible which makes Europe the fruit or acidic
and aromatic essences of those forests of lemon trees.

At around of orchards, gardens and farms and factories in the valley, succeed in arenas curds
cut hills of vineyards. The richness and variety of these vineyards is amazing (Compared to
the difficult terrain), because not only is a huge production white wine, red and orange,
more or less aromatic and pleasant, whose fame is universal, but get plenty of those famous
special grapes for the preparation of delicious raisins. I must say, in deference to the popular
adage, I had trouble drinking good and get good wine grapes in Malaga.

Almost a third of the city consists of new construction, in general splendid very attractive for
its many balconies and shutters or cabinets flown, green or blue, their marble floors, large iron railings,
its cheerful and its rooftop lookouts Oriental style. In the new part the streets are spacious
and clean, abundant large hotels and cafés, one can see the convenience and taste, and is not
true likeness material with the inner cities of Spain.

Alameda's famous street is a splendid promenade where abundance of giant trees, fountains, statues
and granite canapés, including two rows of elegant buildings. Likewise, the buildings that dominate
the coming spring or port, relevance, progress of taste and vitality of the maritime cities.

But
the bulk of the city, old building, is an incomprehensible maze of streets at first, dark, very
narrow, usually dirty, getting some to a degree incredibly filthy. There whimsical buildings, extravagant,
Barbados any weighting, semi-Moorish, half-Spanish, whose stirring constantly moles in tightness
and squeezing without pity, a large and active population of more heterogeneous types. The
elegant and beautiful Malaga (women are very nice there in large numbers) is spent visiting the rich
stores and fashion shops and sights, shaking with a grace inimitable
the range of ebony or sandalwood pearl ornaments and rich with graceful
landscapes and seduces by the grace of his walk, but worth rid.

And no less striking for their accents and mischievous air of ... minor Malaga, - type that mediates between
the manola and grisette - dressed brightly colored cloth, bare-headed, lively and provocative,
winking Eye dangerous ability, brown and pink, plump and tempting as one of those clusters
pink ripe grapes that produce the country.

At the same time on the streets teeming swarms of workers coarse and brutal, dresses with abandonment
of seafarers of all nations, toiling commission to hunt for customers of traders worried delivered
exclusively to the fever of speculation, soldiers striped yellow, tolerably idle, road and
making a racket sutler of all the devils, some semi-nice people and bullfighters matamoros style,
and urchins all ages always abounding in the market towns, with its accompanying large ragged beggars are
inevitable in almost all Spanish cities.

Malaga The great movement not only from its strong production of wines
and other items of agriculture, significant values.

Malaga is by its position and nature terrain of the province and the neighboring port bound
for Granada, Jaen and part in the regions of Cordoba, and populations that take the side of Ronda
and the Vélez-Málaga. Apart from these reasons to centralize a vast trade, Malaga has a industrial
production or manufacturing of some importance and well mixed. There are made silks and many
red wines, some sugar, various tissues, hats, casting machines and objects, soaps, pickles,
pottery, etc.., - is working a thousand objects of art, as beautiful fans, busts delicate plaster
and other curiosities of hand - and made a huge fruit preparation
preserved and distillation.

Manchester is, without doubt, the second commercial city of Spain, Barcelona just because he
is superior.

Malaga, so rich in industries, trade and strong as wine production [4] is a poor city monuments.
The only one that deserves attention, yet surrounded by sad ending and dwindling streets, now
the cathedral. Belongs to the style of the Renaissance, the order made, and though its facade
is a very remarkable work, its magnificent tower and is tastefully itself a monument. Inside the church,
consisting of three beautiful ships, is truly great for their general forms, but no details of
their artistic value, as he makes paintings and sculptures, and there is no nobility in the architectural
conditions. Must excepted the roofs of the buildings are very beautiful, entirely of stone
and with very good reliefs, and the vast central choir, whose stalls
have delicious wood sculptures, and whose colossal two bodies are
of great merit.

The view of the panorama of Malaga is superb, when viewed from the heights adjacent home to the strength
of the Alcazaba, which remains half ruined, and the ruins of the ancient castle of Gibralfaro,
Moorish work that was located at higher elevations and communicated with that strong. From there
you can see a sad picture of majestic beauty, if you tend the view over the Mediterranean,
the distant African coast and the Spanish mountains, but smiling and happy, if only considered
the city and its port and nearby valley. The sea, so majestically around without contrast monotonous
when one of these floating cities, forms admirable civilization, which is called a ship, a treasure
of beauties and surprises where is the setting to a coast.

But nowhere is so beautiful and so sublime poetry in the English Channel and Straits of Gibraltar,
where the waves with their constant movement, its brightness vague and elusive, the floating
population and eloquent rumors seem continue in some way, rather than interrupt, the show of vitality
that is manifested on earth. This great drama of the sea, standing in spirit, but variable in form
to infinity, is a supreme mystery that seduces, fascinates, overwhelms the senses and forces to meditate.

But
in the narrow Mediterranean seduction is more powerful than elsewhere, by the contrast of races
and civilizations that are face to face through that the Valley moving, almost always haunted
by terrible storms. Seeing their movements one imagines that each wave brings in its folds
a revelation, a complaint of this world mysterious, lush, heat, power, life and barbarism called
Africa .... Strange phenomenon! Just a wide moat separates the two continents sea (or semi-continents)
HOWEVER moral and its distance is immense! The New World, so far from Europe and as colossal
has infinitely more advanced in civilization and freedom, ie in possession of consciousness or the
personality and the notion of justice that this great peninsula old world within which grows
in the great race barbarism Cham. Why this contrast? Is it because of the black race or mainly
nomas?

Sad to say the truth! Is that white humanity has worked for many centuries, the exploitation of
slavery, keep black humanity into barbarism!

The port of Malaga, although small, slightly warm and very defective sandbars throwing his breast
the storms of the Mediterranean, is always populated by numerous vessels of all nations, and
play there all the service steamers of the Spanish coasts and Africa, and rotate between the Mediterranean
and the Atlantic. The movement of ships, marine, workers and goods to the port gives an air of
joy and interest that appeal to traveler, and HOWEVER do not feel the desire to remain there
for many days, as in Granada or Seville. It understands and recognizes the commercial and industrial
merit of Malaga, but its population and the general mass of the people do not inspire sympathy.

On
arriving at Malaga we had recorded the tiny luggage, however we were coming inside the country,
and we actually talk show passports! In that there is, at least apparently, more rigor in Spain
than in France.

Spain is the country classic ridiculous formalities and vexatious, without thereby avoid the
immense scale smuggling, and stop prevaricating junior officers. Had to leave for Cadiz, after
a short stay in Malaga, HOWEVER it was necessary to endorse passports by the Government, and complete
an formula in the office of Health. It is as if to tweak a district to another would license
to ask the Mayor and notice is healthy. Governments have sometimes to the regulatory spirit
of stupidity.

It was eight o'clock and steam that would lead to Cadiz, playing in
Gibraltar, rocked gently towards the exit of the small cove of Malaga,
pitching for their two tall red chimneys their thick columns of smoke
in the breeze ripples disrupted arbolajes capricious and throwing
on the yards of many merchant frigates who parked in the harbor.

The bridge was filling with steam heterogeneous population passengers on their way to different
parts of the Spanish and French coasts and to Antwerp Rotterdam or Hamburg. The captain, strong and friendly
type, pur-sang French navy, he spent journal his luggage, and had ended as well as its list
of passengers, he set sail. Málaga shortly, so picturesque view from the sea, disappeared, and
start navigating to Gibraltar.

The sky, pale blue, had an admirable clarity, and the sun shone in all its glory South, producing
its reverberations in the movent surface waves as image of a flash fire and fascinating. The
Mediterranean was calm, and a breeze delicious warm their little
waves rippled, as if millions of sprites were combing and the vast
gently curling hair of the sleeping giant.

The fishing boats roamed scattered, looking from afar like seagulls wandering, barely touching
the transparent foam and blue the waves produced game. The passengers were divided into groups
on the bridge steam, happy and talkative, like everyone else in a steamer when not suffering the
dizziness, playing chess or dominoes, told stories of travel, or talked with interest events
in Italy, where the war had begun.
 That his son should choose to live at an inn, when
the comforts of an English country house were open to him, was distasteful and almost offensive
to the Duke. And the matter was not improved when he was made to understand that all this was
to be done for the sake of hunting. There had been the shooting in Scotland; then the racing,--ah,
alas! yes,--the racing, and the betting at Doncaster! Then the shooting at Matching had been
made to appear to be the chief reason why he himself had been living in his own house! And
now his son was going away to live at an inn in order that more time might be devoted to hunting!
"Why can't you hunt here at home, if you must hunt?"

"It is all woodland," said Silverbridge.

"I thought you wanted woods. Lord Chiltern is always troubling me about Trumpington Wood."

This breeze about the hunting enabled the son to escape without any further allusion to Miss
Boncassen. He did escape, and proceeded to turn over in his mind all that had been said. His
tale had been told. A great burden was thus taken off his shoulders. He could tell Isabel so
much, and thus free himself from the suspicion of having been afraid to declare his purpose.
She should know what he had done, and should be made to understand that he had been firm. He
had, he thought, been very firm and gave himself some credit on that head. His father, no doubt,
had been firm too, but that he had expected. His father had said much. All that about honour
and duty had been very good; but this was certain,--that when a young man had promised a young
woman he ought to keep his word. And he thought that there were certain changes going on in
the management of the world which his father did not quite understand. Fathers never do quite
understand the changes which are manifest to their sons. Some years ago it might have been
improper that an American girl should be elevated to the rank of an English Duchess; but now
all that was altered.

The Duke spent the rest of the day alone, and was not happy in his solitude. All that Silverbridge
had told him was sad to him. He had taught himself to think that he could love Lady Mabel as
an affectionate father wishes to love his son's wife. He had set himself to wish to like her,
and had been successful. Being most anxious that his son should marry he had prepared himself
to be more than ordinarily liberal,--to be in every way gracious. His children were now everything
to him, and among his children his son and heir was the chief. From the moment in which he
had heard from Silverbridge that Lady Mabel was chosen he had given himself up to considering
how he might best promote their interests,--how he might best enable them to live, with that
dignity and splendour which he himself had unwisely despised. That the son who was to come
after him should be worthy of the place assigned to his name had been, of personal objects,
the nearest to his heart. There had been failures, but still there had been left room for hope.
The boy had been unfortunate at Eton;--but how many unfortunate boys had become great men!
He had disgraced himself by his folly at college,--but, though some lads will be men at twenty,
others are then little more than children. The fruit that ripens the soonest is seldom the
best. Then had come Tifto and the racing mania. Nothing could be worse than Tifto and race-horses.
But from that evil Silverbridge had seemed to be made free by the very disgust which the vileness
of the circumstance had produced. Perhaps Tifto driving a nail into his horse's foot had on
the whole been serviceable. That apostasy from the political creed of the Pallisers had been
a blow,--much more felt than the loss of the seventy thousand pounds;--but even under that
blow he had consoled himself by thinking that a Conservative patriotic nobleman may serve his
country,--even as a Conservative. In the midst of this he had felt that the surest resource
for his son against evil would be in an early marriage. If he would marry becomingly, then
might everything still be made pleasant. If his son would marry becomingly nothing which a
father could do should be wanting to add splendour and dignity to his son's life.

In thinking of all this he had by no means regarded his own mode of life with favour. He knew
how jejune his life had been,--how devoid of other interests than that of the public service
to which he had devoted himself. He was thinking of this when he told his son that he had neither
ploughed and sowed or been the owner of sheep or oxen. He often thought of this, when he heard
those around him talking of the sports, which, though he condemned them as the employments
of a life, he now regarded wistfully, hopelessly as far as he himself was concerned, as proper
recreations for a man of wealth. Silverbridge should have it all, if he could arrange it. The
one thing necessary was a fitting wife;--and the fitting wife had been absolutely chosen by
Silverbridge himself.

It may be conceived, therefore, that he was again unhappy. He had already been driven to acknowledge
that these children of his,--thoughtless, restless, though they seemed to be,--still had a
will of their own. In all which how like they were to their mother! With her, however, his
word, though it might be resisted, had never lost its authority. When he had declared that
a thing should not be done, she had never persisted in saying that she would do it. But with
his children it was otherwise. What power had he over Silverbridge,--or for the matter of that,
even over his daughter? They had only to be firm and he knew that he must be conquered.

"I thought that you liked her," Silverbridge had said to him. How utterly unconscious, thought
the Duke, must the young man have been of all that his position required of him when he used
such an argument! 

Ask me not, therefore, detailed descriptions of monuments and curiosities, which can be ad hoc
in books written by artists, writers such as Theophile Gautier and others. I am not able to
offer only impressions, but I do not want to issue their own thoughts, whether or not wrong.
I could not study the Alhambra and other monuments as an artist, but under social point of
view, only one can be at my fingertips.

Up the high hill on the left of the Darro, amidst narrow streets, dirty whimsical and almost
ruined, had reached the foot of the monumental gateway that gives great entrance to the vast
citadel or fortress of the Alhambra. In all around skirt very steep plateau separates the hill from
the depths of the Darro and high districts of the city. Then, like a huge stone belt, start
the circular sinus skirt the massive towers and great walls that isolate the plains, presenting
on Granada's horizon like a crown of rocks and vegetable stands in the air. In right of the
front door up huge masses of the Citadel and the Tower Sailing: left Bermejas almost ruined
towers. Média between the two sides of a vast space, a deep as 60 meters in time of the Moors was
saved by a bridge colossal, suspended in the air and had his temper or tips on the Alcazaba and
Bermejas! That must be wonderful ....

We entered, and a world of pomp and harmonies, and solemn memories and ruins and animation nature,
offered to our eyes. I had no idea, except in large forests Colombian vegetation of a similar
luxury. From the door towards the interior, in a extension of several hundred meters, stretches
a forest of ancient trees and lush, under whose shade foliage is absolute. That forest is divided
into many magnificent streets macadamized, whose sides run and jump clear streams that form a delightful
music. Not a ray of sunlight penetrates beneath those domes where vague sacred genius of a race,
extinguished an entire civilization .... On the right, between halls of ivy and bushes and colossal
elms, stand the walls and towers of the inner line of fortifications Alhambra separating itself from
the vast gardens of the citadel. Left extend some estates (including the very famous for a rich banker,
Mr. Calderon) cármenes or surrounded by orchards and gardens, where it holds all that is most delicate
and beautiful of more aromatic and voluptuous vegetation Andalusia. That paradise of scents,
shadows, vegetables and harmonies is inhabited by hundreds of nightingales whistling softly when
approaching night. It wants to live there many years, in a ceaseless contemplation of love and
contemplation and poetry ....

Is passed under the portico of the fortress, leaving the forest town
of mysterious harmonies and the traveler is in the vast courtyard
of the cisterns.

In the center tanks as underground cavity is immense: the south the Alcazaba, the tower and
platforms Prisons and late in the tower high Vela, north of Summer Palace to the right, a wide
street to the left leads to the town or citadel, and the center's palace Charles V, and noble
colossal ruin attributions a small part of the site that covers the Hall Winter of the Moorish
kings. Wherever debris giant, desolation and sadness, - the skeleton colossal military and artistic
miracle of civilization ....

Going up from the dusty stairs broken walls of the gloomy building
Prisons steps abroad resonate within the granite mass of brick and
very hard, producing recondite echoes that seem the cries of the victims
huddled under such time tremendous vaults.

When it comes to the broad label of that vast tomb, and breathing free air under the sky Granada
poetic, it feels like a kind of resurrection. We went up to the Torre de la Vela, eager to embrace the
stunning skyline that includes from there. It was at that point where great tremolo for the
first time the standard of Catholic kings, the January 2, 1492, to announce to all the inhabitants
of the Vega Boabdil's reign had ended.

The ambition to reveal the deep emotions that I dominated during contemplation of that wonderful
show. I looked around, gave a cry of supreme pleasure, me and the bastion of high rim to keep
from falling, because I snatched vertigo, and silent, trembling,
breath, I felt a tear that escaped me as the purest tribute .... It
was looking at the image of my country!

Indeed, given consideration to the distances and proportions and to the details characteristic
there is nothing like as rare offering in the set as the Vega of Granada with its mountains,
views from the Alhambra, and the plain of Bogotá, surrounded by hills,
viewed from the heights of "Montserrat."

Reason was the conqueror of my country to call New Granada, and still give to his capital the name
of Santa Fe, in memory of the town of the Catholic Monarchs (Which is hard to see from the Alhambra)
bold the birthplace of Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada.

The picture is recorded with the view from the Torre de la Vela is much superior to beauty can
imagine.

At the foot lies the city of Granada, falling in an inclined plane towards the plain, full of whims,
interesting details, magnificent groves at intervals, towers and monuments of various shapes,
caressed by the Jenil on one side, sliced Mud on the other, and surrounded by a vast belt of
cármenes (orchards, gardens and houses field) which has the most luxurious vegetation. On the right
stands the bracket mountains where you can admire the beauties of Monte Santo and Albaicin neighborhood,
suburb subway where they live under rocks, in misery and dejection, the mysterious race of
Gypsies; and opens at the bottom of the hill that separates the Alhambra and the Jeneralife, falls
in gardens, mills and forests of fruit trees on Barro moody, miserable stream so quickly as a
mighty stream.

Then in the bottom of the picture, the gorgeous Vega - where once
occupied in the fair his spirit, his gallantry and hatreds and ambitions
and Zegries Abencerrajes, and you can taste intelligente race prodigies
of art work in agriculture and in the ingenious manufacturing activity.

La Vega de Granada is literally a sea of ​​verdure, in which background highlight many populations,
reaching to distinguish between other Santa Fe, the two Gavia Churriana, doublet and Alendin.
Groups of these stocks are a very funny game lined with trees that indicate the course of roads
and streams and the demarcation of estates, with cereal plantations, mulberry, orange, hazelnut,
lemon, pomegranates, olives, almonds and many fruit trees, and the thousand and gorgeous country
houses Paradise cármenes Granada.

Finally, all that is splendid landscape framed by the mountains of the Sierra-Nevada, where in
the top of the amphitheater of hills and inclines, and on huge pedestals abrupt granite and marble stands
out as the spine of a sea of ​​shining silver cord of eminences crowned
with perpetual snow, which seems to be sending to the European reflections
the scorching sun of Africa .... In one of these amphitheatres of
hills can see the sigh of the Moro, from the top of the defeated Boabdil
say launched the latest look and the last the gentle farewell to Granada,
and conquered by the armies of Ferdinand and Isabella ....

Descended
from the Torre de la Vela to enter the sanctuary of art voluptuous
Orientals by the rare contrast to the palace of Charles V. What page
of civilizations different stone laid on the same hill!

In the towers Bermejas and Vela, the Phoenician and Roman architecture, the Alcazaba, the Moorish
architecture of the second period; at the Alhambra Palace (summer) and refined the florid style
of the third period, and ruined palace of Charles V the classical architecture of the Renaissance.
So, in just a space reduced, many different races and civilizations have their representation!

One
can imagine the wonderful grandeur that must have the most important part of the Alhambra (Winter
Palace) just know that the vast building now called "palace of Charles V "just takes up a
quarter of the place that is covered by the main building the Alhambra,
which was destroyed by the king's vanity proud emperor.

Today the building has only its magnificent walls and facades, interior archways and elements of sumptuous
palace. Its exterior shape is square, but inside is perfectly circular, as if he had tried to
establish there a Roman circus. That splendid ruin called much attention, but it does not matter
as the summer palace, because the traveler arrives alone concerned with what is in the nature of
Moorish or Oriental.

The first impression that one feels upon entering the venue is famous
for disappointment.

Have weighted both the wonders of the Alhambra and its grandeur, that the visit is found very
inferior to the descriptions made by travel enthusiasts. Since then, wonder today is but a
detail of what was the residence of the kings of Granada and their court; and even a few years here
working to restore the Summer Palace, which collapsed in ruins and has been devastated by barbarian
visitors from all countries, there are patios and rooms whose condition does not correspond
to what the artists and antique dealers who believed it should contain the palace.

I would need to write hundreds of pages (and misspelled) if to indicate detail everything of
luxury, caprice, picturesque refinement, wealth and ornaments specialty
art and style, in those marble and tiled patios filled water and treats,
such as the Myrtles and the Lions, those walls studded with arabesques
gorgeous, those shiny floors and covered with mosaic tiles and whimsical;
those that seem cedar paneling embroidered by the chisel of a fairy;
those vaults and ceilings and roofs of various shapes, modeling plaster,
whose color moldings one hundred vivid echoes resound singular that
group of marble lions that seem to be telling the world today loves
the sultanas and harem slaves, those rooms wonderful stucco filigree,
which hold within its walls a thousand memories, under the names Ambassadors
room of the Sisters, Justice, the Abencerrajes (which makes evoke
the shadows of the victims), Queen of Lindaraja, etc., those gardens
filled sources and myrtle and orange, those alabaster baths and toilets
of voluptuousness; the mosque to remember an entire poetic and sublime
religion, those difficult passages, basements and stairways in labyrinths,
and those air balconies suspended over depths for that queens and
princesses blackberries might behold the cármenes del Darro, the nearby
hills and the city and its plain, splashing with delight in the light
of the morning and gusts of aromas and harmonies that gave off the
orchards, gardens and streams and birds thousand in the Alhambra skirts
dominates with its walls and towers, their roofs and shutters.

If you ask me what is in summary my opinion on the Summer Palace, say, to risk of not pleasing to
the artists or to the Spanish fans who boast of a monument due to a civilization pursued by Catholic
Spain: The rest of the Alhambra is a fraction nomas, is curious, but not great and noble: it's
nice but not beautiful. There reveals all the slave, not the real artist, all are deeply voluptuous
and artificial; everything speaks to the senses, to the brutal passions (love lewd, gambling,
hatred and revenge), there is nothing that addresses the mind, the
soul divine - anything that is noble, delicate and sublime.

The Alhambra is not the work of an artistic people, as were the Gothic churches the same time, but
the automatic work-slave labor, obedience to a mandate designed by a master, whom dominated the
instinct of pleasure, habit of authority suspicious, vengeful and sensual.

In general, although they are funny varieties in colors and shapes of ornaments, the work shows
in all rooms and rooms of the Alhambra is as homogeneous his genius or his style, and even in
its execution, which reveals the wealth of fantasy artist but the patient hand of a craftsman imitating
a model unchanged, or using molds for affixing the carved plaster or arabesques. The stone
does there any role in pertains to the art, almost all in plaster or plastic, and in the woodwork
wealth of work is secondary. That consideration is greatly diminished the value of comparative
exquisite details of the palace. When going around, the soul does not experience any emotion,
and almost feel the tremors of the flesh as if behind every door was asleep between flowers and
perfumes, on a bed of marble, a princess or slave naked-eye hot and ebony hair ....

But there is something singular in the Alhambra, and is cheating anyway, producing different impressions,
according to the visits that are made and the mood overseas. Which have not read anything about
the Alhambra is wonderful to see her. Anyone who has read the descriptions Washington Irving, Theophile
Gautier and other writers, the reality is lower in the first time, and leaves the Alhambra quite disappointed.
But if you come back tomorrow and see everything, and meditate to
guess the past that disappeared, an idea is acquired better, each
visit to the Alhambra feel that grows in the imagination and has more
and more charms.

Finally, if it is seen from the top of Jeneralife height, and crosses all the land round the
Alhambra appears the spirit in all its grandeur set that was, and the findings vary.

We go up to the Alhambra in four different days for different sides and paths, and looking all
their faces or their views. Viewed from the hill or from the Jeneralife Albaicin, prints are different.
From the first point is the original looks, superb and picturesque. From the second it is completely
understood, finding it great, wonderful and very complex.

The Jeneralife was the cottage, in a sense, of the Alhambra. It has its seat in a upper hill, immediately
to the plain of the Alhambra, and is, in turn, dominated by another highest hill, where once existed
a fortress that Marshal Soult was to fly for Napoleon's war, and
whose ruins are still few scattered on the mound.

By foot of floor debris artificial stream waters lavishes salladoras to Jeneralife, The Alhambra,
Granada cármenes neighbors. A huge deep runs the Darro, and, HOWEVER, creek that was, from many
miles away, brought abundant streams palaces and gardens to the industrious Moors, these sun-lovers
and playful waters.

Jeneralife The building is outside the fortifications of the Alhambra, but was viaducts linked
by air. That was where rested and bathed the princesses, ladies cutting and slave, enjoying endless
pleasure in a wonderful sky, between thousand perfumes, rumors and fads, in pools and marble
tubs, and having to round the most charming of the world horizon. The Jeneralife consists of a maze
of roundabouts pavilions, gazebos, fountains whimsical, bathrooms, orchards, gardens and a
thousand beauties artificial where they were heavily agglomerated
and willing the rich marble and jasper, beautiful stucco, delicate
arabesques, the beautiful tiles, Cascadilla, terraces, groups myrtle,
orange, jasmine, pomegranate and rose form the most graceful figures,
and As was characteristic of Oriental art, so adept in the arrangement
of colors, orientation of buildings, water distribution and plant
cultivation.

From there you have the full picture of the Alhambra, Sr. had an immense work, formidable and
very varied conditions. First line of fortifications, under the edges leading the circumference
of the plain, enclosed it all: the citadel and palaces, parks and gardens and Jeneralife. Another
more formidable line as a whole, with many towers Here and there, separating the Alhambra and
the citadel of the parks, the Jeneralife, etc.; and finally, the palaces themselves from the
residences of the Court were separated from the mass who composed the citadel, divided into many
streets with gardens, where no doubt lived courtesans families and perhaps a part of the garrison.
Today everything is almost in ruins, exception of the Summer Palace
and the Great Mosque, there are many empty spaces, the towers have
collapsed, the interior gardens are skeleton, and in the streets of
this small strengths enclosed court city, many houses are empty and
others are inhabited but for families destitute and beggars.

* * * * *

Granada's cathedral, dating from the XV and XVI, but his great and splendid gender and a wonderful
richness of ornamentation and detail, is, according to my taste, lower the other cathedrals of
Spain, as a whole. I have a passion for the grim determination solemnity, originality and boldness
of the Gothic cathedrals, they are monuments typical, popular and in harmony with the stern
seclusion of religion. But disgust me in temples and effeminate scholastic refinements of
the Renaissance, they do evoke memory of paganism. Granada's cathedral, built by the Catholic Monarchs
is the purest Renaissance style, combining different types of orders. Is a great monument
of majestic proportions, but heavy in mass, without boldness and
forms a regularity that interested at first, just to be monotonous.

A huge ship making its semicircle at the bottom and embraces the two sides, as the ships side,
and three in the center round the vast building. A choir in poor central hours designed, cut
the body of the building, removing much of its majesty, and, except Some reliefs of a beautiful
marble altars gable-proud, only draws attention by its two huge bodies, whose pipes penetrating the
roof seem to want to launch to heaven their solemn melodies. The altar, located in the center of
a vast circle formed by columns and forts that support the great dome of the temple is a sumptuous
magnificence. Noticing there a famous arch inclined creation imposed on artist daring the
need perspective, and are in all the cornices and circular arcs a profusion of relief of great
value that makes an excellent effect on the fund due to the cool
artists remarkable, as the famous Palomino.

The Chapel of the Kings contains there between great wealth of ornamentation, two monumental tombs
white marble, amazingly beautiful and delicate lines, his tremendous work and reliefs of unsurpassed
artistic taste. One of these tombs is that of Isabel and Fernando, with their bodies intact in
relief, the other of Philip I and Juana la loca, equal conditions. For the rest, the whole cathedral
is full of beauties, its wealth of marble in all the floors, the altars and walls, is prodigious
- as in all Spanish cathedrals (not always good taste in the distribution), and among many beautiful
frescoes and ornaments of infinite oil paintings of merit enough, there are two small Murillo,
one of Herrera multiple of the indefatigable old and Alonso Cano.

A curious sight caught my eye, traversing the city to outside, at
request de la Cartuja, the Albaicin and Monte Santo.

       I had promised to see the gypsies in their neighborhood and watch
their strange dances amid the ruins of the Alhambra.

He had met one day in Jeneralife, the captain of the Gitano de Granada, talking to him for us
hiciese prepare a dance, object causing much curiosity of travelers. The captain, farrier by
profession, had impressed me deeply, making me sympathize with his race. Slim and restrained, with
a face that seemed to dispute the typical expression, pride and humility feigned indifference
and kindness, tall, thin and upright, wearing his coat with panache turns dark blue velvet
crimson felt hat and leaning on something the forehead with a vibrant accent and soft, deep black
eye, and burning alive, but ensured moments, and march safely and quickly, - the man offered
me the kind a beautiful race, which has preserved in the midst of degradation in European tradition
of the most beautiful race of India banned.


"Long as I have known you I don't think I ever saw you ride yet."

"We used to have hunting down in Cornwall, and thought we did it pretty well. And I have ridden
in South Wales, which I can assure you isn't an easy thing to do. But you mustn't expect much
from me."

They were both out the Monday and Tuesday in that week, and then again on the Thursday without
anything special in the way of sport. Lord Chiltern, who had found Silverbridge to be a young
man after his own heart, was anxious that he should come back to Harrington and bring Tregear
with him. But to this Tregear would not assent, alleging that he should feel himself to be
a burden both to Lord and Lady Chiltern. On the Friday Tregear did not go out, saying that
he would avoid the expense, and on that day there was a good run. "It is always the way," said
Silverbridge. "If you miss a day, it is sure to be the best thing of the season. An hour and
a quarter with hardly anything you could call a check! It is the only very good thing I have
seen since I have been here. Mrs. Spooner was with them all through."

"And I suppose you were with Mrs. Spooner."

"I wasn't far off. I wish you had been there."

On the next day the meet was at the kennels, close to Harrington, and Silverbridge drove his
friend over in a gig. The Master and Lady Chiltern, Spooner and Mrs. Spooner, Maule and Mrs.
Maule, Phineas Finn, and a host of others condoled with the unfortunate young man because he
had not seen the good thing yesterday. "We've had it a little faster once or twice," said Mrs.
Spooner with deliberation, "but never for so long. Then it was straight as a line, and a real
open kill. No changing, you know. We did go through the Daisies, but I'll swear to its being
the same fox." All of which set Tregear wondering. How could she swear to her fox? And if they
had changed, what did it matter? And if it had been a little crooked, why would it have been
less enjoyable? And was she really so exact a judge of pace as she pretended to be? "I'm afraid
we shan't have anything like that to-day," she continued. "The wind's in the west, and I never
do like a westerly wind."

"A little to the north," said her husband, looking round the compass.

"My dear," said the lady, "you never know where the wind comes from. Now don't you think of
taking off your comforter. I won't have it."

Tregear was riding his friend's favourite hunter, a thoroughbred bay horse, very much more
than up to his rider's weight, and supposed to be peculiarly good at timber, water, or any
well-defined kind of fence, however high or however broad. They found at a covert near the
kennels, and killed their fox after a burst of a few minutes. They found again, and having
lost their fox, all declared that there was not a yard of scent. "I always know what a west
wind means," said Mrs. Spooner.

Then they lunched, and smoked, and trotted about with an apparent acknowledgement that there
wasn't much to be done. It was not right that they should expect much after so good a thing
as they had had yesterday. At half-past two Mr. Spooner had been sent home by his Providence,
and Mrs. Spooner was calculating that she would be able to ride her horse again on the Tuesday,
when on a sudden the hounds were on a fox. It turned out afterwards that Dick Rabbit had absolutely
ridden him up among the stubble, and that the hounds had nearly killed him before he had gone
a yard. But the astute animal, making the best use of his legs till he could get the advantage
of the first ditch, ran, and crept, and jumped absolutely through the pack. It feels stunned with admiration at the sublime view of the Assumption of
Murillo, so deeply celestial in its form and expression, of the famous painting by Zurbaran (Which
has its political and diplomatic history) representing the preaching of St. Thomas Aquino,
Concepcion, and a Visitation of Valdez, which evokes the whole poem divine unction the biblical
mystery, of Christ, also Zurbarán, amazing supreme pain and agony; of a Marquez Jesus of Stephen
(disciple of Murillo), who seems set for the inspiration and the master's hand, and purpose
of the Five Apostles of Polanco, an artist whose works I have seemed remarkable for the power
brush. Looking at all these figures, under the shadows of the deserted temple, one can understand
the superiority of the geniuses who, deeply agitated by a feeling of piety and Christian idea,
have created a new art form, giving seal of majesty, the anointing and holiness.

This is precisely what stands out to tour the room that contains only works Murillo. The twenty
paintings that form this collection were made during a closure volunteer to be condemned by the pious
artist, exiled in the Capuchin convent in Seville. Murillo is well known that never began a work
without having received Communion, which proves how impressed him deeply religious feelings.
The loneliness was her best element, because infused recollection, she gave them their supreme
bliss almost inimitable character to all creations of the great artist from Seville. In this regard
it is worth a mention superior work of Herrera the Elder, which is in the prime living. San
Hermenegildo is an admirable, made in his dungeon by that artist, condemned to lose the hand for giving
him a slap to a certain cleric. No doubt the artist really understand the full value of your
hand into a chapel since produced a sublime work that earned him forgiveness. Almost always the
biggest productions born genius at critical moments and in the shadows of the gathering.

Would be almost useless, and perhaps pretentious, to make a choice either between the twenty-three
Murillo paintings, worth more than five hundred thousand dollars, according to some insiders.
All are to that better. HOWEVER, the picture representing the miracle of San Francisco Assisi
is perhaps the most vigorous as brush work or labor. As a work of inspiration, nothing seduces as
well as the Worship of Jesus: the figure of the Virgin is an expression of purity and joy celestial
insurmountable, and the candor, simplicity, surprise guilty to the shepherds who peep the child
with childish curiosity, are inimitable. It may be necessary to mention also, as sovereign creations,
the beggar's box Santo Tomas de Villanueva, a San Felix of Cantalicio, a Concepcion (the study
of choice for Murillo) and Asuncion, very kind rare artists have managed to copy or disclose
their true condition.

       

* * * * *

The reader will forgive me if I invite you to visit yet another interesting museum, simple portion
of this vast, complicated and precious museum of a thousand forms is called .-- I speak Sevilla
University Church, which overseas visit with great pleasure. There is a large collection of
interesting tombs in every respect. Among the ten that stand out are the Duke of Alcalá and
his wife, founders of the building, and other noble Castilian famous in history, they are true monuments
for the sake of form, the merit Marbles and the delicacy and richness of the reliefs, busts
and other sculptures or bodies. In class religious sculptures are a Christ Montañez, so astonishingly
higher alone is worth a museum and a San Ignacio de Loyola and San Francisco de Borja (Same
artist), which are impressive statues. The San Ignacio mainly seems to have made the supreme
ideal of art which can animate the marble, stone or other material, and give an eloquent speech
and a deeper look. The whole history of the Society of Jesus seems
to emerge a priori from the marble facing and that burning eye and
fascinating that polls and meditate.

As to paintings of the chapel, the altar and the side walls contain really works Roelas master,
Pacheco, Alonso Cano and other artists who had just celebrity Spain. It is well worth noting
that the art of painting has always run in pairs chivalric and religious movement of peoples.
Among European companies brush always seems to have reigned next to the sword and the shadow
of the cap. Italy, Spain and France, - the people more and more exalted warriors before in the
religious sense - have history revealed in the paintings with remarkable
energy.

Spain is a country immensely rich in paintings, because he had exuberance of conquistadores
and friars.

HOWEVER, few cities have on the peninsula has the privilege to Sevilla. Madrid, Barcelona, ​​Cadiz,
Burgos, etc., Are essentially Spanish. Valencia is half Moorish, but much less in terms of
art to the two most notable cities of Andalusia. Cordoba is almost entirely Moorish. Toledo
essentially complex, but leaving dominate the Gothic and Greco-Roman in its main monuments. Only
Seville and Granada have the unique advantage of revealing simultaneously, for their artistic,
the most complete expression of different and even opposing civilizations.

       But Seville is still far superior to that Granada.

Sevilla holds them together and alive, with singular energy, all the Eastern traditions, as well
as evidence of Latino art and works of gothic top.

* * * * *

Mention a monument still extremely funny, which is a Moorish-style works more interesting in
that plastic art of sculpture and colorful as the Moors had advanced in the fourteenth century.
I refer to the House of Pilate, curious building which now belongs to the Dukes of Medinaceli.
It ensures that the house is a reproduction of which dwell the famous court in Jerusalem that left politicians
who sit and model the skill is to kill and wash your hands, a Crusader Auditors Spanish, again
Seville of holy war, wanted to perpetuate the memory of his campaigns in Palestine and that built
the House-Pilate brought under the model.

Whether or not the tradition, is that the house does not reveal in his works of art but the
florid Arabic style (most advanced) I could not have been known at the time of Christ, and that
had barely begun in of the crusades. But the question we do not mind the curious, we merely observed
and pick up prints.

Cross the famous house of Seville has two courtyards, the first ordinary and works of art, and consists
of two floors, with superimposed galleries, as cloisters. The inner courtyard perfectly square (generally
in the oriental architecture) is all paved with beautiful marble tiles and large black and white,
and has a gorgeous center source matching with four Roman statues in each corner. The galleries
are supported twenty-four columns, also of marble, grace and lightness, and all around the walls
are busts of Roman emperors worked very well. If pavements galleries and the central bottom and
walls of exquisite tiles shine (Which are mosaics of oriental art) at the top is a great luxury
of arabesques or relief, white and colors that mimic or reproduce the plastics and fine workmanship
stucco of the Alhambra and the Alcazar, - always servile, without originality or variation, but
always funny.

       Finally, around the courtyard, low galleries, are four classrooms
whose tiles, arabesques and ceilings are happy for the execution careful
and colorful.

The rest of the House of Pilate, though more or less funny, low flame attention, being noted that the
distribution of the building is extremely simple.

* * * * *

Seville is a city famous for many reasons, among others, by the eminent
men or characters history has produced.

They had their cradle Roman emperors Hadrian and Theodosius the famous Las Casas, painters Murillo,
Herrera (old) Roelas and Pacheco, the famous historian Herrera, called the divine, and poets
and Jauregui Rioja. Magellan went away to make his first trip around the world in 1519, and
Seville to Granada is challenging home of Lope de Rueda, the illustrious actor and playwright,
Molière kind of Spanish.

Each of the nine suburbs of Seville is marked by a monument or important factory. But Triana
is a specialty purely social. Is linked to the city, as I said, by a beautiful suspension bridge,
which disrupts or serves to limit navigation Guadalquivir sea. Its docks facing the main port of
Seville, as to the strengths that dominate the river and the railway station leading to Cordova. If
the first streets of Triana coming to the port have the general structure of of the city, to
move into this suburb is the complex issue of old Spain and Roma
populations.

Triana is the residence of all Roma Seville, whose fate is very similar to that of the Jews in
Rome, Prague and other cities Europe. Just as in these there is a ghetto or barrio where the Israelites
live or vegetate, confined in some places (as in Prague) and cruelly treated or banned (as in Rome),
Roma have their ghetto in every city of Spain, without ever inhabit other neighborhoods.

But there is a very substantial difference. The Jew is banned in Europe, especially in Rome,
a spirit of persecution and intolerance, or by tradition or custom, while the gypsy Spain is not persecution.
He is confined to a single neighborhood, outlawing himself, by race spirit (pride, resentment
and interest in isolation), and it shows Roma to form a separate community, both in Madrid (to
the door of Toledo) in Grenada (in the Albaicin) and in Seville in the suburb of Triana. Here
is revealed perhaps more energy to one of the hallmarks of Roma. In Grenada it is almost natural
architecture ground of that race, because the ground appears to indicate in the Albaicin. But
Sevilla not understood at first why the Roma are the same system (although varied greatly in
shape), even though the field is entirely level Triana. The appearance of the streets is very
sad. Rare are the homes that have a high floor, almost all are very low, with doors and windows
petty, small deserts patios, walls and ceilings regrettable that reveal extreme poverty and neglect.
The streets, very badly paved, are usually deserted, and when walking
on them can barely hear the noise of underground objects Metal Hammer
or cobbler, - or very rarely seen a female face, in a window, or a
small group of dirty boys in a hallway or patio, sad, poorly clothing
and repellents and rough faces in general.

It is rare gypsy's house has no basement floor is recorded from the street. The door opens immediately
on a kind of basement (the workplace), or by through a small vestibule tilted, either through
a grandstand almost abrupt. Rooms that are at street level are for bedrooms and other uses,
or dug deep on earth contain the workrooms, workshops and forges. Obviously there are the Gypsies
a tendency to life underground, which is not consistent in appearance with the nomadic habits. Even in the
way of preparing food is served from the gypsy holes dug in the earth, - procedure ingenious that
lends itself to mystery and promotes the rapid cooking of animal substances and vegetables. You may
have some ethnological principle determine these trends to the underground; but the simplest explanation
seems to be in the nature of the industry and customs of Gypsies. Race and tin smiths of people
who have no regular notion the idea of ​​ownership, traditionally accustomed to fraud, theft
thieves, the mystification and the procedures with hypocrites, - the Gypsies have understood
clearly that their Breakfast should be appropriate to the concealment and deceit. Thus, when lead
nomadic life, home change from night to morning, about the place, and are always set in the
most lonely, and when forced to build their fixed residence Breakfast in the least conspicuous,
making a mockery of social control.

We were told that in the Triana district would see curious and animated pictures of people Roma,
which is quite large. But we find only sadness, solitude and silence. Perhaps chose the wrong
time or day to satisfy our curiosity. What I could get with Security was the belief that the
Spanish people there is no hatred or no concern for Gypsies (race which I find much less than
is generally incorrigible think), but efforts are not suitable for producing an assimilation
or full merger. There are many Catholic Gypsies in Spain, HOWEVER they are seen to persist in
habits of isolation. And the most curious is that the Catholic Gypsies (who are by Baptism and
without any awareness of Christian doctrines and Catholic) are distinguished Spain by the brutality
of his fanaticism, in moments of religious exaltation. This proves Fanaticism is always the companion
of ignorance, and that the full force of the truffles is anywhere in the domination of the masses
to obey mechanically barbarian the impetus given to them. The world will not get rid of religious conflict
but the day disappeared from the companies' barbaric element. " So we can understand the horror
The operators of religion truffles look any tendency towards training and education of the masses.
* * * * *

Seville is not only a commercial and agricultural center of the first order in Spain is also
a city ​​on a large scale manufacturer, but little manufacturing. Large factories, called actual
manufacturing, which in other European cities to meet hundreds and even thousands worker and
consumer are huge masses of products do not exist in Seville, where machinery (As in most of Spain)
is still very backward. What is there is the small manufacturing and the engine, whose products
are very significant on account of the mass of workers and the multiplication of the workshops.
There exists an organization of work in detail produce visible results. Since the establishment
of a small factory does not require a train expensive, is very accessible to men of the middle
class and even the workmen acquisition one or more looms, a workshop or workshop, and therefore
is easier than in cities manufacturing step status to the master worker, employer or landlord.
With the small factory or workshop agglomerations of workers are very small, article worked
is often more accurate and art, morality wins, the craftsman or worker has an interest in the
work and work at home, and their welfare is greater and perhaps less exposure to trade shocks
affecting large-scale manufacturing. In addition, the worker more independence and dignity is
working on his own or on a reduced scale.

Economists in general (perhaps quite forgetting the interests of moral address in preference
to those of wealth) have led to exaggerated enthusiasm for manufacturing. The economics of
production, which lowers the price of products and ultimately serve the same workers, has made
them ignore certain interests moral (purity, dignity and independence of the worker) that are
seriously committed large factories. I do not intend here to examine economic and moral issue
so important; but I will note the observation made about the population of workers in Europe.
In major cities in Spain and in Switzerland, in Lyon and others in Europe, whose more valuable
products are the result of the production in detail, I noticed more independence and welfare,
more dignity and sense of personality in the workers' strictly in the cities manufacturing where
large clusters of machines (human and iron) tend to replace the collective strength to the force production
or limited to small individual groups of workers. Others are perhaps the predominant causes,
but the fact is patent, and truth is that in Spain, where the vast factory is very rare (except
a few cities Catalan), the notion of personality is deep and comprehensive peace in the village.

Sevilla,
as I said, is a city artist and artistic excellence, and its industries reveal strongly. There
is a street where many shops are not and workshops Sculpture (mostly
in plaster), painting, jewelry and silverware, and all sorts of curios.

There is very considerable value made by weapons, tools and everything which corresponds to
the hardware, musical instruments (especially the elegant and bandolas guitars and fine),
lots of fabrics and artifacts of silk and wool, hats, etc., etc. The production of fine china
is considerable, and noting the fur enough tanned, which mimic the beautiful Moroccan morocco
and leather. Sevilla, and agricultural center Low Andalucia, makes strong exports of oil and
wines and great values ​​centralizes in grains and fruits of all kinds. It is beyond the agricultural,
industrial and commercial that can reach Spain, and particularly the provinces of Andalusia,
the day in that country renounce the inept regime of selfishness (which results in prohibitions
and monopolies), and acceptance of free trade with all regions of the world.

* * * * *

We did not have much time to do a thorough study of Sevilla.

       But impressions collected within a few days enough to make us sympathize
strongly with the mother Andalusian so poetic and original, so picturesque
at all.

It is interesting also as a center intellectual life and welfare. Has a substantial library, an
economic partnership, a high school, several notable institutions and arts education, a savings
bank in prosperity, as sixteen hospitals, orphanages and institutions of charity and beneficence.
On the other ie churches abound, as fabulously abundant convents. I have had a hundred and twelve
buildings religious, among churches, convents, chapels and oratories, which proving that in Seville
famines have never been as regards the spiritual nourishment. On the contrary, in this area
in Spain has been sinned by gluttony, indigestion resulting secular.

Sevilla has a total circumference (with the suburbs) of 25 kilometers, and its walls, still something
to resist the action of time, have more than sixty turrets and thirteen
doors or fourteen more or less significant.

Are numbered up to five hundred sixty-four streets and sixty seats, the barracks abound, unfortunately,
but even also abundant sources and public water is not needed at any point. Besides the many
sights of interest, more or less officer, of all styles and uses, cite the two theaters of the city
and the splendid bullring. The Seville rightly boast of having the best bullring in Spain, more affluent
and the Virgin in the cathedral. Rather, I would have a poor and lack Virgin bullfighters and a
circus that could not be better name than slaughter splendid.

Contáronme fabulous things about the luxury of ostentation that unfolds in Seville Week Santa,
coinciding with the great fair in Seville.

So while people makes pitch wonders in the processions to be at the height of opulence unheard of
Virgin, manolas majos and hold at the fair all the luxury of their picturesque dresses, their
weapons, horses and riding harnesses. Each class does things his own way, but I confess the
vanities of the show seem more excusable than those of the processions. Christ and the Virgin
should bother much in heaven, seeing the way they worship publicly on earth.

* * * * *

       CHAPTER VII.

       * * * * *

The Guadalquivir.

It was seven o'clock when we took the train from the recent railway which connects Cordoba
and Seville. For the first time was to test the route between the small Lora City, not far from
Sevilla, and Cordoba. Thus, although the train was beyond reproach in the first section already
in operation, was reduced from Lora to Cordoba, to a third wagon class, in which employees of
the company's administration had the kindness to give us place. As the rails were recently settled
and demanded rectification, our great wagon (which looked like a Noah's Ark, bringing people
of all kinds in the most democratic confusion) jumped and bucked
at every moment as ten wild horses together, which amused us and alternately
frightened.

The principle runs via a beautiful and vast plains, to the left of the Guadalquivir and from
numerous country houses, plantations of vegetables, cereals, olive still fresh, and fallow fields
where sheep graze, and some beautiful pomegranate groves that looked more charming for its elegant
form and pretty red flowers. Lora is a town of 8,000 inhabitants, located a short distance of
the railroad, and that becomes more important to train under. Later it crosses the Guadalquivir
and it pays via constantly until very near Cordoba, So it is always
in sight.

The river banks generally low, shallow bed, sandy and muddy, no navigation and has the beauty that
is supposed to advance. The land, generally flat framed in the valley between low hills cords
or high hills, is well suited for landscapes laughing, but the absence of trees on the banks of grasslands
(but is very rare points) makes unpleasant or monotonous a region that could be beautiful
in its entirety. HOWEVER, Here and there are gorgeous views on the game from the hills to the valley,
the twists and turns of the river, some trees and some very interesting geological formations
(Such as the ruined castle hill and Almodovar) corresponding to the
buttresses Sierra de Córdoba, which is part of the Sierra Morena.

From Seville to the front of Palma on the railroad played in the city of Carmona and three
small towns, Lora, and Peñaflor Guadalabar, offering beautiful views
and leaving register a vast field of olive trees, vineyards and cereals.
But as he passed by in front of Palma admire the landscape is beautiful.
 He calls himself a gentleman. He should know black from white. It is considered
terrible to cheat at cards."

"There was nothing of that, sir."

"The man who plays and cheats has fallen low indeed."

"I understand that, sir."

"He who plays that he may make an income, but does not cheat, has fallen nearly as low. Do
you ever think what money is?"

The Duke paused so long, collecting his own thoughts and thinking of his own words, that Gerald
found himself obliged to answer. "Cheques, and sovereigns, and bank-notes," he replied with
much hesitation.

"Money is the reward of labour," said the Duke, "or rather, in the shape it reaches you, it
is your representation of that reward. You may earn it yourself, or, as is, I am afraid, more
likely to be the case with you, you may possess it honestly as prepared for you by the labour
of others who have stored it up for you. But it is a commodity of which you are bound to see
that the source is not only clean but noble. You would not let Lord Percival give you money."

"He wouldn't do that, sir, I am sure."

"Nor would you take it. There is nothing so comfortable as money,--but nothing so defiling
if it be come by unworthily; nothing so comfortable, but nothing so noxious if the mind be
allowed to dwell upon it constantly. If a man have enough, let him spend it freely. If he wants
it, let him earn it honestly. Let him do something for it, so that the man who pays it to him
may get its value. But to think that it may be got by gambling, to hope to live after that
fashion, to sit down with your fingers almost in your neighbour's pockets, with your eye on
his purse, trusting that you may know better than he some studied calculations as to the pips
concealed in your hands, praying to the only god you worship that some special card may be
vouchsafed to you,--that I say is to have left far, far behind you, all nobility, all gentleness,
all manhood! Write me down Lord Percival's address and I will send him the money."

Then the Duke wrote a cheque for the money claimed and sent it with a note, as follows:--"The
Duke of Omnium presents his compliments to Lord Percival. In each street,
every corner, every doorway or wall, balcony or window, you see some precious object to the
antiquarian, surprising for the traveler who goes first as a city special like that. Here there
is a beautiful mosaic piece, a beautiful marble tile, a rare bust of stone or a historical inscription;
there with ogival window, a balcony Moorish, an unusual viewpoint, a Gothic turret or a lamentable
debris. Toledo is the cemetery magnificent two civilizations, two races, each building is a tomb
and each door or wall contains an epitaph ....

We hasten to speak of that wonderful bygone quickly called the Fortress, for end with the monumental
and show the reader some features of the social physiognomy of Toledo. This remarkable ruin is
situated on the eastern side of the city on a hill overlooking while the depths to Toledo and
the Tagus. The foundations and different bodies and Alcazar facades dating from very different
eras. Founded in the same place a fortress Roman, Gothic and immediately after Arabic, the
conqueror of Toledo, Alfonso VI, several times mentioned, gave more great ways, governor of
the castle doing nothing less than the Cid heroic. Many kings improved on the famous fortress,
until Charles V decided to demolish almost all buildings over, keeping only a facade Gothic cellars
and formidable foundation. Felipe II finished the work, invested in her fifty years that have
passed from 1534 to 1584, and worked there the most eminent artists as Villalpando, Covarrubias
and Juan de Herrera. In 1710 was burnt the palace-fortress admirable by Allied troops who fought against
Philip V in the war of succession. Restored care, incendiáronlo his turn in 1810 the invading French troops,
leaving small to a sublime debris. Today there are but the interior and exterior walls, the
towers broken, the four splendid facades, basements and foundations, no no roofs, torn arcs
that bound the walls, empty holes of the balconies and all in ruin.

! But what a ruin! That is impressive and grand as a mountain naked,
indestructible granite and brick hard.

To wander in the midst of these colossal masses, for those big stone steps on many vaults of unprecedented
strength and singular audacity, and in the dark depths of the vast underground (which once harbored
entire infantry regiments and cavalry), one feels possessed of a deep respect for the genius of the
architects, and acquires, questioning the echoes of these formidable works, the whole idea of ​​a
civilization terrible, founded on force and artificial antagonism, from whose womb was born,
for a of these wonders of the divine mystery of progress, the new civilization that has its only
principle of freedom and justice.

The Alcazar is a 200 square feet per side, which has four different
facades, magnificent, that despite some general harmony correspond
to different styles of architecture dominate the Renaissance.

One of the facades, the oldest, is Gothic in its general character, although its details later, is of
the Renaissance. Four massive towers, at the corners, frame the building, giving different aspects according
to the side where it provides. It consists of three parts or floors, excluding the basement,
which is on one side. The interior is sumptuously snatching, in spite of its ruinous state. The
Super Cellars palace-fortress that could contain thousands of soldiers, prisoners and horses,
food, and ammunition and weapons on a large scale, in short, a whole small army garrison or
strong, can withstand long siege. A huge subway leading from the bottom of this artificial
mountain to the very distant margin the Tagus, to a great depth, to give drink to the horses,
take water river, etc.., etc. This was great about the system architecture of old Spain, which
has left everywhere the most superb monuments.

* * * * *

Nothing more interesting than the spectacle of the plazas and streets
of Toledo during the procession Holy Thursday.

       Of course it chose for the passage of Christ and the Virgin streets
less impossible, the ecclesiastical and popular support has to go
through the most large cracks to find a way out for those possessed
outstanding and air passages free.

Everyone is close, rubs, put in the press and choke, resulting from confusion and distress the most
striking contrasts in the thousand groups that move among those gorges. The sumptuous luxury
of the great lady from Madrid or Toledo, covered in velvet, of rich lace and jewels, there has
to rub against the RAID layer of cloth and peeled time light brown and grimy after a yellow
inscrutable, which is the ornament Toledo indispensable, - worker, treating or beggar, and the
manchego and all inhabitants of Castile.

In Toledo absolutely missing in the lower classes these colorful costumes, colors Live and whimsical
cuts, which are in Valencia, Seville and other cities less impregnated Castilian applications.
In Toledo everything is sad, and a man of some comfort, as artisan and the Pauper, all have
an air of antiquity, sorrow, ruin and misery The dark makes the eyes
of travelers.

When I wandered through the long and complicated tumult of the procession, carried away in all
directions by a yellowish layer wave blankets and black, seemed to me to attend a carnival of death.
Over my head, at one and On the other hand, saw the low balconies full of women and children,
looking to crush the pedestrians falling like huge clusters, while the appearance of the streets
and mobility of shadowy groups had no resemblance to know what the tiny waves and rock groups
black within a reef, waving wildly in a storm day.

The bands of beggars swarm and travel there everywhere, besieging the country without truce.
Surrendered to fight with the masses movent in the procession, I sat on a bench stone in the shade
of some trees in the main square, called Oven Biscuits. Was thirsty and bought some oranges.
Cayéronme point in sheaf closed, seven or eight guys hungry, the
closest, asking each one an orange, or a little kid, as they call
beggars copper coins called farthing.

Alejáronse happy to receive some coins, and I thought his release quietly eating my oranges.
But in brief attacked again in greater numbers, to contest the bark that I threw to the ground;
and I had to get in except that no halt between prepubertal maelstrom of beggars. They are not enough
coins and oranges, because in a moment swallowed all bark like pieces of bread!

That scene affected me deeply, especially since I knew that this example of misery was no exception.
Toledo, however much they do not come out of poverty. It is a rubble will not resurrection but
to under extraordinary efforts. Being the mother church the country (where the canons are very
happy) and having a great school and a military garrison wonderful sights and a total lack
of industry, Toledo is a set of four main revealed in four different dresses: the cassock of the
priest, the uniform of turns yellow and red military, odd overseas
elegant avocado, and layer ratty beggar's sickening.

Founded with a military target, according to the ideas of another civilization, - to be a strength
- the isolation is the condition of Toledo. You can not have industry because no water to move
machines, but having no tanks or tanks, nor has elements for trade and agriculture, for its exceptional
position. Toledo, then, will remain sublime ruin, a great curiosity and nothing more: the museum of
old Spain, guarded by clerics, soldiers and beggars! ...

Toledo offered me the occasion to test my stomach and check the reputation (usurped legitimate
one and another) of the pot and wine rotten Valdepeñas. During the three days I spent in the imperial Toledo,
so beautifully sung by Zorrilla, I was forced to resign the flesh, receiving the law from the
situation. But as there was no fish, no eggs, no milk, is at the discretion of the cooked chickpeas
and other iniquities of Spanish cuisine, neutralizing something my misfortune with good shots
of an exquisite Valdepeñas. This, HOWEVER, had the audacity of subírseme at the head, without ceremony,
forcing me to multiply the brews coffee.

Finally had mercy on me and sent me the hostess serving pot .-- "A Spanish stew! I said with
transportation, let this be better than the Cathedral and the Alcazar. "

! Mentirosa illusion! I had already made some unsatisfactory experiences in Barcelona and Valencia,
on the rotten pot, and had found such sophistry as the monarchy Spain constitutional. In Toledo, the
illusion is over, the pot legitimate completed his mission on Spanish soil, now belongs to history as
the former greatness of the people conqueror of the New World. Today there are the glories
of the ignoble but chickpea stew cooked, capable of indigestible an elephant, the vile and
shameless pork sausage, which has lost its importance since the Moors
and Jews have accepted the wickedness of the kitchen and Christian
cellar.

Disappointed and hungry, I had to devote all my worship in Toledo Dining Valencia oranges to
rich and bold Valdepeñas.

Despite some unpleasant impressions, Toledo had pleased me much by his teaching social, no
less than its monuments. Had been able to compare the old Spain represented in Toledo, with Spain
and progressive regenerated revealed in Barcelona and Madrid - the first based on the isolation,
motionless, sluggish, too much prayer leader, miserable and begging: the second looking for progress
in freedom and movement, carefree, tolerant and thinking seriously about the future. I said
goodbye to Toledo as the one just visited a grave and out of the
cemetery to long strides back to look back from time to time, mixed
feelings of sadness and hope ....

* * * * *

CHAPTER V.

* * * *
*

LA MANCHA.

Two traveling companions aspects of the country .-- .-- .-- Memories of Don Quixote of La Mancha populations
- The Sierra Morena.

April was ended and the time to visit the fertile and beautiful Andalusia so full of memories, so
quaint and original in everything. I took the train from Alicante; Aranjuez train passed, and
Villasequilla Castillejo, and 100 kilometers from Madrid descended
the wagon, in Tembleque to take a seat in the diligence that would
lead to Granada, through the Montes de Toledo and Sierra Morena, Jaen
and passing.

       La Mancha had begun between Aranjuez (which belongs to the province
of Madrid) and Castillejo, corresponding population to that of Toledo.

The province of Ciudad Real, separated in part by the mountains of
Montes de Toledo, are the region of plains and mountains that had
the denomination naked Antique Mancha.

       

Tembleque is an important point in Spain's internal communications, it is not only happening there the
main rail, but leave the center of the roads leading one hand to
Granada and Malaga, Cordoba, Seville and Cadiz, and another to Ciudad
Real and Badajoz, through the center of the basin of the Guadiana.

With almost miserable hamlet, a plain, poor and marshy, and dominated by the hills south of
Toledo, Tembleque not started to rise again but under the train to Alicante. Its population
reaches just about 4,000 inhabitants, steady living in greater numbers, despite the production
of cereals, wine, some sheep and several coarse cloth mills and salt.

As I begin my journey to Andalusia fortune wanted to protect me. Lunch in the canteen (or buffet)
Tembleque the station, I found that my colleagues would care to be two French knights who were
traveling for pleasure. They could not speak a word of Spanish, and appeared to be subject of distinction,
able to please and instruct a teammate.

Your itinerary was equal to mine, and had for me the advantage of being Parisians. I wanted very
much to know privacy in the type of distinguished French province, because in general it was
not paid very Parisian world of man. Also wanted to teach me the things concerning to provincial
life in France, travel associated with smart people and watching how as the French judge to Spain.
We are, therefore, agreed that I would be his interpreter and would treat us like old friends.
They corresponded well to my desires, Today, after a long time, I see in either of two people who
never let me forget how France is good and honorable.

The mobile home called "diligence" drawn by ten mules started jumping like demons driving about
17 guests at discretion of 13 gross (assuming that drivers deserve be classed with mules).
In short save the Montes de Toledo by one of his best open, and we are in full Mancha, in the
great valley or plain that is central to Guadiana river, between the mountains of Toledo and Morena,
and extending the Estremadura, west, towards Portugal. This vast region we crossed from north to
south, is rather plains a number of more or less extensive than a great plain or valley. Wherever
the field is choppy, or by steps of the mountain side, which is moving towards the center,
or by cords or small isolated groups of hills that border the skyline.

The mountain ranges that dominate the region, almost completely bare and sterile, the dry ground,
its general composition of the different alluvial plain, the multiplied sloping hillsides, and
how the winds turn on so vast pit enclosed by all sides by mountains,
all that is determined not only the nature of the productions La Mancha,
but also isolation, immobility, customs and spirit of Mancha populations.

I have not ever seen more strange loneliness. They bring together the idea of opulence and of desolation,
hunger and abundance of life and death. No Spain is in a region that reveals as clearly as the fatal
Mancha action of Spanish misrule, the inability of supporters of isolation, flawed monastic institutions
and all that was the last of Spanish society.

The floor of the Mancha, sandy-clay in general (except limestone and granite rocks in the mountains)
is a huge filter. Wherever there swamps (and these are many) exterior dry land is absolute
rare streams. Penetrate water easily the sandy outer layer and stop at another thicker clay,
overlaid sediments to very strong.

Hence, while the water is that almost completely lack the surface, it is easily found in abundance
making excavations or wells, wells in the country called.
 As he lay in bed with his broken bones at Harrington
he had ample time for thinking over all this. He knew every word of the Duke's distressing
note by heart, and had often lashed himself to rage as he had repeated it. But he could effect
nothing by showing his anger. He must go on and still do something. Since the writing of that
letter he had done something. He had got his seat in Parliament. And he had secured the interest
of his friend Silverbridge. This had been partially done at Polwenning; but the accident in
the Brake country had completed the work. The brother had at last declared himself in his friend's
favour. "Of course I should be glad to see it," he had said while sitting by Tregear's bedside.
"The worst is that everything does seem to go against the poor governor."

Then Tregear made up his mind that he would write another letter. Personally he was not in
the best condition for doing this as he was lying in bed with his left arm tied up, and with
straps and bandages all round his body. But he could sit up in bed, and his right hand and
arm were free. So he declared to Lady Chiltern his purpose of writing a letter. She tried to
dissuade him gently and offered to be his secretary. But when he assured her that no secretary
could write this letter for him she understood pretty well what would be the subject of the
letter. With considerable difficulty Tregear wrote his letter.

   MY LORD DUKE,--[On this occasion he left out the epithet
   which he had before used]

   Your Grace's reply to my last letter was not encouraging,
   but in spite of your prohibition I venture to write to you
   again. If I had the slightest reason for thinking that
   your daughter was estranged from me, I would not persecute
   either you or her. Yes, this race is the race's proscription of vehement
dance par excellence. It was impossible to get a formal dance that we promised the captain, but
in the forests of the Alhambra and in the streets of the Albaicin we could see some samples.
