His Majesty, having entered the chamber without accident, told me to retire.  I was not without
some anxiety as I informed the Emperor; but he replied that I was a child, and there could
be no danger.  It appeared that his Majesty succeeded better than I had done,--as he did not
return until daybreak, and then jested about my awkwardness, admitting, however, that if he
had not been warned, a similar accident would have befallen him.

Although Madame de B---- was worthy of a genuine attachment, her liaison with the Emperor lasted
only a short while, and was only a passing fancy. I think that the difficulties surrounding
his nocturnal visits cooled his Majesty's ardor greatly; for the Emperor was not enough in
love to be willing to brave everything in order to see his beautiful mistress.  His Majesty
informed me of the fright which my fall had caused her, and how anxious this amiable lady had
been on my account, and how he had reassured her; this did not, however, prevent her sending
next day to know how I was, by a confidential person, who told me again how interested Madame
de B---- had been in my accident.

Often at Fontainebleau there was a court representation, in which the actors of the first theaters
received orders to play before their Majesties scenes selected from their various repertoires.
Mademoiselle Mars was to play the evening of her arrival; but at Essonne, where she was obliged
to stop a moment on account of the road being filled with cattle going or returning from Fontainebleau,
her trunk had been stolen, a fact of which she was not aware until she had gone some distance
from the spot.  Not only were her costumes missing, but she had no other clothing except what
she wore; and it would be at least twelve hours before she could get from Paris what she needed.
It was then two o'clock in the afternoon, and that very evening she must appear in the brilliant
role of Celimene.  Although much disturbed by this accident, Mademoiselle Mars did not lose
her presence of mind, but visited all the shops of the town, and in a few hours had cut and
made a complete costume in most excellent taste, and her loss was entirely repaired.

CHAPTER V.

In the month of November of this year I followed their Majesties to Italy.  We knew a few days
in advance that the Emperor would make this journey; but as happened on all other occasions,
neither the day nor the hour was fixed, until we were told on the evening of the 15th that
we would set out early on the morning of the 16th.  I passed the night like all the household
of his Majesty; for in order to carry out the incredible perfection of comfort with which the
Emperor surrounded himself on his journeys, it was necessary that everybody should be on foot
as soon as the hour of departure was known; consequently I passed the night arranging the service
of his Majesty, while my wife packed my own baggage, and had but just finished when the Emperor
asked for me, which meant that ten minutes after we would be on the road.  At four o'clock
in the morning his Majesty entered his carriage.

As we never knew at what hour or in what direction the Emperor would begin his journey, the
grand marshal, the grand equerry, and the grand chamberlain sent forward a complete service
on all the different roads which they thought his Majesty might take.  The bedroom service
comprised a valet de chambre and a wardrobe boy.  As for me, I never left his Majesty's person,
and my carriage always followed immediately behind his. The conveyance belonging to this service
contained an iron bed with its accessories, a dressing-case with linen, coats, etc.  I know
little of the service of the stables, but that of the kitchen was organized as follows: There
was a conveyance almost in the shape of the coucous on the Place Louis XV. at Paris, with a
deep bottom and an enormous body.  The bottom contained wines for the Emperor's table and that
of the high officers, the ordinary wine being bought at the places where we stopped. In the
body of the wagon were the kitchen utensils and a portable furnace, followed by a carriage
containing a steward, two cooks, and a furnace-boy.  There was besides this, a baggage-wagon
full of provisions and wine to fill up the other as it was emptied; and all these conveyances
set out a few hours in advance of the Emperor.  It was the duty of the grand marshal to designate
the place at which breakfast should be taken.  We alighted sometimes at the archbishop's, sometimes
at the hotel de ville, sometimes at the residence of the sub-prefect, or even at that of the
mayor, in the absence of any other dignitaries. Having arrived at the designated house, the
steward gave orders for the provisions, the furnaces were lighted, and spits turned; and if
the Emperor alighted and partook of the repast prepared, the provisions which had been consumed
were immediately replaced as far as possible, and the carriages filled again with poultry,
pastry, etc.; before leaving all expenses were paid by the controller, presents were made to
the master of the house, and everything which was not necessary for the service left for the
use of their servants.  It sometimes happened that the Emperor, finding that it was too soon
for breakfast, or wishing to make a longer journey, gave orders to pass on, and everything
was packed up again and the service continued its route.  Sometimes also the Emperor, halting
in the open field, alighted, took his seat under a tree, and ordered his breakfast, upon which
Roustan and the footmen obtained provisions from his Majesty's carriage, which was furnished
with small cooking utensils with silver covers, holding chickens, partridges, etc., while the
other carriages furnished their proportion.  M. Pfister served the Emperor, and every one ate
a hasty morsel.  Fires were lighted to heat the coffee; and in less than half an hour everything
had disappeared, and the carriages rolled on in the same order as before.

The Emperor's steward and cooks had nearly all been trained in the household of the king and
the princes.  These were Messieurs Dunau, Leonard, Rouff, and Gerard.  M. Colin was chief in
command, and became steward-controller after the sad affliction of M. Pfister, who became insane
during the campaign of 1809.  All were capable and zealous servants; and, as is the case in
the household of all sovereigns, each department of the domestic affairs had its chief.  Messieurs
Soupe and Pierrugues were in charge of the wines, and the sons of these gentleman continued
to hold the same office with the Emperor.

We traveled with great speed as far as Mont-Cenis, but were compelled to go more slowly after
reaching this pass, as the weather had been very bad for several days, and the road was washed
out by the rain, which still fell in torrents.  The Emperor arrived at Milan at noon on the
22d; and, notwithstanding our delay at Mont-Cenis, the rest of the journey had been so rapid
that no one was expecting the Emperor.  The vice-king only learned of the arrival of his step-father
when he was half a league from the town, but came in haste to meet us escorted only by a few
persons.  The Emperor gave orders to halt, and, as soon as the door was opened, held out his
hand to Prince Eugene, saying in the most affectionate manner: "Come, get up with us, my fine
prince; we will enter together."

Notwithstanding the surprise which this unexpected arrival caused, we had hardly entered the
town before all the houses were illuminated, and the beautiful palaces, Litta, Casani, Melzi,
and many others, shone with a thousand lights.  The magnificent cupola of the cathedral dome
was covered with garlands of colored lights; and in the center of the Forum- Bonaparte, the
walks of which were also illuminated, could be seen the colossal equestrian statue of the Emperor,
on both sides of which transparencies had been arranged, in the shape of stars, bearing the
initials S M I and R.  By eight o'clock all the populace had collected around the chateau,
where superb fireworks were discharged, while spirited and warlike music was performed.  All
the town authorities were admitted to the Emperor's presence.

On the morning of the next day there was held at the chateau a council of ministers, over which
the Emperor presided; and at noon he mounted his horse to take part in the mass celebrated
by the grand chaplain of the kingdom.  The square of the cathedral was covered by an immense
crowd, through which the Emperor advanced on horseback, accompanied by his imperial Highness,
the vice-king, and his staff.  The noble countenance of Prince Eugene expressed the great joy
he felt in the presence of his step-father, for whom he had always so much respect and filial
affection, and in hearing the incessant acclamations of the people, which grew more vociferous
every moment.

After the 'Te Deum', the Emperor held a review of the troops on the square, and immediately
after set out with the viceroy for Monza, the palace at which the queen resided.  For no woman
did the Emperor manifest more sincere regard and respect than for Princess Amelia; but, indeed
there has never been a more beautiful or purer woman.  It was impossible to speak of beauty
or virtue in the Emperor's presence without his giving the vice-queen as an example.  Prince
Eugene was very worthy of so accomplished a wife, and justly appreciated her exalted character;
and I was glad to see in the countenance of the excellent prince the reflection of the happiness
he enjoyed.  Amidst all the care he took to anticipate every wish of his step-father, I was
much gratified that he found time to address a few words to me, expressing the great pleasure
he felt at my promotion in the service and esteem of the Emperor.  Nothing could have been
more grateful to me than these marks of remembrance from a prince for whom I had always retained
a most sincere, and, I made bold to say, most tender, attachment.

The Emperor remained a long while with the vicequeen, whose intelligence equaled her amiability
and her beauty, but returned to Milan to dine; and immediately afterwards the ladies who were
received at court were presented to him.  In the evening, I followed his Majesty to the theater
of la Scala.  The Emperor did not remain throughout the play, but retired early to his apartment,
and worked the greater part of the night; which did not, however, prevent our being on the
road to Verona before eight o'clock in the morning.

His Majesty made no stop at Brescia and Verona.  I would have been very glad to have had time
on the route to examine the curiosities of Italy; but that was not an easy thing to do in the
Emperor's suite, as he halted only for the purpose of reviewing troops, and preferred visiting
fortifications to ruins.

At Verona his Majesty dined, or rather supped (for it was very late), with their Majesties,
the King and Queen of Bavaria, who arrived at almost exactly the same time as ourselves; and
very early the next day we set out for Vicenza.

