"Beryl Mae Macomber had traipsed past four times, changing her clothes twice with a different
shade of ribbon across her forehead and all her college pins on, and at last she'd simply walked
right in and asked if she hadn't left her tennis racquet there last Tuesday. She says to Mrs.
Judge Ballard and Mrs. Martingale and me in the Cut-Rate Pharmacy, she says: 'Oh, he's just
awfully magnetic--but do you really think he's sincere?' Then she bought an ounce of Breath
of Orient perfume and kind of two-stepped out. These other ladies spoke very sharply about
the freedom Beryl Mae's aunt allowed her. Mrs. Martingale said the poet, it was true, had a
compelling personality, but what was our young girls coming to? And if that child was hers--

"So I left these two lady highbinders and went on into the retail side of the Family Liquor
Store to order up some cooking sherry, and there over the partition from the bar side what
do I hear but Alonzo Price and Ben Sutton! Right off I could tell they'd been pinning a few
on. In fact, Alonzo was calling the bartender Mister. You don't know about Lon, but when he
calls the bartender Mister the ship has sailed. Ten minutes after that he'll be crying over
his operation. So I thought quick, remembering that we had now established a grillroom at the
country club, consisting of a bar and three tables with bells on them, and a Chinaman, and
that if Alonzo and Ben Sutton come there at all they had better come right--at least to start
with. When I'd given my order I sent Louis Meyer in to tell the two gentlemen a lady wished
to speak to them outside.

"In a minute Ben comes out alone. He was awful glad to see me and I said how well he looked,
and he did look well, sort of cordial and bulging--his forehead bulges and his eyes bulge and
his moustache and his chin, and he has cushions on his face. He beamed on me in a wide and
hearty manner and explained that Alonzo refused to come out to meet a lady until he knew who
she was, because you got to be careful in a small town like this where every one talks. 'And
besides,' says Ben, 'he's just broke down and begun to cry about his appendicitis that was
three years ago. He's leaning his head on his arms down by the end of the bar and sobbing bitterly
over it. He seems to grieve about it as a personal loss. I've tried to cheer him up and told
him it was probably all for the best, but he says when it comes over him this way he simply
can't stand it. And what shall I do?'

"Well, of course I seen the worst had happened with Alonzo. So I says to Ben: 'You know there's
a party to-night and if that man ain't seen to he will certainly sink the ship. Now you get
him out of that swamp and I'll think of something.' 'I'll do it,' says Ben, turning sideways
so he could go through the doorway again. 'I'll do it,' he says, 'if I have to use force on
the little scoundrel.'

"And sure enough, in a minute he edged out again with Alonzo firmly fastened to him in some
way. Lon hadn't wanted to come and didn't want to stay now, but he simply couldn't move. Say,
that Ben Sutton would make an awful grand anchor for a captive balloon. Alonzo wiped his eyes
until he could see who I was. Then I rebuked him, reminding him of his sacred duties as a prominent
citizen, a husband, and the secretary of the Red Gap Chamber of Commerce. 'Of course it's all
right to take a drink now and then,' I says.

"Alonzo brightened at this. 'Good!' says he; 'now it's now and pretty soon it will be then.
Let's go into a saloon or something like that!'

"'You'll come with me,' I says firmly. And I marched 'em down to the United States Grill, where
I ordered tea and toast for 'em. Ben was sensible enough, but Alonzo was horrified at the thought
of tea. 'It's tea or nice cold water for yours,' I says, and that set him off again. 'Water!'
he sobs. 'Water! Water! Maybe you don't know that some dear cousins of mine have just lost
their all in the Dayton flood--twenty years' gathering went in a minute, just like that!' and
he tried to snap his fingers. All the same I got some hot tea into him and sent for Eddie Pierce
to be out in front with his hack. While we was waiting for Eddie it occurs to Alonzo to telephone
his wife. He come back very solemn and says: 'I told her I wouldn't be home to dinner because
I was hungry and there probably wouldn't be enough meat, what with a vegetarian poet in the
house. I told her I should sink to the level of a brute in the night life of our gay little
city. I said I was a wayward child of Nature myself if you come right down to it.'

"'Good for you,' I says, having got word that Eddie is outside with his hack. 'And now for
the open road!' 'Fine!' says Alonzo. 'My spirit is certainly feeling very untamed, like some
poet's!' So I hustled 'em out and into the four wheeler. Then I give Eddie Pierce private instructions.
'Get 'em out into the hills about four miles,' I says, 'out past the Catholic burying ground,
then make an excuse that your hack has broke down, and as soon as they set foot to the ground
have them skates of yours run away. Pay no attention whatever to their pleadings or their profane
threats, only yelling to 'em that you'll be back as soon as possible. But don't go back. They'll
wait an hour or so, then walk. And they need to walk.'

"'You said something there,' says Eddie, glancing back at 'em. Ben Sutton was trying to cheer
Alonzo up by reminding him of the Christmas night they went to sleep in the steam room of the
Turkish bath at Nome, and the man forgot 'em and shut off the steam and they froze to the benches
and had to be chiselled off. And Eddie trotted off with his load. You'd ought to seen the way
the hack sagged down on Ben's side. And I felt that I had done a good work, so I hurried home
to get a bite to eat and dress and make the party, which I still felt would be a good party
even if the husband of our hostess was among the killed or missing.

"I reached the clubhouse at eight o'clock of that beautiful June evening, to find the party
already well assembled on the piazza and the front steps or strolling about the lawn, about
eight or ten of our prominent society matrons and near as many husbands. And mebbe those dames
hadn't lingered before their mirrors for final touches! Mrs. Martingale had on all her rings
and the jade bracelet and the art-craft necklace with amethysts, and Mrs. Judge Ballard had
done her hair a new way, and Beryl Mae Macomber, there with her aunt, not only had a new scarf
with silver stars over her frail young shoulders and a band of cherry coloured velvet across
her forehead, but she was wearing the first ankle watch ever seen in Red Gap. I couldn't begin
to tell you the fussy improvements them ladies had made in themselves--and all, mind you, for
the passing child of Nature who had never paid a bill for 'em in his life.

"Oh, it was a gay, careless throng with the mad light of pleasure in its eyes, and all of 'em
milling round Wilfred Lennox, who was eating it up. Some bantered him roguishly and some spoke
in chest tones of what was the real inner meaning of life after all. Henrietta Templeton Price
hovered near with the glad light of capture in her eyes. Silent but proud Henrietta was, careless
but superior, reminding me of the hunter that has his picture taken over in Africa with one
negligent foot on the head of a two-horned rhinoceros he's just killed.

"But again the husbands was kind of lurking in the background, bunched up together. They seemed
abashed by this strange frenzy of their womenfolks. How'd they know, the poor dubs, that a
poet wasn't something a business man had ought to be polite and grovelling to? They affected
an easy manner, but it was poor work. Even Judge Ballard, who seems nine feet tall in his Prince
Albert, and usually looks quite dignified and hostile with his long dark face and his moustache
and goatee--even the good old judge was rattled after a brief and unhappy effort to hold a
bit of converse with the guest of honour. Him and Jeff Tuttle went to the grillroom twice in
ten minutes. The judge always takes his with a dash of pepper sauce in it, but now it only
seemed to make him more gloomy.

"Well, I was listening along, feeling elated that I'd put Alonzo and Ben Sutton out of the
way and wondering when the show would begin--Beryl Mae in her high, innocent voice had just
said to the poet: 'But seriously now, are you sincere?' and I was getting some plenty of that,
when up the road in the dusk I seen Bush Jones driving a dray-load of furniture. I wondered
where in time any family could be moving out that way. I didn't know any houses beyond the
club and I was pondering about this, idly as you might say, when Bush Jones pulls his team
up right in front of the clubhouse, and there on the load is the two I had tried to lose. In
a big armchair beside a varnished centre table sits Ben Sutton reading something that I recognized
as the yellow card with Wilfred's verses on it. And across the dray from him on a red-plush
sofa is Alonzo Price singing 'My Wild Irish Rose' in a very noisy tenor.

"Well, sir, I could have basted that fool Bush Jones with one of his own dray stakes. That
man's got an intellect just powerful enough to take furniture from one house to another if
the new address ain't too hard for him to commit to memory. That's Bush Jones all right! He
has the machinery for thinking, but it all glitters as new as the day it was put in. So he'd
come a mile out of his way with these two riots--and people off somewhere wondering where that
last load of things was!

"The ladies all affected to ignore this disgraceful spectacle, with Henrietta sinking her nails
into her bloodless palms, but the men broke out and cheered a little in a half-scared manner
and some of 'em went down to help the newcomers climb out. Then Ben had words with Bush Jones
because he wanted him to wait there and take 'em back to town when the party was over and Bush
refused to wait. After suffering about twenty seconds in the throes of mental effort I reckon
he discovered that he had business to attend to or was hungry or something. Anyway, Ben paid
him some money finally and he drove off after calling out 'Good-night, all!' just as if nothing
had happened.

"Alonzo and Ben Sutton joined the party without further formality. They didn't look so bad,
either, so I saw my crooked work had done some good. Lon quit singing almost at once and walked
good and his eyes didn't wabble, and he looked kind of desperate and respectable, and Ben was
first-class, except he was slightly oratorical and his collar had melted the way fat men's
do. And it was funny to see how every husband there bucked up when Ben came forward, as if
all they had wanted was some one to make medicine for 'em before they begun the war dance.
They mooched right up round Ben when he trampled a way into the flushed group about Wilfred.

"'At last the well-known stranger!' says Ben cordially, seizing one of Wilfred's pale, beautiful
hands. 'I've been hearing so much of you, wayward child of the open road that you are, and
I've just been reading your wonderful verses as I sat in my library. The woods and the hills
for your spirit untamed and the fire of youth to warm your nights--that's the talk.' He paused
and waved Wilfred's verses in a fat, freckled hand. Then he looked at him hard and peculiar
and says: 'When you going to pull some of it for us?'

"Wilfred had looked slightly rattled from the beginning. Now he smiled, but only with his lips--he
made it seem like a mere Swedish exercise or something, and the next second his face looked
as if it had been sewed up for the winter.

"'Little starry-eyed gypsy, I say, when are you going to pull some of that open-road stuff?'
says Ben again, all cordial and sinister.

"Wilfred gulped and tried to be jaunty. 'Oh, as to that, I'm here to-day and there to-morrow,'
he murmurs, and nervously fixes his necktie.

"'Oh, my, and isn't that nice!' says Ben heartily--'the urge of the wild to her wayward child'--I
know you're a slave to it. And now you're going to tell us all about the open road, and then
you and I are going to have an intimate chat and I'll tell you about it--about some of the
dearest little open roads you ever saw, right round in these parts. I've just counted nine,
all leading out of town to the cunningest mountains and glens that would make you write poetry
hours at a time, with Nature's glad fruits and nuts and a mug of spring water and some bottled
beer and a ham and some rump steak--'

"The stillness of that group had become darned painful, I want to tell you. There was a horrid
fear that Ben Sutton might go too far, even for a country club. Every woman was shuddering
and smiling in a painful manner, and the men regarding Ben with glistening eyes. And Ben felt
it himself all at once. So he says: 'But I fear I am detaining you,' and let go of the end
of Wilfred's tie that he had been toying with in a somewhat firm manner. 'Let us be on with
your part of the evening's entertainment,' he says, 'but don't forget, gypsy wilding that you
are, that you and I must have a chat about open roads the moment you have finished. I know
we are cramping you. By that time you will be feeling the old, restless urge and you might
take a road that wasn't open if I didn't direct you.'

"He patted Wilfred loudly on the back a couple of times and Wilfred ducked the third pat and
got out of the group, and the ladies all began to flurry their voices about the lovely June
evening but wouldn't it be pleasanter inside, and Henrietta tragically called from the doorway
to come at once, for God's sake, so they all went at once, with the men only half trailing,
and inside we could hear 'em fixing chairs round and putting out a table for the poet to stand
by, and so forth.

"Alonzo, however, had not trailed. He was over on the steps holding Beryl Mae Macomber by her
new scarf and telling her how flowerlike her beauty was. And old Judge Ballard was holding
about half the men, including Ben Sutton, while he made a speech. I hung back to listen. 'Sir,'
he was saying to Ben, 'Secretary Seward some years since purchased your territory from Russia
for seven million dollars despite the protests of a clamorous and purblind opposition. How
niggardly seems that purchase price at this moment! For Alaska has perfected you, sir, if it
did not produce you. Gentlemen, I feel that we dealt unfairly by Russia. But that is in the
dead past. It is not too late, however, to tiptoe to the grillroom and offer a toast to our
young sister of the snows.'

"There was subdued cheers and they tiptoed. Ben Sutton was telling the judge that he felt highly
complimented, but it was a mistake to ring in that snow stuff on Alaska. She'd suffered from
it too long. He was going on to paint Alaska as something like Alabama--cooler nights, of course,
but bracing. Alonzo still had Beryl Mae by the scarf, telling her how flowerlike her beauty was.

"I went into the big room, picking a chair over by the door so I could keep tabs on that grillroom.
Only three or four of the meekest husbands had come with us. And Wilfred started. I'll do him
the justice to say he was game. The ladies thought anything bordering on roughness was all
over, but Wilfred didn't. When he'd try to get a far-away look in his eyes while he was reciting
his poetry he couldn't get it any farther away than the grillroom door. He was nervous but
determined, for there had been notice given of a silver offering for him. He recited the verses
on the card and the ladies all thrilled up at once, including Beryl Mae, who'd come in without
her scarf. They just clenched their hands and hung on Wilfred's wild, free words.

"And after the poetry he kind of lectured about how man had ought to break away from the vile
cities and seek the solace of great Mother Nature, where his bruised spirit could be healed
and the veneer of civilization cast aside and the soul come into its own, and things like that.
And he went on to say that out in the open the perspective of life is broadened and one is
a laughing philosopher as long as the blue sky is overhead and the green grass underfoot. 'To
lie,' says he, 'with relaxed muscles on the carpet of pine needles and look up through the
gently swaying branches of majestic trees at the fleecy white clouds, dreaming away the hours
far from the sordid activities of the market place, is one of the best nerve tonics in all
the world.' It was an unfortunate phrase for Wilfred, because some of the husbands had tiptoed
out of the grillroom to listen, and there was a hearty cheer at this, led by Jeff Tuttle. 'Sure!
Some nerve tonic!' they called out, and laughed coarsely. Then they rushed back to the grillroom
without tiptoeing.

"The disgraceful interruption was tactfully covered by Wilfred and his audience. He took a
sip from the glass of water and went on to talk about the world's debt to poetry. Then I sneaked
out to the grillroom myself. By this time the Chinaman had got tangled up with the orders and
was putting out drinks every which way. And they was being taken willingly. Judge Ballard and
Ben Sutton was now planting cotton in Alaska and getting good crops every year, and Ben was
also promising to send the judge a lovely spotted fawnskin vest that an Indian had made for
him, but made too small--not having more than six or eight fawns, I judged. And Alonzo had
got a second start. Still he wasn't so bad yet, with Beryl Mae's scarf over his arm, and talking
of the unparalleled beauties of Price's Addition to Red Gap, which he said he wouldn't trade
even for the whole of Alaska if it was offered to him to-morrow--not that Ben Sutton wasn't
the whitest soul God ever made and he'd like to hear some one say different--and so on.

"I mixed in with 'em and took a friendly drink myself, with the aim of smoothing things down,
but I saw it would be delicate work. About all I could do was keep 'em reminded there was ladies
present and it wasn't a barroom where anything could be rightly started. Doc Martingale's feelings
was running high, too, account, I suppose, of certain full-hearted things his wife had blurted
out to him about the hypnotic eyes of this here Nature lover. He was quiet enough, but vicious,
acting like he'd love to do some dental work on the poet that might or might not be painless
for all he cared a hoot. He was taking his own drinks all alone, like clockwork--moody but
systematic.

"Then we hear chairs pushed round in the other room and the chink of silver to be offered to
the poet, and Henrietta come out to give word for the refreshments to be served. She found
Alonzo in the hallway telling Beryl Mae how flowerlike her beauty was and giving her the elk's
tooth charm off his watch chain. Beryl Mae was giggling heartily until she caught Henrietta's
eye--like a cobra's.

"The refreshments was handed round peaceful enough, with the ladies pressing sardine sandwiches
and chocolate cake and cups of coffee on to Wilfred and asking him interesting questions about
his adventurous life in the open. And the plans was all made for his class in poetry to be
held at Henrietta's house, where the lady subscribers for a few weeks could come into contact
with the higher realities of life, at eight dollars for the course, and Wilfred was beginning
to cheer up again, though still subject to dismay when one of the husbands would glare in at
him from the hall, and especially when Ben Sutton would look in with his bulging and expressive
eyes and kind of bark at him.

"Then Ben Sutton come and stood in the doorway till he caught Wilfred's eye and beckoned to
him. Wilfred pretended not to notice the first time, but Ben beckoned a little harder, so Wilfred
excused himself to the six or eight ladies and went out. It seemed to me he first looked quick
round him to make sure there wasn't any other way out. I was standing in the hall when Ben
led him tenderly into the grillroom with two fingers.

"'Here is our well-known poet and bon vivant,' says Ben to Alonzo, who had followed 'em in.
So Alonzo bristles up to Wilfred and glares at him and says: 'All joking aside, is that one
of my new shirts you're wearing or is it not?'

"Wilfred gasped a couple times and says: 'Why, as to that, you see, the madam insisted--'

"Alonzo shut him off. 'How dare you drag a lady's name into a barroom brawl?' says he.

"'Don't shoot in here,' says Ben. 'You'd scare the ladies.'

"Wilfred went pasty, indeed, thinking his host was going to gun him.

"'Oh, very well, I won't then,' says Alonzo. 'I guess I can be a gentleman when necessary.
But all joking aside, I want to ask him this: Does he consider poetry to be an accomplishment
or a vice?'

"'I was going to put something like that to him myself, only I couldn't think of it,' says
Doc Martingale, edging up and looking quite restrained and nervous in the arms. I was afraid
of the doc. I was afraid he was going to blemish Wilfred a couple of times right there.

"'An accomplishment or a vice? Answer yes or no!' orders the judge in a hard voice.

"The poet looks round at 'em and attempts to laugh merrily, but he only does it from the teeth out.

"'Laugh on, my proud beauty!' says Ben Button. Then he turns to the bunch. 'What we really
ought to do,' he says, 'we ought to make a believer of him right here and now.'

"Even then, mind you, the husbands would have lost their nerve if Ben hadn't took the lead.
Ben didn't have to live with their wives so what cared he? Wilfred Lennox sort of shuffled
his feet and smiled a smile of pure anxiety. He knew some way that this was nothing to cheer about.

"'I got it,' says Jeff Tuttle with the air of a thinker. 'We're cramping the poor cuss here.
What he wants is the open road.'

"'What he really wants,' says Alonzo, 'is about six bottles of my pure, sparkling beer, but
maybe he'll take the open road if we show him a good one.'

"'He wants the open road--show him a good one!' yells the other husbands in chorus. It was
kind of like a song.

"'I had meant to be on my way,' says Wilfred very cold and lofty.

"'You're here to-day and there to-morrow,' says Ben; 'but how can you be there to-morrow if
you don't start from here now?--for the way is long and lonely.'

"'I was about to start,' says Wilfred, getting in a couple of steps toward the door.

"''Tis better so,' says Ben. 'This is no place for a county recorder's son, and there's a bully
road out here open at both ends.'

"They made way for the poet, and a sickening silence reigned. Even the women gathered about
the door of the other room was silent. They knew the thing had got out of their hands. The
men closed in after Wilfred as he reached the steps. He there took his soft hat out from under
his coat where he'd cached it. He went cautiously down the steps. Beryl Mae broke the silence.

"'Oh, Mr. Price,' says she, catching Alonzo by the sleeve, 'do you think he's really sincere?'

"'He is at this moment,' says Alonzo. 'He's behaving as sincerely as ever I saw a man behave.'
And just then at the foot of the steps Wilfred made a tactical error. He started to run. The
husbands and Ben Sutton gave the long yell and went in pursuit. Wilfred would have left them
all if he hadn't run into the tennis net. He come down like a sack of meal.

"'There!' says Ben Sutton. 'Now he's done it--broke his neck or something. That's the way with
some men--they'll try anything to get a laugh.'

"They went and picked the poet up. He was all right, only dazed.

"'But that's one of the roads that ain't open,' says Ben. 'And besides, you was going right
toward the nasty old railroad that runs into the cramped haunts of men. You must have got turned
round. Here'--he pointed out over the golf links--'it's off that way that Mother Nature awaits
her wayward child. Miles and miles of her--all open. Doesn't your gypsy soul hear the call?
This way for the hills and glens, thou star-eyed woodling!' and he gently led Wilfred off over
the links, the rest of the men trailing after and making some word racket, believe me. They
was all good conversationalists at the moment. Doc Martingale was wanting the poet to run into
the tennis net again, just for fun, and Jeff Tuttle says make him climb a tree like the monkeys
do in their native glades, but Ben says just keep him away from the railroad, that's all. Good
Mother Nature will attend to the rest.

"The wives by now was huddled round the side of the clubhouse, too scared to talk much, just
muttering incoherently and wringing their hands, and Beryl Mae pipes up and says: 'Oh, perhaps
I wronged him after all; perhaps deep down in his heart he was sincere.'

"The moon had come up now and we could see the mob with its victim starting off toward the
Canadian Rockies. Then all at once they began to run, and I knew Wilfred had made another dash
for liberty. Pretty soon they scattered out and seemed to be beating up the shrubbery down
by the creek. And after a bit some of 'em straggled back. They paid no attention to us ladies,
but made for the grillroom.

"'We lost him in that brush beyond the fifth hole,' says Alonzo. 'None of us is any match for
him on level ground, but we got some good trackers and we're guarding the line to keep him
headed off from the railroad and into his beloved hills.'

"'We should hurry back with refreshment for the faithful watchers,' says Judge Ballard. 'The
fellow will surely try to double back to the railroad.'

"'Got to keep him away from the cramped haunts of business men,' says Alonzo brightly.

"'I wish Clay, my faithful old hound, were still alive,' says the judge wistfully.

"'Say, I got a peach of a terrier down to the house right now,' says Jeff Tuttle, 'but he's
only trained for bear--I never tried him on poets.'

"'He might tree him at that,' says Doc Martingale.

"'Percy,' cries his wife, 'have you forgotten your manhood?'

"'Yes,' says Percy.

"'Darling,' calls Henrietta, 'will you listen to reason a moment?'

"'No,' says Alonzo.

"'It's that creature from Alaska leading them on,' says Mrs. Judge Ballard--'that overdressed
drunken rowdy!'

"Ben Sutton looked right hurt at this. He buttoned his coat over his checked vest and says:
'I take that unkindly, madam--calling me overdressed. I selected this suiting with great care.
It ain't nice to call me overdressed. I feel it deeply.'

"But they was off again before one thing could lead to another, taking bottles of hard liquor
they had uncorked. 'The open road! The open road!' they yelled as they went.

"Well, that's about all. Some of the wives begun to straggle off home, mostly in tears, and
some hung round till later. I was one of these, not wishing to miss anything of an absorbing
character. Edgar Tomlinson went early, too. Edgar writes 'The Lounger in the Lobby' column
for the Recorder, and he'd come out to report the entertainment; but at one o'clock he said
it was a case for the sporting editor and he'd try to get him out before the kill.

"At different times one or two of the hunters would straggle back for more drink. They said
the quarry was making a long detour round their left flank, trying his darndest to get to the
railroad, but they had hopes. And they scattered out. Ever and anon you would hear the long
howl of some lone drunkard that had got lost from the pack.

"About sunup they all found themselves at the railroad track about a mile beyond the clubhouse,
just at the head of Stender's grade. There they was voting to picket the track for a mile each
way when along come the four-thirty-two way freight. It had slowed up some making the grade,
and while they watched it what should dart out from a bunch of scrub oak but the active figure
of Wilfred Lennox. He made one of them iron ladders all right and was on top of a car when
the train come by, but none of 'em dast jump it because it had picked up speed again.

"They said Wilfred stood up and shook both fists at 'em and called 'em every name he could
lay his tongue to--using language so coarse you'd never think it could have come from a poet's
lips. They could see his handsome face working violently long after they couldn't hear him.
Just my luck! I'm always missing something.

"So they come grouching back to the clubhouse and I took 'em home to breakfast. When we got
down to the table old Judge Ballard says: 'What might have been an evening of rare enjoyment
was converted into a detestable failure by that cur. I saw from the very beginning that he
was determined to spoil our fun.'

"'The joke is sure on us,' says Ben Sutton, 'but I bear him no grudge. In fact, I did him an
injustice I knew he wasn't a poet, but I didn't believe he was even a hobo till he jumped that
freight.'

"Alonzo was out in the hall telephoning Henrietta. We could hear his cheerful voice: 'No, Pettikins,
no! It doesn't ache a bit. What's that? Of course I still do! You are the only woman that ever
meant anything to me. What? What's that? Oh, I may have errant fancies now and again, like
the best of men--you know yourself how sensitive I am to a certain type of flowerlike beauty--but
it never touches my deeper nature. Yes, certainly, I shall be right up the very minute good
old Ben leaves--to-morrow or next day. What's that? Now, now! Don't do that! Just the minute
he leaves--G'--by.'

"And the little brute hung up on her!"

II

MA PETTENGILL AND THE SONG OF SONGS

The hammock between the two jack pines at the back of the Arrowhead ranch house had lured me
to mid--afternoon slumber. The day was hot and the morning had been toilsome--four miles of
trout stream, rocky, difficult miles. And my hostess, Mrs. Lysander John Pettengill, had ridden
off after luncheon to some remote fastness of her domain, leaving me and the place somnolent.

In the shadowed coolness, aching gratefully in many joints, I had plunged into the hammock's
Lethe, swooning shamelessly to a benign oblivion. Dreamless it must long have been, for the
shadows of ranch house, stable, hay barn, corral, and bunk house were long to the east when
next I observed them. But I fought to this wakefulness through one of those dreams of a monstrous
futility that sometimes madden us from sleep. Through a fearsome gorge a stream wound and in
it I hunted one certain giant trout. Savagely it took the fly, but always the line broke when
I struck; rather, it dissolved; there would be no resistance. And the giant fish mocked me
each time, jeered and flouted me, came brazenly to the surface and derided me with antics weirdly
human.

Then, as I persisted, it surprisingly became a musical trout. It whistled, it played a guitar,
it sang. How pathetic our mildly amazed acceptance of these miracles in dreams! I was only
the more determined to snare a fish that could whistle and sing simultaneously, and accompany
itself on a stringed instrument, and was six feet in length. It was that by now and ever growing.
It seemed only an attractive novelty and I still believed a brown hackle would suffice. But
then I became aware that this trout, to its stringed accompaniment, ever whistled and sang
one song with a desperate intentness. That song was "The Rosary." The fish had presumed too
far. "This," I shrewdly told myself, "is almost certainly a dream." The soundless words were
magic. Gorge and stream vanished, the versatile fish faded to blue sky showing through the
green needles of a jack pine. I stretched in the hammock, I tingled with a lazy well-being.
The world was still; but was it--quite?

On a bench over by the corral gate crouched Buck Devine, doing something needful to a saddle.
And as he wrought he whistled. He whistled "The Rosary" shrilly and with much feeling. Nor
was the world still but for this. From the bunk house came the mellow throbbing of a stringed
instrument, the guitar of Sandy Sawtelle, star rider of the Arrowhead, temporarily withdrawn
from a career of sprightly endeavour by a sprained ankle and solacing his retirement with music.
He was playing "The Rosary"--very badly indeed, but one knew only too well what he meant. The
two performers were distant enough to be no affront to each other. The hammock, less happily,
was midway between them.

I sat up with groans. I hated to leave the hammock.

"The trout also sang it," I reminded myself. Followed the voice, a voice from the stable, the
cracked, whining tenor of a very aged vassal of the Arrowhead, one Jimmie Time. Jimmie, I gathered,
was currying a horse as he sang, for each bar of the ballad was measured by the double thud
of a currycomb against the side of a stall. Whistle, guitar, and voice now attacked the thing
in differing keys and at varying points. Jimmie might be said to prevail. There was a fatuous
tenderness in his attack and the thudding currycomb gave it spirit. Nor did he slur any of
the affecting words; they clave the air with an unctuous precision:

    The ow-wurs I spu-hend with thu-hee, dee-yur heart,
          (The currycomb: Thud, thud!)
    Are as a stru-hing of pur-rulls tuh me-e-e,
          (The currycomb: Thud, thud!)

Came a dramatic and equally soulful interpolation: "Whoa, dang you! You would, would you? Whoa-a-a,
now!"

Again the melody:

    I count them o-vurr, ev-ry one apar-rut,
    (Thud, thud!)
    My ro-sah-ree--my ro-sah-ree!
    (Thud, thud!)

Buck Devine still mouthed his woful whistle and Sandy Sawtelle valiantly strove for the true
and just accord of his six strings. It was no place for a passive soul. I parted swiftly from
the hammock and made over the sun-scorched turf for the ranch house. There was shelter and
surcease; doors and windows might be closed. The unctuous whine of Jimmie Time pursued me:

    Each ow-wur a pur-rull, each pur-rull a prayer,
    (Thud, thud!)
    Tuh stu-hill a heart in absence wru-hung,
    (Thud, thud!)

As I reached the hospitable door of the living-room I observed Lew Wee, Chinese chef of the
Arrowhead, engaged in cranking one of those devices with a musical intention which I have somewhere
seen advertised. It is an important-looking device in a polished mahogany case, and I recall
in the advertisement I saw it was surrounded by a numerous enthralled-looking family in a costly
drawing-room, while the ghost of Beethoven simpered above it in ineffable benignancy. Something
now told me the worst, even as Lew Wee adjusted the needle to the revolving disk. I waited
for no more than the opening orchestral strains. It is a leisurely rhythmed cacophony, and
I had time to be almost beyond range ere the voice took up a tale I was hearing too often in
one day. Even so I distantly perceived it to be a fruity contralto voice with an expert sob.

