CHAPTER XV.

The city gates were already open.  Peasants and peasant women bringing vegetables and other
farm produce to market thronged the streets, wains loaded with grain or charcoal rumbled along,
and herds of cattle and swine, laden donkeys, the little carts of the farmers and bee keepers
conveying milk and honey to the city, passed over the dyke, which was still softened by the
rain of the preceding night.

The thunderstorm had cooled the air, but the rays of the morning sun were already scorching.
A few heavy little clouds were darkly relieved against the blue sky, and a peasant, driving
two sucking pigs before him, called to another, who was carrying a goose under each arm, that
the sun was drawing water, and thundershowers seldom came singly.

Yet the city looked pleasant enough in the freshness of early June.  The maidservants who were
opening the shutters glanced gaily out into the streets, and arranged the flowers in front
of the windows or bowed reverently as a priest passed by on his way to mass.  The barefooted
Capuchin, with his long beard, beckoned to the cook or the tradesman's wife and, as she put
something into his beggar's sack and he thanked her kindly with some pious axiom, she felt
as if she herself and all her household had gained a right to the blessing of Heaven for that
day, and cheerily continued her work.

The brass counter in the low, broad bow window of the baker's house glittered brightly, and
the pale apprentice wiped the flour from his face and gave his master's rosy-cheeked daughter
fresh warm cakes to set on the shining shelves.  The barber's nimble apprentice hung the towel
and basin at the door, while his master, wearied by the wine-bibbing and talk at the tavern
or his labour at the fire, was still asleep.  His active wife had risen before him, strewed
the shop with fresh sand, and renewed the goldfinch's food.

The workshops and stores were adorned with birch branches, and the young daughters of the burghers,
in becoming caps, the maid servants and apprentices, who were going to market with baskets
on their arms, wore a flower or something green on their breasts or in their caps.

The first notes of the bells, pealing solemnly, were summoning worshippers to mass, the birds
were singing in the garden, and the cocks were crowing in the yards of the houses.  The animals
passing in the street lowed, grunted, and cackled merrily in the dawn of the young day.

Gay young men, travelling students who had sought cheap quarters in the country, now entered
the city with a merry song on their lips just shaded by the first down of manhood, and when
a maiden met them she lowered her eyes modestly before the riotous fellows.

The terrors of the frightful thunderstorm seemed forgotten.  Nuremberg looked gladsome; a carpet
hung from many a bow-window, and flags and streamers fluttered from roofs and balconies to
honour the distinguished guests.  Many signs of their presence were visible, squires and equerries,
in their masters' colours, were riding spirited horses, and a few knights who loved early rising
were already in the saddle, their shining helmets and coats of mail flashing brightly in the
sunshine.

The gigantic figure of Sir Seitz Siebenburg moved with drooping head through the budding joy
of this June day towards the Eysvogel dwelling.

His gloomy, haggard face and disordered attire made two neatly dressed young shoemaker's apprentices,
on their way to their work, nudge each other and look keenly at him.

"I'd rather meet him here in broad daylight among houses and people than in the dusk on the
highway," remarked one of them.

"There's no danger," replied the other.  "He wears the curb now.  He moved from the robber
nest into the rich Eysvogel house opposite.  That's Herr Casper's son-in-law.  But such people
can never let other folks' property alone.  Only here they work in another way.  The shoes
he wears were made in our workshop, but the master still whistles for his pay, and he owes
everybody--the tailor, the lacemaker, the armourer, the girdlemaker, and the goldsmith.  If
an apprentice reminds him of the debt, let him beware of bruises."

"The Emperor Rudolph ought to issue an edict against such injustice!" wrathfully exclaimed
the other and taller youth, the handsome son of a master of the craft from Weissenburg on the
Sand, who expected soon to take his father's place.  "Up at Castle Graufels, which is saddled
on our little town, master and man would be going barefoot but for us; yet for three years
we haven't seen so much as a penny of his, though my father says times have already improved,
since the Hapsburg, as a just man----"

"Things have not been so bad here for a long while, the saints be praised!" his companion broke
in.  "Siebenburg, or some of his wife's rich kindred, will at last be compelled to settle matters.
We have the law and the Honourable Council to attend to that.  Look up!  Yonder stately old
house gave its daughter to the penniless knight.  She is one of our customers too; a handsome
woman, and not one of the worst either. But her mother, who was born a countess--if the shoe
doesn't make a foot small which Nature created big, there's such an outcry!  True, the old
woman, her mother, is worse still; she scolds and screams.  But look up at the bow window.
There she stands.  I'm only a poor brewer's son, but before I----"

"You don't say so!"  the other interrupted.  Have you seen the owl in the cage in front of
the guardhouse at the gate of the hospital?  It is her living image; and how her chin projects
and moves up and down, as though she were chewing leather!"

"And yet," said the other, as if insisting upon something difficult to believe, "and yet the
old woman is a real countess."

The Weissenburg apprentice expressed his astonishment with another: "You don't say so!" but
as he spoke he grasped his companion's arm, adding earnestly: "Let us go.  That ugly old woman
just looked at me, and if it wasn't the evil eye I shall go straight to the church and drive
away the misfortune with holy water."

"Come, then," answered the Nuremberg youth, but continued thoughtfully: "Yet my master's grandmother,
a woman of eighty, is probably older than the one up there, but nobody could imagine a kinder,
pleasanter dame. When she looks approvingly at one it seems as if the dear God's blessing were
shining from two little windows."

"That's just like my grandmother at home!" exclaimed the Weissenburg apprentice with sparkling
eyes.

Turning from the Eysvogel mansion as they spoke, they pursued their way.

Siebenburg had overtaken the apprentices, but ere crossing the threshold of the house which
was now his home he stopped before it.

It might, perhaps, be called the largest and handsomest in Nuremberg; but it was only a wide
two-story structure, though the roof had been adorned with battlements and the sides with a
small bow-windowed turret.  At the second story a bracket, bearing an image of the Madonna,
had been built out on one side, and on the other the bow window from which old Countess Rotterbach
had looked down into the street.

The coat of arms was very striking and wholly out of harmony with the simplicity of the rest
of the building.  Its showy splendour, visible for a long distance, occupied the wide space
between the door of the house and the windows of the upper story.  The escutcheon of the noble
family from which Rosalinde, Herr Casper's wife, had descended rested against the shield bearing
the birds.  The Rotterbach supporters, a nude man and a bear standing on its hind legs, rose
on both sides of the double escutcheon, and the stone cutter had surmounted the Eysvogel helmet
with a count's coronet.

This elaborate decoration of the ancient patrician house had become one of the sights of the
city, and had often made Herr Casper, at the Honourable Council and elsewhere, clench his fist
under his mantle, for it had drawn open censure and bitter mockery upon the arrogant man, but
his desire to have it replaced by a more modest one had been baffled by the opposition of the
women of his family.  They had had it put up, and would not permit any one to touch it, though
Wolff, after his return from Italy, had strenuously urged its removal.

It had brought the Eysvogels no good fortune, for on the day of its completion the business
received its first serious blow, and it also served to injure the commercial house externally
in a very obvious manner.  Whereas formerly many wares which needed to be kept dry had been
hoisted from the outer door and the street to the spacious attic, this was now prevented by
the projecting figures of the nude men and the bears.  Therefore it became necessary to hoist
the goods to be stored in the attic from the courtyard, which caused delay and hindrances of
many kinds.  Various expedients had been suggested, but the women opposed them all, for they
were glad that the ugly casks and bales no longer found their way to the garret past their
windows, and it also gratified their arrogance that they were no longer visible from the street.

Siebenburg now looked up at the huge escutcheon and recalled the day when, after having been
specially favoured by Isabella Eysvogel at a dance in the Town Hall, he had paused in the same
place.  A long line of laden waggons had just stopped in front of the door surmounted by the
double escutcheon, and if he had previously hesitated whether to profit by the favour of Isabella,
whose haughty majesty, which attracted him, also inspired him with a faint sense of uneasiness,
he was now convinced how foolish it would be not to forge the iron which seemed aglow in his
favour.  What riches the men-servants were carrying into the vaulted entry, which was twice
as large as the one in the Ortlieb mansion! Besides, the escutcheon with the count's coronet
had given the knight assurance that he would have no cause to be ashamed, in an assembly of
his peers, of his alliance with the Nuremberg maiden.  Isabella's hand could undoubtedly free
him from the oppressive burden of his debts, and she was certainly a magnificent woman!  How
well, too, her tall figure would suit him and the Siebenburgs, whose name was said to be derived
from the seven feet of stature which some of them measured!

Now he again remembered the hour when she had laid her slender hand in his.  For a brief period
he had been really happy; his heart had not felt so light since early childhood, though at
first he had ventured to confess only one half his load of debt to his father-in-law.  He had
even assumed fresh obligations to relieve his brothers from their most pressing cares.  They
had attended his brilliant wedding, and it had flattered his vanity to show them what he could
accomplish as the wealthy Eysvogel's son-in-law.

But how quickly all this had changed!  He had learned that, besides the woman who had given
him her heart and inspired him with a passion hitherto unknown, he had wedded two others.

Now, as the image of old Countess Rotterbach, Isabella's grandmother, forced itself upon his
mind, he unconsciously knit his brow.  He had not heard her say much, but with every word she
bestowed upon him he was forced to accept something bitter.  She rarely left her place in the
armchair in the bow window in the sitting-room, but it seemed as if her little eyes possessed
the power of piercing walls and doors, for she knew everything that concerned him, even his
greatest secrets, which he believed he had carefully concealed.  More on her account than on
that of his mother-in-law, who did nothing except what the former commanded, he had repeatedly
tried to remove with his wife to the estate of Tannenreuth, which had been assigned to him
on the day of the marriage, that its revenues might support the young couple, but the mother
and grandmother detained his wife, and their wishes were more to her than his.  Perhaps, however,
he might have induced her to go with him had not his father-in-law made his debts a snare,
which he drew whenever it was necessary to stifle his wishes, and he, too, wanted to retain
his daughter at home.

Since Wolff's return from Italy he had become aware that the stream of gold from the Eysvogel
coffers flowed more sparingly, or even failed altogether to satisfy his extravagant tastes.
Therefore his relations with his brother-in-law, whose prudent caution he considered avarice,
and whose earnest protests against his often unprecedented demands frequently roused his ire,
became more and more unfriendly.

The inmates of the Eysvogel house rendered his home unendurable, and from the experiences of
his bachelor days he knew only too well where mirth reigned in Nuremberg.  So he became a rare
guest at the Eysvogels, and when Isabella found herself neglected and deceived, she made him
feel her resentment in her own haughty and--as soon as she deemed herself injured --harsh manner.

At first her displeasure troubled him sorely, but the ardent passion which had absorbed him
during the early days of their marriage had died out, and only flamed up with its old fervour
occasionally; but at such times the haughty, neglected wife repulsed him with insulting severity.

Yet she had never permitted any one to disparage her husband behind his back.  True, Siebenburg
did not know this, but he perceived more and more plainly that both the Eysvogels, father and
son, were oppressed by some grave anxiety, and that the sums which Wolff now paid him no longer
sufficed to hold his creditors in check.  He was not accustomed to impose any restraint upon
himself, and thus it soon became known throughout the city that he did not live at peace with
his wife and her family.

Yet five weeks ago matters had appeared to improve.  The birth of the twins had brought something
new into his life, which drew him nearer to Isabella.

The children at first seemed to him two lovely miracles.  Both boys, both exactly like him.
When they were brought to him on their white, lace- trimmed pillows, his heart had swelled
with joy, and it was his greatest delight to gaze at them.

This was the natural result.

He, the stalwart Siebenburg, had not become the father of one ordinary boy, but of two little
knights at once.  When he returned home--even if his feet were unsteady--his first visit was
to them, and he had often felt that he was far too poor and insignificant to thank his neglected
wife aright for so precious a gift.

Whenever this feeling took possession of him he expressed his love to Isabella with tender
humility; while she, who had bestowed her hand upon him solely from love, forgot all her wrongs,
and her heart throbbed faster with grateful joy when she saw him, with fatherly pride, carry
the twins about with bent knees, as if their weight was too heavy for his giant arms to bear.

The second week after their birth Isabella fell slightly ill.  Her mother and grandmother undertook
the nursing, and as the husband found them both with the twins whenever he came to see the
infants and their mother, the sick-room grew distasteful to him.  Again, as before their birth,
he sought compensation outside of the house for the annoyance caused by the women at home;
but the memory of the little boys haunted him, and when he met his companions at the tavern
he invited them to drink the children's health in the host's best wine.

So life went on until the Reichstag brought the von Montforts, whom he had met at a tournament
in Augsburg, to the city of Nuremberg.

Mirth reigned wherever Countess Cordula appeared, and Siebenburg needed amusement and joined
the train of her admirers--with what evil result he now clearly perceived for the first time.

He again stood before the stately dwelling where he had hoped to find luxury and wealth, but
where his heart now throbbed more anxiously than those of his kinsmen had formerly done in
the impoverished castle of his father, who had died so long ago.

The Eysvogel dwelling, with its showy escutcheon above the door, was threatened by want, and
hand in hand with it, he knew, the most hideous of all her children--disgrace.

Now he also remembered what he himself had done to increase the peril menacing the ancient
commercial house.  Perhaps the old man within was relying upon the estate of Tannenreuth, which
he had assigned to him, to protect some post upon which much depended, and he had gambled it
away. This must now be confessed, and also the amount of his own debts.

An unpleasant task confronted him but, humiliating and harassing as was the interview awaiting
him beyond the threshold before which he still lingered, at least he would not find Wolff there.
This seemed a boon, since for the first time he would have felt himself in the wrong in the
presence of his unloved brother-in-law.  Even the burden of his debts weighed less heavily
on his conscience than the irritating words with which he had induced his father-in-law to
break off Wolff's betrothal to Els Ortlieb.  The act was base and malicious.  Greatly as he
had erred, he had never before been guilty of such a deed, and with a curse upon himself on
his bearded lips he approached the door; but when half way to it he stopped again and looked
up to the second-story windows behind which the twins slept.  With what delight he had always
thought of them! But this time the recollection of the little boys was spoiled by Countess
Cordula's message to his wife to rear them so that they would not be like him, their father.

An evil wish!  And yet the warmest love could have devised no better one in behalf of the true
welfare of the boys.

He told himself so as he passed beneath the escutcheon through the heavy open door with its
iron ornaments.  He was expected, the steward told him, but he arched his broad breast as if
preparing for a wrestling match, pulled his mustache still longer, and went up the stairs.

CHAPTER XVI.

The spacious, lofty sitting-room which Seitz Siebenburg entered looked very magnificent.  Gay
Flanders tapestries hung on the walls.  The ceiling was slightly vaulted, and in the centre
of each mesh of the net designed upon it glittered a richly gilded kingfisher from the family
coat of arms.  Bear and leopard skins lay on the cushions, and upon the shelf which surrounded
three sides of the apartment stood costly vases, gold and silver utensils, Venetian mirrors
and goblets.  The chairs and furniture were made of rare woods inlaid with ebony and mother
of pearl, brought by way of Genoa from Moorish Spain.  In the bow window jutting out into the
street, where the old grandmother sat in her armchair, two green and yellow parrots on brass
perches interrupted the conversation, whenever it grew louder, with the shrill screams of their
ugly voices.

Siebenburg found all the family except Wolff and the twins.  His wife was half sitting, half
reclining, on a divan.  When Seitz entered she raised her head from the white arm on which
it had rested, turned her oval face with its regular features towards him, and gathered up
the fair locks which, released from their braids, hung around her in long, thick tresses. 
Her eyes showed that she had been weeping violently, and as her husband approached she again
sobbed painfully.

Her grandmother seemed annoyed by her lamentations for, pointing to Isabella's tears, she exclaimed
sharply, glancing angrily at Siebenburg:

"It's a pity for every one of them!"

The knight's blood boiled at the words, but they strengthened his courage.  He felt relieved
from any consideration for these people, not one of whom, except the poor woman shedding such
burning tears, had given him occasion to return love for love.  Had they flowed only for the
lost wealth, and not for him and the grief he caused Isabella, they would not have seemed "a
pity" to the old countess.

Siebenburg's breath came quicker.

The gratitude he owed his father-in-law certainly did not outweigh the humiliations with which
he, his weak wife, and ill-natured mother-in-law had embittered his existence.

Even now the old gentleman barely vouchsafed him a greeting.  After he had asked about his
son, called himself a ruined man, and upbraided the knight with insulting harshness because
his brothers--the news had been brought to him a short time before--were the robbers who had
seized his goods, and the old countess had chimed in with the exclamation, "They are all just
fit for the executioner's block!"  Seitz could restrain himself no longer; nay, it gave him
actual pleasure to show these hated people what he had done, on his part, to add to their embarrassments.
He was no orator, but now resentment loosened his tongue, and with swift, scornful words he
told Herr Casper that, as the son-in-law of a house which liked to represent itself as immensely
rich, he had borrowed from others what-- he was justified in believing it--had been withheld
through parsimony. Besides, his debts were small in comparison with the vast sums Herr Casper
had lavished in maintaining the impoverished estates of the Rotterbach kindred.  Like every
knight whose own home was not pleasant, he sometimes gambled; and when, yesterday, ill luck
pursued him and he lost the estate of Tannenreuth, he sincerely regretted the disaster, but
it could not be helped.

Terror and rage had sealed the old countess's lips, but now they parted in the hoarse cry:
"You deserve the wheel and the gallows, not the honourable block!"  and her daughter, Rosalinde
Eysvogel, repeated in a tone of sorrowful lamentation, "Yes, the wheel and the gallows."

A scornful laugh from Siebenburg greeted the threat, but when Herr Casper, white as death and
barely able to control his voice, asked whether this incredible confession was merely intended
to frighten the women, and the knight assured him of the contrary, he groaned aloud: "Then
the old house must succumb to disgraceful ruin."

Years of life spent together may inspire and increase aversion instead of love, but they undoubtedly
produce a certain community of existence.  The bitter anguish of his aged household companion,
the father of his wife, to whom bonds of love still unsevered united him, touched even Seitz
Siebenburg.  Besides, nothing moves the heart more quickly than the grief of a proud, stern
man.  Herr Casper's confession did not make him dearer to the knight, but it induced him to
drop the irritating tone which he had assumed, and in an altered voice he begged him not to
give up his cause as lost without resistance.  For his daughter's sake old Herr Ortlieb must
lend his aid.  Els, with whom he had just spoken, would cling firmly to Wolff, and try to induce
her father to do all that was possible for her lover's house.  He would endeavour to settle
with his own creditors himself.  His sharp sword and strong arm would be welcome everywhere,
and the booty he won----  Here he was interrupted by the grandmother's query in a tone of cutting
contempt: "Booty?  On the highway, do you mean?"

Once more the attack from the hostile old woman rendered the knight's decision easier, for,
struggling not to give way to his anger, he answered: "Rather, I think, in the Holy Land, in
the war against the infidel Saracens.  At any rate, my presence would be more welcome anywhere
than in this house, whose roof shelters you, Countess.  If, Herr Casper, you intend to share
with my wife and the twins what is left after the old wealth has gone, unfortunately, I cannot
permit you to do so. I will provide for them also.  True, it was your duty; for ever since
Isabella became my wife you have taken advantage of my poverty and impaired my right to command
her.  That must be changed from this very day.  I have learned the bitter taste of the bread
which you provide. I shall confide them to my uncle, the Knight Heideck.  He was my dead mother's
only brother, and his wife, as you know, is the children's godmother.  They are childless,
and would consider it the most precious of gifts to have such boys in the castle. On pretty
much that still makes the painting of the Schack Gallery in all its details so attractive, is now
omitted. Where he wants to present a "history", he struggles, as we have from his Letters you
can, then, the psychological, at first glance to make that clear. He has previously been advised
to have counted with those ideas, perhaps intentionally, the further the viewer spins, it is limited
now aware of what presented visible may be contained in a large-scale decorative paintings. The narrative
is not presented only with dramatic clarity. Böcklin loves to reduce them to a few figures.
The classic example is the figure of the "adventurer", the most secluded beaches like a Equestrian statue
in the blue air rises and the most daring courage told (Plate 62).

He is like the master of the Attic grave reliefs to the principle that an artistic to reduce thought
to a few elements, these elements, be they human figures, Rocks or trees to simplify, so that the
silhouettes in a few expressive Lines stand out from the background, but the few so loving
and perform the more careful to weigh. He congratulated thrilled by Hans Marées 1879 the "ages"
because he had everything that does not lead to an end, pushed aside. Few Figures, few in each
finely differentiated color tones, colors, contrasts sharply a few outspoken, often horizontal and
vertical lines dominate the scene gradually alone and already give for the first sight of the
overall effect. The color is in sharp Unlike the art of those days where the "gray open-air"
in Germany came up easier. During the Impressionist strong contrasts not hold and has the tendency,
the intermediate stages enriching to infinity, preferably Böcklin the strongest contrasts of
light and dark, of bright, almost unbroken colors. The intermediate stages are rather less numerous.
The intervals are larger. However, he wont then the individual notes that the image To determine
whether the dark almost black rock wall or back of the light blue Air or a bright yellow wall,
with fine nuances to spiritualize and alive to make.

Increases it by all the expression, the mood, it also dramatically increases again Depth. The characters
who speak through their silhouettes such a clear statement which
solemn chords of color, take the viewer and capture services providers,
to push back the space, though Böcklin colors prospects now as little
as his tritons and naiads in accordance with the nature.

What was once spread out side by side is now pushed in a row. Of the crumbling walls of its
"ruins by the sea" sees is now down to the depth of the approaching waves, while the eye at the
Villas the sea nor the left of the fading splendor of products over the sea horizon to the right
over is performed. The composition is dramatic, as the mood is tragic.

The designs on paper that preceded the painting on the picture board, rather than wearing Böcklin
with pen or chalk suddenly and almost without exception, with drawing and with broad brush strokes,
the lighting of the proposed work to play. He used to run but since Munich only varnish colors or
tempera. The new technical procedures were once his Need for transparent
brilliance of the colors meet.

But temperature is too thin, almost like the ink, which he now used in the designs, and it
also allowed the Böcklin sought by carrying out all the details. For if the great contrasts of identities
of light and dark and intense colors of all, he wanted the individual notes almost like drawing
up in all the characteristics of the form of tree and rock and all the nuances of Distance can
work. His ideal would have been to all the power and love to a single to use the masterpiece and
his joy was now instead of the canvas, the smooth, white primed Wooden plate. The dealer knew
that the Creator could not resist the temptation is very difficult, such a panel will not alter
the image of when they joined hands of knowledgeable and well primed him free was delivered
to the house and sought to exploit this to his advantage.

The earliest works of the Florentine period are often different from the brightly colored paintings
the previous years, falling to by one, albeit impressive, yet deep tuned color. The shadows become
darker, the bright red almost disappears very red, brown red, brown, yellow and green and
a light blue-gray are the colors that are often the Impression determine.

The red is used sparingly and almost exclusively in broken tones. It appears that several works have
also due to a painting medium, then the Böcklin used and later abandoned, darkened. Around 1880,
the preference applies to a bright Ultramarine, and the fiery tones take things a little more
and more often in her old law.

In the first months of the stay, the first image of the Schack Gallery "Triton and Nereid "a great
transformation in larger formats in the similar painting in the National Gallery in Berlin received
(Plate 45 and 46). The later image already strikingly tart flavor
is one of the largest and most perfect creations of the whole life
remained.

Clearly occurs the new, which begins to take shape in a small-works, the magnificent single
figure of the "Clio" produced (Plate 49). In the following year was a different, already treated in Munich
accusation the action for the body of Christ, recorded again, and many figures in the "Cross"
Larger and more destructive to the increased (Plate 51). Now replaced by a much older design
the crucial transformation. The villas and castles in the foothills of the Ligurian coast rock,
close to the surging waters of the sea, equipped with all the glories of the southern Vegetation
and culture, but once constantly threatened by the barbarians of Africa, that was one of the strongest
impressions received by the romantics and the landlocked countries in his youth had when he
came to the South, perhaps the strongest of his whole life. This impression he has treated in endless
variations. Now he is the "villa," as we Schack look at two variations, first in two new versions
(in Stuttgart and Zurich) a slight, but characteristically different form, the Villa will be
in a third picture of the ruins of a villa, the view goes on the left side of the picture
and you can see the ocean horizon over the terrace between the pillars of the house. At this creation
should close then since 1880 the better-known ruins of castles on the sea (Plate 15, 16, Text
illustrations p. 40, 41 and 43, Plate 68).

The result is 1878, the main work fields of the blessed "(Plate 53), once because of the sharp
pronounced vertical (at the necks of the swans) found inconsistent, and the following Years, the
"surf" (Plate 55) and the "Spring Evening" (Plate 56). To the image of the National Gallery is
the sketch of 1877, with the other precursors are obtained, which
also just before must be developed.

Here, as in the reorganization after recent creations it is apparent that the moving silhouettes
of the first versions, even if they are natural appeared, would simplify the work and further progression
of the maturing of the work always were. The contrasts are amplified and the whole composition appears at
the close firmer contracted.

In classic form, the new but expressed in the "dead island", the following Years owe their origin. The
idea may Böcklin already carried around a long time with it have triggered the creative act was an
order. Wife Bernadette, who later became Oriola countess came in April of 1880 on a trip to Rome
in Böcklin studio to To order a picture.

This first thought of something cheerful, a children's dance. Ms Bernadette but wanted a landscape,
"something to dream".

Böcklin then went to the very different matter, obviously not without application of the participation
would have played in the fate of the Purchaser. They had very young, after a short happy marriage,
a young husband suddenly lost.

In the painting the wife is shown the beloved husband to rest out. As a woman, Bernadette returned
in May from Rome, were the two earliest versions in the studio. The first had returned and
he painted Böcklin at the second and noticed they have something here to dream, it must be so
silent act, that we be troubled if you knock. It was missing the boat and some power in the tones.
The painting of Mrs Bernadette is the end of June to the Purchaser has been sent. Böcklin went
it immediately to Ischia, and then it was the impressions, so rich in fertile trip held on the
Ponzainseln. This second stay in Ischia but found a sudden end. In the return journey from a
small stand of Depeschenbote on shore, the news of the deadly disease of Böcklin father brought.
When the artist returned to Florence was completed, he now also the first version, which is now
in Basel. The motive Islands of the Dead, comes as the son of Carlo Böcklin proved convincing
and even Böcklin said to have been occasionally in Ischia. In the first version is the similarity
with of the town of Ischia exposed rock island with the castle of Alfonso V, not to fail, only the bases
of the mighty medieval castle walls to grown from a few meters. It thus has a residence here
in 1879 with his Marées Borne fruit. The strange lighting, the first two versions have in common
and by the later repetitions sharp contrasts, is the same as in the "Entombment" by 1876th It
is after sunset. The reflection of the western sky is clear or the white walls and bright rocks,
while the lower tones and the local eastern sky behind the Island have long since lost in
the dark - like the Alps in the glow of the case. When "Island of the Dead" is already in the
complaint from the new sense of style is born and the creation its tremendous force. The pronounced
vertical and horizontal effect by the symmetry of the structure nor particularly powerful. "The
Balanced is either boring or solemnly," Böcklin once said to the author. It works here and
is officially supported by powerful the four-tone colors of tones that dominate the picture.
A new way is in landscape painting followed. The achievements of the 17th and 19 Century hardly
offer analogies to the moods, Here the hit, the effects are achieved. The sublime solemnity that
these Creation apart is rare in modern art. Modern man will enjoy them likely still in Egyptian temples
and Gothic cathedrals, such as still gardens the Baroque period.

Böcklin Florentine style would have probably given away only the highest but a large scale. It therefore
sounds like a mockery of any state of art care that art understanding of the Director Berg am just
Breslau Museum in 1880, an attempt has been made, the Master for a monumental work, the painting
of the staircase, win, and that this attempt is a failure. In the spring of 1881 Böcklin working
on the designs for which Wall, and he himself was warm here, also hoped for a decisive change
in its external Conditions.

Autumn of 1882 he had, it seems, nor the intention of the objections of the add to State Art
Commission, which had to be brought in, but then he had every request unanswered in this case.
He apparently feared that his artistic imagination in new objections and concessions eventually
wane and that he had a further exchange of letters the mood will also rob other work. He pulled
the easel for from now on always before, not because he was better, but because the criticism
here is usually only after the Completion began.

Having a solution like that of the "Island of the Dead" was found, were in rapid succession four
years long, at least from easel paintings a lot, big and small, with the striking Characteristics
of that classic period of the workshop produced. In the autumn of 1880 were stimulated the
Argonauts' voyage of the summer, nor the first "ruin by the sea" (the precursor of PI 68) and the
Triton family "(Plate 57). How often in Böcklin, then broke the "Island of the Dead" an image,
which is related to the overall investment, but the mood in complete
contrast is to this work.

It is the "summer", the image of the brightest sunlight, and the hottest heat of the sun, August
1881, (Plate 61). A companion piece to the "Island of the Dead" all another kind is the "Sacred
Grove", the first version (Table 65) completed in spring 1882 was. Here is again symmetrical composition
with a similarly solemn effect achieved. At the same time he created for the fireplace a ballroom
in a private home in Breslau, the monumental Two character image "Poetry and Painting" (Plate 67).
is in several paintings of the same year He conceived a single monumental figure in front of blue
sky with a low horizon, the "adventurers" (Plate 62) and in the non-illustrated works here "drama"
and "Musa Semneh", 1883, the "Game of the waves" and "Odysseus and Calypso" completed (Plate
70 & 72) and the "Spring Day" (Plate 71) set up next to "Island of the Dead" and "sacred grove" the
most striking scenery of this Epoch. It appealed to him not merely the simple and great, but sometimes
the Giant. We probably owe the "Prometheus", the one between the clouds above the entire Caucasus Mountains
provides lounging. (First version of 1882, table 69) A Visual idea, which is characteristic for
this time and three times in rapid succession a more more striking figure is replaced, and finally
the sanctuary of a god on the beach. The most mature Solution is the spring of 1884 and emerged
as a "sanctuary of Hercules, second edition," on panel ready 73rd The earliest image of the series
goes under a different name and has emerged around 1878 be.

By the spring of 1884, however, the interest for the problems that it all these years have
kept in suspense exhausted. There are a few more reps major works this time, but it does apply,
the master still in Florence decidedly different, mostly amiable Substances to. These pictures
are also so far been accompanied in addition to the more powerful, the "Flora, Flowers awakening",
the "Flora, strewing flowers" and the three paintings under the name the honeymoon is known (Plate
48 and 52, 50 and 54), but now everything is soft, the Delicate flavor and a set of tuned substantially
different picture as the "hermit"

(Plate 75) "God the Father as the Adam's Paradise" and others that were only completed later,
were in recent months in the Florentine studio.

The works of the Florentine period found in the north such a passionate appeal, like no other
period of his life. The amount of educated people, they were too little academic, in fact probably
too little philistine, works like the "fields of the blessed" or even "Triton and Nereid were
"not to be misunderstood because each understood that the author thought otherwise, since felt
everyone out all the basic feature of a foreign enemy philistine approach to life. There have
been averted but also men of Böcklin that inspires its previous creations
had taken and which only the last and most mature was too strong and
there were even such images as perceived at that time sought, in which
one must recognize his greatest deeds.

In addition, it was still a serious enemy in a new invading France, self-contained art form.
In 1879, the French Pleinairisten the resounding success in the growing artistic community and
won the early eighties when Böcklin the "Odysseus", the "adventurers" and "Prometheus" was created,
the time of the gray-free light. Admiring it stood before the sun spots in Liebermann's Garden
the Altmännerhauses while Böcklin who made in his "Pan in the Reeds" once similar had regarded
Impressionism as a vanquished position and realized that his last
of these goals could only be achieved by other means.

But the break with academic painting, which took place in the eighties, had but the good that
one of every force that was on himself and went their own ways, Attention was paid more than
before, the feeling of personalities also took the further Audience on hand, to Feuerbach's grave
were laid wreaths, Thoma and Mare was discovered and slowly but surely penetrated in the years
of 1878 - by 1892 as well Böcklin direction. A circle of younger artists who grew up in Impressionism
as Max Klinger, saw in him the pioneer of a better time.

ZURICH 1885-1892, FLORENCE 1892-1901

In 1885, Böcklin moved to Zurich and has until shortly after his stroke there had a permanent
home. A studio, he had followed at the height of Hirslanden their individual needs can build
yourself.

It is a simple timber-framed building that looks like this like a
freight shed and in people's mouth "Komediwagen" was, on the outside
is shapeless the master himself to be frightened.

Other hand, had the great empty spaces of the Interior its dark covering and its excellent distribution
of light atmospheric, almost solemn; and the colorful pictures in a splendor shone there than
in any private space and any collection. Access was from the sun street, now open road. A new
road, which received its name from the master, now touching a rear corner of the building.

In Zurich Böcklin found to Gottfried Keller. It was perhaps the most beautiful experience of last
decades. Even the choice of new place is by the thought of the poet have been affected.

There are many points of contact found in belief, character and inclinations.

Böcklin the longer passages from Keller's prose knew by heart, estimated at this particularly
the clarity the presentation and the subtlety and sharpness of observation. He has the aging
poet with touching care adopted, he went out with him and escorted
him carefully home.

Two years after the meeting was to Böcklin sixtieth birthday that glorious Poem by Keller.
Another two years later, in 1889, created Böcklin the basement of the medal Poet's seventieth birthday.
The poet, again through the otherwise awkward praise extreme could be tempted, for its joy at the
medal in the now soon following last Disease, often in a childlike way gradezu given expression.

To
Gottfried Keller now many recalls in Bocklin works, especially the amiable Humor, with the
figures of legend or fiction are placed in the middle of an environment the reality is removed.

Of
paintings is just after the move the "Self-portrait with wine glass" (Plate 77) emerged. This
was followed by further transformations at the outset the two images in Munich were created: the
"Bacchus dance around the pillar" and "Attack of pirates"

(first, versions resulting in Munich on Plate 35 and 36). The "ruin by the sea" is now on the
"ruins" (Plate 78) in the north. But then began the genius loci to contribute and it produced
images of which it had fertilized new experiences and new environment.

Characteristic of this time the creations, the allegations in part to remind Ludwig Richter or
shrinkage. "Look, it laughs the Au" (Plate 84), especially the "return of the country servant"
(Plate 83), then the "going to Bacchus Temple (Plate 89), the" old in the summer house "(Plate
90)," Marie Sage (Plate 91). And the pictures of the great sense of humor: "game of the naiads" (Plate
80), "Susanna," "Centaur in the village smithy "(Plate 86).

The colors of these creations is increased to the highest, namely, the luminous Red is now an
ever again dominating note. The words of Keller: "Let's see the iris arc if the brightest sky
turns blue, "not a time to fit Böcklin as good as on the Zurich Time. The Master loved the colors
of Lake Zurich and the new residence was certainly an influence on its color. There are also the
motives of some celebrated pictures in the environment of his Residence
was established.

To achieve all that is to say in the picture, trying He is now with multi-part paintings, where
the contrast of one image, the effect of others should increase, it established the "Sage Marie,"
the "Holy Anthony, the fish preaching " (Plate 92), the "Venus Genitrix" (Plate 94), although
the signs until later, but in 1892 almost been completed is.

were used as support in the creation of his extensive panel paintings in this period often
Drafts in pencil, charcoal or chalk in very small format. Böcklin now painted with a preference
on wood and designed the composition and about the same with ordinary chalk on the canvas. If extensive
changes were necessary, he left a part of the plate plane down again.
  Forgetting the stratagem which was to lure Heinz hither,
he burst into a furious rage, fiercely declaring that he sought favour and generosity from
no man, least of all a Heinz Schorlin and, advancing to the door, flung the servant who barred
his passage so rudely against the wall that he uttered a loud cry of pain.

Ere it had died away Heinz appeared on the threshold.  A long white robe increased the pallor
of his face, but yesterday so ruddy, and his reddened eyes showed traces of recent tears.

When he perceived what had occurred, and saw his faithful follower, with a face distorted by
pain, rubbing his shoulder, his cheeks flushed angrily, and with just indignation he rebuked
Siebenburg for his unseemly intrusion into his quarters and his brutal conduct.

Then, without heeding the knight, he asked Biberli if he was seriously injured, and when the
latter answered in the negative he again turned to Seitz and briefly enquired what he wanted.
If he desired to own that, while in a state of senseless intoxication he had slandered modest
maidens, and was ignorant of his actions when he staked his castle and lands against the gold
lying before him, Heinz Schorlin, he might keep Tannenreuth.  The form in which he would revoke
his calumny to Jungfrau Ortlieb he would discuss with him later.  At present his mind was occupied
with more important matters than the senseless talk of a drunkard, and he would therefore request
the knight to leave him.

As Heinz uttered the last words he pointed to the door, and this indiscreet, anything but inviting
gesture robbed Siebenburg of the last remnant of composure maintained with so much difficulty.

Nothing is more infuriating to weak natures than to have others expect them to pursue a course
opposite to that which, after a victory over baser impulses, they have recognised as the right
one and intended to follow.  He who had come to resign his lost property voluntarily was regarded
by the Swiss as an importunate mendicant; he who stood here to prove that he was perfectly
justified in accusing Els Ortlieb of a crime, Schorlin expected to make a revocation against
his better knowledge.  And what price did the insolent fellow demand for the restored estate
and the right to brand him as a slanderer?  The pleasure of seeing the unwelcome guest retire
as quickly as possible.  No greater degree of contempt and offensive presumption could be imagined,
and as Seitz set his own admirable conduct during the past few hours far above the profligate
behaviour of the Swiss, he was fired with honest indignation and, far from heeding the white
robe and altered countenance of his enemy, gave the reins to his wrath.

Pale with fury, he flung, as it were, the estate the Swiss had won from him at his feet, amid
no lack of insulting words.

At first Heinz listened to the luckless gambler's outbreak of rage in silent amazement, but
when the latter began to threaten, and even clapped his hand on his sword, the composure which
never failed him in the presence of anything that resembled danger quickly returned.

He had felt a strong aversion to Siebenburg from their first meeting, and the slanderous words
with which he had dragged in the dust the good name of a maiden who, Heinz knew, had incurred
suspicion solely through his fault, had filled him with scorn.  So, with quiet contempt, he
let him rave on; but when the person to whom he had just been talking--the old Minorite monk
whom he had met on the highroad and accompanied to Nuremberg--appeared at the door of the next
room, he stopped Seitz with a firm "Enough!" pointed to the old man, and in brief, simple words,
gave the castle and lands of Tannenreuth to the monastery of the mendicant friars of the Franciscan
order in Nuremberg.

Siebenburg listened with a contemptuous shrug of the shoulders, then he said bitterly: "I thought
that a life of poverty was the chief rule in the order of St. Francis.  But no matter!  May
the gift won at the gaming table profit the holy Brothers.  For you, Sir Knight, it will gain
the favour of the Saint of Assisi, whose power is renowned.  So you have acted wisely."

Here he hesitated; he felt choked with rage.  But while the Minorite was thanking Heinz for
the generous gift, Siebenburg's eyes again rested on the curtain behind which the maid was
concealed.

It was now his turn to deal the Swiss a blow.  The old mendicant friar was a venerable person
whose bearing commanded respect, and Heinz seemed to value his good opinion.  For that very
reason the Minorite should learn the character of this patron of his order.

"Since you so earnestly desire to be rid of my company, Sir Heinz Schorlin," he continued,
"I will fulfil your wish.  Only just now you appeared to consider certain words uttered last
night in reference to a lady--"

"Let that pass," interrupted Heinz with marked emphasis.

"I might expect that desire," replied Siebenburg scornfully; "for as you are in the act of
gaining the favour of Heaven by pious works, it will be agreeable to you--"

"What?" asked the Swiss sharply.

"You will surely desire," was the reply, "to change conduct which is an offence to honourable
people, and still more to the saints above.  You who have estranged a betrothed bride from
her lover and lured her to midnight interviews, no doubt suppose yourself safe from the future
husband, whom the result of a duel--as you know--will keep from her side. But Wolff happens
to be my brother-in-law, and if I feel disposed to take his place and break a lance with you----"

Heinz, pale as death, interrupted him, exclaiming in a tone of the deepest indignation: "So
be it, then.  We will have a tilt with lances, and then we will fight with our swords."

Siebenburg looked at him an instant, as if puzzled by his adversary's sharp assault, but quickly
regained his composure and answered: "Agreed! In the joust--[single combat in the tourney]--with
sharp weapons it will soon appear who has right on his side."

"Right?" asked Heinz in astonishment, shrugging his shoulders scornfully.

"Yes, right," cried the other furiously, "which you have ceased to prize."

"So far from it," the Swiss answered quietly, "that before we discuss the mode of combat with
the herald I must ask you to recall the insults with which yesterday, in your drunkenness,
you injured the honour of a virtuous maiden in the presence of other knights and gentlemen."

"Whose protector," laughed Seitz, "you seem to have constituted yourself, by your own choice,
in her bridegroom's place."

"I accept  the position,"  replied Heinz with cool deliberation. "Not you, nay, I will fight
in Wolff Eysvogel's stead--and with his consent, I think.  I know him, and esteem him so highly----"

"That you invite his plighted bride to nocturnal love dalliance, and exchange love messages
with her," interrupted the other.

This was too much for Heinz Schorlin and, with honest indignation, he cried: "Prove it!  Or,
by our Lord's blood!--My sword, Biberli!--Spite of the peace proclaimed throughout the land,
you shall learn, ere you open your slandering lips again----"

Here he paused suddenly, for while Biberli withdrew to obey the command which, though it probably
suited his wishes, he was slow in executing, doubtless that he might save his master from a
reckless act, Siebenburg, frantic with fury, rushed to the curtain.  Ere Heinz could interfere,
he jerked it back so violently that he tore it from the fastenings and forced the terrified
maid, whose arm he grasped, to approach the knight with him.

Heinz had seen Katterle only by moonlight and in the twilight, so her unexpected appearance
gave him no information.  He gazed at her enquiringly, with as much amazement as though she
had risen from the earth.  Siebenburg gave him no time to collect his thoughts, but dragged
the girl before the monk and, raising his voice in menace, commanded: "Tell the holy Brother
who you are, woman!"

"Katterle of Sarnen," she answered, weeping.  "And whom do you serve?" the knight demanded.

"The Ortlieb sisters, Jungfrau Els and Jungfrau Eva," was the reply.

"The beautiful Es, as they are called here, holy Brother," said Siebenburg with a malicious
laugh, "whose maid I recognise in this girl. If she did not come hither to mend the linen of
her mistress's friend--"

But here Biberli, who on his return to the anteroom had been terrified by the sight of his
sweetheart, interrupted the knight by turning to Heinz with the exclamation: "Forgive me, my
lord.  Surely you know that she is my betrothed bride.  She came just now--scarcely a dozen
Paternosters ago-to talk with me about the marriage." 

Yes, I have no doubt that ͤ o Public opinion is formed and they will resent, as I, with the
Low German and the rumble is over the co u ͤ ͤ heads go of our farmers and will - be contagious.

The
infection is the main force of public opinion and o ͤ the most wonderful
thing about her.

The main executors of the legislative power o ͤ public opinion but in our Undoubtedly the case,
school teachers, especially in the countryside. At the level of the share the realization of
the good will of this great, well ͤ useful, secretly acting class Citi ͤ rgern, whose influence
on the formation of the country people is significantly large ͤ SSSR,
when the Pastoral influence comes infinitely much.

Take this as it belongs to them and to be expected, the cause of civilization with zeal penetrate
to them from the necessity of a continuous Attak on the Low German, they are, as is their
custom, persevere in their study ͤ ck, so I want to see what Vera
ͤ this miraculous change ratios as early as the end of ten years in
a negotiat ͤ of to produce high plate.

Their main task ͤ wa re, meaning to strive, the High German confidential and cordial to make
- a way of mmertheit only by the skill and Unbeku ͤ the tongue passes. Her work is in school,
in families, ne before the communication ͤ. What betrift the school so wu rde ͤ I give the advice
in the early school years, children do not have to write to Read to stop, just to talk. It stands
to why. The elder mu ͤ ßten ha ͤ more often with speech and Denku ͤ environments Bescha ͤ
be ftigt - what an opportunity both to the intellect and to contribute through this to the Low
German language in which the boy from home from all the fru ͤ are here eingepropft prejudices
and stupidities. Ru ͤ considerate of special merit the girl ͤ Ma. Your vegetables are soft
ͤ ether, receiver ͤ an elongated, her body, weighted ͤ also similar to their To form more easily
understood and - once they are Mu ͤ tter, housewives, that is, the Country ͤ fu r ju ͤ the longest
race in the house are all in all. Even in a home ͤ lterlichen remains much work to, especially
housewives and a ͤ To ͤ older daughters, and the cheerful, informal Shareholders is the best,
he brings now an entertaining book (short and edifying Stories, no rambling boring), now an interesting
subject for Erza ͤ cooling with an anecdote from history, or meinentwegen
a case from the neighborhood, the village with which, he assured,
is not in the Low German pace.

"So be it," replied Heinz quietly.  "You can discuss the other points with my herald.  Wolff
Eysvogel, too--rely upon it--will challenge you, if you fulfil your base design."

Then, turning his back upon Seitz without a word of farewell, he motioned the monk towards
the open door of the antechamber, and letting him lead the way, closed it behind them.

"He will come to you, you boaster!"  Siebenburg shouted contemptuously after the Swiss, and
then turned to Biberli and the maid with a patronising question; but the former, without even
opening his lips in reply, hastened to the door and, with a significant gesture, induced the
knight to retire.

Seitz submitted and hastened down the stairs, his eyes flashing as if he had won a great victory.
At the door of the house he grasped the hilt of his sword, and then, with rapid movements,
twisted the ends of his mustache.  The surprise he had given the insolent Swiss by the discovery
of his love messenger--it had acted like a spell--could not have succeeded better.  And what
had Schorlin alleged in justification? Nothing, absolutely nothing at all.  Wolff Eysvogel's
herald should challenge the Swiss, not him, who meant to open the deceived lover's eyes concerning
his betrothed bride.

He eagerly anticipated the joust and the sword combat with Heinz.  The sharper the herald's
conditions the better.  He had hurled more powerful foes than the Swiss from the saddle, and
from knightly "courtoisie" not even used his strength without consideration.  Heinz Schorlin
should feel it.

He gazed around him like a victor, and throwing his head back haughtily he went down the Bindergasse,
this time past the Franciscan monastery towards the Town Hall and the fish market.  Eber, the
sword cutler, lived there and, spite of the large sum he owed him, Seitz wished to talk with
him about the sharp weapons he needed for the joust.  On his way he gave his imagination free
course.  It showed him his impetuous onset, his enemy's fall in the sand, the sword combat,
and the end of the joust, the swift death of his hated foe.

These pictures of the future occupied his thoughts so deeply that he neither saw nor heard
what was passing around him.  Many a person for whom he forgot to turn aside looked angrily
after him.  Suddenly he found his farther progress arrested.  The crier had just raised his
voice to announce some important tidings to the people who thronged around him between the
Town Hall and the Franciscan monastery.  Perhaps he might have succeeded in forcing a passage
through the concourse, but when he heard the name "Ernst Ortlieb," in the monotonous speech
of the city crier, he followed the remainder of his notice.  It made known to the citizens
of Nuremberg that, since the thunderstorm of the preceding night, a maid had been missing from
the house of the Honourable Herr Ernst Ortlieb, of the Council, a Swiss by birth, Katharina
of Sarnen, called Katterle, a woman of blameless reputation.  Whoever should learn anything
concerning the girl was requested to bring the news to the Ortlieb residence.

What did this mean?

If the girl had vanished at midnight and not returned to her employers since, she could scarcely
have sought Heinz Schorlin as a messenger of love from Els.  But if she had not come to the
Swiss from one of the Es, what proof did he, Seitz, possess of the guilt of his brother-in-law's
bride?  How should he succeed in making Wolff understand that his beloved Els had wronged him
if the maid was to play no part in proving it? Yesterday evening he had not believed firmly
in her guilt; that very morning it had even seemed to him a shameful thing that he had cast
suspicion upon her in the presence of others.  The encounter with the maid at the Swiss knight's
lodgings had first induced him to insist on his accusation so defiantly.  And now?  If Heinz
Schorlin, with the help of the Ortliebs, succeeded in proving the innocence of those whom he
had accused, then--ah, he must not pursue that train of thought--then, at the lady's accusation,
he might be deprived of the right to enter the lists in the tournament; then all the disgrace
which could be inflicted upon the slanderous defamer of character threatened him; then Wolff
would summon him to a reckoning, as well as Heinz Schorlin.  Wolff, whom he had begun to hate
since, with his resistless arm of iron, he had exposed him for the first time to the malicious
glee of the bystanders in the fencing hall.

Yet it was not this which suddenly bowed his head and loudly admonished him that he had again
behaved like a reckless fool.  Cowardice was his least fault.  He did not fear what might befall
him in battle.  Whether he would be barred out from the lists was the terrible question which
darkened the bright morning already verging towards noon.  He had charged Els with perfidy
in the presence of others, and thereby exposed her, the plighted bride of a knight, to the
utmost scorn.  And besides--fool that he was!--his brothers had again attacked a train of waggons
on the highway and would soon be called to account as robbers.  This would certainly lead the
Swiss and others to investigate his own past, and the Pursuivant at Arms excluded from joust
and tourney whoever "injured trade or merchant."  What would not his enemy, who was in such
high favour with the Emperor, do to compass his destruction?  But--and at the thought he uttered
a low imprecation--how could he ride to the joust if his father- in-law closed his strong box
which, moreover, was said to be empty?  If the old man was forced to declare himself bankrupt
Siebenburg's creditors would instantly seize his splendid chargers and costly suits of armour,
scarcely one half of which were paid for.  How much money he needed as security in case of
defeat!  His sole property was debts.  Yet the thought seemed like an illumination--his wife's
valuable old jewels could probably still be saved, and she might be induced to give him part
of the ornaments for the tournament.  He need only make her understand that his honour and
that of the twins were at stake.  Would that Heaven might spare his boys such hours of anxiety
and self-accusation!

But what was this?  Was he deluding himself?  Did his over-excited imagination make him hear
a death knell pealing for his honour and his hopes, which must be borne to their grave?  Yet
no!  All the citizens and peasants, men and women, great and small, who thronged the salt market,
which he had just entered, raised their heads to listen with him; for from every steeple at
once rang the mournful death knell which announced to the city the decease of an "honourable"
member of the Council, a secular or ecclesiastical prince.  The mourning banner was already
waving on the roof of the Town Hall, towards which he turned.  Men in the service of the city
were hoisting other black flags upon the almshouse, and now the Hegelein--[Proclaimer of decrees]--in
mourning garments, mounted on a steed caparisoned with crepe, came riding by at the head of
other horsemen clad in sable, proclaiming to the throng that Hartmann, the Emperor Rudolph's
promising son, had found an untimely end.  The noble youth was drowned while bathing in the Rhine.

It seemed as if a frost had blighted a blooming garden.  The gay bustle in the market place
was paralysed.  The loud sobs of many women blended with exclamations of grief and pity from
bearded lips which had just been merrily bargaining for salt and fish, meat and game.  Messengers
with crepe on their hats or caps forced a passage through the throng, and a train of German
knights, priests, and monks passed with bowed heads, bearing candles in their hands, between
the Town Hail and St. Sebald's Church towards the corn magazine and the citadel.

Meanwhile dark clouds were spreading slowly over the bright-blue vault of the June sky.  A
flock of rooks hovered around the Town Hall, and then flew, with loud cries, towards the castle.

Seitz watched them indifferently.  Even the great omnipotent sovereign there had his own cross
to bear; tears flowed in his proud palace also, and sighs of anguish were heard.  And this
was just.  He had never wished evil to any one who did not injure him, but even if he could
have averted this sore sorrow from the Emperor Rudolph he would not have stirred a finger.
His coronation had been a blow to him and to his brothers. Formerly they had been permitted
to work their will on the highways, but the Hapsburg, the Swiss, had pitilessly stopped their
brigandage.  Now for the first time robber-knights were sentenced and their castles destroyed.
The Emperor meant to transform Germany into a sheepfold, Absbach exclaimed.  The Siebenburg
brothers were his faithful allies, and though they complained that the joyous, knightly clank
of arms would be silenced under such a sovereign, they themselves took care that the loud battle
shouts, cries of pain, and shrieks for aid were not hushed on the roads used for traffic by
the merchants.  But this was not Seitz's sole reason for shrugging his shoulders at the expressions
of the warmest sympathy which rose around him.  The Emperor was tenderly attached to Heinz
Schorlin, and the man who was so kindly disposed to his foe could never be his friend.  Perhaps
to-morrow Rudolph might behead his brothers and elevate Heinz Schorlin to still greater honors.
Seitz, whose eyes had overflowed with tears when the warder of his native castle lost his aged
wife, who had been his nurse, now found no cause to grieve with the mourners.

So he continued his way, burdened with his own anxieties, amid the tears and lamentations of
the multitude.  The numerous retinue of servants in the Eysvogel mansion were moving restlessly
to and fro; the news of the prince's death had reached them.  Herr Casper had left the house.
He was probably at Herr Ernst Ortlieb's.  If the latter had already learned what he, Seitz
Siebenburg, had said at the gaming table of his daughter, perhaps his hand had dealt the first
decisive blow at the tottering house where, so long as it stood, his wife and the twins would
under any circumstances find shelter.  Resentment against the Swiss, hatred, and jealousy,
had made him a knave, and at the same time the most shortsighted of fools.

As he approached the second story, in which the nursery was situated and where he expected
to find his wife, it suddenly seemed as if a star had risen amid the darkness.  If he poured
out his heart to Isabella and let her share the terrible torture of his soul, perhaps it would
awaken a tender sympathy in the woman who still loved him, and who was dearer to him than he
could express.  Her jewels were certainly very valuable, but far more precious was the hope
of being permitted to rest his aching head upon her breast and feel her slender white hand
push back the hair from his anxious brow.  Oh, if misfortune would draw her again as near to
him as during the early months of their married life and directly before it, he could rise
from his depression with fresh vigour and transform the battle, now half lost, into victory.
Besides, she was clever and had power over the hearts of her family, so perhaps she might point
out the pathway of escape, which his brain, unused to reflection, could not discover.

His heart throbbed high as, animated by fresh hope, he entered the corridor from which opened
the rooms which he occupied with her.  But his wish to find her alone was not to be fulfilled;
several voices reached him.

What was the meaning of the scene?

Isabella, her face deadly pale, and her tall figure drawn up to its full height, stood before
the door of the nursery with a stern, cold expression on her lovely lips, like a princess pronouncing
sentence upon a criminal.  She was panting for breath, and before her, her mother, and her
grandmother, Countess Cordula's pretty page, whom Siebenburg knew only too well, was moving
to and fro with eager gestures.  He held in his hand the bunch of roses which Seitz had sent
to his newly-won wife and darling as a token of reconciliation, and Siebenburg heard his clear,
boyish tones urge: "I have already said so and, noble lady, you may believe me, this bouquet,
which the woman brought us, was intended for my gracious mistress, Countess von Montfort. 
It was meant to give her a fair morning greeting, and--Do not let this vex you, for it was
done only in the joyous game of love, as custom dictated.  Ever since we came here your lord
has daily honoured my countess with the loveliest flowers whose buds unfold in the region near
the Rhine.  But my gracious mistress, as you have already heard, believes that you, noble lady,
have a better right to these unusually beautiful children of the spring than she who last evening
bade your lord behold in you, not in her, fair lady, the most fitting object of his homage.
So she sent me hither, most gracious madam, to lay what is yours at your feet."

As he spoke, the agile boy, with a graceful bow, tried to place the flowers in Isabella's hand,
but she would not receive the bouquet, and the abrupt gesture with which she pushed them back
flung the nosegay on the floor.  Paying no further heed to it, she answered in a cold, haughty
tone: "Thank your mistress, and tell her that I appreciated her kind intention, but the roses
which she sent me were too full of thorns." Then, turning her back on the page, she advanced
with majestic pride to the door of the nursery.

Her mother and grandmother tried to follow, but Siebenburg pressed between them and his wife,
and his voice thrilled with the anguish of a soul overwhelmed by despair as he cried imploringly:
"Hear me, Isabella! There is a most unhappy misunderstanding here.  By all that is sacred to
me, by our love, by our children, I swear those roses were intended for you, my heart's treasure,
and for you alone."

But Countess Rotterbach cut him short by exclaiming with a loud chuckle: "The unripe early
pears will probably come from the fruit market to the housewife's hands later; the roses found
their way to Countess von Montfort more quickly."

The malicious words were followed like an echo by Frau Rosalinde's tearful "It is only too
true.  This also!"

The knight, unheeding the angry, upbraiding woman, hastened in pursuit of his wife to throw
himself at her feet and confess the whole truth; but she, who had heard long before that Sir
Seitz was paying Countess Cordula more conspicuous attention than beseemed a faithful husband,
and who, after the happy hour so recently experienced, had expected, until the arrival of the
page, the dawn of brighter, better days, now felt doubly abased, deceived, betrayed.

Without vouchsafing the unfortunate man even a glance or a word, she entered the nursery before
he reached her; but he, feeling that he must follow her at any cost, laid his hand on the lock
of the door and tried to open it.  The strong oak resisted his shaking and pulling.  Isabella
had shot the heavy iron bolt into its place.  Seitz first knocked with his fingers and then
with his clenched fist, until the grandmother exclaimed: "You have destroyed the house, at
least spare the doors." When they are on them a
certain distance had approached her noble ladies rode forward with much decency and their new
princess welcomed with some polite greeting. Only Machteld silent and looked Johanna serious, there it
was not possible to honor the woman who had her father to prison can throw. It seemed clear to
read Grimm on her face, Johanna noticed it. Arrogant they looked at Machteld to intimidate her,
but she was mistaken, because the Virgin lowered her eyes and saw not the fierce queen proud.
This was the unusual magnificence of the noble ladies excited, now she could no longer contain
himself, turned with evident anger at her palfrey, and cried with his head pointing to the
ladies:

"Look, gentlemen, I only believed to be queen in France, but almost seems to me, the Vlaemen
that are in our prisons, are all princes, their wives because I see
here dressed as queens and princesses.

"

She had called so loudly that all adjacent Ritter, yes, even some people understood it. With
ill-concealed displeasure she asked the knight, who followed her:

"Monsieur
de Chatillon, what is the defiant only for a virgin in front of me
with the lion of Flanders on the chest?

What does this mean? "

Châtillon rode up and said:

"It is the daughter of Mr. van Bethune, it is Machteld."

He put his finger to his mouth to advise the Queen adjustment and silence. She understood and
gave their consent to be recognized by a smile, a smile full of cruel False and ugly vindictiveness.

Anyone
who watched at that moment the head of Weber, who could see his like
rigid one eye was turned to the Queen, no wrinkles appeared on her
forehead and disappeared, had not noticed De Coninck.

In its changing trains, he had her Anger, their intentions and plans read. He already knew
that the executor of Châtillon should be commands, and thought immediately means of trickery
and violence to deal with this enemy.

Soon rose from the royal couple and took place on the record structure. The sweet boys and Ladies
stood in two rows on the steps, the noble knights rallied to high
Horse to the scaffold.

When all had taken the specific places, the men came from Magistrate with the young women as
the representatives of the city of Bruges before and presented to a precious velvet cushion the
keys of the city. At the same time the Angels pushed back called in their trumpets, and the LELIAERT
again: "Long live the King! Long live the Queen!

"

Dead silence prevailed among the citizens, they seemed to deliberately behave so quiet to show their
dissatisfaction more clearly, and also achieved its purpose perfectly; Johanna thoughtful because
even in her injured heart, how best this irreverent subjects and could punish duck.

King Philip the Fair, received in his meekness the magistrate with the greatest kindness and
promised to provide for the welfare of Flanders, if possible. This promise was sincere meant.
He was a hero and an honorable knight and prince might have in France made how happy his subjects
in Flanders, if not two causes the execution his good intentions
would have prevented.

The first and worst was the rule proud of his wife Johanna. Philip the Fair had something good in mind,
she drew him like an evil spirit for the worse, forcing him to endorse all their pernicious
plans. Then there was the waste that led him to all agents, both good and bad access, to to
replace the wasted money.

True, he meant it sincerely good now with Flanders, but What's the
use, but because Joan had already decided it differently?

After the keys were handed to the king for some time lent the speech of the magistrate a gracious ear,
and left the throne. Everything mounted his horse, and slowly rode the train by the other streets
of the city, to the Prince's Court, where it enters, to here with the take the most distinguished
gentlemen and LELIAERT the lunch.

Meanwhile, the guild comrades returned home, and the festival took
its end.

At night when the guests were long gone, the Queen Johanna sat alone
with her maid in her bedroom.

She had already put a lot of the annoying raiment and was still trying to rid themselves of
their jewels. Their haste, and the dissatisfied Expression of her
features betrayed the greatest impatience.

The maid had to hear harsh words and everything she did, she wore a sharp rebuke. Necklace and
earring flew as worthless Stuff around.

Then she went in a white nightgown, deep in thought about the room
and down.

She had not the slightest desire to sleep, and her flashing eyes wandered wildly. The maid the
princess approached with reverence, and asked kindly:

"Is it popular to watch your majesty any longer, and am I a candlestick
greater with more Wax candles brought to him?

"

Impetuously replied the queen:

"It is bright enough. Tormenting me with your annoying questions and leave me alone. Wait in the
hall to my uncle de Châtillon - he can get the same! Go! "

While the maid the gross command obeyed, to Johanna sat at a table and let his head sink down
to his hand. In this position she remained for some moments: she remembered how they had spotted her.
Then she got up, walked hastily with violent Sign up and down the
room. At last she spoke in a hushed voice:

"What!

A miserable little people should I, Queen of the French mock allowed?

A defiant girl dares to say my eyes? This is mockery, "tears of anger rolled glowing red on their
cheeks.

Suddenly she threw her head back and laughed dangerous as an evil spirit. Then she continued:

"Just wait, their inflated Vlaemen, her Joan of Navarre knows nor bad, you know can not hit,
how terrible their revenge you.

Rest and sleep without fear only in your Presumptuous, I know you torture! Shall shed their
tears, pain you shall feel my hand! Yes, you shall know my power! You shall crawl and whine,
presumptuous people! And I euerm supplication will be deaf. With
pleasure I shall your proud heads trample.

In vain ye shall weep and lament, Joan of Navarre is relentless - which you know not. "

Now they heard the steps of the maid in the hall.

Excitedly hurried the Princess to the mirror and changed her whole attitude, she smoothed her
features, all seemed excitement waned. In the art of dissimulation,
the biggest vice of women, Joan of Navarre was champion.

Soon came Châtillon in the room and bent his knee before the Queen.

"Monsieur de Chatillon," she said, and lifted him up by hand, "You seem to my requests to place
little value. Have I not here allotted ten clock? "

"It is true, Madame, but the king, my Lord, held me back against my
will.

Silk assured Serene niece that I've been on pins and needles, I was burning, to make your royal
command sequence. "

"Your devotion I am, I intend to, you today for your faithful service
to .

Reward "

"My dear Princess, it's been a high for me grace to follow Your Majesty
and to serve allowed.

Let me go with you everywhere. Another subject may pursue higher office; for me your gracious presence
of the greatest happiness farther. I demand nothing, "

The Queen smiled and looked disapprovingly at the flatterers, for they saw through, how much his
heart to lie to his words. Then she said emphatically to him: "And if I Flanders, the country
would give feud? "

Châtillon, who had not expected such an offer regretted his words immediately, and he knew at first
do not what to say. But he gathered himself quickly and said:

wanted to "If Your Majesty graciously honored me with as much confidence as I expected it because
Who dare oppose me your royal will stubbornly. In grateful devotion would I accept this high
favor and kiss your generous hand with a respectful love. "

"Listen, Lord of Chatillon," cried the Queen impatiently, "I do not intend your courtesy to put
to the test, so I would prefer if your ließet your phrases and would talk openly! For you I
can not say that I did not know better. What seems You here from
my collection?

Bruges has not the Queen of Navarre, beyond measure wonderful received?

"

"I beg you, illustrious term niece, let this bitter jokes. I am the scorn of you given was gone
terribly close, a poor, contemptible people have openly defied you and your dignity trampled
upon.

But you not worried about it. We lack no yes of means to curb the surveyed subjects and tame.
"

"You know your niece, lord of Châtillon? The proud heart of the Queen of Navarre? "

"Verily, O queen, noble, pricing pride. After all, who wears a crown, without their respect to give,
they do not deserve.

Justly admired everyone your royal beings. "

"Do you know also that little revenge is not enough for me?

The punishment of the offender must be my position . Correspond I'm queen and a wife, which
you enough to know how you behave yourself have, if I do you for
the bailiff of Flanders.

"

"Your Majesty need not therefore make more worry: be sure that your revenge will be perfectly
satisfied. Maybe I will surpass your desires, for I have not only your shame, no to revenge the insults
that this stubborn people the crown of France is doing every day. "

"Monsieur de Chatillon, let guide your steps through astute policy,
not pulling rope together at once to her throat, robbed them rather
by slow humiliation courage.

Take their money gradually, very motivating their opposition, and do you have to get used
to the plow, Sun presses the yoke so hard that I can feed myself happy victory to their humiliation.
Hurried nothing, I have enough patience, in that way, better get to the destination. It is faster
To go if you wisely some De Coninck, the chairman of Weber, and always
removed French only or good friends admits to influential posts.

    "
    

Châtillon listened attentively to the Council of the Queen wondering
inwardly at their clever Policy.

Since it already own revenge to drive worse tyranny, he was pleased correspond very same passion
and the wishes of his niece to.

He said with obvious delight:

"Thankfully, I receive the honor bestowed upon me your majesty, and I will miss nothing, to follow
as a faithful servant of the advice of my princess.

Do you usually give me more instructions? "

This question was referring to the young Machteld.

Châtillon knew that this Virgo Wrath of the Queen had aroused, and could therefore be thinking
that she must atone for it. Johanna said:

"It seems advisable to transfer the daughter of Mr. van Bethune to France, because it has the
Flemish stubbornness made his own. I should be glad they at court have to. But enough of that
- you understand my intentions. Tomorrow I am leaving this cursed Country, because I have too long endured
the taunts.

Raoul of Nesle following us, you stay rule as governor of Flanders, with the authority, the
country according to your will. "

"Or rather, according to the will of my king's niece," interrupted her caressing of Châtillon
interrupted.

That's right, "continued Joan," Your willingness me happy. Twelve hundred riders shall You
stay to the side and give your orders emphasis. Now let your worship me necessary rest can enjoy.
I wish you good night, my excellent uncle! "

"A good angels preserve your majesty," said Châtillon, bowing and Chamber of the wicked woman left.

VIII

The
gentlemen of the City Council were in agreement with the LELIAERT large costs to obtain the
French princes spent. Erection of victory arches and ornate frames with the important to the
necessary raw material costs had caused.

In addition, each had man of the guard the king received a good measure of the best wine. Since
these expenses ordered by the government were therefore denied and had to be from the municipal
coffers, it had the Citizens to behave fairly indifferent.

Now all this pomp work was cleared away again. Châtillon was in Kortrijk, the entry the foreign princes
almost forgotten, when one morning at ten clock a crier before the
Town House on the Pui [24] appeared and cried together with some trombone
shock the people.

As the crowd large enough, he drew a parchment from his pocket and read aloud:

[24] This was the square outside the town hall, from which one of the People said (rostra).

"It
is every citizen known and did know that the magistrate has decided the following:

An extraordinary tax is fixed, the cost of collection of our most gracious Prince Philip, the
King of France to cover.

Each downright disaster the city of Bruges has this, without distinction of age, on each head eight Grooten
to pay Vlaamsch;

the customs officials should take the money next
Saturday at the doors in reception, and whoever is withdraw by force
or trickery of the payment, this is because as of right by the Lord
Baljuw are forced to.

"

The citizens saw themselves whether this proclamation in surprise and grumbled quietly against
the arbitrary requirement. Even some members of the weavers' guild were among them. They went
immediately to its chairman to him immediately to notify them.

De Coninck heard the news with inner rage. This incisive strike against the Prerogatives of the community
made him very concerned, and he saw in the adoption of a sign for that the nobles again under French
protection tyranny over the people arrogate wanted, and decided to stop him, this first attempt
by fraud or violence. Although could he be the victim of his patriotism, because the foreign
army was still in Flanders. But that it could not hold back, body and soul, he had the benefit
of his native city dedicated. He immediately summoned the guild miners themselves and told him:

"Go
quickly to the champs and they would like to extend on my behalf to Pand. You should immediately leave
their business, because it's urgent! "

The Weberpand was a spacious building with a rounded top. A single large window with the arms
of the guild over the light fell into the first floor of the front. About the great gates stood
elaborately carved in stone, St. George and the Dragon.

For the rest, the gable of this meeting house insignificant and without adornment. After his
appearance would have one can hardly guess that the richest guild
in Flanders here their meetings was, for many houses in the neighborhood
surpassed it in size and splendor.

It was also divided into numerous larger and smaller spaces, but there was no empty or unused.
In a spacious chamber of the second floor were the samples of the free and journeymen Master
with the patterns of precious cloth or fabric hanging that ever made in Bruges had been. In
another room next to it were all the tools set up, by the Weavers, cloth dyers, and walkers are
needed. A third room was used for storage the superb robes and fixed arms of the guild.

The large meeting room of the champion was ahead on the road. All changes to the wool the way from
shepherds to weavers, the dyers to the foreign merchant, who from distant Land came to bargain
for Flemish cloth to exchange for gold, were represented on the walls.

Some heavy oak tables and many chairs were on the square stones of the floor. Six lined with
velvet armchairs designated the places of the umpire and the old
master in the background of the room.

In a short time the weavers were already gathered numerous in the ballroom. Passionate They discussed
the important question, and the greatest dissatisfaction shone from her face. Most indulged in bitter
words of the magistrate, but some did not seem much inclined to resist. While the Assembly
has grown steadily, De Coninck came in the room and walked slowly by his comrades on the particular
large chair for him. The old masters sat down next to him, the rest were mostly in their armchairs
are available to the Read furrowed brow of their chief to mind his words better. Were together
it its sixty.

Once De Coninck the attention of his comrades saw fixed upon him, he said, expressive and clearly:

"My
brothers!

Heed my words, for the enemies of our freedom, our welfare want to
beat us again in gangs!

The magistrate and the LELIAERT have the strange Areas with unusual splendor flattered they have
to build scaffolding from the pomp forced, and now they demand that we pay their stupid wastes with
our Work pay! This is contrary to the privileges of the city and the guild. My brothers understand
well me and sends me a look to the future! If we this time the arbitrary make bid obedience,
our freedom will soon be trampled. This is the first attempt the
first piece of the yoke of slavery which one wants to impose on our
neck. The faithless LELIAERT, tolerate it, that you count, our rightful
Lord, languishes at the stranger in prison us to suppress the more
undisturbed, can - they have long the sweat of our Given fattened.
Long, the people as contemptible beast of burden for them the worst
Work done and be tortured, you, Bruges! Comrades! you was first of
the sky light given, the chains have their first break, and large
male did you out of bondage collected and bow your heads no longer
tyrant. Now envy of the nations whether our thriving prosperity; they
admire our size. Is it not our duty entirety to preserve the freedom
that makes it the finest people in the world? Yes, a sacred duty!
Anyone who forgets, is a coward who ignores his human dignity: a slave
only, who was born of contempt. "

Brakel, a weaver, who had already
twice been chairman, rose from his chair and De Coninck interrupted
speech:

"You always speak of slavery and rights! But who says that
the magistrate us will diminish? Is not it better to pay the eight
Grooten and keep quiet? You can But you think that there will be bloodshed.
Even some of us, the dead bodies buried his children and brothers
have to - all because of eight Grooten! Heard you on, then the Weber
had more to do with the Goedendag with the Weber ship, but I hope
that among our masters still are more intelligent people, do not follow
your advice. "

These words shouted by the weavers produced the greatest
consternation. Some, but very few, had made it known through their
gestures that they shared this view. Most were dissatisfied with Brakel
speech.

With a searching eye De Coninck had closely observed and
counted all his followers. It flattered him that few shared the concerns
of his opponent. He replied:

"It is stated explicitly in the law
that we the people without his consent, no new burdens may impose.
We pay for this freedom too expensive, and nobody, even the highest
do not touch it should. For a man who does not look further into the
future, make indeed eight Grooten once paid not much, but there also
are not the eight Grooten, appeal to me to resist, should we as the
privileges of our defense against the ambition can destroy the LELIAERT?
No, that would be cowardly and very careless. Know my brothers, freedom
is a delicate tree, you break off one of his classes, it goes he dies.
Tolerates her that the LELIAERT the tree crop such, they are us soon
rob the strength to defend the withered trunk. Who has a man's heart
may the eight Grooten not pay! Who the real Klauwaarts blood flow
in feel, seizures the Goedendag and defend the rights of the people!
The vote may decide this, because my advice is not an order. "

Well
took the weaver, who had already spoken, again the word:

"You give
us a pernicious advice you are very happy to riot and bloodshed, so
that your everywhere known as a leader will, would not it be much
wiser to us by the French government to submit as faithful subjects,
and thereby extend our trade to this great country? Yes, I maintain
that the government of Philip the Fair will increase our prosperity,
and every well-thinking citizens must consider the French rule as
happy.  The monastic life,
it is true, would not have suited Biberli, but he had shown himself ready to atone for the
wrong done the poor girl who had kept her troth for three long years and, unasked, went back
with her to her angry master.

Ere Heinz set forth on his ride to the fortress he had gone out declaring that he would prove
the meaning of his truth and steadfastness, thereby incurring a peril which certainly gave
him a right to wear the T and St on his long robe and cap forever.  He must expect to be held
to a strict account by Ernst Ortlieb.  If the incensed father, who was a member of the Council,
used the full severity of the law, he might fare even worse than ill.  But he had realised
the pass to which he had brought his sweetheart, and the Minorite led his honest heart to the
perception of the sin he would commit if he permitted her to atone for an act which she had
done by his desire--nay, at his command.

With the gold Heinz had given him, and after his assurance that he would retain him in his
service even when a married man, he could, it is true, more easily endure being punished with
her who, as his wife, would soon be destined to share evil with him as well as good.  He had
also secured the aid of both his master and the Minorite, and had arranged an account of what
had occurred, which placed his own crime and the maid's in a milder light.  Finally--and he
hoped the best result from this--Katterle would bring the Ortliebs good news, and he was the
very man to make it useful to Jungfrau Els.

So he had committed his destiny to his beloved master, behind whom was the Emperor himself,
to the Minorite, who, judging from his great age and dignified aspect, might be an influential
man, St. Leodogar, and his own full purse and, with a heart throbbing anxiously, entered the
street with the closely muffled Katterle, to take the unpleasant walk to the exasperated master
and father.

The morning had been rife with important events to Biberli also.  The means of establishing
a household, the conviction that it would be hard for him to remain a contented man without
the idol of his heart, and the still more important one that it would not be wise to defer
happiness long, because, as the death of young Prince Hartmann had shown, and Pater Benedictus
made still more evident, the possibility of enjoying the pleasures of life might be over far
too speedily.

He had been within an ace of losing his Katterle forever, and through no one's guilt save that
of the man on whose truth and steadfastness she so firmly relied.  After Siebenburg's departure
she had confessed with tears to him, his master, and the monk, what had befallen her, and how
she had finally reached the Bindergasse and Sir Heinz Schorlin's lodgings.

When, during the conflagration, fearing punishment, she had fled, she went first to the Dutzen
pond.  Determined to end her existence, she reached the goal of her nocturnal and her life
pilgrimage.  The mysterious black water with its rush-grown shore, where ducks quacked and
frogs croaked in the sultry gloom, lay before her in the terrible darkness.  After she had
repeated several Paternosters, the thought that she must die without receiving the last unction
weighed heavily on her soul.  But this she could not help, and it seemed more terrible to stand
in the stocks, like the barber's widow, and be insulted, spit upon by the people, than to endure
the flames of purgatory, where so many others-- probably among them Biberli, who had brought
her to this pass--would be tortured with her.

So she laid down the bundle which--she did not know why herself-- she had brought with her,
and took off her shoes as if she were going into the water to bathe.  Just at that moment she
suddenly saw a red light glimmering on the dark surface of the water.  It could not be the
reflection of the fires of purgatory, as she had thought at first.  It certainly did not proceed
from the forge on the opposite shore, now closed, for its outlines rose dark and motionless
against the moon. No--a brief glance around verified it--the light came from the burning of
the convent.  The sky was coloured a vivid scarlet in two places, but the glow was brightest
towards the southeastern part of the city, where St. Klarengasse must be.  Then she was overpowered
by torturing curiosity. Must she die without knowing how much the fire had injured the newly
built convent, on whose site she had enjoyed the springtime of love, and how the good Sisters
fared?  It seemed  impossible,  and  her greatest fault for the first time proved a blessing.
It drew her back from the Dutzen pond to the city.

On reaching the Marienthurm she learned that only a barn and a cow stable had b@en destroyed
by the flames.  For this trivial loss she had suffered intense anxiety and been faithless to
her resolution to seek death, which ends all fears.

Vexed by her own weakness, she determined to go back to her employer's house and there accept
whatever fate the saints bestowed.  But when she saw a light still shining through the parchment
panes in the room occupied by the two Es, she imagined that Herr Ernst was pronouncing judgment
upon Eva.  In doing so her own guilt must be recalled, and the thought terrified her so deeply
that she joined the people returning from the fire, for whom the Frauenthor still stood open,
and allowed the crowd to carry her on with them to St. Kunigunde's chapel in St. Lawrence's
church; and when some, passing the great Imhof residence, turned into the Kotgasse, she followed.

Hitherto she had walked on without goal or purpose, but here the question where to seek shelter
confronted her; for the torchbearers who had lighted the way disappeared one after another
in the various houses. Deep darkness suddenly surrounded her, and she was seized with terror.
But ere the last torch vanished, its light fell upon one of the brass basins which hung in
front of the barbers' shops.

The barber!  The woman whom she had seen in the stocks was the widow of one, and the house
where she granted the lovers the meeting, on whose account she had been condemned to so severe
a punishment, was in the Kotgasse, and had been pointed out to her.  It must be directly opposite.
The thought entered her mind that the woman who had endured such a terrible punishment, for
a crime akin to her own, would understand better than any one else the anguish of her heart.
How could the widow yonder refuse her companion in guilt a compassionate reception!

It was a happy idea, but she would never have ventured to rouse the woman from her sleep, so
she must wait.  But the first grey light of dawn was already appearing in the eastern horizon
on the opposite side of the square of St. Lawrence, and perhaps Frau Ratzer would open her
house early.

The street did honour to the name of Kotgasse--[Kot or koth-mire]. Holding her dress high around
her, Katterle waded across to the northern row of houses and reached the plank sidewalk covered
with mud to her ankles; but at the same moment a door directly in front of her opened, and
two persons, a man and a woman, entered the street and glided by; but they came from Frau Ratzer's--she
recognised it by the bow-window above the entrance.  The maid hurried towards the door, which
still stood open, and on its threshold was the woman to whom she intended to pay her early visit.

Almost unable to speak, she entreated her to grant a poor girl, who did not know where to seek
shelter at this hour, the protection of her house.

The widow silently drew Katterle into the dark, narrow entry, shut the door, and led her into
a neat, gaily ornamented room.  A lamp which was still burning hung from the ceiling, but Frau
Ratzer raised the tallow candle she had carried to the door, threw its light upon her face,
and nodded approvingly.  Katterle was a pretty girl, and the flush of shame which crimsoned
her cheeks was very becoming.  The widow probably thought so, too, for she stroked them with
her fat hand, promising, as she did so, to receive her and let her want for nothing if she
proved an obedient little daughter.  Then she pinched the girl's arm with the tips of her fingers
so sharply that she shrank back and timidly told the woman what had brought her there, saying
that she was and intended to remain a respectable girl, and had sought shelter with Frau Ratzer
because she knew what a sore disgrace she had suffered for the same fault which had driven
her from home.

But the widow, starting as if stung by a scorpion, denounced Katterle as an impudent hussy,
who rightfully belonged in the stocks, to which the base injustice of the money-bags in the
court had condemned her.  There was no room in her clean house for anyone who reminded her
of this outrage and believed that she had really committed so shameful an act. Then, seizing
the maid by the shoulders, she pushed her into the street.

Meanwhile it had grown light.  The sun had just risen in the east above the square of St. Lawrence
and spread a golden fan of rays over the azure sky.  The radiant spectacle did not escape the
eyes of the frightened girl, and she rejoiced because it gave her the assurance that the terrifying
darkness of the night was over.

How fresh the morning was, how clear and beautiful the light of the young day!  And it shone
not only on the great and the good, but on the lowly, the poor, and the wicked.  Even for the
horrible woman within the sky adorned itself with the exquisite blue and glorious brilliancy.

Uttering a sigh of relief she soon reached the Church of St. Lawrence, which the old sexton
was just opening.  She was the first person who entered the stately house of God that morning
and knelt in one of the pews to pray.

This had been the right thing for her to do.  Dear Lord!  Where was there any maid in greater
trouble, yet Heaven had preserved her from the death on a red-hot gridiron which had rendered
St. Lawrence, whose name the church bore, a blessed martyr.  Compared with that, even standing
in the pillory was not specially grievous.  So she poured out her whole soul to the saint,
confessing everything which grieved and oppressed her, until the early mass began.  She had
even confided to him that she was from Sarnen in Switzerland, and had neither friend nor countryman
here in Nuremberg save her lover, the true and steadfast Biberli.  Yet no!  There was one person
from her home who probably would do her a kindness, the wife of the gatekeeper in the von Zollern
castle, a native of Berne, who had come to Nuremberg and the fortress as the maid of the Countess
Elizabeth of Hapsburg, the present Burgravine.  This excellent woman could give her better
counsel than any one, and she certainly owed the recollection of Frau Gertrude to her patron saint.

After a brief thanksgiving she left the church and went to the fortress.

As she expected, her countrywoman received her kindly; and after Katterle had confided everything
to her, and in doing so mentioned Wolff Eysvogel, the betrothed husband of the elder of her
young mistresses, Frau Gertrude listened intently and requested her to wait a short time.

Yet one quarter of an hour after another elapsed before she again appeared.  Her husband, the
Bernese warder, a giant of a man to whom the red and yellow Swiss uniform and glittering halberd
he carried in his hand were very becoming, accompanied his wife.

After briefly questioning Katterle, he exacted a solemn promise of secrecy and then motioned
to her to follow him.  Meanwhile the maid had been informed how the duel between Wolff Eysvogel
and Ulrich Vorchtel had ended, but while she still clasped her hands in horror, the Swiss had
opened the door of a bright, spacious apartment, where Els Ortlieb's betrothed husband received
her with a kind though sorrowful greeting. Then he continued his writing, and at last gave
her two letters.  One, on whose back he drew a little heart, that she might not mistake it
for the other, was addressed to his betrothed bride; the second to Heinz Schorlin, whom Wolff--no,
her ears did not deceive her--called the future husband of his sister-in-law Eva.  At breakfast,
which she shared with her country people and their little daughter, Katterle would have liked
to learn how Wolff reached the fortress, but the gatekeeper maintained absolute silence on
this subject.

The maid at last, without hindrance, reached the Deichsler house and found Biberli (not) at
home.  She ought to have returned to the Ortliebs in his company long before, but the knight
still vainly awaited his servant's appearance.  He missed him sorely, since it did not enter
his head that his faithful shadow, Biberli, knew nothing of the thunderbolt which had almost
robbed him of his master and killed his pet, the dun horse. 

[2] The witch trials, the floor lord with few exceptions, many after the Reformation and Hauptsa ͤ in Protestant
northern Germany GEFU ͤ were carried to which a belief in the influence of these bo ͤ Spirits
reason was that Luther, in melancholy Anfa ͤ cases often even with the Personal perso ͤ it appears
devil struggling, had only too much leads gena ͤ this have Witch Trials Germany in the 17th century,
perhaps more people dead, as Spain, the Inquisition.  In it he also alluded to his nocturnal interview with Heinz, and in cordial
words admitted that he thought he had found in him a sincere friend, to whom, if to any one,
he would not grudge his fair young sister-in-law Eva.  Then he described how the unfortunate
duel had occurred.

After mentioning what had excited young Ulrich Vorchtel's animosity, he related that, soon
after his interview with Heinz, he had met young Vorchtel, accompanied by several friends.
Ulrich had barred his way, loading him with invectives so fierce and so offensive to his honour,
that he was obliged to accept the challenge. I do think you can, if the second
question cheap defaults filled ͤ, the third not quite unanswered. Which means hold ͤ fu r the extermination
of the Low German language ͤ fu r the best? Me and my Colleagues, as I said, is vorzu ͤ was like
that.  But
when Ulrich shouted to the crusader that the blade he lent was too good for the treacherous
hand he permitted to wield it, his blood boiled, and with his first powerful thrust all was over.

The German knight had then introduced himself as a son of the Burgrave von Zollern and taken
him to the castle, where, with his father's knowledge, the noble young Knight Hospitaller concealed
him, and the point now was to show the matter, which was undoubtedly a breach of the peace,
to the Emperor Rudolph in the right light.  The young Burgrave thought that he, Heinz Schorlin,
could aid in convincing the sovereign, who would lend him a ready ear, that he, Wolff, had
only drawn his sword under compulsion.  So truly as Heinz himself hoped to be a happy man through
Eva's love, he must help him to bridge the chasm which, by his luckless deed, separated him
from his betrothed bride.

Heinz had had this letter read aloud twice.  Then when Biberli had gone and he rode to the
fortress, he had resolved to do everything in his power for the young Nuremberg noble who had
so quickly won his regard, but the sorely stricken imperial father had refused to see him,
and therefore it was impossible to take any step in the matter. You are not starting with the parts, but with the whole. They
do perhaps once a good grip, attract attention and do from then on always worse, with handles
of good, natural reasons. - Sometimes, if reason and character lacking to make such an artistic
life plan that will take over the fate and the distress of the place thereof and the future
master step by step through all Conditions of his craft.

164.

Risk and profit in the cult of genius'. - Belief in great, superior, fertile minds is not necessary,
but still very common with that of full-or halbreligioesen superstition connected, that those
spirits are about human origin and some wonderful fortune possessed by means of which they would
their findings in an entirely different way partake, than other men. They were probably writing
a direct view into the nature of World, as through a hole in the shell of the phenomenon, and believes
that without the Hardship and rigor of science assets, the seers look wonderful, something final
and could impart a great deal about people and the world. As long as the wound in the area of knowledge
still finds believers, we can perhaps admit that while the faithful itself a benefit to get
away, if carried out by their absolute subordination to the great minds, their own minds for
the time evolution of the discipline and the best School gain.  Neither could renounce it without inflicting deep wounds on the heart, but every drop
of blood which gushed from them, the Minorite said, would add new and heavy weight to their
claim to eternal salvation.

Ay, Heinz would try to resign Eva!  But when he yielded to the impulse to read Wolff's letter
again he felt like a dethroned prince whom some stranger, ignorant of his misfortune, praises
for his mighty power.

The visions of the future which the greyhaired monk conjured up, all that he told hint of his
own regeneration, transformation, and the happiness which he would find as a disciple of St.
Francis in poverty, liberty, and the silent struggle for eternal bliss, everything which he
described with fervid eloquence, increased the tumult in the young knight's deeply agitated soul.

