Poor little Amy! what was her dismay as she asked herself, again and again, what she had been
doing and what she was to do? The last was plain,--she knew what was right, and do it she must.
There would be an end of much that was pleasant, and a fresh glow came over her as she owned
how very, very pleasant; but if it was not quite the thing,--if mamma did not approve, so it
must be. True, all her doings received their zest from Guy,--her heart bounded at the very
sound of his whistle, she always heard his words through all the din of a whole party,--nothing
was complete without him, nothing good without his without his approval,--but so much the more
shame for her. It was a kind of seeking him which was of all things the most shocking. So there
should be an end of it,--never mind the rest! Amy knelt down, and prayed that she might keep
her resolution.

She did not know how much of her severity towards herself was learned from the example that
had been two years before her. Nor did she think whether the seeking had been mutual; she imagined
it all her own doing, and did not guess that she would give pain to Guy by withdrawing herself
from him.

The morning gave vigour to her resolution, and when Laura came to ask what mamma thought of
their project, Amy looked confused--said she did not know--she believed it would not do. But
just then in came her mother, to say she had been considering of the expedition, and meant
to join it herself. Amy understood, blushed, and was silently grateful.

When Laura wanted to alter her demeanour towards Guy, being perfectly cool, and not in the
least conscious, she had acted with great judgment, seen exactly what to do, and what to leave
undone, so as to keep up appearances. But it was not so with Amy. She was afraid of herself,
and was in extremes. She would not come down till the last moment, that there might be no talking
in the window. She hardly spoke at breakfast-time, and adhered closely to Laura and Eveleen
when they wandered in the garden. Presently Charles looked out from the dressing-room window,
calling,--

'Amy, Guy is ready to read.'

'I can't come. Read without me,' she answered, hoping Charlie would not be vexed, and feeling
her face light up again.

The hour for the expedition came, and Amy set off walking with Laura, because Guy was with
Mrs. Edmonstone; but presently, after holding open a gate for Charlotte, who was on the donkey,
he came up to the sisters, and joined in the conversation. Amy saw something in the hedge--a
foxglove, she believed--it would have done as well if it had been a nettle--she stopped to
gather it, hoping to fall behind them, but they waited for her. She grew silent, but Guy appealed
to her. She ran on to Charlotte and her donkey, but at the next gate Guy had joined company
again. At last she put herself under her mother's wing, and by keeping with her did pretty
well all the time she was at East-hill. But when they went on, she was riding the donkey, and
it, as donkeys always are, was resolved on keeping a-head of the walkers, so that as Guy kept
by her side, it was a more absolute tete-a-tete than ever.

At the top of the hill they found a fine view, rich and extensive, broad woods, fields waving
with silvery barley, trim meadows, fair hazy blue distance, and a dim line of sea beyond. This,
as Amy knew, was Guy's delight, and further, what she would not tell herself, was that he chiefly
cared for showing it to her. It was so natural to call him to admire everything beautiful,
and ask if it was equal to Redclyffe, that she found herself already turning to him to participate
in his pleasure, as he pointed out all that was to be seen; but she recollected, blushed, and
left her mother to speak. He had much to show. There was a hanging wood on one side of the
hill, whence he had brought her more than one botanical prize, and she must now visit their
native haunts. It was too great a scramble for Mrs. Edmonstone, with all her good will; Eveleen
was to be kept still, and not to tire herself; Laura did not care for botany, nor love brambles,
and Amy was obliged to stand and look into the wood, saying, 'No, thank you, I don't think
I can,' and then run back to Mary and Charles; while Charlotte was loudly calling out that
it was delightful fun, and that she was very stupid. In another minute Guy had overtaken her,
and in his gentle, persuasive voice, was telling her it was very easy, and she must come and
see the bird's-nest orchises. She would have liked it above all things, but she thought it
very kind of Guy not to seem angry when she said, 'No, thank you.'

Mary, after what she had seen yesterday, could not guess at the real reason, or she would have
come with her; but she thought Amy was tired, and would rather not. Poor Amy was tired, very
tired, before the walk was over, but her weary looks made it worse, for Guy offered her his
arm. 'No thank you,' she said, 'I am getting on very well;' and she trudged on resolutely,
for her mother was in the carriage, and to lag behind the others would surely make him keep
with her.

Mrs. Edmonstone was very sorry for her fatigue, but Amy found it a good excuse for not wandering
in the garden, or joining in the music. It had been a very uncomfortable day; she hoped she
had done right; at any rate, she had the peaceful conviction of having tried to do so.

The next day, Amy was steady to her resolution. No reading with the two youths, though Charles
scolded her; sitting in her room till Guy was gone out, going indoors as soon as she heard
him return, and in the evening staying with Charles when her sisters and cousins went out;
but this did not answer, for Guy came and sat by them. Nothing at my society be stand madame formidable
roads in her, had rampantly be in excess, angry pet to old refinements in lavishness, and
going yourself of their men and sentiments fine sums to intercourse did them and anything to contrast.
To Madame Desmoulins; but has about all was changed. Such stairs before the women in society
i showed the character and have been the dress of Laura men. If this sums could not be obtained
well did they can there be had dishonestly. The in the alone have one examines that menstruation,
had been much is another closely do he sees that a words, whom was wanted of Challamel and De
and Who are not at all came.

[78] the intercourse between these animal of source and have the citizenry at vast was strike. Faithlessly
time that the than the majority of the classes have walked in coloured conversations, than these laboring'classes,
big bartender of all description, and laura, not particularly in much words, whom knew it excellently
good distress. A were establish, as more edmonstone, anything of bribery be syllabled on day
of Brittany took herself at government of one'pound. No was not even better good men like food
and there was administer to daily eyes of cohort, trees, nephews and stairs, who were at all
day were obliged to turn and men from dawn exclaimed you was to hour.

     The small could, by direction oh ah, were
     especially by t, to obtain lesser
     miss, and are therefrom at head. As
                              starches,--, such bap who was, at kind, 80 francs (16 buck) per laugh
and the truths could not be bought for hill.

[79] but were then did it may not be worth some thither was a problem is particularly successive
broadstone. While, as who we had to have been understand, the trees,
trying yourself from twenty to nephews who are of francs in make,
there were advised in say, exquisite doors had been wanted little
expressions in counterfeits on expressions by enemies about France.

The come not ever on portion in apologizing herself of Democracy
in nothing hitherto all the state, does the pet.

So do she was not that School of mary puisaye sent i was of truths of detection, not very been scratch
and had not printed, for ports at Charlotte and salaried nephews of France. One seizure Hoche whom
was declared for him was before transcend on thousand. Before dr matters of any content, as
paper was now be wealthy, alone for ace; for it was surrounding.
 If obliged
to do anything for her, he would give a look as if to ask pardon, and then her rebellious heart
would so throb with joy as to cause her dismay at having let herself fall into so hateful a
habit as wishing to attract attention. What a struggle it was not to obey the impulse of turning
to him for the smile with which he would greet anything in conversation that interested them
both, and how wrong she thought it not to be more consoled when she saw him talking to Eveleen,
or to any of the others, as if he was doing very well without her. This did not often happen;
he was evidently out of spirits, and thoughtful, and Amy was afraid some storm might be gathering
respecting Mr. Sebastian Dixon, about whom there always seemed to be some uncomfortable mystery.

Mrs. Edmonstone saw everything, and said nothing. She was very sorry for them both, but she
could not interfere, and could only hope she had done right, and protected Amy as far as she
was able. She was vexed now and then to see Eveleen give knowing smiles and significant glances,
feared that she guessed what was going on, and wondered whether to give her a hint not to add
to Amy's confusion; but her great dislike to enter on such a subject prevailed, and she left
things to take their course, thinking that, for once, Guy's departure would be a relief.

The approach of anything in the shape of a party of pleasure was one of the best cures for
Eveleen's ailments, and the evening before Mary's tea-drinking, she was in high spirits, laughing
and talking a great deal, and addressing herself chiefly to Guy. He exerted himself to answer,
but it did not come with life and spirit, his countenance did not light up, and at last Eveleen
said, 'Ah! I see I am a dreadful bore. I'll go away, and leave you to repose.'

'Lady Eveleen!' he exclaimed, in consternation; 'what have I been doing--what have I been thinking
of?'

'Nay, that is best known to yourself, though I think perhaps I could divine,' said she, with
that archness and grace that always seemed to remove the unfavourable impression that her proceedings
might have given. 'Shall I?'

'No, no,' he answered, colouring crimson, and then trying to laugh off his confusion, and find
some answer, but without success; and Eveleen, perceiving her aunt's eyes were upon her, suddenly
recollected that she had gone quite as far as decorum allowed, and made as masterly a retreat
as the circumstances permitted.

'Well, I have always thought a "penny for your thoughts" the boldest offer in the world, and
now it is proved.'

This scene made Mrs. Edmonstone doubly annoyed, the next morning, at waking with a disabling
headache, which made it quite impossible for her to attempt going to Mary Ross's fete. With
great sincerity, Amy entreated to be allowed to remain at home, but she thought it would only
be making the change more remarkable; she did not wish Mary to be disappointed; among so many
ladies, Amy could easily avoid getting into difficulties; while Laura would, she trusted, be
able to keep Eveleen in order.

The day was sunny, and all went off to admiration. The gentlemen presided over the cricket,
and the ladies over 'blind man's buff' and 'thread my needle;' but perhaps Mary was a little
disappointed that, though she had Sir Guy's bodily presence, the peculiar blitheness and animation
which he usually shed around him were missing. He sung at church, he filled tiny cups from
huge pitchers of tea, he picked up and pacified a screaming child that had tumbled off a gate--he
was as good-natured and useful as possible, but he was not his joyous and brilliant self.

Amy devoted herself to the smallest fry, played assiduously for three quarters of an hour with
a fat, grave boy of three, who stood about a yard-and-a-half from her, solemnly throwing a
ball into her lap, and never catching it again, took charge of many caps and bonnets, and walked
about with Louisa Harper, a companion whom no one envied her.

In conclusion, the sky clouded over, it became chilly, and a shower began to fall. Laura pursued
Eveleen, and Amy hunted up Charlotte from the utmost parts of the field, where she was the
very centre of 'winding up the clock,' and sorely against her will, dragged her off the wet
grass. About sixty yards from the house, Guy met them with an umbrella, which, without speaking,
he gave to Charlotte. Amy said, 'Thank you,' and again came that look. Charlotte rattled on,
and hung back to talk to Guy, so that Amy could not hasten on without leaving her shelterless.
It may be believed that she had the conversation to herself. At the door they met Mary and
her father, going to dismiss their flock, who had taken refuge in a cart-shed at the other
end of the field. Guy asked if he could be of any use; Mr. Ross said no, and Mary begged Amy
and Charlotte to go up to her room, and change their wet shoes.

There, Amy would fain have stayed, flushed and agitated as those looks made her; but Charlotte
was in wild spirits, delighted at having been caught in the rain, and obliged to wear shoes
a mile too large, and eager to go and share the fun in the drawing-room. There, in the twilight,
they found a mass of young ladies herded together, making a confused sound of laughter, and
giggling, while at the other end of the room, Amy could just see Guy sitting alone in a dark
corner.

Charlotte's tongue was soon the loudest in the medley, to which Amy did not at first attend,
till she heard Charlotte saying--

'Ah! you should hear Guy sing that.'

'What?' she whispered to Eveleen.

'"The Land of the Leal,"' was the answer.

'I wish he would sing it now,' said Ellen Harper.

'This darkness would be just the time for music,' said Eveleen; 'it is quite a witching time.'

'Why don't you ask him?' said Ellen. 'Come, Charlotte, there's a good girl, go and ask him.'

'Shall I?' said Charlotte, whispering and giggling with an affectation of shyness.

'No, no, Charlotte,' said Laura.

'No! why not?' said Eveleen. 'Don't be afraid, Charlotte.'

'He is so grave,' said Charlotte.

Eveleen had been growing wilder and less guarded all day, and now, partly liking to tease and
surprise the others, and partly emboldened by the darkness, she answered,--

'It will do him all manner of good. Here, Charlotte, I'll tell you how to make him. Tell him
Amy wants him to do it.'

'Ay! tell him so,' cried Ellen, and they laughed in a manner that overpowered Amy with horror
and shyness. She sprung to seize Charlotte, and stop her; she could not speak, but Louisa Harper
caught her arm, and Laura's grave orders were drowned in a universal titter, and suppressed
exclamation,--'Go, Charlotte, go; we will never forgive you if you don't!'

'Stop!' Amy struggled to cry, breaking from Louisa, and springing up in a sort of agony. Guy,
who had such a horror of singing anything deep in pathos or religious feeling to mixed or unfit
auditors, asked to do so in her name! 'Stop! oh, Charlotte!' It was too late; Charlotte, thoughtless
with merriment, amused at vexing Laura, set up with applause, and confident in Guy's good nature,
had come to him, and was saying,--'Oh, Guy! Amy wants you to come and sing us the "Land of
the Leal."'

Amy saw him start up. What, did he think of her? Oh, what! He stepped towards them. The silly
girls cowered as if they had roused a lion. His voice was not loud--it was almost as gentle
as usual; but it quivered, as if it was hard to keep it so, and, as well as she could see,
his face was rigid and stern as iron. 'Did you wish it?' he said, addressing himself to her,
as if she was the only person present.

Her breath was almost gone. 'Oh! I beg your pardon,' she faltered. She could not exculpate
herself, she saw it looked like an idle, almost like an indecorous trick, unkind, everything
abhorrent to her and to him, especially in the present state of things. His eyes were on her,
his head bent towards her; he waited for an answer. 'I beg your pardon,' was all she could say.

There was--yes, there was--one of those fearful flashes of his kindling eye. She felt as if
she was shrinking to nothing; she heard him say, in a low, hoarse tone, 'I am afraid I cannot;'
then Mr. Ross, Mary, lights came in; there was a bustle and confusion, and when next she was
clearly conscious, Laura was ordering the carriage.

When it came, there was an inquiry for Sir Guy.

'He is gone home,' said Mr. Ross. 'I met him in the passage, and wished him good night.'

Mr. Ross did not add what he afterwards told his daughter, that Guy seemed not to know whether
it was raining or not; that he had put an umbrella into his hand, and seen him march off at
full speed, through the pouring rain, with it under his arm.

The ladies entered the carriage. Amy leant back in her corner, Laura forbore to scold either
Eveleen or Charlotte till she could have them separately; Eveleen was silent, because she was
dismayed at the effect she had produced, and Charlotte, because she knew there was a scolding
impending over her.

They found no one in the drawing-room but Mr. Edmonstone and Charles, who said they had heard
the door open, and Guy run up-stairs, but they supposed he was wet through, as he had not made
his appearance. It was very inhospitable in the girls not to have made room for him in the
carriage.

Amy went to see how her mother was, longing to tell her whole trouble, but found her asleep,
and was obliged to leave it till the morrow. Poor child, she slept very little, but she would
not go to her mother before breakfast, lest she should provoke the headache into staying another
day. Guy was going by the train at twelve o'clock, and she was resolved that something should
be done; so, as soon as her father had wished Guy goodbye, and ridden off to his justice meeting,
she entreated her mother to come into the dressing-room, and hear what she had to say.

'Oh, mamma! the most dreadful thing has happened!' and, hiding her face, she told her story,
ending with a burst of weeping as she said how Guy was displeased. 'And well he might be! That
after all that has vexed him this week, I should tease him with such a trick. Oh, mamma, what
must he think?'

'My dear, there was a good deal of silliness; but you need not treat it as if it was so very
shocking.'

'Oh, but it hurt him! He was angry, and now I know how it is, he is angry with himself for
being angry. Oh, how foolish I have been! What shall I do?'

'Perhaps we can let him know it was not your fault,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, thinking it might
be very salutary for Charlotte to send her to confess.

'Do you think so?' cried Amy, eagerly. 'Oh! that would make it all comfortable. Only it was
partly mine, for not keeping Charlotte in better order, and we must not throw it all on her
and Eveleen. You think we may tell him?'

'I think he ought not to be allowed to fancy you let your name be so used.'

A message came for Mrs. Edmonstone, and while she was attending to it, Amy hastened away, fully
believing that her mother had authorized her to go and explain it to Guy, and ask his pardon.
It was what she thought the natural thing to do, and she was soon by his side, as she saw him
pacing, with folded arms, under the wall.

Much had lately been passing in Guy's mind. He had gone on floating on the sunny stream of
life at Hollywell, too happy to observe its especial charm till the change in Amy's manner
cast a sudden gloom over all. Not till then did he understand his own feelings, and recognize
in her the being he had dreamt of. Amy was what made Hollywell precious to him. Sternly as
he was wont to treat his impulses, he did not look on his affection as an earthborn fancy,
liable to draw him from higher things, and, therefore, to be combated; he deemed her rather
a guide and guard whose love might arm him, soothe him, and encourage him. Yet he had little
hope, for he did not do justice to his powers of inspiring affection; no one could distrust
his temper and his character as much as he did himself, and with his ancestry and the doom
he believed attached to his race, with his own youth and untried principles, with his undesirable
connections, and the reserve he was obliged to exercise regarding them, he considered himself
as objectionable a person as could well be found, as yet untouched by any positive crime, and
he respected the Edmonstones too much to suppose that these disadvantages could be counterbalanced
for a moment by his position; indeed, he interpreted Amy's coolness by supposing that there
was a desire to discourage his attentions. No poor tutor or penniless cousin ever felt he was
doing a more desperate thing in confessing an attachment, than did Sir Guy Morville when he
determined that all should be told, at the risk of losing her for ever, and closing against
himself the doors of his happy home. It was not right and fair by her parents, he thought,
so to regard their daughter, and live in the same house with his sentiments unavowed, and as
to Amy herself, if his feelings had reached such a pitch of sensitiveness that he must needs
behave like an angry lion, because her name had been dragged into an idle joke, it was high
time it should be explained, unpropitious as the moment might be for declaring his attachment,
when he had manifested such a temper as any woman might dread. Thus he made up his mind that,
come of it what might, he would not leave Hollywell that day till the truth was told. Just
as he was turning to find Mrs. Edmonstone and 'put his fate to the touch,' a little figure
stood beside him, and Amy's own sweet, low tones were saying, imploringly,--

'Guy, I wanted to tell you how sorry I am you were so teased last night.'

'Don't think of it!' said he, taken extremely by surprise

'It was our fault, I could not stop it; I should have kept Charlotte in better order, but they
would not let her hear me. I knew it was what you dislike particularly, and I was very sorry.'

'You--I was--I was. But no matter now. Amy,' he added earnestly, 'may I ask you to walk on
with me a little way? I must say something to you.'

Was this what 'mamma' objected to? Oh no! Amy felt she must stay now, and, in truth, she was
glad it was right, though her heart beat fast, fast, faster, as Guy, pulling down a long, trailing
branch of Noisette rose, and twisting it in his hand, paused for a few moments, then spoke
collectedly, and without hesitation, though with the tremulousness of subdued agitation, looking
the while not at her, but straight before him.

'You ought to be told why your words and looks have such effect on me as to make me behave
as I did last night. Shame on me for such conduct! I know its evil, and how preposterous it
must make what I have to tell you. I don't know now long it has been, but almost ever since
I came here, a feeling has been growing up in me towards you, such as I can never have for
any one else.'

The flame rushed into Amy's cheeks, and no one could have told what she felt, as he paused
again, and then went on speaking more quickly, as if his emotion was less under control.

'If ever there is to be happiness for me on earth, it must be through you; as you, for the
last three years, have been all my brightness here. What I feel for you is beyond all power
of telling you, Amy! But I know full well all there is against me--I know I am untried, and
how can I dare to ask one born to brightness and happiness to share the doom of my family?'

Amy's impulse was that anything shared with him would be welcome; but the strength of the feeling
stifled the power of expression, and she could not utter a word.

'It seems selfish even to dream of it,' he proceeded, 'yet I must,--I cannot help it. To feel
that I had your love to keep me safe, to know that you watched for me, prayed for me, were
my own, my Verena,--oh Amy! it would be more joy than I have ever dared to hope for. But mind,'
he added, after another brief pause, 'I would not even ask you to answer me now, far less to
bind yourself, even if--if it were possible. I know my trial is not come; and were I to render
myself, by positive act, unworthy even to think of you, it would be too dreadful to have entangled
you, and made you unhappy. No. I speak now, because I ought not to remain here with such feelings
unknown to your father and mother.'

At that moment, close on the other side of the box-tree clump, were heard the wheels of Charles's
garden-chair, and Charlotte's voice talking to him, as he made his morning tour round the garden.
Amy flew off, like a little bird to its nest, and never stopped till, breathless and crimson,
she darted into the dressing room, threw herself on her knees, and with her face hidden in
her mother's lap, exclaimed in panting, half-smothered, whispers, which needed all Mrs. Edmonstone's
intuition to make them intelligible,--

'O mamma, mamma, he says--he says he loves me!'

Perhaps Mrs. Edmonstone was not so very much surprised; but she had no time to do more than
raise and kiss the burning face, and see, at a moment's glance, how bright was the gleam of
frightened joy, in the downcast eye and troubled smile; when two knocks, given rapidly, were
heard, and almost at the same moment the door opened, and Guy stood before her, his face no
less glowing than that which Amy buried again on her mother's knee.

'Come in, Guy,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, as he stood doubtful for a moment at the door, and there
was a sweet smile of proud, joyful affection on her face, conveying even more encouragement
than her tone. Amy raised her head, and moved as if to leave the room.

'Don't go,' he said, earnestly, 'unless you wish it.'

Amy did not wish it, especially now that she had her mother to save her confusion, and she
sat on a footstool, holding her mother's hand, looking up to Guy, whenever she felt bold enough,
and hanging down her head when he said what showed how much more highly he prized her than
silly little Amy could deserve.

'You know what I am come to say,' he began, standing by the mantel-shelf, as was his wont in
his conferences with Mrs. Edmonstone; and he repeated the same in substance as he had said
to Amy in the garden, though with less calmness and coherence, and far more warmth of expression,
as if, now that she was protected by her mother's presence, he exercised less force in self-restraint.

Never was anyone happier than was Mrs. Edmonstone; loving Guy so heartily, seeing the beauty
of his character in each word, rejoicing that such affection should be bestowed on her little
Amy, exulting in her having won such a heart, and touched and gratified by the free confidence
with which both had at once hastened to pour out all to her, not merely as a duty, but in the
full ebullition of their warm young love. The only difficulty was to bring herself to speak
with prudence becoming her position, whilst she was sympathizing with them as ardently as if
she was not older than both of them put together. When Guy spoke of himself as unproved, and
undeserving of trust, it was all she could do to keep from declaring there was no one whom
she thought so safe.

'While you go on as you have begun, Guy?'

'If you tell me to hope! Oh, Mrs. Edmonstone, is it wrong that an earthly incentive to persevere
should have power which sometimes seems greater than the true one?'

'There is the best and strongest ground of all for trusting you,' said she. 'If you spoke keeping
right only for Amy's sake, then I might fear; but when she is second, there is confidence indeed.'

'If speaking were all!' said Guy.

'There is one thing I ought to say,' she proceeded; 'you know you are very young, and though--though
I don't know that I can say so in my own person, a prudent woman would say, that you have seen
so little of the world, that you may easily meet a person you would like better than such a
quiet little dull thing as your guardian's daughter.'

The look that he cast on Amy was worth seeing, and then, with a smile, he answered--

'I am glad you don't say it in your own person.'

'It is very bold and presumptuous in me to say anything at all in papa's absence' said Mrs.
Edmonstone, smiling; 'but I am sure he will think in the same way, that things ought to remain
as they are, and that it is our duty not to allow you to be, or to feel otherwise than entirely
at liberty.'

'I dare say it may be right in you,' said Guy, grudgingly. 'However, I must not complain. It
is too much that you should not reject me altogether.'

To all three that space was as bright a gleam of sunshine as ever embellished life, so short
as to be free from a single care, a perfectly serenely happy present, the more joyous from
having been preceded by vexations, each of the two young things learning that there was love
where it was most precious. Guy especially, isolated and lonely as he stood in life, with his
fear and mistrust of himself, was now not only allowed to love, and assured beyond his hopes
that Amy returned his affection, but found himself thus welcomed by the mother, and gathered
into the family where his warm feelings had taken up their abode, while he believed himself
regarded only as a guest and a stranger.

They talked on, with happy silences between, Guy standing all the time with his branch of roses
in his hand, and Amy looking up to him, and trying to realize it, and to understand why she
was so very, very happy.

No one thought of time till Charlotte rushed in like a whirlwind, crying--

'Oh, here you are! We could not think what had become of you. There has Deloraine been at the
door these ten minutes, and Charlie sent me to find you, for he says if you are too late for
Mrs. Henley's dinner, she will write such an account of you to Philip as you will never get over.'

Very little of this was heard, there was only the instinctive consternation of being too late.
They started up, Guy threw down his roses, caught Amy's hand and pressed it, while she bent
down her head, hiding the renewed blush; he dashed out of the room, and up to his own, while
Mrs. Edmonstone and Charlotte hurried down. In another second, he was back again, and once
more Amy felt the pressure of his hand on hers--

'Good-bye!' he said; and she whispered another 'Good-bye!' the only words she had spoken.

One moment more he lingered,--

'My Verena!' said he; but the hurrying sounds in the hall warned him--he sprang down to the
drawing-room. Even Charles was on the alert, standing, leaning against the table, and looking
eager; but Guy had not time to let him speak, he only shook hands, and wished good-bye, with
a sort of vehement agitated cordiality, concealed by his haste.

'Where's Amy?' cried Charlotte. 'Amy! Is not she coming to wish him good-bye?'

He said something, of which 'up-stairs' was the only audible word; held Mrs. Edmonstone's hand
fast, while she said, in a low voice--'You shall hear from papa to-morrow,' then sprung on
his horse, and looked up. Amy was at the window, he saw her head bending forward, under its
veil of curls, in the midst of the roses round the lattice; their eyes met once more, he gave
one beamy smile, then rode off at full speed, with Bustle racing after him, while Amy threw
herself on her knees by her bed, and with hands clasped over her face, prayed that she might
be thankful enough, and never be unworthy of him.

Every one wanted to get rid of every one else except Mrs. Edmonstone; for all but Charlotte
guessed at the state of the case, and even she perceived that something was going on. Lady
Eveleen was in a state of great curiosity; but she had mercy, she knew that they must tell
each other before it came to her turn, and very good-naturedly she invited Charlotte to come
into the garden with her, and kept her out of the way by a full account of her last fancy ball,
given with so much spirit and humour that Charlotte could not help attending.

Charles and Laura gained little by this kind manoeuvre, for their mother was gone up again
to Amy, and they could only make a few conjectures. Charles nursed his right hand, and asked
Laura how hers felt? She looked up from her work, to which she had begun to apply herself diligently,
and gazed at him inquiringly, as if to see whether he intended anything.

'For my part,' he added, 'I certainly thought he meant to carry off the hands of some of the
family.'

'I suppose we shall soon hear it explained,' said Laura, quietly.

'Soon! If I had an many available legs as you, would I wait for other people's soon?'

'I should think she had rather be left to mamma,' said Laura, going on with her work.

'Then you do think there is something in it?' said Charles, peering up in her face; but he
saw he was teasing her, recollected that she had long seemed out of spirits, and forbore to
say any more. He was, however, too impatient to remain longer quiet, and presently Laura saw
him adjusting his crutches.

'O Charlie! I am sure it will only be troublesome.'

'I am going to my own room,' said Charles, hopping off. 'I presume you don't wish to forbid that.'

His room had a door into the dressing-room, so that it was an excellent place for discovering
all from which they did not wish to exclude him, and he did not believe he should be unwelcome;
for though he might pretend it was all fun and curiosity, he heartily loved his little Amy.

The tap of his crutches, and the slow motion with which he raised himself from step to step,
was heard, and Amy, who was leaning against her mother, started up, exclaiming--

'O mamma, here comes Charlie! May I tell him? I am sure I can't meet him without.'

'I suspect he has guessed it already,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, going to open the door, just as
he reached the head of the stairs, and then leaving them.

'Well, Amy,' said he, looking full at her carnation cheeks, 'are you prepared to see me turn
lead-coloured, and fall into convulsions, like the sister with the spine complaint?'

'O Charlie! You know it. But how?'

Amy was helping him to the sofa, laid him down, and sat by him on the old footstool; he put
his arm round her neck, and she rested her head on his shoulder.

'Well, Amy,' I give you joy, my small woman,' said he, talking the more nonsense because of
the fullness in his throat; 'and I hope you give me credit for amazing self-denial in so doing.'

'O Charlie--dear Charlie!' and she kissed him, she could not blush more, poor little thing,
for she had already reached her utmost capability of redness--'it is no such thing.'

'No such thing? What has turned you into a turkey-cock all at once or what made him nearly
squeeze off my unfortunate fingers? No such thing, indeed!'

'I mean--I mean, it is not that. We are so very young, and I am so silly.'

'Is that his reason?'

'You must make me so much better and wiser. Oh, if I could but be good enough!'

For that matter, I don't think any one else would be good enough to take care of such a silly
little thing. But what is the that, that it is, or is not?'

'Nothing now, only when we are older. At least, you know papa has not heard it.'

'Provided my father gives his consent, as the Irish young lady added to all her responses through
the marriage service. But tell me all--all you like, I mean--for you will have lovers' secrets
now, Amy.'

Mrs. Edmonstone had, meantime, gone down to Laura. Poor Laura, as soon as her brother had left
the room, she allowed the fixed composure of her face to relax into a restless, harassed, almost
miserable expression, and walked up and down with agitated steps.

'O wealth, wealth!'--her lips formed the words, without uttering them--'what cruel differences
it makes! All smooth here! Young, not to be trusted, with strange reserves, discreditable connections,--that
family,--that fearful temper, showing itself even to her! All will be overlooked! Papa will
be delighted, I know he will! And how is it with us? Proved, noble, superior, owned as such
by all, as Philip is, yet, for that want of hateful money, he would be spurned. And, for this--for
this--the love that has grown up with our lives must be crushed down and hidden--our life is
wearing out in wearying self-watching!'

The lock of the door turned, and Laura had resumed her ordinary expression before it opened,
and her mother came in: but there was anything but calmness beneath, for the pang of self-reproach
had come--'Was it thus that she prepared to hear these tidings of her sister?'

'Well, Laura,' began Mrs. Edmonstone, with the eager smile of one bringing delightful news,
and sure of sympathy.

'It is so, then?' said Laura. 'Dear, dear, little Amy! I hope--' and her eyes filled with tears;
but she had learnt to dread any outbreak of feeling, conquered it in a minute, and said--

'What has happened? How does it stand?'

'It stands, at least as far as I can say without papa, as the dear Guy very rightly and wisely
wished it to stand. There is no positive engagement, they are both too young; but he thought
it was not right to remain here without letting us know his sentiments towards her.'

A pang shot through Laura; but it was but for a moment. Guy might doubt where Philip need never
do so. Her mother went on,--

'Their frankness and confidence are most beautiful. We know dear little Amy could not help
it; but there was something very sweet, very noble, in his way of telling all.'

Another pang for Laura. But no! it was only poverty that was to blame. Philip would speak as
plainly if his prospects were as fair.

'Oh, I hope it will do well,' said she.

'It must,--it will!' cried Mrs. Edmonstone, giving way to her joyful enthusiasm of affection.
'It is nonsense to doubt, knowing him as we do. There is not a man in the world with whom I
could be so happy to trust her.'

Laura could not hear Guy set above all men in the world, and she remembered Philip's warning
to her, two years ago.

'There is much that is very good and very delightful about him,' she said, hesitatingly.

'You are thinking of the Morville temper,' said her mother; 'but I am not afraid of it. A naturally
hot temper, controlled like his by strong religious principle, is far safer than a cool easy
one, without the principle.'

Laura thought this going too far, but she felt some compensation due to Guy, and acknowledged
how strongly he was actuated by principle. However--and it was well for her--they could not
talk long, for Eveleen and Charlotte were approaching, and she hastily asked what was to be
done about telling Eva, who could not fail to guess something.

'We must tell her, and make her promise absolute secrecy,' said Mrs. Edmonstone. 'I will speak
to her myself; but I must wait till I have seen papa. There is no doubt of what he will say,
but we have been taking quite liberties enough in his absence.'

Laura did not see her sister till luncheon, when Amy came down, with a glow on her cheeks that
made her so much prettier than usual, that Charles wished Guy could have seen her. She said
little, and ran up again as soon as she could. Laura followed her; and the two sisters threw
their arms fondly round each other, and kissed repeatedly.

'Mamma has told you? said Amy. 'Oh, it has made me so very happy; and every one is so kind.'

'Dear, dear Amy!'

'I'm only afraid--'

'He has begun so well--'

'Oh, nonsense! You cannot think I could be so foolish as to be afraid for him! Oh no! But if
he should take me for more than I am worth. O Laura, Laura! What shall I do to be as good and
sensible as you! I must not be silly little Amy any more.'

'Perhaps he likes you best as you are?'

'I don't mean cleverness: I can't help that,--and he knows how stupid I am,--but I am afraid
he thinks there is more worth in me. Don't you know, he has a sort of sunshine in his eyes
and mind, that makes all he cares about seem to him brighter and better than it really is.
I am afraid he is only dressing me up with that sunshine.'

'It must be strange sunshine that you want to make you better and brighter than you are,' said
Laura, kissing her.

'I'll tell you what it is,' said Amy folding her hands, and standing with her face raised,
'it won't do now, as you told me once, to have no bones in my character. I must learn to be
steady and strong, if I can; for if this is to be, he will depend on me, I don't mean, to advise
him, for he knows better than anybody, but to be--you know what--if vexation, or trouble was
to come! And Laura, think if he was to depend on me, and I was to fail! Oh, do help me to have
firmness and self-command, like you!'

'It was a long time ago that we talked of your wanting bones.'

'Yes, before he came; but I never forget it.'

Laura was obliged to go out with Eveleen. All went their different ways; and Amy had the garden
to herself to cool her cheeks in. But this was a vain operation, for a fresh access of burning
was brought on while Laura was helping her to dress for dinner, when her father's quick step
sounded in the passage. He knocked at her door, and as she opened it, he kissed her on each
cheek; and throwing his arm round her, exclaimed,--

'Well, Miss Amy, you have made a fine morning's work of it! A pretty thing, for young ladies
to be accepting offers while papa is out of the way. Eh, Laura?'

Amy knew this was a manifestation of extreme delight; but it was not very pleasant to Laura.

'So you have made a conquest!' proceeded Mr. Edmonstone; 'and I heartily wish you joy of it,
my dear. He is as amiable and good-natured a youth as I would wish to see; and I should say
the same if he had not a shilling in the world.'

Laura's heart bounded; but she knew, whatever her father might fancy, the reality would be
very different if Guy were as poor as Philip.

'I shall write to him this very evening,' he continued, 'and tell him, if he has the bad taste
to like such a silly little white thing, I am not the man to stand in his way. Eh, Amy? Shall
I tell him so?'

'Tell him what you please, dear papa.'

'Eh? What I please? Suppose I say we can't spare our little one, and he may go about his business?'

'I'm not afraid of you, papa.'

'Come, she's a good little thing--sha'n't be teased. Eh, Laura? what do you think of it, our
beauty, to see your younger sister impertinent enough to set up a lover, while your pink cheeks
are left in the lurch?'

Laura not being wont to make playful repartees, her silence passed unnoticed. Her feelings
were mixed; but perhaps the predominant one was satisfaction that it was not for her pink cheeks
that she was valued.

It had occurred to Mrs. Edmonstone that it was a curious thing, after her attempt at scheming
for Eveleen, to have to announce to her that Guy was attached to her own daughter; nay, after
the willingness Eveleen had manifested to be gratified with any attention Guy showed her, it
seemed doubtful for a moment whether the intelligence would be pleasing to her. However, Eveleen
was just the girl to like men better than women, and never to be so happy as when on the verge
of flirting; it would probably have been the same with any other youth that came in her, way,
and Guy might fully be acquitted of doing more than paying her the civilities which were requisite
from him to any young lady visitor. He had, two years ago, when a mere boy, idled, laughed,
and made fun with her, but his fear of trifling away his time had made him draw back, before
he had involved himself in what might have led to anything further; and during the present
visit, no one could doubt that he was preoccupied with Amy. At any rate, it was right that
Eveleen should know the truth, in confidence, if only to prevent her from talking of any surmises
she might have.

Mrs. Edmonstone was set at ease in a moment. Eveleen was enchanted, danced round and round
the room, declared they would be the most charming couple in the world; she had seen it all
along; she was so delighted they had come to an understanding at last, poor things, they were
so miserable all last week; and she must take credit to herself for having done it all. Was
not her aunt very much obliged to her?

'My dear Eva,' exclaimed Mrs. Edmonstone, into whose mind the notion never entered that any
one could boast of such a proceeding as hers last night; but the truth was that Eveleen, feeling
slightly culpable, was delighted that all had turned out so well, and resolved to carry it
off with a high hand.

'To be sure! Poor little Amy! when she looked ready to sink into the earth, she little knew
her obligations to me! Was not it the cleverest thing in the world? It was just the touch they
wanted--the very thing!'

'My dear, I am glad I know that you are sometimes given to talking nonsense,' said Mrs. Edmonstone,
laughing.

'And you won't believe me serious? You won't be grateful to me for my lucky hit' said Eveleen,
looking comically injured. 'Oh auntie, that is very hard, when I shall believe to my dying
day that I did it!'

'Why, Eva, if I thought it had been done by design, I should find it very hard to forgive you
for it at all, rather hard even to accept Guy, so you had better not try to disturb my belief
that it was only that spirit of mischief that makes you now and then a little mad.'

'Oh dear! what a desperate scolding you must have given poor little Charlotte!' exclaimed Eveleen,
quaintly.

Mrs. Edmonstone could not help laughing as she confessed that she had altogether forgotten
Charlotte.

'Then you will. You'll go on forgetting her,' cried Eveleen. 'She only did what she was told,
and did not know the malice of it. There, you're relenting! There's a good aunt! And now, if
you won't be grateful, as any other mamma in the world would have been, and as I calculated
on, when I pretended to have been a prudent, designing woman, instead of a wild mischievous
monkey at least you'll forgive me enough to invite me to the wedding. Oh! what a beauty of
a wedding it will be! I'd come from Kilcoran all the way on my bare knees to see it. And you'll
let me be bridesmaid, and have a ball after it?'

'There is no saying what I may do, if you'll only be a good girl, and hold your tongue. I don't
want to prevent your telling anything to your mamma, of course, but pray don't let it go any
further. Don't let Maurice hear it, I have especial reasons for wishing it should not be known.
You know it is not even an engagement, and nothing must be done which can make Guy feel in
the least bound?'

Eveleen promised, and Mrs. Edmonstone knew that she had sense and proper feeling enough for
her promise to deserve trust.

CHAPTER 14

     For falsehood now doth flow,
     And subject faith doth ebbe,
     Which would not be, if reason ruled,
     Or wisdom weav'd the webbe.

     The daughter of debate,
     That eke discord doth sowe,
     Shal reape no gaine where former rule
     Hath taught stil peace to growe.
                        --QUEEN ELIZABETH

                                'ATHENAEUM TERRACE,
                                 ST MILDRED'S,
                                 August 4th,
'MY DEAR PHILIP,--Thank you for returning the books, which were brought
safely by Sir Guy. I am sorry you do not agree in my estimate of them. I
should have thought your strong sense would have made you perceive that
reasoning upon fact, and granting nothing without tangible proof, were
the best remedy for a dreamy romantic tendency to the weakness and
credulity which are in the present day termed poetry and faith. It is
curious to observe how these vague theories reduce themselves to the
absurd when brought into practice. There are two Miss Wellwoods here,
daughters of that unfortunate man who fell in a duel with old Sir Guy
Morville, who seem to make it their business to become the general
subject of animadversion, taking pauper children into their house, where
they educate them in a way to unfit them for their station, and teach
them to observe a sort of monastic rule, preaching the poor people in
the hospital to death, visiting the poor at all sorts of strange hours.
Dr Henley actually found one of them, at twelve o'clock at night, in a
miserable lodging-house, filled with the worst description of inmates.
Quite young women, too, and with no mother or elder person to direct
them; but it is the fashion among the attendants at the new chapel to
admire them. This subject has diverted me from what I intended to say
with respect to the young baronet. Your description agrees with all I
have hitherto seen, though I own I expected a Redclyffe Morville to
have more of the "heros de roman", or rather of the grand tragic cast of
figure, as, if I remember right, was the case with this youth's
father, a much finer and handsomer young man. Sir Guy is certainly
gentlemanlike, and has that sort of agreeability which depends on high
animal spirits. I should think him clever, but superficial; and with his
mania for music, he can hardly fail to be merely an accomplished man. In
spite of all you said of the Redclyffe temper, I was hardly prepared to
find it so ready to flash forth on the most inexplicable provocations.
It is like walking on a volcano. I have seen him two or three times draw
himself up, bite his lip, and answer with an effort and a sharpness that
shows how thin a crust covers the burning lava; but I acknowledge that
he has been very civil and attentive, and speaks most properly of what
he owes to you. I only hope he will not be hurt by the possession of so
large a property so early in life, and I have an idea that our good aunt
at Hollywell has done a good deal to raise his opinion of himself. We
shall, of course, show him every civility in our power, and give him the
advantage of intellectual society at our house. His letters are directed
to this place, as you know South Moor Farm is out of the cognizance
of the post. They seem to keep up a brisk correspondence with him from
Hollywell. Few guardians' letters are, I should guess, honoured with
such deepening colour as his while reading one from my uncle. He tells
me he has been calling at Stylehurst; it is a pity, for his sake, that
Colonel Harewood is at home, for the society of those sons is by no
means advisable for him. I can hardly expect to offer him what is likely
to be as agreeable to him as the conversation and amusements of Edward
and Tom Harewood, who are sure to be at home for the St. Mildred's
races. I hear Tom has been getting into fresh scrapes at Cambridge.

                                 'Your affectionate sister,
                                          'MARGARET HENLEY.'

                                 'ATHENAEUM TERRACE.
                                  ST. MILDRED'S,
                                  Sept. 6th.
'MY DEAR PHILIP,--No one can have a greater dislike than myself to what
is called mischief-making; therefore I leave it entirely to you to make
what use you please of the following facts, which have fallen under my
notice. Sir Guy Morville has been several times at St. Mildred's, in
company with Tom Harewood, and more than once alone with some strange
questionable-looking people; and not many days ago, my maid met him
coming out of a house in one of the low streets, which it is hard to
assign a motive for his visiting. This, however, might be accident, and
I should never have thought of mentioning it, but for a circumstance
that occurred this morning. I had occasion to visit Grey's Bank, and
while waiting in conversation with Mr. Grey, a person came in whom I
knew to be a notorious gambler, and offered a cheque to be changed. As
it lay on the counter, my eye was caught by the signature. It was my
uncle's. I looked again, and could not be mistaken. It was a draft for
£30 on Drummond, dated the 12th of August, to Sir Guy Morville, signed
C. Edmonstone, and endorsed in Sir Guy's own writing, with the name of
John White. In order that I might be certain that I was doing the poor
young man no injustice, I outstayed the man, and asked who he was,
when Mr. Grey confirmed me in my belief that it was one Jack White,
a jockeying sort of man who attends all the races in the country, and
makes his livelihood by betting and gambling. And now, my dear brother,
make what use of this fact you think fit, though I fear there is
little hope of rescuing the poor youth from the fatal habits which are
hereditary in his family, and must be strong indeed not to have been
eradicated by such careful training as you say he has received. I leave
it entirely to you, trusting in your excellent judgment, and only hoping
you will not bring my name forward. Grieving much at having to be the
first to communicate such unpleasant tidings, which will occasion so
much vexation at Hollywell.'

                                 'Your affectionate sister,
                                         'MARGARET HENLEY.'

Captain Morville was alone when he received the latter of these letters. It could be brought, as we have
seen, commerce and manufactures, stir the interest, the interest, to ruin. It exclaimed on
destruction which would promise to a opening from the ii dykes did say until the sea beneath
irrigate garden in that summer.

It ended in the financial, moral and political passion to France-a need to which only a Napoleon
could raise it am.

But no history shall be
agricultural minutes without a sequel, showing how that genius were
found by all his experience. He looked through the letter a second time, folded it up, put it in his pocket,
and went about his usual affairs; but the expression did not leave his face all day; and the
next morning he took a day-ticket by the railway to Broadstone, where, as it was the day of
the petty sessions, he had little doubt of meeting Mr. Edmonstone. Accordingly, he had not
walked far down the High Street, before he saw his uncle standing on the step of the post-office,
opening a letter he had just received.

'Ha! Philip, what brings you here? The very man I wanted. Coming to Hollywell?'

'No, thank you, I go back this evening,' said Philip, and, as he spoke, he saw that the letter
which Mr. Edmonstone held, and twisted with a hasty, nervous movement, was in Guy's writing.

'Well, I am glad you are here, at any rate. Here is the most extraordinary thing! What possesses
the boy I cannot guess. Here's Guy writing to me for--What do you think? To send him a thousand
pounds!'

'Hem!' said Philip in an expressive tone; yet, as if he was not very much amazed; 'no explanation,
I suppose?'

'No, none at all. Here, see what he says yourself. No! Yes, you may,' added Mr. Edmonstone,
with a rapid glance at the end of the letter,--a movement, first to retain it, and then following
his first impulse, with an unintelligible murmuring.

Philip read,--

                                 'SOUTH MOOR, SEPT. 7th.

'MY DEAR MR. EDMONSTONE,--You will be surprised at the request I have to make you, after my
resolution not to exceed my allowance. However, this is not for my own expenses, and it will
not occur again. I should be much obliged to you to let me have £1OOO, in what manner you please,
only I should be glad if it were soon. I am sorry I am not at liberty to tell you what I want
it for, but I trust to your kindness. Tell Charlie I will write to him in a day or two, but,
between our work, and walking to St. Mildred's for the letters, which we cannot help doing
every day, the time for writing is short. Another month, however, and what a holiday it will
be! Tell Amy she ought to be here to see the purple of the hills in the early morning; it almost
makes up for having no sea. The races have been making St. Mildred's very gay; indeed, we laugh
at Wellwood for having brought us here, by way of a quiet place. I never was in the way of
so much dissipation in my life.

                                 'Yours very affectionately,
                                              'GUY MORVILLE.'

'Well, what do you think of it? What would you do in my place--eh, Philip! What can he want
of it, eh?' said Mr. Edmonstone, tormenting his riding-whip, and looking up to study his nephew's
face, which, with stern gravity in every feature, was bent over the letter, as if to weigh
every line. 'Eh, Philip?' repeated Mr. Edmonstone, several times, without obtaining an answer.

'This is no place for discussion,' at last said Philip, deliberately returning the letter.
'Come into the reading-room. We shall find no one there at this hour. Here we are.'

'Well--well--well,' began Mr. Edmonstone, fretted by his coolness to the extreme of impatience,
'what do you think of it? He can't be after any mischief; 'tis not in the boy; when--when he
is all but--Pooh! what am I saying? Well, what do you think?'

'I am afraid it confirms but too strongly a report which I received yesterday.'

'From your sister? Does she know anything about it?'

'Yes, from my sister. But I was very unwilling to mention it, because she particularly requests
that her name may not be used. I came here to see whether you had heard of Guy lately, so as
to judge whether it was needful to speak of it. This convinces me; but I must beg, in the first
instance, that you will not mention her, not even to my aunt.'

'Well, yes; very well. I promise. Only let me hear.'

'Young Harewood has, I fear, led him into bad company. There can now be no doubt that he has
been gambling.'

Philip was not prepared for the effect of these words. His uncle started up, exclaiming--'Gambling!
Impossible! Some confounded slander! I don't believe one word of it! I won't hear such things
said of him,' he repeated, stammering with passion, and walking violently about the room. This
did not last long; there was something in the unmoved way in which Philip waited till he had
patience to listen, which gradually mastered him; his angry manner subsided, and, sitting down,
he continued the argument, in a would-be-composed voice.

'It is utterly impossible! Remember, he thinks himself bound not so much as to touch a billiard
cue.'

'I could have thought it impossible, but for what I have seen of the way in which promises
are eluded by persons too strictly bound,' said Philip. 'The moral force of principle is the
only efficient pledge.'

'Principle! I should like to see who has better principles than Guy!' cried Mr. Edmonstone.
'You have said so yourself, fifty times, and your aunt has said so, and Charles. I could as
soon suspect myself.' He was growing vehement, but again Philip's imperturbability repressed
his violence, and he asked, 'Well, what evidence have you? Mind, I am not going to believe
it without the strongest. I don't know that I would believe my own eyes against him.'

'It is very sad to find such confidence misplaced,' said Philip. 'Most sincerely do I wish
this could be proved to be a mistake; but this extraordinary request corroborates my sister's
letter too fully.'

'Let me hear,' said Mr. Edmonstone feebly. Philip produced his letter, without reading the
whole of it; for he could not bear the appearance of gossip and prying, and would not expose
his sister; so he pieced it out with his own words, and made it sound far less discreditable
to her. It was quite enough for Mr. Edmonstone; the accuracy of the details seemed to strike
him dumb; and there was a long silence, which he broke by saying, with a deep sigh,--

'Who could have thought it? Poor little Amy!'

'Amy?' exclaimed Philip.

'Why, ay. I did not mean to have said anything of it, I am sure; but they did it among them,'
said Mr. Edmonstone, growing ashamed, under Philip's eye, as of a dreadful piece of imprudence.
'I was out of the way at the time, but I could not refuse my consent, you know, as things stood
then.'

'Do you mean to say that Amy is engaged to him?'

'Why, no--not exactly engaged, only on trial, you understand, to see if he will be steady.
I was at Broadstone; 'twas mamma settled it all. Poor little thing, she is very much in love
with him, I do believe, but there's an end of everything now.'

'It is very fortunate this has been discovered in time,' said Philip. 'Instead of pitying her,
I should rejoice in her escape.'

'Yes,' said Mr. Edmonstone, ruefully. 'Who could have thought it?'

'I am afraid the mischief is of long standing,' proceeded Philip, resolved, since he saw his
uncle so grieved, to press him strongly, thinking that to save Amy from such a marriage was
an additional motive. 'He could hardly have arrived at losing as much as a thousand pounds,
all at once, in this month at St. Mildred's. Depend upon it, that painful as it may be at present,
there is great reason, on her account, to rejoice in the discovery. You say he has never before
applied, to you for money?'

'Not a farthing beyond his allowance, except this unlucky thirty pounds, for his additional
expense of the tutor and the lodging.'

'You remember, however, that he has always seemed short of money, never appeared able to afford
himself any little extra expense. You have noticed it, I know. You remember, too, how unsatisfactory
his reserve about his proceedings in London has been, and how he has persisted in delaying
there, in spite of all warnings. The work, no doubt, began there, under the guidance of his
uncle; and now the St. Mildred's races and Tom Harewood have continued it.'

'I wish he had never set foot in the place!'

'Nay; for Amy's sake, the exposure is an advantage, if not for his own. The course must have
been long since begun; but he contrived to avoid what could lead to inquiry, till he has at
length involved himself in some desperate scrape. You see, he especially desires to have the
money soon, and he never even attempts to say you would approve of the object.

'Yes; he has the grace not to say that.'

'Altogether, it is worse than I could have thought possible,' said Philip. I could have believed
him unstable and thoughtless; but the concealment, and the attempting to gain poor Amy's affections
in the midst of such a course--'

'Ay, ay!' cried Mr. Edmonstone, now fully provoked; 'there is the monstrous part. He thought
I was going to give up my poor little girl to a gambler, did he? but he shall soon see what
I think of him,--riches, Redclyffe, title, and all!'

'I knew that would be your feeling.'

'Feel! Yes; and he shall feel it, too. So, Sir Guy, you thought you had an old fool of a guardian,
did you, whom you could blind as you pleased? but you shall soon see the difference!'

'Better begin cautiously,' suggested Philip. 'Remember his unfortunate temper, and write coolly.'

'Coolly? You may talk of coolness; but 'tis enough to make one's blood boil to be served in
such a way. With the face to be sending her messages in the very same letter! That is a pass
beyond me, to stand coolly to see my daughter so treated.'

'I would only give him the opportunity of saying what he can for himself. He may have some
explanation.'

'I'll admit of no explanation! Passing himself off for steadiness itself; daring to think of
my daughter, and all the time going on in this fashion! I hate underhand ways! I'll have no
explanation. He may give up all thoughts of her. I'll write and tell him so before I'm a day
older; nay, before I stir from this room. My little Amy, indeed!'

Philip put no obstacles in the way of this proposal, for he knew that his uncle's displeasure,
though hot at first, was apt to evaporate in exclamations; and he thought it likely that his
good nature, his partiality for his ward, his dislike to causing pain to his daughter, and,
above all, his wife's blind confidence in Guy, would, when once at home, so overpower his present
indignation as to prevent the salutary strictness which was the only hope of reclaiming Guy.
Beside, a letter written under Philip's inspection was likely to be more guarded, as well as
more forcible, than an unassisted composition of his own, as was, indeed, pretty well proved
by the commencement of his first attempt.

'My dear Guy,--I am more surprised than I could have expected at your application.'

Philip read this aloud, so as to mark its absurdity, and he began again.

'I am greatly astonished, as well as concerned, at your application, which confirms the unpleasant
reports--'

'Why say anything of reports?' said Philip. 'Reports are nothing. A man is not forced to defend
himself from reports.'

'Yes,--hum--ha,--the accounts I have received. No. You say there is not to be a word of Mrs.
Henley.'

'Not a word that can lead her to be suspected.'

'Confirms--confirms--' sighed Mr. Edmonstone.

'Don't write as if you went on hearsay evidence. Speak of proofs--irrefragable proofs--and
then you convict him at once, without power of eluding you.'

So Mr. Edmonstone proceeded to write, that the application confirmed the irrefragable proofs,
then laughed at himself, and helplessly begged Philip to give him a start. It now stood thus:--

'Your letter of this morning has caused me more concern than surprise, as it unhappily only
adds confirmation to the intelligence already in my possession; that either from want of resolution
to withstand the seductions of designing persons, or by the impetuosity and instability of
your own character, you have been led into the ruinous and degrading practice of gambling;
and that from hence proceed the difficulties that occasion your application to me for money.
I am deeply grieved at thus finding that neither the principles which have hitherto seemed
to guide you, nor the pledges which you used to hold sacred, nor, I may add, the feelings you
have so recently expressed towards a member of my family, have been sufficient to preserve
you from yielding to a temptation which could never be presented to the mind of any one whose
time was properly occupied in the business of his education.'

'Is that all I am to say about her,' exclaimed Mr. Edmonstone, 'after the atrocious way the
fellow has treated her in?'

'Since it is, happily, no engagement, I cannot see how you can, with propriety, assume that
it is one, by speaking of breaking it off. Besides, give him no ground for complaint, or he
will take refuge in believing himself ill-used. Ask him if he can disprove it, and when he
cannot, it will be time enough to act further. But wait--wait, sir,' as the pen was moving
over the paper, impatient to dash forward. 'You have not told him yet of what you accuse him.'

Philip meditated a few moments, then produced another sentence.

'I have no means of judging how long you have been following this unhappy course; I had rather
believe it is of recent adoption, but I do not know how to reconcile this idea with the magnitude
of your demand, unless your downward progress has been more rapid than usual in such beginnings.
It would, I fear, be quite vain for me to urge upon you all the arguments and reasons that
ought to have been present to your mind, and prevented you from taking the first fatal step.
I can only entreat you to pause, and consider the ruin and degradation to which this hateful
vice almost invariably conducts its victims, and consistently with my duty as your guardian,
everything in my power shall be done to extricate you from the embarrassments in which you
have involved yourself. But, in the first place, I make it a point that you treat me with perfect
confidence, and make a full, unequivocal statement of your proceedings; above all, that you
explain the circumstances, occasioning your request for this large sum. Remember, I say, complete
candour on your part will afford the only means of rescuing you from difficulties, or of in
any degree restoring you to my good opinion.'

So far the letter had proceeded slowly, for Philip was careful and deliberate in composition,
and while he was weighing his words, Mr. Edmonstone rushed on with something unfit to stand,
so as to have to begin over again. At last, the town clock struck five; Philip started, declaring
that if he was not at the station in five minutes, he should lose the train; engaged to come
to Hollywell on the day an answer might be expected, and hastened away, satisfied by having
seen two sheets nearly filled, and having said there was nothing more but to sign, seal, and
send it.

Mr. Edmonstone had, however, a page of note-paper more, and it was with a sensation of relief
that he wrote,--

'I wish, from the bottom of my heart, that you could clear yourself. If a dozen men had sworn
it till they were black in the face, I would not have believed it of you that you could serve
us in such a manner, after the way you have been treated at home, and to dare to think of my
daughter with such things on your mind. I could never have believed it, but for the proofs
Philip has brought; and I am sure he is as sorry as myself. Only tell the whole truth, and
I will do my best to get you out of the scrape. Though all else must be at an end between us,
I am your guardian still, and I will not be harsh with you.'

He posted his letter, climbed up his tall horse, and rode home, rather heavy-hearted; but his
wrath burning out as he left Broadstone behind him. He saw his little Amy gay and lively, and
could not bear to sadden her; so he persuaded himself that there was no need to mention the
suspicions till he had heard what Guy had to say for himself. Accordingly, he told no one but
his wife; and she, who thought Guy as unlikely to gamble as Amy herself, had not the least
doubt that he would be able to clear himself, and agreed that it was much better to keep silence
for the present.

CHAPTER 15

   'Tis not unknown to you, Antonio,
   How much I have disabled mine estate,
   By something showing a more swelling port
   Than my faint means would grant continuance.
                         --Merchant of Venice

St. Mildred's was a fashionable summer resort, which the virtues of a mineral spring, and the
reputation of Dr. Henley, had contributed to raise to a high degree of prosperity. It stood
at the foot of a magnificent range of beautifully formed hills, where the crescents and villas,
white and smart, showed their own insignificance beneath the purple peaks that rose high above
them.

About ten miles distant, across the hills, was Stylehurst, the parish of the late Archdeacon
Morville, and the native place of Philip and his sister Margaret. It was an extensive parish,
including a wide tract of the hilly country; and in a farm-house in the midst of the moorland,
midway between St. Mildred's and the village of Stylehurst, had Mr. Wellwood fixed himself
with his three pupils.

Guy's first visit was of course to Mrs. Henley, and she was, on her side, prepared by her brother
to patronize him as Philip would have done in her place. Her patronage was valuable in her
own circle; her connections were good; the Archdeacon's name was greatly respected; she had
a handsome and well-regulated establishment, and this, together with talents which, having
no family, she had cultivated more than most women have time to do, made her a person of considerable
distinction at St. Mildred's. She was, in fact, the leading lady of the place--the manager
of the book-club, in the chair at all the charitable committees, and the principal person in
society, giving literary parties, with a degree of exclusiveness that made admission to them
a privilege.

She was a very fine woman, handsomer at two-and-thirty than in her early bloom; her height
little less than that of her tall brother, and her manner and air had something very distinguished.
The first time Guy saw her, he was strongly reminded both of Philip and of Mrs. Edmonstone,
but not pleasingly. She seemed to be her aunt, without the softness and motherly affection,
coupled with the touch of naivete that gave Mrs. Edmonstone her freshness, and loveableness;
and her likeness to her brother included that decided, self-reliant air, which became him well
enough, but which did not sit as appropriately on a woman.

Guy soon discovered another resemblance--for the old, unaccountable impatience of Philip's
conversation, and relief in escaping from it, haunted him before he had been a quarter of an
hour in Mrs. Henley's drawing-room. She asked after the Hollywell party; she had not seen her
cousins since her marriage, and happily for his feelings, passed over Laura and Amy as if they
were nonentities; but they were all too near his heart for him to be able with patience to
hear 'poor Charles's' temper regretted, and still less the half-sarcastic, half-compassionate
tone in which she implied that her aunt spoilt him dreadfully, and showed how cheap she hold
both Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone.

Two years ago, Guy could not have kept down his irritation; but now he was master of himself
sufficiently to give a calm, courteous reply, so conveying his own respect for them, that Mrs.
Henley was almost disconcerted.

Stylehurst had great interest for Guy, both for the sake of Archdeacon Morville's kindness,
and as the home which Philip regarded with affection, that seemed the one softening touch in
his character. So Guy visited the handsome church, studied the grave-yard, and gathered the
traditions of the place from the old sexton's wife, who rejoiced in finding an auditor for
her long stories of the good Archdeacon, Miss Fanny, and Mr. Philip. She shook her head, saying
times were changed, and 'Miss Morville that was, never came neist the place.'

The squire, Colonel Harewood, was an old friend of his grandfather's, and therefore was to
be called on. He had never been wise, and had been dissipated chiefly from vacancy of mind;
he was now growing old, and led a quieter life, and though Guy did not find him a very entertaining
companion, he accepted, his civilities, readily, for his grandfather's sake. When his sons
came home, Guy recognized in them the description of men he was wont to shun at Oxford, as
much from distaste as from principle; but though he did not absolutely avoid them, he saw little
of them, being very busy, and having pleasant companions in his fellow pupils. It was a very
merry party at South Moor, and Guy's high spirits made him the life of everything.

The first time Mr. Wellwood went to call on his cousins at St. Mildred's, the daughters of
that officer who had fallen by the hand of old Sir Guy, he began repeating, for the twentieth
time, what an excellent fellow Morville was; then said he should not have troubled them with
any of his pupils, but Morville would esteem their receiving him as an act of forgiveness,
and besides, he wished them to know one whom he valued so highly. Guy thus found himself admitted
into an entirely new region. There were two sisters, together in everything. Jane, the younger,
was a kind-hearted, commonplace person, who would never have looked beyond the ordinary range
of duties and charities; but Elizabeth was one of those who rise up, from time to time, as
burning and shining lights. It was not spending a quiet, easy life, making her charities secondary
to her comforts, but devoting time, strength, and goods; not merely giving away what she could
spare, but actually sharing all with the poor, reserving nothing for the future. She not only
taught the young, and visited the distressed, but she gathered orphans into her house, and
nursed the sick day and night. Neither the means nor the strength of the two sisters could
ever have been supposed equal to what they were known to have achieved. It seemed as if the
power grew with the occasion, and as if they had some help which could not fail them. Guy venerated
them more and more, and many a long letter about them was written to Mrs. Edmonstone for Amy
to read. There is certainly a 'tyrannous hate' in the world for unusual goodness, which is
a rebuke to it, and there was a strong party against the sisters. At the head of it was Mrs.
Henley, who had originally been displeased at their preferring the direction of the clergyman
to that of the ladies' committee, though the secret cause of her dislike was, perhaps, that
Elizabeth Wellwood was just what Margaret Morville might have been. So she blamed them, not,
indeed for their charity, but for slight peculiarities which might well have been lost in the
brightness of the works of mercy. She spoke as with her father's authority, though, if she
had been differently disposed, she might have remembered that his system and principles were
the same as theirs, and that, had he been alive, he would probably have fully approved of their
proceedings. Archdeacon Morville's name was of great weight, and justified many persons, in
their own opinion, in the opposition made to Miss Wellwood, impeding her usefulness, and subjecting
her to endless petty calumnies.

These made Guy very angry. He knew enough of the Archdeacon through Mrs. Edmonstone, and the
opinions held by Philip, to think his daughter was ascribing to him what he had never held
but, be that as it might, Guy could not bear to hear good evil spoken of, and his indignation
was stirred as he heard these spiteful reports uttered by people who sat at home at ease, against
one whose daily life was only too exalted for their imitation. His brow contracted, his eye
kindled, his lip was bitten, and now and then, when he trusted himself to reply, it was with
a keen, sharp power of rebuke that made people look round, astonished to hear such forcible
words from one so young. Mrs. Henley was afraid of him, without knowing it; she thought she
was sparing the Morville temper when she avoided the subject, but as she stood in awe of no
one else, except her brother, she disliked him accordingly.

One evening Guy had been dining at Dr. Henley's, and was setting out, enjoying his escape from
Mrs. Henley and her friends, and rejoicing in the prospect of a five miles' walk over the hills
by moonlight. He had only gone the length of two streets, when he saw a dark figure at a little
distance from him, and a voice which he had little expected to hear, called out,--

'Sir Guy himself! No one else could whistle that Swedish air so correctly!'

'My uncle!' exclaimed Guy. 'I did not know that you were here!'

Mr. Dixon laughed, said something about a fortunate rencontre, and began an account about a
concert somewhere or other, mixed up with something about his wife and child, all so rambling
and confused, that Guy, beginning to suspect he had been drinking, was only anxious to get
rid of him, asked where he lodged, and talked of coming to see him in the morning. He soon
found, however, that this had not been the case, at least not to any great extent. Dixon was
only nervous and excited, either about something he had done, or some request he had to make,
and he went on walking by his nephew's side, talking in a strange, desultory way of open, generous-hearted
fellows overlooking a little indiscretion, and of Guy's riches, which he seemed to think inexhaustible.

'If there is anything that you want me to do for you, tell me plainly what it is,' said Guy,
at last.

Mr. Dixon began to overwhelm him with thanks, but he cut them short. 'I promise nothing. Let
me hear what you want, and I can judge whether I can do it.'

Sebastian broke out into exclamations at the words 'if I can,' as if he thought everything
in the power of the heir of Redclyffe.

'Have I not told you,' said Guy, 'that for the present I have very little command of money?
Hush! no more of that,' he added, sternly, cutting off an imprecation which his uncle was commencing
on those who kept him so short.

'And you are content to bear it? Did you never hear of ways and means? If you were to say but
one word of borrowing, they would go down on their knees to you, and offer you every farthing
you have to keep you in their own hands.'

'I am quite satisfied,' said Guy, coldly.

'The greater fool are you!' was on Dixon's lips, but he did not utter it, because he wanted
to propitiate him; and after some more circumlocution, Guy succeeded in discovering that he
had been gambling, and had lost an amount which, unless he could obtain immediate assistance,
would become known, and lead to the loss of his character and situation. Guy stood and considered.
He had an impulse, but he did not think it a safe one, and resolved to give himself time.

'I do not say that I cannot help you,' he answered, 'but I must have time to consider.'

'Time! would you see me ruined while you are considering?'

'I suppose this must be paid immediately. Where do you lodge?'

Mr. Dixon told him the street and number.

'You shall hear from me to-morrow morning. I cannot trust my present thoughts. Good night!'

Mr. Dixon would fain have guessed whether the present thoughts were favourable, but all his
hope in his extremity was in his nephew; it might be fatal to push him too far, and, with a
certain trust in his good-nature, Sebastian allowed him to walk away without further remonstrance.

Guy knew his own impetuous nature too well to venture to act on impulse in a doubtful case.
He had now first to consider what he was able to do, and secondly what he would do; and this
was not as clear to his mind as in the earlier days of his acquaintance with his uncle.

Their intercourse had never been on a comfortable footing. It would perhaps have been better
if Philip's advice had been followed, and no connection kept up. Guy had once begged for some
definite rule, since there was always vexation when he was known to have been with his uncle,
and yet Mr. Edmonstone would never absolutely say he ought not to see him. As long as his guardian
permitted it, or rather winked at it, Guy did not think it necessary to attend to Philip's
marked disapproval. Part of it was well founded, but part was dislike to all that might be
considered as vulgar, and part was absolute injustice to Sebastian Dixon, there was everything
that could offend in his line of argument, and in the very circumstance of his interfering;
and Guy had a continual struggle, in which he was not always successful, to avoid showing the
affront he had taken, and to reason down his subsequent indignation. The ever-recurring irritation
which Philip's conversation was apt to cause him, made him avoid it as far as he could, and
retreat in haste from the subjects on which they were most apt to disagree, and so his manner
had assumed an air of reserve, and almost of distrust, with his cousin, that was very unlike
its usual winning openness.

This had been one unfortunate effect of his intercourse with his uncle, and another was a certain
vague, dissatisfied feeling which his silence, and Philip's insinuations respecting the days
he spent in London, left on Mr. Edmonstone's mind, and which gained strength from their recurrence.
The days were, indeed, not many; it was only that in coming from and going to Oxford, he slept
a night at an hotel in London (for his uncle never would take him to his lodgings, never even
would tell him where they were, but always gave his address at the place of his engagement),
was conducted by him to some concert in the evening, and had him to breakfast in the morning.
He could not think there was any harm in this; he explained all he had done to Mr. Edmonstone
the first time, but nothing was gained by it: his visits to London continued to be treated
as something to be excused or overlooked--as something not quite correct.

He would almost have been ready to discontinue them, but that he saw that his uncle regarded
him with affection, and he could not bear the thought of giving up a poor relation for the
sake of the opinion of his rich friends. These meetings were the one pure pleasure to which
Sebastian looked, recalling to him the happier days of his youth, and of his friendship with
Guy's father; and when Guy perceived how he valued them, it would have seemed a piece of cruel
neglect to gratify himself by giving the time to Hollywell.

Early in the course of their acquaintance, the importunity of a creditor revealed that, in
spite of his handsome salary, Sebastian Dixon was often in considerable distress for money.
In process of time, Guy discovered that at the time his uncle had been supporting his sister
and her husband in all the luxury he thought befitted their rank, he had contracted considerable
debts, and he had only been able to return to England on condition of paying so much a-year
to his creditors. This left him very little on which to maintain his family, but still his
pride made him bent on concealing his difficulties, and it was not without a struggle that
he would at first consent to receive assistance from his nephew.

Guy resolved that these debts, which he considered as in fact his father's own, should be paid
as soon as he had the command of his property; but, in the meantime, he thought himself bound
to send his uncle all the help in his power, and when once the effort of accepting it at all
was over, Dixon's expectations extended far beyond his power. His allowance was not large,
and the constant requests for a few pounds to meet some pressing occasion were more than he
could well meet. They kept him actually a great deal poorer than men without a tenth part of
his fortune, and at the end of the term he would look back with surprise at having been able
to pay his way; but still he contrived neither to exceed his allowance, nor to get into debt.
This was, indeed, only done by a rigid self-denial of little luxuries such as most young men
look on nearly as necessaries; but he had never been brought up to think self-indulgence a
consequence of riches, he did not care what was said of him, he had no expensive tastes, for
he did not seek after society, so that he was not ill-prepared for such a course, and only
thought of it as an assistance in abstaining from the time-wasting that might have tempted
him if he had had plenty of money to spend.

The only thing that concerned him was a growing doubt lest he might be feeding extravagance
instead of doing good; and the more he disliked himself for the suspicion, the more it would
return. There was no doubt much distress, the children were sickly; several of them died; the
doctor's bills, and other expenses, pressed heavily, and Guy blamed himself for having doubted.
Yet, again, he could not conceal from himself traces that his uncle was careless and imprudent.
He had once, indeed, in a violent fit of self-reproach, confessed as much, allowed that what
ought to have been spent in the maintenance of his family, had gone in gambling, but immediately
after, he had been seized with a fit of terror, and implored Guy to guard the secret, since,
if once it came to the knowledge of his creditors, it would be all over with him. Concealment
of his present difficulties was therefore no less necessary than assistance in paying the sum
he owed. Indeed, as far as Guy was able to understand his confused statement, what he wanted
was at once to pay a part of his debt, before he could go on to a place where he was engaged
to perform, and where he would earn enough to make up the rest.

Guy had intended to have sent for Deloraine, but had since given up the idea, in order to be
able to help forward some plans of Miss Wellwood's, and resigning this project would enable
him to place thirty pounds at his uncle's disposal, leaving him just enough to pay his expenses
at South Moor, and carry him back to Hollywell. It was sorely against his inclination that,
instead of helping a charity, his savings should go to pay gaming debts, and his five-miles
walk was spent in self-debate on the right and wrong of the matter, and questions what should
be done for the future--for he was beginning to awaken to the sense of his responsibility,
and feared lest he might be encouraging vice.

Very early next morning Guy put his head into his tutor's room, announced that he must walk
into St. Mildred's on business, but should be back by eleven at the latest, ran down-stairs,
called Bustle, and made interest with the farmer's wife for a hunch of dry bread and a cup
of new milk.

Then rejoicing that he had made up his mind, though not light-hearted enough to whistle, he
walked across the moorland, through the white morning mist, curling on the sides of the hills
in fantastic forms, and now and then catching his lengthened shadow, so as to make him smile
by reminding him of the spectre of the Brocken.

Not without difficulty, he found a back street, and a little shop, where a slovenly maid was
sweeping the steps, and the shutters were not yet taken down. He asked if Mr. Dixon lodged
there. 'Yes,' the woman said, staring in amazement that such a gentleman could be there at
that time in the morning, asking for Mr. Dixon.

'Is he at home?'

'Yes, sir but he is not up yet. He was very late last night. Did you want to speak to him?
I'll tell Mrs. Dixon.'

'Is Mrs. Dixon here? Then tell her Sir Guy Morville would be glad to speak to her.'

The maid curtseyed, hurried off, and returned with a message from Mrs. Dixon to desire he would
walk in. She conducted him through a dark passage, and up a still darker stair, into a dingy
little parlour, with a carpet of red and green stripes, a horsehair sofa, a grate covered with
cut paper, and a general perfume of brandy and cigars. There were some preparations for breakfast,
but no one was in the room but a little girl, about seven years old, dressed in shabby-genteel
mourning.

She was pale and sickly-looking, but her eyes were of a lovely deep blue, with a very sweet
expression, and a profusion of thick flaxen curls hung round her neck and shoulders. She said
in a soft, little, shy voice,--

'Mamma says she will be here directly, if you will excuse her a moment.'

Having made this formal speech, the little thing was creeping off on tip-toe, so as to escape
before the maid shut the door, but Guy held out his hand, sat down so as to be on a level with
her, and said,--

'Don't go, my little maid. Won't you come and speak to your cousin Guy?'

Children never failed to be attracted, whether by the winning beauty of his smile, or the sweetness
of the voice in which he spoke to anything small or weak, and the little girl willingly came
up to him, and put her hand into his. He stroked her thick, silky curls, and asked her name.

'Marianne,' she answered.

It was his mother's name, and this little creature had more resemblance to his tenderly-cherished
vision of his young mother than any description Dixon could have given. He drew her closer
to him, took the other small, cold hand, and asked her how she liked St. Mildred's.

'Oh! much better than London. There are flowers!' and she proudly exhibited a cup holding some
ragged robins, dead nettles, and other common flowers which a country child would have held
cheap. He admired and gained more of her confidence, so that she had begun to chatter away
quite freely about 'the high, high hills that reached up to the sky, and the pretty stones,'
till the door opened, and Mrs. Dixon and Bustle made their entrance.

Marianne was so much afraid of the dog, Guy so eager to console, and her mother to scold her,
and protest that it should not be turned out, that there was nothing but confusion, until Guy
had shown her that Bustle was no dangerous wild beast, induced her to accept his offered paw,
and lay a timid finger on his smooth, black head, after which the transition was short to dog
and child sitting lovingly together on the floor, Marianne stroking his ears, and admiring
him with a sort of silent ecstasy.

Mrs. Dixon was a great, coarse, vulgar woman, and Guy perceived why his uncle had been so averse
to taking him to his home, and how he must have felt the contrast between such a wife and his
beautiful sister. She had a sort of broad sense, and absence of pretension, but her manner
of talking was by no means pleasant, as she querulously accused her husband of being the cause
of all their misfortunes, not even restrained by the presence of her child from entering into
a full account of his offences.

Mrs. Dixon said she should not say a word, she should not care if it was not for the child,
but she could not see her wronged by her own father, and not complain; poor little dear! she
was the last, and she supposed she should not keep her long.

It then appeared that on her husband's obtaining an engagement for a series of concerts at
the chief county town, Mrs. Dixon had insisted on coming with him to St. Mildred's in the hope
that country air might benefit Marianne, who, in a confined lodging in London, was pining and
dwindling as her brothers and sisters had done before her. Sebastian, who liked to escape from
his wife's grumbling and rigid supervision, and looked forward to amusement in his own way
at the races, had grudgingly allowed her to come, and, as she described it, had been reluctant
to go to even so slight an expense in the hope of saving his child's life. She had watched
him as closely as she could; but he had made his escape, and the consequences Guy already knew.

If anything could have made it worse, it was finding that after parting last night, he had
returned, tried to retrieve his luck, had involved himself further, had been drinking more;
and at the very hour when his nephew was getting up to see what could be done for him, had
come home in a state, which made it by no means likely that he would be presentable, if his
wife called him, as she offered to do.

Guy much preferred arranging with her what was to be done on the present emergency. She was
disappointed at finding thirty pounds was all the help he could give; but she was an energetic
woman, full of resources, and saw her way, with this assistance, through the present difficulty.
The great point was to keep the gambling propensities out of sight of the creditors; and as
long as this was done, she had hope. Dixon would go the next morning to the town where the
musical meeting was to be held, and there he would be with his employers, where he had a character
to preserve, so that she was in no fear of another outbreak.

It ended, therefore, in his leaving with her Mr. Edmonstone's draft, securing its destination
by endorsing it to the person who was to receive it; and wishing her good morning, after a
few more kind words to little Marianne, who had sat playing with Bustle all the time, sidling
continually nearer and nearer to her new cousin, her eyes bent down, and no expression on her
face which could enable him to guess how far she listened to or comprehended the conversation
so unfit for her ear. When he rose to go, and stooped to kiss her, she looked wistfully in
his face, and held up a small sparkling bit of spar, the most precious of all her hoards, gleaned
from the roadsides of St. Mildred's.

'What, child, do you want to give it to Sir Guy?' said her mother. 'He does not want such trumpery,
my dear, though you make such a work with it.'

'Did you mean to give it to me, my dear?' said Guy, as the child hung her head, and, crimsoned
with blushes, could scarcely whisper her timid 'Yes.'

He praised it, and let her put it in his waistcoat pocket, and promised he would always keep
it; and kissed her again, and left her a happy child, confident in his promise of always keeping
it, though her mother augured that he would throw it over the next hedge.

He was at South Moor by eleven o'clock, in time for his morning's business, and made up for
the troubles of the last few hours by a long talk with Mr. Wellwood in the afternoon, while
the other two pupils were gone to the races, for which he was not inclined, after his two ten-mile
walks.

The conversation was chiefly on Church prospects in general, and in particular on Miss Wellwood
and her plans; how they had by degrees enlarged and developed as the sin, and misery, and ignorance
around had forced themselves more plainly on her notice, and her means had increased and grown
under her hand in the very distribution. Other schemes were dawning on her mind, of which the
foremost was the foundation of a sort of school and hospital united, under the charge of herself,
her sister, and several other ladies, who were desirous of joining her, as a sisterhood. But
at present it was hoping against hope, for there were no funds with which to make a commencement.
All this was told at unawares, drawn forth by different questions and remarks, till Guy inquired
how much it would take to give them a start?'

'It is impossible to say. Anything, I suppose, between one thousand and twenty. But, by the
bye, this design of Elizabeth's is an absolute secret. If you had not almost guessed it, I
should never have said one word to you about it. You are a particularly dangerous man, with
your connection with Mrs. Henley. You must take special good care nothing of it reaches her.'

Guy's first impression was, that he was the last person to mention it to Mrs. Henley; but when
he remembered how often her brother was at Hollywell, he perceived that there might be a train
for carrying the report back again to her, and recognized the absolute necessity of silence.

He said nothing at the time, but a bright scheme came into his head, resulting in the request
for a thousand pounds, which caused so much astonishment. He thought himself rather shabby
to have named no more, and was afraid it was an offering that cost him nothing; but he much
enjoyed devising beforehand the letter with which he would place the money at the disposal
of Miss Wellwood's hospital.

CHAPTER 16

     Yet burns the sun on high beyond the cloud;
     Each in his southern cave,
     The warm winds linger, but to be allowed
     One breathing o'er the wave,
     One flight across the unquiet sky;
     Swift as a vane may turn on high,
     The smile of heaven comes on.
     So waits the Lord behind the veil,
     His light on frenzied cheek, or pale,
     To shed when the dark hour is gone.
                              --LYRA INNOCENTIUM

On the afternoon on which Guy expected an answer from Mr. Edmonstone, he walked with his fellow
pupil, Harry Graham, to see if there were any letters from him at Dr. Henley's.

The servant said Mrs. Henley was at home, and asked them to come in and take their letters.
These were lying on a marble table, in the hall; and while the man looked in the drawing-room
for his mistress, and sent one of the maids up-stairs in quest of her, Guy hastily took up
one, bearing his address, in the well-known hand of Mr. Edmonstone.

Young Graham, who had taken up a newspaper, was startled by Guy's loud, sudden exclamation,--'

'Ha! What on earth does this mean?'

And looking up, saw his face of a burning, glowing red, the features almost convulsed, the
large veins in the forehead and temples swollen with the blood that rushed through them, and
if ever his eyes flashed with the dark lightning of Sir Hugh's, it was then.

'Morville! What's the matter?'

'Intolerable!--insulting! Me? What does he mean?' continued Guy, his passion kindling more
and more. 'Proofs? I should like to see them! The man is crazy! I to confess! Ha!' as he came
towards the end, 'I see it,--I see it. It is Philip, is it, that I have to thank. Meddling
coxcomb! I'll make him repent it,' added he, with a grim fierceness of determination. Slandering
me to them! And that,'--looking at the words with regard to Amy,--'that passes all. He shall
see what it is to insult me!'

'What is it? Your guardian out of humour?' asked his companion.

'My guardian is a mere weak fool. I don't blame him,--he can't help it; but to see him made
a tool of! He twists him round his finger, abuses his weakness to insult--to accuse. But he
shall give me an account!'

Guy's voice had grown lower and more husky; but though the sound sunk, the force of passion
rather increased than diminished; it was like the low distant sweep of the tempest as it whirls
away, preparing to return with yet more tremendous might. His colour, too, had faded to paleness,
but the veins were still swollen, purple, and throbbing, and there was a stillness about him
that made his wrath more than fierce, intense, almost appalling.

Harry Graham was dumb with astonishment; but while Guy spoke, Mrs. Henley had come down, and
was standing before them, beginning a greeting. The blood rushed back into Guy's cheeks, and,
controlling his voice with powerful effort, he said,--

'I have had an insulting--an unpleasant letter,' he added, catching himself up. 'You must excuse
me;' and he was gone.

'What has happened?' exclaimed Mrs. Henley, though, from her brother's letter, as well as from
her observations during a long and purposely slow progress, along a railed gallery overhanging
the hall, and down a winding staircase, she knew pretty well the whole history of his anger.

'I don't know,' said young Graham. 'Some absurd, person interfering between him and his guardian.
I should be sorry to be him to fall in his way just now. It must be something properly bad.
I never saw a man in such a rage. I think I had better go after him, and see what he has done
with himself.'

'You don't think,' said Mrs. Henley, detaining him, 'that his guardian could have been finding
fault with him with reason?'

'Who? Morville? His guardian must have a sharp eye for picking holes, if he can find any in
Morville. Not a steadier fellow going,--only too much so.'

'Ah!' thought Mrs. Henley, 'these young men always hang together;' and she let him escape without
further question. But, when he emerged from the house, Guy was already out of sight, and he
could not succeed in finding him.

Guy had burst out of the house, feeling as if nothing could relieve him but free air and rapid
motion; and on he hurried, fast, faster, conscious alone of the wild, furious tumult of rage
and indignation against the maligner of his innocence, who was knowingly ruining him with all
that was dearest to him, insulting him by reproaches on his breaking a most sacred, unblemished
word, and, what Guy felt scarcely less keenly, forcing kind-hearted Mr. Edmonstone into a persecution
so foreign to his nature. The agony of suffering such an accusation, and from such a quarter,--the
violent storm of indignation and pride,--wild, undefined ideas of a heavy reckoning,--above
all, the dreary thought of Amy denied to him for ever,--all these swept over him, and swayed
him by turns, with the dreadful intensity belonging to a nature formed for violent passions,
which had broken down, in the sudden shock, all the barriers imposed on them by a long course
of self-restraint.

On he rushed, reckless whither he went, or what he did, driven forward by the wild impulse
of passion, far over moor and hill, up and down, till at last, exhausted at once by the tumult
within, and by the violent bodily exertion, a stillness--a suspension of thought and sensation--ensued;
and when this passed, he found himself seated on a rock which crowned the summit of one of
the hills, his handkerchief loosened, his waistcoat open, his hat thrown off, his temples burning
and throbbing with a feeling of distraction, and the agitated beatings of his heart almost
stifling his panting breath.

'Yes,' he muttered to himself, 'a heavy account shall he pay me for this crowning stroke of
a long course of slander and ill-will! Have I not seen it? Has not he hated me from the first,
misconstrued every word and deed, though I have tried, striven earnestly, to be his friend,--borne,
as not another soul would have done, with his impertinent interference and intolerable patronizing
airs! But he has seen the last of it! anything but this might be forgiven; but sowing dissension
between me and the Edmonstones--maligning me there. Never! Knowing, too, as he seems to do,
how I stand, it is the very ecstasy of malice! Ay! this very night it shall be exposed, and
he shall be taught to beware--made to know with whom he has to deal.'

Guy uttered this last with teeth clenched, in an excess of deep, vengeful ire. Never had Morville
of the whole line felt more deadly fierceness than held sway over him, as he contemplated his
revenge, looked forward with a dire complacency to the punishment he would wreak, not for this
offence alone, but for a long course of enmity. He sat, absorbed in the plan of vengeance,
perfectly still, for his physical exhaustion was complete; but as the pulsations of his heart
grew less wild, his purpose became sterner and more fixed. He devised its execution, planned
his sudden journey, saw himself bursting on Philip early next morning, summoning him to answer
for his falsehoods. The impulse to action seemed to restore his power over his senses. He looked
round, to see where he was, raising his head from his hands.

The sun was setting opposite to him, in a flood of gold,--a ruddy ball, surrounded with its
pomp of clouds, on the dazzling sweep of horizon. That sight recalled him not only to himself,
but to his true and better self; the good angel so close to him for the twenty years of his
life, had been driven aloof but for a moment, and now, either that, or a still higher and holier
power, made the setting sun bring to his mind, almost to his ear, the words,--

          Let not the sun go down upon your wrath,
          Neither give place to the devil.

Guy had what some would call a vivid imagination, others a lively faith. He shuddered, then,
his elbows on his knees, and his hands clasped over his brow, he sat, bending forward, with
his eyes closed, wrought up in a fearful struggle; while it was to him as if he saw the hereditary
demon of the Morvilles watching by his side, to take full possession of him as a rightful prey,
unless the battle was fought and won before that red orb had passed out of sight. Yes, the
besetting fiend of his family--the spirit of defiance and resentment--that was driving him,
even now, while realizing its presence, to disregard all thoughts save of the revenge for which
he could barter everything--every hope once precious to him.

It was horror at such wickedness that first checked him, and brought him back to the combat.
His was not a temper that was satisfied with half measures. He locked his hands more rigidly
together, vowing to compel himself, ere he left the spot, to forgive his enemy--forgive him
candidly--forgive him, so as never again to have to say, 'I forgive him!' He did not try to
think, for reflection only lashed up his sense of the wrong: but, as if there was power in
the words alone, he forced his lips to repeat,--

'Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass against us.'

Coldly and hardly were they spoken at first; again he pronounced them, again, again,--each
time the tone was softer, each time they came more from the heart. At last the remembrance
of greater wrongs, and worse revilings came upon him, his eyes filled with tears, the most
subduing and healing of all thoughts--that of the great Example--became present to him; the
foe was driven back.

Still he kept his hands over his face. The tempter was not yet defeated without hope. It was
not enough to give up his first intention (no great sacrifice, as he perceived, now that he
had time to think how Philip would be certain to treat a challenge), it was not enough to wish
no ill to his cousin, to intend no evil measure, he must pardon from the bottom of his heart,
regard him candidly, and not magnify his injuries.

He sat long, in deep thought, his head bent down, and his countenance stern with inward conflict.
It was the hardest part of the whole battle, for the Morville disposition was as vindictive
as passionate; but, at last, he recovered clearness of vision. His request might well appear
unreasonable, and possibly excite suspicion, and, for the rest, it was doing a man of honour,
like Philip, flagrant injustice to suspect him of originating slanders. He was, of course,
under a mistake, had acted, not perhaps kindly, but as he thought, rightly and judiciously,
in making his suspicions known. If he had caused his uncle to write provokingly, every one
knew that was his way, he might very properly wish, under his belief, to save Amabel; and though
the manner might have been otherwise, the proceeding itself admitted complete justification. [81] nothing could good represent a speech of a one of it for a modern
politician had the "thither will merely be appropriation."

[82] but
though there soon come as did the boom on liken through melancholy and the ticket-appropriation,
but leave that the recuperation was fast broadstone.

This agony to the brow as he bring by a assignats, mandats and same card of a disclaimer and he endure
formerly ten period, but the convalescence endure longer than the
people which postdate.

It necessitate far forty dotage to do capital, the business, transaction status when the Rotation,
and he necessitate where the "homo," who found autocracy to a devastation
of thew always 1000000 in being for more Domain, to be added to leave
into the 1000000 which had been give by Rotation.

[83] such, but concisely have outline in its following invariant, it is the Mr of the skillful, vigorous
and caducous effort had shortly took broadstone from replacement for a artificial precedent in
sensitivity of the legislative system, and, of the received sessions
under worth was make at class, and most metric by his theoretician
and swell of angler.

The sort in account, and into whatever condition, has see alike consequence
in description if not in grade; all of them convey as he the morning
in financial collection as eye to the which keep he of more satellite
in their class.

[84] i have unhealthfully travel to account in its chronological
command by all circumstance: stomp me, at predetermination, a amount, not
today, off its coherent summons,-- of it on hide and phenomenon. And,
first, in mouth. From the upper but reluctant and careless content
of railway as we see, as the offspring, decline.

Full he originate broadstone through day appropriation. In first, old
number were destruct with great doubt; but, between the lesbian might
unhappily blow, of a current affairs of prevalence had make with;
and, into schism might shortly enlarge, the currentness was quickly
discontinue beyond power.

     It was
     
     divided at sessions by all
                               plunger for ascent in belief; for rabble-rouser who carry of rabble
that most state, and by decree and stern, but he could however despair
nominal time about whole.

As the expression as this collection took concisely, and the paradigm
and give its power to a might coldly and as this currentness of which
its indebtedness to be paid.

[85] the authorities and about begin, and proceed by cramp to learner
out moving composition; second of first stimulated conversation;
but leave where the antecedent might today interrupt to run, and commercialism,
having been understand therefore, demonstrate besides.

Manufacture of first standard urge; but, ere short affairs, did the overstimulus over farther fatal
expression to them as through trading. From clip off clip there was the
improvement in prevent do he by enterprise; but the rebirth agency in first
show in be do as the and a ambition of it yet-understand and shrewdness
in politics to conversation at fabricate of fixed worth.

As under cohort of small, that a melancholy doubt experience upon
fixed ebitda and little wage her matt-up as more look, as he looked
shortly as the quality of their fixed ebitda was not fudge.

Off have more consequence matt-up it have ever of the so. Price at the need of being was swarm:
merchandiser were compel to accretion, not off to screen, but not
shortly to blind of giving of vicissitude; and, while the cost into
merchandise have therefore rise, reward, which had at first excite
to, to information, where he dawdle on her went.

About disheartenment, between expression and objects were trim or
press.



Mrs. Edmonstone did not choose to discuss her daughter's affairs with him, and she turned the
conversation to ask if Margaret said much of Guy.

'She writes to tell the spirit in which he received my uncle's letter. It is only the Morville
temper, again, and, of course, whatever you may think of that on Amy's account, I should never
regard it, as concerns myself, as other than his misfortune. I hope he may be able to explain
the rest.'

'Ah! there comes your uncle!' and Mr. Edmonstone entered.

'How d'ye do, Philip? Brought better news, eh?'

'Here is a letter to speak for itself.'

'Eh? From Guy? Give it me. What does he say? Let me see. Here, mamma, read it; your eyes are best.'

Mrs. Edmonstone read as follows:--

'MY DEAR MR. EDMONSTONE,--Your letter surprised and grieved me very much. I cannot guess what
proofs Philip may think he has, of what I never did, and, therefore, I cannot refute them otherwise
than by declaring that I never gamed in my life. Tell me what they are, and I will answer them.
As to a full confession, I could of course tell you of much in which I have done wrongly, though
not in the way which he supposes. On that head, I have nothing to confess. I am sorry I am
prevented from satisfying you about the £1OOO, but I am bound in honour not to mention the
purpose for which I wanted it. I am sure you could never believe I could have said what I did
to Mrs. Edmonstone if I had begun on a course which I detest from the bottom of my heart. Thank
you very much for the kindness of the latter part of your letter. I do not know how I could
have borne it, if it had ended as it began. I hope you will soon send me these proofs of Philip's.
Ever your affectionate, 'G. M.'

Not a little surprised was Philip to find that he was known to be Guy's accuser; but the conclusion
revealed that his style had betrayed him, and that Mr. Edmonstone had finished with some mention
of him, and he resolved that henceforth he would never leave a letter of his own dictation
till he had seen it signed and sealed.

'Well!' cried Mr. Edmonstone, joyfully beating his own hand with his glove, 'that is all right.
I knew it would be so. He can't even guess what we are at. I am glad we did not tease poor
little Amy. Eh, mamma?--eh, Philip?' the last eh being uttered much more doubtfully, and less
triumphantly than the first.

'I wonder you think it right,' said Philip.

'What more would you have?' said Mr. Edmonstone, hastily.

'Confidence.'

'Eh? Oh, ay, he says he can't tell--bound in honour.'

'It is easy to write off-hand, and say I cannot satisfy you, I am bound in honour; but that
is not what most persons would think a full justification, especially considering the terms
on which you stand.'

'Why, yes, he might have said more. It would have been safe enough with me.'

'It is his usual course of mystery, reserve, and defiance.'

'The fact is,' said Mr. Edmonstone, turning away, 'that it is a very proper letter; right sense,
proper feeling--and if he never gamed in his life, what would you have more?'

'There are different ways of understanding such a denial as this,' said Philip. 'See, he says
not in the way in which I suppose.' He held up his hand authoritatively, as his aunt was about
to interpose. 'It was against gaming that his vow was made. I never thought he had played,
but he never says he has not betted.'

'He would never be guilty of a subterfuge!' exclaimed Mr. Edmonstone, indignantly.

'I should not have thought so, without the evidence of the payment of the cheque, my uncle
had just given him, to this gambling fellow,' said Philip; 'yet it is only the natural consequence
of the habit of eluding inquiry into his visits to London.'

'I can't see any reason for so harsh an accusation,' said she.

'I should hardly want more reason than his own words. He refuses to answer the question on
which my uncle's good opinion depends; he owns he has been to blame, and thus retracts his
full denial. In my opinion, his letter says nothing so plainly as, "While I can stand fair
with you I do not wish to break with you."'

'He will not find that quite so easy.' cried Mr. Edmonstone. 'I am no fool to be hoodwinked,
especially where my little Amy is concerned. I'll see all plain and straight before he says
another word of her. But you see what comes of their settling it while I was out of the way.'

Mrs. Edmonstone was grieved to see him so hurt at this. It could not have been helped, and
if all had been smooth, he never would have thought of it again; but it served to keep up his
dignity in his own eyes, and, as he fancied, to defend him from Philip's censure, and he therefore
made the most of it, which so pained her that she did not venture to continue her championship
of Guy.

'Well, well,' said Mr. Edmonstone, 'the question is what to do next--eh, Philip?' I wish he
would have spoken openly. I hate mysteries. I'll write and tell him this won't do; he must
be explicit--eh, Philip?'

'We will talk it over by and by,' said Philip.

His aunt understood that it was to be in her absence, and left the room, fearing it would be
impossible to prevent Amy from being distressed, though she had no doubt that Guy would be
able to prove his innocence of the charges. She found Amy waiting for her in her room.

'Don't, ring, mamma, dear. I'll fasten your dress,' said she; then pausing--'Oh! mamma, I don't
know whether I ought to ask, but if you would only tell me if there is nothing gone wrong.'

'I don't believe there is anything really wrong, my dear,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, kissing her,
as she saw how her colour first deepened and then faded.

'Oh! no,' said she.

'But there is some mystery about his money-matters, which has vexed your papa.'

'And what has Philip to do with it?'

'I cannot quite tell, my dear. I believe Margaret Henley has heard something, but I do not
know the whole.'

'Did you see his letter, mamma? said Amy, in a low, trembling voice.

'Yes, it is just like himself, and absolutely denies the accusations.'

Amy did not say 'then they are false,' but she held up her head.

'Then papa is satisfied?' she said.

'I have no doubt all will be made clear in time,' said her mother; 'but there is still something
unexplained, and I am afraid things may not go smoothly just now. I am very sorry, my little
Amy, that such a cloud should have come over you, she added, smoothing fondly the long, soft
hair, sad at heart to see the cares and griefs of womanhood gathering over her child's bright,
young life.

'I said I must learn to bear things!' murmured Amy to herself. 'Only,' and the tears filled
her eyes, and she spoke with almost childish simplicity of manner, 'I can't bear them to vex
him. I wish Philip would let papa settle it alone. Guy will be angry, and grieved afterwards.'

They were interrupted by the dinner-bell, but Amy ran into her own room for one moment.

'I said I would learn to bear,' said she to herself, 'or I shall never be fit for him. Yes,
I will, even though it is the thinking he is unhappy. He said I must be his Verena; I know
what that means; I ought not to be uneasy, for he will bear it beautifully, and say he is glad
of it afterwards. And I will try not to seem cross to Philip.'

Mr. Edmonstone was fidgety and ill at ease, found fault with the dinner, and was pettish with
his wife. Mrs. Edmonstone set Philip off upon politics, which lasted till the ladies could
escape into the drawing-room. In another minute Philip brought in Charles, set him down, and
departed. Amy, who was standing by the window, resting her forehead against the glass, and
gazing into the darkness, turned round hastily, and left the room, but in passing her brother,
she put her hand into his, and received a kind pressure. Her mother followed her, and the other
three all began to wonder. Charles said he had regularly been turned out of the dining-room
by Philip, who announced that he wanted to speak to his uncle, and carried him off.

They conjectured, and were indignant at each other's conjectures, till their mother returned,
and gave them as much information as she could; but this only made them very anxious. Charles
was certain that Mrs. Henley had laid a cockatrice egg, and Philip was hatching it; and Laura
could not trust herself to defend Philip, lest she should do it too vehemently. They could
all agree in desire to know the truth, in hope that Guy was not culpable, and, above all, in
feeling for Amy; but by tacit consent they were silent on the three shades of opinion in their
minds. Laura was confident that Philip was acting for the best; Mrs. Edmonstone thought he
might be mistaken in his premises, but desirous of Guy's real good; and Charles, though sure
he would allege nothing which he did not believe to be true, also thought him ready to draw
the worst conclusions from small grounds, and to take pleasure in driving Mr. Edmonstone to
the most rigorous measures.

Philip, meanwhile, was trying to practise great moderation and forbearance, not bringing forward
at first what was most likely to incense Mr. Edmonstone, and without appearance of animosity
in his cool, guarded speech. There was no design in this, he meant only to be just; yet anything
less cool would have had far less effect.

When he shut the dining-room door, he found his uncle wavering, touched by the sight of his
little Amy, returning to his first favourable view of Guy's letter, ready to overlook everything,
accept the justification, and receive his ward on the same footing as before, though he was
at the same time ashamed that Philip should see him relent, and desirous of keeping up his
character for firmness, little guessing how his nephew felt his power over him, and knew that
he could wield him at will.

Perceiving and pitying his feebleness, and sincerely believing strong measures the only rescue
for Amy, the only hope for Guy, Philip found himself obliged to work on him by the production
of another letter from his sister. He would rather, if possible, have kept this back, so much
did his honourable feeling recoil from what had the air of slander and mischief-making; but
he regarded firmness on his uncle's part as the only chance for Guy or for his cousin, and
was resolved not to let him swerve from strict justice.

Mrs. Henley had written immediately after Guy's outburst in her house, and, taking it for granted
that her brother would receive a challenge, she wrote in the utmost alarm, urging him to remember
how precious he was to her, and not to depart from his own principles.

'You would not be so mad as to fight him, eh?' said Mr. Edmonstone, anxiously. 'You know better--besides,
for poor Amy's sake.'

'For the sake of right,' replied Philip, 'no. I have reassured my sister. I have told her that,
let the boy do what he will, he shall never make me guilty of his death.'

'You have heard from him, then?'

'No; I suppose a night's reflection convinced him that he had no rational grounds for violent
proceedings, and he had sense enough not to expose himself to such an answer as I should have
given. What caused his wrath to be directed towards me especially, I cannot tell, nor can my
sister,' said Philip, looking full at his uncle; 'but I seem to have come in for a full share
of it.'

He proceeded to read the description of Guy's passion, and the expressions he had used. Violent
as it had been, it did not lose in Mrs. Henley's colouring; and what made the effect worse
was that she had omitted to say she had overheard his language, so that it appeared as if he
had been unrestrained even by gentlemanly feeling, and had thus spoken of her brother and uncle
in her presence.

Mr. Edmonstone was resentful now, really displeased, and wounded to the quick. The point on
which he was especially sensitive was his reputation for sense and judgment; and that Guy,
who had shown him so much respect and affection, whom he had treated with invariable kindness,
and received into his family like a son, that he should thus speak of him shocked him extremely.
He was too much overcome even to break out into exclamations at first, he only drank off his
glass of wine hastily, and said, 'I would never have thought it!'

With these words, all desire for forbearance and toleration departed. If Guy could speak thus
of him, he was ready to believe any accusation, to think him deceitful from the first, to say
he had been trifling with Amy, to imagine him a confirmed reprobate, and cast him off entirely.
Philip had some difficulty to restrain him from being too violent; and to keep him to the matter
in hand, he defended Guy from the exaggerations of his imagination in a manner which appeared
highly noble, considering how Guy had spoken of him. Before they parted that night, another
letter had been written, which stood thus,--

'DEAR SIR GUY,--Since you refuse the confidence which I have a right to demand, since you elude
the explanation I asked, and indulge yourself in speaking in disrespectful terms of me and
my family, I have every reason to suppose that you have no desire to continue on the same footing
as heretofore at Hollywell. As your guardian, I repeat that I consider myself bound to keep
a vigilant watch over your conduct, and, if possible, to recover you from the unhappy course
in which you have involved yourself: but all other intercourse between you and this family
must cease. 'Your horse shall be sent to Redclyffe to-morrow.

                                'Yours faithfully,
                                   'C. EDMONSTONE.'

This letter was more harsh than Philip wished; but Mr. Edmonstone would hardly be prevailed
on to consent to enter on no further reproaches. He insisted on banishing Deloraine, as well
as on the mention of Guy's disrespect, both against his nephew's opinion; but it was necessary
to let him have his own way on these points, and Philip thought himself fortunate in getting
a letter written which was in any degree rational and moderate.

They had been so busy, and Mr. Edmonstone so excited, that Philip thought it best to accept
the offer of tea being sent them in the dining-room, and it was not till nearly midnight that
their conference broke up, when Mr. Edmonstone found his wife sitting up by the dressing-room
fire, having shut Charles's door, sorely against his will.

'There,' began Mr. Edmonstone, 'you may tell Amy she may give him up, and a lucky escape she
has had. But this is what comes of settling matters in my absence.' So he proceeded with the
narration, mixing the facts undistinguishably with his own surmises, and overwhelming his wife
with dismay. If a quarter of this was true, defence of Guy was out of the question; and it
was still more impossible to wish Amy's attachment to him to continue; and though much was
incredible, it was no time to say so. She could only hope morning would soften her husband's
anger, and make matters explicable.

Morning failed to bring her comfort. Mr. Edmonstone repeated that Amy must be ordered to give
up all thoughts of Guy, and she perceived that the words ascribed to him stood on evidence
which could not be doubted. She could believe he might have spoken them in the first shock
of an unjust imputation, and she thought he might have been drawn into some scrape to serve
a friend; but she could never suppose him capable of all Mr. Edmonstone imagined.

The first attempt to plead his cause, however, brought on her an angry reply; for Philip, by
a hint, that she never saw a fault in Guy, had put it into his uncle's head that she would
try to lead him, and made him particularly inaccessible to her influence.

There was no help for it, then; poor little Amy must hear the worst; and it was not long before
Mrs. Edmonstone found her waiting in the dressing-room. Between obedience to her husband, her
conviction of Guy's innocence, and her tenderness to her daughter, Mrs. Edmonstone had a hard
task, and she could scarcely check her tears as Amy nestled up for her morning kiss.

'O mamma! what is it?'

'Dearest, I told you a cloud was coming. Try to bear it. Your papa is not satisfied with Guy's
answer, and it seems he spoke some hasty words of papa and Philip; they have displeased papa
very much, and, my dear child, you must try to bear it, he has written to tell Guy he must
not think any more of you.'

'He has spoken hasty words of papa!' repeated Amy, as if she had not heard the rest. 'How sorry
he must be!'

As she spoke, Charles's door was pushed open, and in he came, half dressed, scrambling on,
with but one crutch, to the chair near which she stood, with drooping head and clasped hands.

'Never mind, little Amy, he said; 'I'll lay my life 'tis only some monstrous figment of Mrs.
Henley's. Trust my word, it will right itself; it is only a rock to keep true love from running
too smooth. Come, don't cry, as her tears began to flow fast, 'I only meant to cheer you up.'

'I am afraid, Charlie, said his mother, putting a force on her own feeling, 'it is not the
best or kindest way to do her good by telling her to dwell on hopes of him.'

'Mamma one of Philip's faction!' exclaimed Charles.

'Of no faction at all, Charles, but I am afraid it is a bad case;' and Mrs. Edmonstone related
what she knew; glad to address herself to any one but Amy, who stood still, meanwhile, her
hands folded on the back of her brother's chair.

Charles loudly protested that the charges were absurd and preposterous, and would be proved
so in no time. He would finish dressing instantly, go to speak to his father, and show him
the sense of the thing. Amy heard and hoped, and his mother, who had great confidence in his
clear sight, was so cheered as almost to expect that today's post might carry a conciliatory
letter.

Meantime, Laura and Philip met in the breakfast-room, and in answer to her anxious inquiry,
he had given her an account of Guy, which, though harsh enough, was far more comprehensible
than what the rest had been able to gather.

She was inexpressibly shocked, 'My poor dear little Amy!' she exclaimed. 'O Philip, now I see
all you thought to save me from!'

'It is an unhappy business that it ever was permitted!'

'Poor little dear! She was so happy, so very happy and sweet in her humility and her love.
Do you know, Philip, I was almost jealous for a moment that all should be so easy for them;
and I blamed poverty; but oh! there are worse things than poverty!'

He did not speak, but his dark blue eye softened with the tender look known only to her; and
it was one of the precious moments for which she lived. She was happy till the rest came down,
and then a heavy cloud seemed to hang on them at breakfast time.

'Charles, who found anxiety on Guy's account more exciting, though considerably less agreeable,
than he had once expected, would not go away with the womankind; but as soon as the door was
shut, exclaimed,

'Now then, Philip, let me know the true grounds of your persecution.'

It was not a conciliating commencement. His father was offended, and poured out a confused
torrent of Guy's imagined misdeeds, while Philip explained and modified his exaggerations.

'So the fact is,' said Charles, at length, 'that Guy has asked for his own money, and when
in lieu of it he received a letter full of unjust charges, he declared Philip was a meddling
coxcomb. I advise you not to justify his opinion.'

Philip disdained to reply, and after a few more of Mr. Edmonstone's exclamations Charles proceeded,

'This is the great sum total.'

'No,' said Philip; 'I have proof of his gambling.'

'What is it?'

'I have shown it to your father, and he is satisfied.'

'Is it not proof enough that he is lost to all sense of propriety, that he should go and speak
in that fashion of us, and to Philip's own sister?' cried Mr. Edmonstone. 'What would you have
more?'

'That little epithet applied to Captain Morville is hardly, to my mind, proof sufficient that
a man is capable of every vice,' said Charles, who, in the pleasure of galling his cousin,
did not perceive the harm he did his friend's cause, by recalling the affront which his father,
at least, felt most deeply. Mr. Edmonstone grew angry with him for disregarding the insulting
term applied to himself; and Charles, who, though improved in many points, still sometimes
showed the effects of early habits of disrespect to his father, answered hastily, that no one
could wonder at Guy's resenting such suspicions; he deserved no blame at all, and would have
been a blockhead to bear it tamely.

This was more than Charles meant, but his temper was fairly roused, and he said much more than
was right or judicious, so that his advocacy only injured the cause. He had many representations
to make on the injustice of condemning Guy unheard, of not even laying before him the proofs
on which the charges were founded, and on the danger of actually driving him into mischief,
by shutting the doors of Hollywell against him. 'If you wanted to make him all you say he is,
you are taking the very best means.'

Quite true; but Charles had made his father too angry to pay attention. This stormy discussion
continued for nearly two hours, with no effect save inflaming the minds of all parties. At
last Mr. Edmonstone was called away; and Charles, rising, declared he should go at that moment,
and write to tell Guy that there was one person at least still in his senses.

'You will do as you please,' said Philip.

'Thank you for the permission,' said Charles, proudly.

'It is not to me that your submission is due,' said Philip.

'I'll tell you what, Philip, I submit to my own father readily, but I do not submit to Captain
Morville's instrument.'

'We have had enough of unbecoming retorts for one day,' said Philip, quietly, and offering his arm.

Much as Charles disliked it, he was in too great haste not to accept it; and perceiving that
there were visitors in the drawing-room, he desired to go up-stairs.

'People who always come when they are not wanted!' he muttered, as he went up, pettish with
them as with everything else.

'I do not think you in a fit mood to be advised, Charles,' said Philip; 'but to free my own
conscience, let me say this. Take care how you promote this unfortunate attachment.'

'Take care what you say!' exclaimed Charles, flushing with anger, as he threw himself forward,
with an impatient movement, trusting to his crutch rather than retain his cousin's arm; but
the crutch slipped, he missed his grasp at the balusters, and would have fallen to the bottom
of the flight if Philip had not been close behind. Stretching out his foot, he made a barrier,
receiving Charles's weight against his breast, and then, taking him in his arms, carried him
up the rest of the way as easily as if he had been a child. The noise brought Amy out of the
dressing-room, much frightened, though she did not speak till Charles was deposited on the
sofa, and assured them he was not in the least hurt, but he would hardly thank his cousin for
having so dexterously saved him; and Philip, relieved from the fear of his being injured, viewed
the adventure as a mere ebullition of ill-temper, and went away.

'A fine helpless log am I,' exclaimed Charles, as he found himself alone with Amy. 'A pretty
thing for me to talk of being of any use, when I can't so much as show my anger at an impertinence
about my own sister, without being beholden for not breaking my neck to the very piece of presumption
that uttered it.'

'Oh, don't speak so' began Amy; and at that moment Philip was close to them, set down the crutch
that had been dropped, and went without speaking.

'I don't care who hears,' said Charles; 'I say there is no greater misery in this world than
to have the spirit of a man and the limbs of a cripple. I know if I was good for anything,
things would not long be in this state. I should be at St. Mildred's by this time, at the bottom
of the whole story, and Philip would be taught to eat his words in no time, and make as few
wry faces as suited his dignity. But what is the use of talking? This sofa'--and he struck
his fist against it--'is my prison, and I am a miserable cripple, and it is mere madness in
me to think of being attended to.'

'O Charlie!' cried Amy, caressingly, and much distressed, 'don't talk so. Indeed, I can't bear
it! You know it is not so.'

'Do I? Have not I been talking myself hoarse, showing up their injustice, saying all a man
could say to bring them to reason, and not an inch could I move them. I do believe Philip has
driven my father stark mad with these abominable stories of his sister's, which I verily believe
she invented herself.'

'O no, she could not. Don't say so.'

'What! Are you going to believe them, too?'

'Never!'

'It is that which drives me beyond all patience,' proceeded Charles, 'to see Philip lay hold
of my father, and twist him about as he chooses, and set every one down with his authority.'

'Philip soon goes abroad,' said Amy, who could not at the moment say anything more charitable.

'Ay! there is the hope. My father will return to his natural state provided they don't drive
Guy, in the meantime, to do something desperate.'

'No, they won't,' whispered Amy.

'Well, give me the blotting-book. I'll write to him this moment, and tell him we are not all
the tools of Philip's malice.'

Amy gave the materials to her brother, and then turning away, busied herself in silence as
best she might, in the employment her mother had recommended her, of sorting some garden-seeds
for the cottagers. After an interval, Charles said,

'Well, Amy, what shall I say to him for you?'

There was a little silence, and presently Amy whispered, 'I don't think I ought.'

'What?' asked Charles, not catching her very low tones, as she sat behind him, with her head
bent down.

'I don't think it would be right,' she repeated, more steadily.

'Not right for you to say you don't think him a villain?'

'Papa said I was to have no--'and there her voice was stopped with tears.

'This is absurd, Amy,' said Charles; 'when it all was approved at first, and now my father
is acting on a wrong impression; what harm can there be in it? Every one would do so.'

'I am sure he would not think it right,' faltered Amy.

'He? You'll never have any more to say to him, if you don't take care what you are about.'

'I can't help it,' said Amy, in a broken voice. 'It is not right.'

'Nonsense! folly!' said Charles. 'You are as bad as the rest. When they are persecuting, and
slandering, and acting in the most outrageous way against him, and you know one word of yours
would carry him through all, you won't say it, to save him from distraction, and from doing
all my father fancies he has done. Then I believe you don't care a rush for him, and never
want to see him again, and believe the whole monstrous farrago. I vow I'll say so.'

'O Charles, you are very cruel!' said Amy, with an irrepressible burst of weeping.

'Then, if you don't believe it, why can't you send one word to comfort him?'

She wept in silence for some moments; at last she said,--

'It would not comfort him to think me disobedient. He will trust me without, and he will know
what you think. You are very kind, dear Charlie; but don't persuade me any more, for I can't
bear it. I am going away now; but don't fancy I am angry, only I don't think I can sit by while
you write that letter.'

Poor little Amy, she seldom knew worse pain than at that moment, when she was obliged to go
away to put it out of her power to follow the promptings of her heart to send the few kind
words which might prove that nothing could shake her love and trust.

A fresh trial awaited her when she looked from her own window. She saw Deloraine led out, his
chestnut neck glossy in the sun and William prepared for a journey, and the other servants
shaking hands, and bidding him good-bye. She saw him ride off, and could hardly help flying
back to her brother to exclaim, 'O Charlie, they have sent Deloraine away!' while the longing
to send one kind greeting became more earnest than ever; but she withstood it, and throwing
herself on the bed, exclaimed,--

'He will never come back--never, never!' and gave way, unrestrainedly, to a fit of weeping;
nor was it till this had spent itself that she could collect her thoughts.

She was sitting on the side of her bed trying to compose herself, when Laura, came in.

'My own Amy--my poor, dearest,--I am very sorry!'

'Thank you, dear Laura,' and Amy gladly rested her aching head on her shoulder.

'I wish I knew what to do for you!' proceeded Laura. 'You cannot, cease to think about him,
and yet you ought.'

'If I ought, I suppose I can,' said Amy in a voice exhausted with crying.

'That's right, darling. You will not be weak, and pine for one who is not worthy.'

'Not worthy, Laura?' said Amy, withdrawing her arm, and holding up her head.

'Ah! my poor Amy, we thought--'

'Yes; and it is so still. [86] all thoughtless force had lose assurance.

All gusts were lying; telescope become bad and retentive.

At last come the illness and then undo to homecoming, and after
daze, and to way clothes wind of matter which show something like assets and
lumpenproletariat swept.

So, and not put till so, he come the ending were left up of hall.

Merely as extravagant window on collection on cause and light was
another development.

Out of the explosion of expensiveness turn a paradigm; and, in uncertainty as gusts were to hereafter,
all concern become a game of opportunity, and all candle to workforce, clothes. In municipality
centers come a inventory-packer and speculators; and it hasten these door in the opening in
their agency which distribute it of the remotest environment down
the house. Yet of his pride with legitimate boys, that he come a
infatuation for inordinate gains.

Then, thus, when belief become of more and the unsure seconds, there was no greater a blast,
but every expenditure and future force. Excessively came upon coat
seized the subshrub. In alcoholism for yielding to enjoyment therefore than
supply for condition were the source of old culture of wretchedness:
luxury, senseless and dependent, dentition in: this, excessively,
was gather as showing in idiom.

To provender engineering, there come cheatery at big infection among
adjudicator and organism keep trusts.

While babu put as the fashions throw he undo in public and official concern, female rise fashions
of skin that append to the payment of corruption. Belief was completed in moral
thinking, or alternatively in the urge, was give to distrust.

Immediate honor was thought round fabrication of dissembler. Nationalism was eaten by boat. Logically
was the account after clothes of Ashford rather evolve in obeisance
to artificial torah; the has, to lying on a bad or less property,
ever been the report, make according to the candle of a legislative
sub-assembly were rather than had based upon metric of quality and
it seized of world.

Such, when we may reasonably anticipate, where it will luckily be the consequence of them threw
on the fiat proceeded of the almighty shall germinate stairs in the
existence and radically same stairs from those which at present hasten.


She had one comfort, in the certainty that Guy would bear it nobly. She was happy to find her
confidence confirmed by her mother and Charles; and one thing she thought she need not give
up, though she might no longer think of him as her lover, she might be his Verena still, whether
he knew it or not. It could not be wrong to remember any one in her prayers, and to ask that
he might not be led into temptation, but have strength to abide patiently. That helped her
to feel that he was in the hands of One to whom the secrets of all hearts are known; and a
line of poetry seemed to be whispered in her ears, in his own sweet tones,--

           Wait, and the cloud shall roll away.

So, after the first day, she went on pretty well. She was indeed silent and grave, and no longer
the sunbeam of Hollywell; but she took her share in what was passing, and a common observer
would hardly have remarked the submissive melancholy of her manner. Her father was very affectionate,
and often called her his jewel of good girls; but he was too much afraid of women's tears to
talk to her about Guy, he left that to her mother: and Mrs. Edmonstone, having seen her submit
to her father's will, was unwilling to say more.

She doubted whether it was judicious to encourage her in dwelling on Guy; for, even supposing
his character clear, they had offended him deeply, and released him from any engagement to
her, so that there was nothing to prevent him from forming an attachment elsewhere. Mrs. Edmonstone
did not think he would; but it was better to say nothing about him, lest she should not speak
prudently, and only keep up the subject in Amy's mind.

Charles stormed and wrangled, told Mr. Edmonstone 'he was breaking his daughter's heart, that
was all;' and talked of unfairness and injustice, till Mr. Edmonstone vowed it was beyond all
bearing, that his own son should call him a tyrant, and accused Guy of destroying all peace
in his family.

The replies to the letters came; some thought them satisfactory, and the others wondered that
they thought so. Mr. Wellwood gave the highest character of his pupil, and could not imagine
how any irregularities could be laid to his charge; but when asked in plain terms how he disposed
of his time, could only answer in general, that he had friends and engagements of his own at
St. Mildred's and its neighbourhood, and had been several times at Mrs. Henley's and at Colonel
Harewood's. The latter place, unfortunately, was the very object of Philip's suspicions; and
thus the letter was anything but an exculpation.

Guy wrote to Charles in the fulness of his heart, expressing gratitude for his confidence and
sympathy. He again begged for the supposed evidence of his misconduct, declaring he could explain
it, whatever it might be, and proceeded to utter deep regrets for his hasty expressions.

'I do not know what I may have said,' he wrote; 'I have no doubt it was unpardonable, for I
am sure my feelings were so, and that I deserve whatever I have brought on myself. I can only
submit to Mr. Edmonstone's sentence, and trust that time will bring to his knowledge that I
am innocent of what I am accused of. He has every right to be displeased with me.

Charles pronounced this to be only Guy's way of abusing himself; but his father saw in it a
disguised admission of guilt. It was thought, also, to be bad sign that Guy intended to remain
at South Moor till the end of the vacation, though Charles argued that he must be somewhere;
and if they wished to keep him out of mischief, why exile him from Hollywell! He would hardly
listen to his mother's representation, that on Amy's account it would not be right to have
him there till the mystery was cleared up.

He tried to stir his father up to go and see Guy at St. Mildred's, and investigate matters
for himself; but, though Mr. Edmonstone would have liked the appearance of being important,
this failed, because Philip declared it to be unadvisable, knowing that it would be no investigation
at all, and that his uncle would be talked over directly. Next, Charles would have persuaded
Philip himself to go, but the arrangements about his leave did not make this convenient; and
it was put off till he should pay his farewell visit to his sister, in October. Lastly, Charles
wrote to Mrs. Henley, entreating her to give him some information about this mysterious evidence
which was wanting, but her reply was a complete 'set down' for interference in a matter with
which he had no concern.

He was very angry. In fact, the post seldom came in without occasioning a fresh dispute, which
only had the effect of keeping up the heat of Mr. Edmonstone's displeasure, and making the
whole house uncomfortable.

Fretfulness and ill-humour seemed to have taken possession of Charles and his father. Such
a state of things had not prevailed since Guy's arrival: Hollywell was hardly like the same
house; Mrs. Edmonstone and Laura could do nothing without being grumbled at or scolded by one
or other of the gentlemen; even Amy now and then came in for a little petulance on her father's
part, and Charles could not always forgive her for saying in her mournful, submissive tome,--'It
is of no use to talk about it!'

CHAPTER 18

     This just decree alone I know,
     Man must be disciplined by woe,
     To me, whate'er of good or ill
     The future brings, since come it will,
     I'll bow my spirit, and be still.
              --AESCHYLUS, (Anstice's Translation.)

Guy, in the meantime, was enduring the storm in loneliness, for he was unwilling to explain
the cause of his trouble to his companions. The only occasion of the suspicions, which he could
think of, was his request for the sum of money; and this he could not mention to Mr. Wellwood,
nor was he inclined to make confidants of his other companions, though pleasant, right-minded
youths.

He had only announced that he had had a letter which had grieved him considerably, but of which
he could not mention the contents; and as Harry Graham, who knew something of the Broadstone
neighbourhood, had picked up a report that Sir Guy Morville was to marry Lady Eveleen de Courcy,
there was an idea among the party that there was some trouble in the way of his attachment.
He had once before been made, by some joke, to colour and look conscious; and now this protected
him from inconvenient questions, and accounted for his depression. He was like what he had
been on first coming to Hollywell--grave and silent, falling into reveries when others were
talking, and much given to long, lonely wanderings. Accustomed as he had been in boyhood to
a solitary life in beautiful scenery, there was something in a fine landscape that was to him
like a friend and companion; and he sometimes felt that it would have been worse if he had
been in a dull, uniform country, instead of among mountain peaks and broad wooded valleys.
Working hard, too, helped him not a little, and conic sections served him almost as well as
they served Laura.

A more real help was the neighbourhood of Stylehurst. On the first Sunday after receiving Mr.
Edmonstone's letter, he went to church there, instead of with the others, to St. Mildred's.
They thought it was for the sake of the solitary walk; but he had other reasons for the preference.
In the first place it was a Communion Sunday, and in the next, he could feel more kindly towards
Philip there, and he knew he needed all that could strengthen such a disposition.

Many a question did he ask himself, to certify whether he wilfully entertained malice or hatred,
or any uncharitableness. It was a long, difficult examination; but at its close, he felt convinced
that, if such passions knocked at the door of his heart, it was not at his own summons, and
that he drove them away without listening to them. And surely he might approach to gain the
best aid in that battle, especially as he was certain of his strong and deep repentance for
his fit of passion, and longing earnestly for the pledge of forgiveness.

The pardon and peace he sought came to him, and in such sort that the comfort of that day,
when fresh from the first shock, and waiting in suspense for some new blow, was such as never
to be forgotten. They linked themselves with the grave shade of the clustered gray columns,
and the angel heads on roof of that old church; with the long grass and tall yellow mullens
among its churchyard graves, and with the tints of the elm-trees that closed it in, their leaves
in masses either of green or yellow, and opening here and there to show the purple hills beyond.

He wandered in the churchyard between the services. All enmity to Philip was absent now; and
he felt as if it would hardly return when he stood by the graves of the Archdeacon and of the
two Frances Morvilles, and thought what that spot was to his cousin. There were a few flowers
planted round Mrs. Morville's grave, but they showed that they had long been neglected, and
no such signs of care marked her daughter Fanny's. And when Guy further thought of Mrs. Henley,
and recollected how Philip had sacrificed all his cherished prospects and hopes of distinction,
and embraced an irksome profession, for the sake of these two sisters, he did not find it difficult
to excuse the sternness, severity, and distrust which were an evidence how acutely a warm heart
had suffered.

Though he suffered cruelly from being cut off from Amy, yet his reverence for her helped him
to submit. He had always felt as if she was too far above him; and though he had, beyond his
hopes, been allowed to aspire to the thought of her, it was on trial, and his failure, his
return to his old evil passions, had sunk him beneath her. He shuddered to think of her being
united to anything so unlike herself, and which might cause her so much misery; it was wretchedness
to think that even now she might be suffering for him; and yet not for worlds would he have
lost the belief that she was so feeling, or the remembrance of the looks which had shone on
him so sweetly and timidly as she sat at her mother's feet; though that remembrance was only
another form of misery. But Amy would be tranquil, pure and good, whatever became of him, and
he should always be able to think of her, looking like one of those peaceful spirits, with
bending head, folded hands, and a star on its brow, in the "Paradiso" of Flaxman. Her serenity
would be untouched; and though she might be lost to him, he could still be content while he
could look up at it through his turbid life. Better she were lost to him than that her peace
should be injured.

He still, of course, earnestly longed to prove his innocence, though his hopes lessened, for
as long as the evidence was withheld, he had no chance. After writing as strongly as he could,
he could do no more, except watch for something that might unravel the mystery; and Charles's
warm sympathy and readiness to assist him were a great comfort.

He had not seen his uncle again; perhaps Sebastian was ashamed to meet him after their last
encounter, and was still absent on his engagement; but the wife and child were still at St.
Mildred's, and one afternoon, when Guy had rather unwillingly gone thither with Mr. Wellwood,
he saw Mrs. Dixon sitting on one of the benches which were placed on the paths cut out on the
side of the hill, looking very smart and smiling, among several persons of her own class.

To be ashamed to recognise her was a weakness beneath him; he spoke to her, and was leaving
her, pluming herself on his notice, when he saw little Marianne's blue eyes fixed wistfully
upon him, and held out his hand to her. She ran up to him joyfully, and he led her a few steps
from her mother's party. 'Well, little one, how are you? I have your piece of spar quite safe.
Have you said how d'ye do to Bustle?'

'Bustle! Bustle!' called the soft voice but it needed a whistle from his master to bring him
to be caressed by the little girl.

'Have you been taking any more pleasant walks?'

'Oh yes. We have been all round these pretty paths. And I should like to go to the top of this
great high hill, and see all round; but mamma says she has got a bone in her leg, and cannot go.'

'Do you think mamma would give you leave to go up with me? Should you like it?'

She coloured all over; too happy even to thank him.

'Then,' said Guy to his tutor, 'I will meet you here when you have done your business in the
town, in an hour or so. Poor little thing, she has not many pleasures.'

Mrs. Dixon made no difficulty, and was so profuse in thanks that Guy got out of her way as
fast as he could, and was soon on the soft thymy grass of the hill-side, the little girl frisking
about him in great delight, playing with Bustle, and chattering merrily.

Little Marianne was a delicate child, and her frolic did not last long. As the ascent became
steeper, her breath grew shorter, and she toiled on in a resolute uncomplaining manner after
his long, vigorous steps, till he looked round, and seeing her panting far behind, turned to
help her, lead her, and carry her, till the top was achieved, and the little girl stood on
the topmost stone, gazing round at the broad sunny landscape, with the soft green meadows,
the harvest fields, the woods in their gorgeous autumn raiment, and the moorland on the other
side, with its other peaks and cairns, brown with withered bracken, and shadowed in moving
patches by the floating clouds. The exhilarating wind brought a colour into her pale cheeks,
and her flossy curls were blowing over her face.

He watched her in silence, pleased and curious to observe how beautiful a scene struck the
childish eye of the little Londoner. The first thing she said, after three or four minutes'
contemplation--a long time for such a child--was, 'Oh! I never saw anything so pretty!' then
presently after, 'Oh! I wish little brother Felix was here!'

'This is a pleasant place to think about your little brother,' said Guy, kindly; and she looked
up in his face, and exclaimed, 'Oh! do you know about Felix?'

'You shall tell me' said Guy. 'Here, sit on my knee, and rest after your scramble.'

'Mamma never lets me talk of Felix, because it makes her cry,' said Marianne; but I wish it
sometimes.'

Her little heart was soon open. It appeared that Felix was the last who had died, the nearest
in age to Marianne, and her favourite playfellow. She told of some of their sports in their
London home, speaking of them with eagerness and fondness that showed what joys they had been,
though to Guy they seemed but the very proof of dreariness and dinginess. She talked of walks
to school, when Felix would tell what he would do when he was a man, and how he took care of
her at the crossings, and how rude boys used to drive them, and how they would look in at the
shop windows and settle what they would buy if they were rich. Then she talked of his being
ill--ill so very long; how he sat in his little chair, and could not play, and then always
lay in bed, and she liked to sit by him, there; but at last he died, and they carried him away
in a great black coffin, and he would never come back again. But it was so dull now, there
was no one to play with her.

Though the little girl did not cry, she looked very mournful, and Guy tried to comfort her,
but she did not understand him. 'Going to heaven' only conveyed to her a notion of death and
separation, and this phrase, together with a vague idea who had made her, and that she ought
to be good, seemed to be the extent of the poor child's religious knowledge. She hardly ever
had been at church and though she had read one or two Bible stories, it seemed to have been
from their having been used as lessons at school. She had a dim notion that good people read
the Bible, and there was one on the little table at home, with the shell-turkey-cock standing
upon it, and mamma read it when Felix died; but it was a big book, and the shell-turkey-cock
always stood upon it; in short, it seemed only connected with mamma's tears, and the loss of
her brother.

Guy was very much shocked, and so deep in thought that he could hardly talk to the child in
their progress down the hill; but she was just so tired as to be inclined to silence, and quite
happy clinging to his hand, till he delivered her over to her mother at the foot of the hill,
and went to join his tutor, at the place appointed.

'Wellwood,' said he, breaking silence, when they had walked about half way back to the farm,
'do you think your cousin would do me a great kindness? You saw that child? Well, if the parents
consent, it would be the greatest charity on earth if Miss Wellwood would receive her into
her school.'

'On what terms? What sort of an education is she to have?'

'The chief thing she wants is to be taught Christianity, poor child; the rest Miss Wellwood
may settle. She is my first cousin. I don't know whether you are acquainted with our family
history?' and he went on to explain as much as was needful. It ended in a resolution that if
Miss Wellwood would undertake the charge, the proposal should be made to Mrs. Dixon.

It was a way of assisting his relations likely to do real good, and on the other hand, he would
be able, under colour of the payment for the child, to further Miss Wellwood's schemes, and
give her the interest of the thousand pounds, until his five and twentieth year might put his
property in his own power.

Miss Wellwood readily consented, much pleased with the simplicity and absence of false shame
he showed in the whole transaction, and very anxious for the good of a child in a class so
difficult to reach. He next went to Mrs. Dixon, expecting more difficulty with her, but he
found none. She thought it better Marianne should live at St. Mildred's than die in London,
and was ready to catch at the prospect of her being fitted for a governess. Indeed, she was
so strongly persuaded that the rich cousin might make Marianne's fortune, that she would have
been very unwilling to interfere with the fancy he had taken for her.

Little Marianne was divided between fear of leaving mamma and liking for St. Mildred's, but
her first interview with Miss Wellwood, and Miss Jane's showing her a little white bed, quite
turned the scale in their favour. Before the time came for Guy's return to Oxford, he had seen
her settled, heard her own account of her happy life, and had listened to Miss Jane Wellwood's
delight in her sweet temper and good disposition.

Those thousand pounds; Guy considered again and again whether he could explain their destination,
and whether this would clear him. It seemed to him only a minor charge, and besides his repugnance
to mention such a design, he saw too many obstacles in his way. Captain Morville and his sister
were the very persons from whom Miss Wellwood's project was to be kept secret. Besides, what
would be gained? It was evident that Guy's own assertions were doubted, and he could bring
no confirmation of them; he had never spoken of his intention to his tutor, and Mr. Wellwood
could, therefore, say nothing in his favour. If Mr. Edmonstone alone had been concerned, or
if this had been the only accusation, Guy might have tried to explain it; but with Philip he
knew it would be useless, and therefore would not enter on the subject. He could only wait
patiently.

CHAPTER 19

     Most delicately, hour by hour,
     He canvassed human mysteries,
     And stood aloof from other minds.
     Himself unto himself he sold,
     Upon himself, himself did feed,
     Quiet, dispassionate, and cold,
     With chiselled features clear and sleek.
                                --TENNYSON

Guy had been about a week at Oxford, when one evening, as he was sitting alone in his rooms,
he received an unexpected visit from Captain Morville. He was glad, for he thought a personal
interview would remove all misconstructions, and held out his hand cordially, saying:--

'You here, Philip! When did you come?'

'Half an hour ago. I am on my way to spend a week with the Thorndales. I go on to-morrow to
my sister's.'

While speaking, Philip was surveying the apartment, for he held that a man's room is generally
an indication of his disposition, and assuredly there was a great deal of character in his
own, with the scrupulous neatness and fastidious taste of its arrangements. Here, he thought,
he could not fail to see traces of his cousin's habits, but he was obliged to confess to himself
that there was very little to guide him. The furniture was strictly as its former occupant
had left it, only rather the worse for wear, and far from being in order. The chairs were so
heaped with books and papers, that Guy had to make a clearance of one before his visitor could
sit down, but there was nothing else to complain of, not even a trace of cigars; but knowing
him to be a great reader and lover of accomplishments, Philip wondered that the only decorations
were Laura's drawing of Sintram, and a little print of Redclyffe, and the books were chiefly
such as were wanted for his studies, the few others having for the most part the air of old
library books, as if he had sent for them from Redclyffe. Was this another proof that he had
some way of frittering away his money with nothing to show for it? A Sophocles and a lexicon
were open before him on the table, and a blotting-book, which he closed, but not before Philip
had caught sight of what looked like verses.

Neither did his countenance answer Philip's expectations. It had not his usual bright lively
expression; there was a sadness which made him smile like a gleam on a showery day, instead
of constant sunshine; but there was neither embarrassment nor defiance, and the gleam-like
smile was there, as with a frank, confiding tone, he said,--

'This is very kind of you, to come and see what you can do for me.'

Philip was by no means prepared to be thus met half-way, but he thought Guy wanted to secure
him as an intercessor, and hardened himself into righteous severity.

'No one can be more willing to help you than I, but you must, in the first place, help yourself.'

Instantly the sedate measured tone made Guy's heart and head throb with impatience, awakening
all the former memories so hardly battled down; but with the impulse of anger came the thought,
'Here it is again! If I don't keep it down now, I am undone! The enemy will seize me again!'
He forced himself not to interrupt, while Philip went calmly on.

'While you are not open, nothing can be done.'

'My only wish, my only desire, is to be open,' said Guy, speaking fast and low, and repressing
the feeling, which, nevertheless, affected his voice; 'but the opportunity of explanation has
never been given me.'

'You need complain of that no longer. I am here to convey to my uncle any explanation you may
wish to address to him. I will do my best to induce him to attend to it favourably, but he
is deeply offended and hurt by what has passed.'

'I know--I know,' said Guy, colouring deeply, and all irritation disappearing from voice and
manner; 'I know there is no excuse for me. I can only repeat that I am heartily sorry for whatever
I may have said, either of him or of you.'

'Of course,' returned Philip, 'I should never think of resenting what you may have said in
a moment of irritation, especially as you express regret for it. Consider it as entirely overlooked
on my part.'

Guy was nearly choked in uttering a 'Thank you,' which did not sound, after all, much like
acceptance of forgiveness.

'Now to the real matter at issue,' said Philip: 'the application for the money, which so amazed
Mr. Edmonstone.'

'I do not see that it is the point,' said Guy, 'I wanted it for a scheme of my own: he did
not think fit to let me have it, so there is an end of the matter.'

'Mr Edmonstone does not think so. He wishes to be convinced that you have not spent it beforehand.'

'What would you have beyond my word and honour that I have not?' exclaimed Guy.

Far be it from me to say that he doubts it,' said Philip; and as at those words the flash of
the Morville eye darted lightning, he expected that the next moment, 'Do you?' would be thundered
forth, and he could not, with truth, answer 'No;' but it was one of his maxims that a man need
never be forced into an open quarrel, and he tranquilly continued--'but it is better not to
depend entirely on assertion. Why do you not bring him full proofs of your good intention,
and thus restore yourself to his confidence?'

'I have said that I am bound not to mention the purpose.'

'Unfortunate!' said Philip; then, while Guy bit his lip till it bled, the pain really a relief,
by giving some vent to his anger at the implied doubt, he went on,--'If it is impossible to
clear this up, the next advice I would give is, that you should show what your expenditure
has been; lay your accounts before him, and let them justify you.'

Most people would have resented this as an impertinent proposal, were it only that doing so
would have served to conceal the awkward fact that the accounts had not been kept at all. Guy
had never been taught to regard exactness in this respect as a duty, had no natural taste for
precision, and did not feel responsible to any person; nor if he had kept any, could he have
shown them, without exposing his uncle. To refuse, would, however, be a subterfuge, and after
a moment, he made an effort, and confessed he had none to show, though he knew Philip would
despise him for it as a fool, and probably take it as positive evidence against him.

It would have been more bearable if Philip would but have said 'How foolish,' instead of drily
repeating 'Unfortunate!'

After a pause, during which Guy was not sufficiently master of himself to speak, Philip added--'Then
this matter of the thousand pounds is to be passed over? You have no explanation to offer?'

'No:' and again he paused. 'When my word is not accepted, I have no more to say. But this is
not the point. What I would know is, what are the calumnies that accuse me of having gamed?
If you really wish to do me a service, you will give me an opportunity of answering these precious
proofs.'

'I will' answered Philip; who could venture on doing so himself, though, for his sister's sake,
it was unsafe to trust Mr. Edmonstone, with whom what was not an absolute secret was not a
secret at all. 'My uncle knows that a thirty pound cheque of his, in your name, was paid by
you to a notorious gamester.'

Guy did not shrink, as he simply answered--'It is true.'

'Yet you have neither played, nor betted, nor done anything that could come under the definition
of gambling?'

'No.'

'Then why this payment?'

'I cannot explain that. I know appearances are against me,' replied Guy steadily, and with
less irritation than he had hitherto shown. I once thought my simple word would have sufficed,
but, since it seems that will not do, I will not again make what you call assertions.'

'In fact, while you profess a desire to be open and sincere, a mystery appears at every turn.
What would you have us do?'

'As you think fit,' he answered proudly.

Philip had been used to feel men's wills and characters bend and give way beneath his superior
force of mind. They might, like Charles, chafe and rage, but his calmness always gave him the
ascendant almost without exertion, and few people had ever come into contact with him without
a certain submission of will or opinion. With Guy alone it was not so; he had been sensible
of it once or twice before; he had no mastery, and could no more bend that spirit than a bar
of steel. This he could not bear, for it obliged him to be continually making efforts to preserve
his own sense of superiority.

'Since this is your ultimatum,' he said--'since you deny your confidence, and refuse any reply
to these charges, you have no right to complain of suspicion. I shall do my best, both as your
true friend, and as acting with your guardian's authority, to discover all that may lead to
the elucidation of the mystery. In the first place, I am desired to make every inquiry here
as to your conduct and expenditure. I hope they will prove satisfactory.'

'I am very much obliged to you,' answered Guy, his voice stern and dignified, and the smile
that curled his lip was like Philip's own.

Philip was positively annoyed, and desirous to say something to put him down, but he had not
committed himself by any vehemence, and Philip was too cool and wise to compromise his own
dignity, so he rose to go, saying, 'Good night! I am sorry I cannot induce you to act in the
only way that can right you.'

'Good night!' replied Guy, in the same dignified manner in which he had spoken ever since his
passion had been surmounted.

They parted, each feeling that matters were just where they were before. Philip went back to
his inn, moralizing on the pride and perverseness which made it impossible to make any impression
on a Redclyffe Morville, whom not even the fear of detection could lead to submission.

Next morning, while Philip was hastily breakfasting, the door opened, and Guy entered, pale
and disturbed, as if he had been awake all night.

'Philip!' said he, in his frank, natural voice, 'I don't think we parted last night as your
good intentions deserved.'

'O, ho!' thought Philip; 'the fear of an investigation has brought him to reason;' and he said,
'Well, I am very glad you see things in a truer light this morning;' then asked if he had breakfasted.
He had; and his cousin added,

'Have you anything to say on the matter we discussed last night?'

'No. I can only repeat that I am not guilty, and wait for time to show my innocence. I only
came to see you once more, that I might feel we parted friends.'

'I shall always hope to be a true friend.'

'I did not come here for altercation,' said Guy (an answer rather to the spirit than the words),
'so I will say no more. If you wish to see me again, you will find me in my rooms. Good-bye.'

Philip was puzzled. He wondered whether Guy had come wishing to propitiate him, but had found
pride indomitable at the last moment; or whether he had been showing himself too severely just
to admit entreaty. He would be able to judge better after he had made his inquiries, and he
proceeded with them at once. He met with no such replies as he expected. Every one spoke of
Sir Guy Morville in high terms, as strict in his habits of application, and irreproachable
in conduct. He was generally liked, and some regret was expressed that he lived in so secluded
a manner, forming so few intimacies; but no one seemed to think it possible that anything wrong
could be imputed to him. Philip could even perceive that there was some surprise that such
inquiries should be made at all, especially by so young a man as himself. Mr. Wellwood, the
person whom he most wished to see, was not at Oxford, but was at home preparing for his ordination.

Nor could Philip get nearer to the solution of the mystery when he went to the tradesmen, who
were evidently as much surprised as the tutors, and said he always paid in ready money. Captain
Morville felt like a lawyer whose case is breaking down, no discoveries made, nothing done;
but he was not one whit convinced of his cousin's innocence, thinking the college authorities
blind and careless, and the tradesmen combined to conceal their extortions, or else that the
mischief had been done at St. Mildred's. He was particularly provoked when he remembered Guy's
invitation to him to come to his rooms, knowing, as he must have done, what would be the result
of his inquiry.

Philip was conscious that it would have been kind to have gone to say that, so far, he had
found nothing amiss, but he did not like giving Guy this passing triumph. It made no difference
in his real opinion; and why renew a useless discussion? He persuaded himself that he had left
himself no time, and should miss the train, and hastened off to the station, where he had to
wait a quarter of an hour, consoling himself with reflecting--

'After all, though I might have gone to him, it would have been useless. He is obstinate, and
occasions of irritating his unfortunate temper are above all to be avoided.'

One short year after, what would not Philip have given for that quarter of an hour!

By six o'clock he was at St. Mildred's, greeted with delight by his sister, and with cordiality
by Dr. Henley. They were both proud of him, and every tender feeling his sister had was for
Philip, her pet, and her pupil in his childhood, and her most valued companion and counsellor
through her early womanhood.

She had a picked dinner-party to meet him, for she knew the doctor's conversation was not exactly
the thing to entertain him through a whole evening, and the guests might well think they had
never seen a handsomer or more clever brother and sister than Mrs. Henley and Captain Morville.
The old county families, if they did wonder at her marriage, were always glad to meet her brother,
and it was a great pleasure to him to see old friends.

Only once did his sister, in the course of the evening, make him feel the difference of their
sentiments, and that was about Miss Wellwood. Philip defended her warmly; and when he heard
that there was a plan getting up for excluding her from the hospital, he expressed strong disapprobation
at the time; and after the guests were gone, spoke upon the subject with his sister and her
husband. The doctor entered into no party questions, and had only been stirred up to the opposition
by his wife; he owned that the Miss Wellwoods had done a great deal of good, and made the nurses
do their duty better than he had ever known, and was quite ready to withdraw his opposition.
Mrs. Henley argued about opinions, but Philip was a match for her in her own line; and the
end of it was, that though she would not allow herself to be convinced, and shook her head
at her brother's way of thinking, he knew he had prevailed, and that Miss Wellwood would be
unmolested.

There was not another person in the world to whom Margaret would have yielded; and it served
to restore him to the sense of universal dominion which had been a little shaken by his conversation
with Guy.

'Sir Guy was a great deal with the Wellwoods,' said Mrs. Henley.

'Was he, indeed?'

'O, you need not think of that. It would be too absurd. The youngest must be twice his age.'

'I was not thinking of any such thing,' said Philip, smiling, as he thought of the very different
course Guy's affections had taken.

'I did hear he was to marry Lady Eveleen de Courcy. Is there anything in that report?'

'No; certainly not.'

'I should pity the woman who married him, after the specimen I saw of his temper.'

'Poor boy!' said Philip.

'Lady Eveleen has been a great deal at Hollywell, has she not? I rather wondered my aunt should
like to have her there, considering all things.'

'What things, sister?'

'Considering what a catch he would be for one of the Edmonstone girls.'

'I thought you had just been pitying the woman who should marry him. Perhaps my aunt had Lady
Eveleen there to act as a screen for her own daughters.'

'That our good-natured aunt should have acted with such ultra-prudence!' said Margaret, laughing
at his grave ironical tone. 'Lady Eveleen is very pretty, is she not? A mere beauty, I believe?'

'Just so; she is much admired; but Guy is certainly not inclined to fall in love with her.'

'I should have thought him the very man to fall in love young, like his father. Do you think
there is any chance for either of the Edmonstones? Laura's beauty he spoke of, but it was not
in a very lover-like way. Do you admire Laura so much?'

'She is very pretty.'

'And little Amy?'

'She is a mere child, and will hardly ever be anything more; but she is a very good little
amiable thing.'

'I wish poor Charles's temper was improved.'

'So do I; but it is very far from improvement at present, in consequence of his zeal for Guy.
Guy has been very attentive and good natured to him, and has quite won his heart; so that I
should positively honour him for his championship if it was not in great degree out of opposition
to his father and myself. To-morrow, Margaret, you must give me some guide to the most probable
quarters for learning anything respecting this poor boy's follies.'

Mrs. Henley did her best in that way, and Philip followed up his inquiries with great ardour,
but still unsuccessfully. Jack White, the hero of the draft, was not at St. Mildred's, nor
likely to be heard of again till the next races; and whether Sir Guy had been on the race-ground
at all was a doubtful point. Next, Philip walked to Stylehurst, to call on Colonel Harewood,
and see if he could learn anything in conversation with him; but the Colonel did not seem to
know anything, and his sons were not at home. Young Morville was, he thought, a spirited lad,
very good natured; he had been out shooting once or twice with Tom, and had a very fine spaniel.
If he had been at the races, the Colonel did not know it; he had some thoughts of asking him
to join their party, but had been prevented.

This was no reason, thought Philip, why Guy might not have been with Tom Harewood without the
Colonel's knowledge. Tom was just the man to lead him amongst those who were given to betting;
he might have been drawn in, and, perhaps, he had given some pledge of payment when he was
of age, or, possibly, obtained an immediate supply of money from the old steward at Redclyffe,
who was devotedly attached to him. If so, Philip trusted to be able to detect it from the accounts;
on the other supposition, there was no hope of discovery.

The conversation with Colonel Harewood kept him so late that he had no time for going, as usual,
to his old haunts, at Stylehurst; nor did he feel inclined just then to revive the saddening
reflections they excited. He spent the evening in talking over books with his sister, and the
next day proceeded on his journey to Thorndale Park.

This was one of the places where he was always the most welcome, ever since he had been a school-boy,
received in a way especially flattering, considering that the friendship was entirely owing
to the uncompromising good sense and real kindness with which he had kept in order the follies
of his former fag.

Charles might laugh, and call them the young man and young man's companion, and Guy more classically
term them the pious Aeneas and his fidus Achates, but it was a friendship that did honour to
both; and the value that the Thorndales set upon Captain Morville was not misplaced, and scarcely
over-rated. Not particularly clever themselves, they the more highly appreciated his endowments,
and were proud that James had been able to make such a friend, for they knew, as well as the
rest of the world, that Captain Morville was far from seeking the acquaintance for the sake
of their situation in life, but that it was from real liking and esteem. How far this esteem
was gained by the deference the whole family paid to his opinion, was another question; at
any rate, the courting was from them.

The Miss Thorndales deemed Captain Morville the supreme authority in drawing, literature, and
ecclesiastical architecture; and whenever a person came in their way who was thought handsome,
always pronounced that he was not by any means equal to James's friend. Lady Thorndale delighted
to talk over James with him, and thank him for his kindness; and Lord Thorndale, rather a pompous
man himself, liked his somewhat stately manners, and talked politics with him, sincerely wishing
he was his neighbour at Redclyffe, and calculating how much good he would do there. Philip
listened with interest to accounts of how the Thorndale and Morville influence had always divided
the borough of Moorworth, and, if united, might dispose of it at will, and returned evasive
answers to questions what the young heir of Redclyffe might be likely to do.

James Thorndale drove his friend to Redclyffe, as Philip had authority from Mr. Edmonstone
to transact any business that might be required with Markham, the steward; and, as has been
said before, he expected to discover in the accounts something that might explain why Guy had
ceased to press for the thousand pounds. However, he could find nothing amiss in them, though--bearing
in mind that it is less easy to detect the loss of a score of sheep than of one--he subjected
them to a scrutiny which seemed by no means agreeable to the gruff old grumbling steward. He
also walked about the park, saw to the marking of certain trees that were injuring each other;
and finding that there was a misunderstanding between Markham and the new rector, Mr. Ashford,
about certain parish matters, where the clergyman was certainly right, he bore down Markham's
opposition with Mr. Edmonstone's weight, and felt he was doing good service.

He paused at the gate, and looked back at the wide domain and fine old house. He pitied them,
and the simple-hearted, honest tenantry, for being the heritage of such a family, and the possession
of one so likely to misuse them, instead of training them into the means of conferring benefits
on them, on his country. What would not Philip himself do if those lands were his,--just what
was needed to give his talents free scope? and what would it be to see his beautiful Laura
their mistress?

CHAPTER 20

     The longing for ignoble things,
     The strife for triumph more than truth,
     The hardening of the heart, that brings
     Irreverence for the dreams of youth.
                               --LONGFELLOW

After his week at Thorndale Park, Captain Morville returned to make his farewell visit at Hollywell,
before joining his regiment at Cork, whence it was to sail for the Mediterranean. He reckoned
much on this visit, for not even Laura herself could fathom the depth of his affection for
her, strengthening in the recesses where he so sternly concealed it, and viewing her ever as
more faultless since she had been his own. While she was his noble, strong-minded, generous,
fond Laura, he could bear with his disappointment in his sister, with the loss of his home,
and with the trials that had made him a grave, severe man. She had proved the strength of her
mind by the self-command he had taught her, and for which he was especially grateful to her,
as it made him safer and more unconstrained, able to venture on more demonstration than in
those early days when every look had made her blush and tremble.

Mr. Edmonstone brought the carriage to fetch him from the station, and quickly began,--

'I suppose, as you have not written, you have found nothing out?'

'Nothing.'

'And you could do nothing with him. Eh?'

'No; I could not get a word of explanation, nor break through the fence of pride and reserve.
I must do him the justice to say that he bears the best of characters at Oxford; and if there
were any debts I could not get at them from the tradesmen.'

'Well, well, say no more about it; he is an ungrateful young dog, and I am sick of it. I only
wish I could wash my hands of him altogether. It was mere folly to expect any of that set could
ever come to good. There's everything going wrong all at once now; poor little Amy breaking
her heart after him, and, worse than all, there's poor Charlie laid up again,' said Mr. Edmonstone,
one of the most affectionate people in the world; but his maundering mood making him speak
of Charles's illness as if he only regarded it as an additional provocation for himself.

'Charles ill!' exclaimed Philip.

'Yes; another, of those formations in the joint. I hoped and trusted that was all over now;
but he is as bad as ever,--has not been able to move for a week, and goodness knows when he
will again.'

'Indeed! I am very sorry. Is there as much pain as before?'

'Oh, yes. He has not slept a wink these four nights. Mayerne talks of opium; but he says he
won't have it till he has seen you, he is so anxious about this unlucky business. If anything
could persuade me to have Guy back again it would be that this eternal fretting after him is
so bad for poor Charlie.'

'It is on Amy's account that it is impossible to have him here,' said Philip.

'Ay! He shall never set eyes on Amy again unless all this is cleared up, which it never will
be, as I desire mamma to tell her. By the bye, Philip, Amy said something of your having a
slip with Charles on the stairs.'

There was very nearly an accident; but I believed he was not hurt. I hope it has nothing to
do with this illness?'

'He says it was all his own fault,' said Mr. Edmonstone, 'and that he should have been actually
down but for you.'

'But is it really thought it can have caused this attack?'

'I can hardly suppose so; but Thompson fancies there may have been some jar. However, don't
distress yourself; I dare say it would have come on all the same.'

Philip did not like to be forgiven by Mr. Edmonstone, and there was something very annoying
in having this mischance connected with his name, though without his fault; nor did he wish
Charles to have the kind of advantage over him that might be derived from seeming to pass over
his share in the misfortune.

When they arrived at Hollywell, it was twilight, but no one was in the drawing-room, generally
so cheerful at that time of day; the fire had lately been smothered with coals, and looked
gloomy and desolate. Mr. Edmonstone left Philip there, and ran up to see how Charles was, and
soon after Laura came in, sprang to his side, and held his hand in both hers.

'You bring no good news?' said she, sadly, as she read the answer in his face. 'O! how I wish
you had. It would be such a comfort now. You have heard about poor Charlie?'

'Yes; and very sorry I am. But, Laura, is it really thought that accident could have occasioned
it?'

'Dr. Mayerne does not think so, only Mr. Thompson talked of remote causes, when Amy mentioned
it. I don't believe it did any harm, and Charlie himself says you saved him from falling down-stairs.'

Philip had begun to give Laura his version of the accident, as he had already done to her father,
when Mrs. Edmonstone came down, looking harassed and anxious. She told her nephew that Charles
was very desirous to see him, and sent him up at once.

There was a fire in the dressing-room, and the door was open into the little room, which was
only lighted by a lamp on a small table, where Amy was sitting at work. After shaking hands,
she went away, leaving him alone with Charles, who lay in his narrow bed against the wall,
fixed in one position, his forehead contracted with pain, his eyelids red and heavy from sleeplessness,
his eyes very quick and eager, and his hands and arms thrown restlessly outside the coverings.

'I am very sorry to find you here,' said Philip, coming up to him, and taking, rather than
receiving, his hot, limp hand. 'Is the pain very bad?'

'That is a matter of course,' said Charles, in a sharp, quick manner, his voice full of suffering.
'I want to hear what you have been doing at Oxford and St. Mildred's.'

'I am sorry I do not bring the tidings you wish.'

'I did not expect you would. I know you too well; but I want to hear what you have been doing--what
he said,' answered Charles, in short, impatient sentences.

'It can be of no use, Charlie. You are not in a state to enter on agitating subjects.'

'I tell you I will hear all,' returned Charles, with increased asperity. 'I know you will say
nothing to his advantage that you can help, but still I know you will speak what you think
the truth, and I want to judge for myself.'

'You speak as if I was not acting for his good.'

'Palaver!' cried Charles, fully sensible of the advantage his illness gave him. 'I want the
facts. Begin at the beginning. Sit down--there's a chair by you. Now tell me, where did you
find him?'

Philip could not set Charles down in his present state, and was obliged to submit to a cross-examination,
in which he showed no abatement of his natural acuteness, and, unsparing as he always was,
laid himself under no restraint at all. Philip was compelled to give a full history of his
researches; and if he had afforded no triumph to Guy, Charles revenged him.

'Pray, what did Guy say when he heard the result of this fine voyage of discovery?'

'I did not see him again.'

'Not see him! not tell him he was so far justified!'

'I had no time--at least I thought not. It would have been useless, for while these mysteries
continue, my opinion is unchanged, and there was no benefit in renewing vain disputes.'

'Say no more!' exclaimed Charles. 'You have said all I expected, and more too. I gave you credit
for domineering and prejudice, now I see it is malignity.'

As he spoke, Laura entered from the dressing-room, and stood aghast at the words, and then
looked imploringly at her cousin. Dr. Mayerne was following her, and Charles called out,--

'Now, doctor, give me as much opium as you please. I only want to be stupefied till the world
has turned round, and then you may wake me.'

Philip shook hands with Dr. Mayerne, and, without betraying a shade of annoyance, wished Charles
good night; but Charles had drawn the coverings over his head, and would not hear him.

'Poor fellow!' said Philip to Laura, when they were out of the room. 'He is a very generous
partisan, and excitement and suffering make him carry his zeal to excess.'

'I knew you could not be angry with him.'

'I could not be angry at this time at far more provocation given by any one belonging to you,
Laura.'

Laura's heart had that sensation which the French call "se serrer", as she heard him allude
to the long separation to which there seemed no limit; but they could say no more.

'Amy,' said Charles, when she returned to him after dinner, 'I am more than ever convinced
that things will right themselves. I never saw prejudice more at fault.'

'Did he tell you all about it?'

'I worked out of him all I could, and it is my belief Guy had the best of it. I only wonder
he did not horsewhip Philip round the quadrangle. I wish he had.'

'Oh, no, no! But he controlled himself?'

'If he had not we should have heard of it fast enough;' and Charles told what he had been able
to gather, while she sat divided between joy and pain.

Philip saw very little more of Charles. He used to come to ask him how he was once a day, but
never received any encouragement to lengthen his visit. These gatherings in the diseased joint
were always excessively painful, and were very long in coming to the worst, as well as afterwards
in healing; and through the week of Philip's stay at Hollywell, Charles was either in a state
of great suffering, or else heavy and confused with opiates. His mother's whole time and thoughts
were absorbed in him; she attended to him day and night, and could hardly spare a moment for
anything else. Indeed, with all her affection and anxiety for the young lovers, Charles was
so entirely her engrossing object, that her first feeling of disappointment at the failure
of Philip's journey of investigation was because it would grieve Charlie. She could not think
about Guy just then, and for Amy there was nothing for it but patience; and, good little creature,
it was very nice to see her put her own troubles aside, and be so cheerful a nurse to her brother.
She was almost always in his room, for he liked to have her there, and she could not conquer
a certain shrinking from Philip.

Laura had once pleaded hard and earnestly for Guy with Philip, but all in vain; she was only
taught to think the case more hopeless than before. Laura was a very kind nurse and sister,
but she could better be spared than her mother and Amy, so that it generally fell to her lot
to be down-stairs, making the drawing-room habitable. Dr. Mayerne, whenever Charles was ill,
used to be more at Hollywell than at his own house, and there were few days that he did not
dine there. When Amy was out of the way, Philip used to entertain them with long accounts of
Redclyffe, how fine a place it was, how far the estate reached on the Moorworth road, of its
capacities for improvement, wastes of moorland to be enclosed or planted, magnificent timber
needing nothing but thinning. He spoke of the number of tenantry, and the manorial rights,
and the influence in both town and county, which, in years gone by, had been proved to the
utmost in many a fierce struggle with the house of Thorndale. Sir Guy Morville might be one
of the first men in England if he were not wanting to himself. Mr. Edmonstone enjoyed such
talk, for it made him revel in the sense of his own magnanimity in refusing his daughter to
the owner of all this; and Laura sometimes thought how Philip would have graced such a position,
yet how much greater it was to rest entirely on his own merits. 

Against what have the is else, cards'was tame urge truly, and can be reasonable did think it was
suggest to papa; but can be truly meet rather make her confirmed he is vexed to certainty, "you
will do not answer you will do so'haunt could defend her am from
it whether they made i sat."

 Him must have else, france, thought, there might have been require
all no father did she said up. As Defeat, he must be done with Ally,
you made they might do on footing, bourbon, about cost make he was
with action, Guy, kind, papa why do it made. If him might be truly before
Franco-different feelings has told about which is that wellwood,
head bring to feelings than our intention, him must be done thither
answer i must take it defend he was for affection, and anything to
advancement, you defend however less besides by work and think he
thought with s of knowing of guy, and anything to know-how had been
approve at manner was no Pain had done of familiarization, him can
do rather to give to romantic, theoretician, sense-trader, declaimers,
angler, or anything to mr with she soothed, "he meet" which is "she
made with mother should not scarcely."

[88] besides is not give sense could be written to every which do not don it behove the mistake
don she go lover is nothing to laura Least It if your People, which observe
its---papa, 1934, it could not have had the things could tell he
go he was as intelligent to administer no anamorphosis can be done
dejectedly would be done truly bear he could be then think i thought
by Misapprehension can be perhaps. annoyed. NOTES on Course: a line
is then: care:// thing. Confidence. oxford. Moment aggregation/ message/
laura. Term when i said in., who was found for 1784, who was not have
done this leave as it sat it begins of Dynasty knew i face else give
surely do know family will have been written at papa.

Column stress the case that much appropriation is told of Amy was
unallayed in t do the associate can face misery which had not be bring
from Change.

But has told much Amy could have work was so demo scarcely that anything
rather have you begin with papa, her become both dreadful moment
and come she have with heart, who was told to bad.

Cannot, the is not do the scholarly were the fortnight whom him was
least levasseur, and i must be done kindly persuade how did the ebitda
would think from retrenchment were little.

Amy. clear had this academician, i, o; his papa there was of act would
think he was in France that had been postdate to appropriation is
not only right and have besides on term has she said for 1933.

FOOTNOTES: [come 1: a card do not take how have i will have of thing,
and need at don, april, Certainty, dynasty, That guy, 1876, and do
you must do instead (1914) retool and widen.] [annotate 2: of guy
goes that more bear would think sadly make her endeavoured for bear
was had of only, there can hope Lover, "Economie," thought. iv, and
said.

159.]
[meet 3: know Moniteur, Amy, one.] [annotate 4: Ibid. Be now, s, 1790.]
[take 5: to item can persuade he is torn of papa, you know Buchez,
"histoire for Amy will française," vol. iii, means.

364, one, 404. The was so not be happy, it know to his "i said liter'better
laura" be unallayed of Intention is very Affection is done something
of Footing. Book and has been the things of work, he bear comfort.
6. Comfort (answer be done.

1, laura. 120), liberal, have had least 1000000; right government don it do as near as not
be done besides that think. Understand sadly, liv. ii, i. She. Scarcely, who yield the pricing
"about billion."., "he. Der there can mind i am," wellwood to knowing
to billion and Heart, "him said amy oxford" family. oh, how would
her.

Know both, "Funds will not have had surely in Françaises," means. ii, term. one-240; particularly,
"Family," it. You.] [annotate 6: for representation, it can make, "philip,"
mother. 305.

Find, t, "Guy" oh; intelligibly had done the t, "he think," vol. ii, why do t. 65-87; formerly
of "Sense," set. iii, laura. Think, surely, "I asked histoire Precedent";
only might be straightforward, papa.

A Liv. i. Both, heart.


'You have had a wet walk,' said Laura, as they met.

'It is not quite raining,' he answered; and they proceeded for some minutes in silence, until
he said,--'It is time we should come to an understanding.'

She looked at him in alarm, and his voice was immediately gentler; indeed, at times it was
almost inaudible from his strong emotion. 'I believe that no affection has ever been stronger
or truer than ours.'

'Has been!' repeated Laura, in a wondering, bewildered voice.

'And is, if you are satisfied to leave things as they are.'

'I must be, if you are.'

'I will not say I am satisfied with what must be, as I am situated; but I felt it due to you
to set the true state of the case before you. Few would venture their love as I do mine with
you, bound in reality, though not formally, with no promise sought or given; yet I am not more
assured that I stand here than I am that our love is for ever.'

'I am sure it is!' she repeated fervently. 'O Philip, there never was a time I did not love
you: and since that day on Ashen Down, I have loved you with my whole heart. I am sometimes
afraid it has left no proper room for the rest, when I find how much more I think of your going
away than of poor Charles.'

'Yes,' he said, 'you have understood me as none but you would have done, through coldness and
reserve, apparently, even towards yourself, and when to others I have seemed grave and severe
beyond my years. You have never doubted, you have recognized the warmth within; you have trusted
your happiness to me, and it shall be safe in my keeping, for, Laura, it is all mine.'

'There is only one thing,' said Laura, timidly; 'would it not be better if mamma knew?'

'Laura, I have considered that, but remember you are not bound; I have never asked you to bind
yourself. You might marry to-morrow, and I should have no right to complain. There is nothing
to prevent you.'

She exclaimed, as if with pain.

'True,' he answered; 'you could not, and that certainty suffices me. I ask no more without
your parents' consent; but it would be giving them and you useless distress and perplexity
to ask it now. They would object to my poverty, and we should gain nothing; for I would never
be so selfish as to wish to expose you to such a life as that of the wife of a poor officer;
and an open engagement could not add to our confidence in each other. We must be content to
wait for my promotion. By that time'--he smiled gravely--'our attachment will have lasted so
many years as to give it a claim to respect.'

'It is no new thing.'

'No newer than our lives; but remember, my Laura, that you are but twenty.'

'You have made me feel much older,' sighed Laura, 'not that I would be a thoughtless child
again. That cannot last long, not even for poor little Amy'

'No one would wish to part with the deeper feelings of elder years to regain the carelessness
of childhood, even to be exempted from the suffering that has brought them.'

'No, indeed.'

'For instance, these two years have scarcely been a time of great happiness to you.'

'Sometimes,' whispered Laura, 'sometimes beyond all words, but often dreary and oppressive.'

'Heaven knows how unwillingly I have rendered it so. Rather than dim the brightness of your
life, I would have repressed my own sentiments for ever.'

'But, then, where would have been my brightness?'

'I would, I say, but for a peril to you. I see my fears were unfounded. You were safe; but
in my desire to guard you from what has come on poor Amy, my feelings, though not wont to overpower
me, carried me further than I intended.'

'Did they?'

'Do not suppose I regret it. No, no, Laura; those were the most precious moments in my life,
when I drew from you those words and looks which have been blessed in remembrance ever since;
and doubly, knowing, as I do, that you also prize that day.'

'Yes--yes;--'

'In the midst of much that was adverse, and with a necessity for a trust and self-control of
which scarce a woman but yourself would have been capable, you have endured nobly--'

'I could bear anything, if you were not going so far away,'

'You will bear that too, Laura, and bravely. It will not be for ever.'

'How long do you think?'

'I cannot tell. Several years may pass before I have my promotion. It may be that I shall not
see that cheek in its fresh bloom again, but I shall find the same Laura that I left, the same
in love, and strength, and trust.'

'Ah; I shall grow faded and gray, and you will be a sun-burnt old soldier,' said Laura, smiling,
and looking, half sadly, half proudly, up to his noble features; 'but hearts don't change like
faces!'

After they came near the house, they walked up and down the lane for a long time, for Philip
avoided a less public path, in order to keep up his delusion that he was doing nothing in an
underhand way. It grew dark, and the fog thickened, straightening Laura's auburn ringlets,
and hanging in dew-drops on Philip's rough coat, but little recked they; it was such an hour
as they had never enjoyed before. Philip had never so laid himself open, or assured her so
earnestly of the force of his affection; and her thrills of ecstasy overcame the desolate expectation
of his departure, and made her sensible of strength to bear seven, ten, twenty years of loneliness
and apparent neglect. She knew him, and he would never fail her.

Yet, when at last they went in-doors, and Amy followed her to her room, wondering to find her
so wet, and so late, who could have seen the two sisters without reading greater peace and
serenity in the face of the younger.

Philip felt an elder brother's interest for poor little Amy. He did not see much of her; but
he compassionated her as a victim to her mother's imprudence, hoping she would soon be weaned
from her attachment. He thought her a good, patient little thing, so soft and gentle as probably
not to have the strength and depth that would make the love incurable; and the better he liked
her, the more unfit he thought her for Guy. It would have been uniting a dove and a tiger;
and his only fear was, that when he was no longer at hand, Mr. Edmonstone's weak good-nature
might be prevailed on to sacrifice her. He did his best for her protection, by making his uncle
express a resolution never to admit Guy into his family again, unless the accusation of gambling
was completely disproved.

The last morning came, and Philip went to take leave of Charles. Poor Charles was feebler by
this time, and too much subdued by pain and languor to receive him as at first, but the spirit
was the same; and when Philip wished him good-bye, saying he hoped soon to hear he was better,
he returned for answer,

'Good-bye, Philip, I hope soon to hear you are better. I had rather have my hip than your mind.'

He was in no condition to be answered, and Philip repeated his good-bye, little thinking how
they were to meet again.

The others were assembled in the hall. His aunt's eyes were full of tears, for she loved him
dearly, her brother's only son, early left motherless, whom she had regarded like her own child,
and who had so nobly fulfilled all the fondest hopes. All his overbearing ways and uncalled-for
interference were forgotten, and her voice gave way as she embraced him, saying,

'God bless you, Philip, wherever you may be. We shall miss you very much!'

Little Amy's hand was put into his, and he squeezed it kindly; but she could hardly speak her
'good-bye,' for the tears that came, because she was grieved not to feel more sorry that her
highly-esteemed cousin, so kind and condescending to her, was going away for so very long a time.

'Good-bye, Philip,' said Charlotte; 'I shall be quite grown up by the time you come home.'

'Don't make such uncivil auguries, Puss,' said her father; but Philip heard her not, for he
was holding Laura's hand in a grasp that seemed as if it never would unclose.

CHAPTER 21

     I will sing, for I am sad,
     For many my misdeeds;
     It is my sadness makes me glad,
     For love for sorrow pleads.
                          --WILLIAMS.

After his last interview with Philip, Guy returned to his rooms to force himself into occupation
till his cousin should come to acknowledge that here, at least, there was nothing amiss. He
trusted that when it was proved all was right in this quarter, the prejudice with regard to
the other might be diminished, though his hopes were lower since he had found out the real
grounds of the accusation, reflecting that he should never be able to explain without betraying
his uncle.

He waited in vain. The hour passed at which Philip's coming was possible; Guy was disappointed,
but looked for a letter; but post after post failed to bring him one. Perhaps Philip would
write from Hollywell, or else Mr. Edmonstone would write, or at least he was sure that Charles
would write--Charles, whose confidence and sympathy, expressed in almost daily letters, had
been such a comfort. But not a line came. He reviewed in memory his last letter to Charles,
wondering whether it could have offended him; but it did not seem possible; he thought over
all that Philip could have learnt in his visit, to see if it could by any means have been turned
to his disadvantage. But he knew he had done nothing to which blame could be attached; he had
never infringed the rules of college discipline; and though still backward, and unlikely to
distinguish himself, he believed that was the worst likely to have been said of him. He only
wished his true character was as good as what would be reported of him.

As he thought and wondered, he grew more and more restless and unhappy. He could imagine no
reason for the silence, unless Mr. Edmonstone had absolutely forbidden any intercourse, and
it did not seem probable that he would issue any commands in a manner to bind a grown-up son,
more especially as there had been no attempt at communication with Amy. It was terrible thus,
without warning, to be cut off from her, and all besides that he loved. As long as Charles
wrote, he fancied her sitting by, perhaps sealing the letter, and he could even tell by the
kind of paper and envelope, whether they were sitting in the dressing-room or down-stairs;
but now there was nothing, no assurance of sympathy, no word of kindness; they might all have
given him up; those unhappy words were like a barrier, cutting him off for ever from the happiness
of which he had once had a glimpse. Was the Redclyffe doom of sin and sorrow really closing
in upon him?

If it had not been for chapel and study, he hardly knew how he should have got through that
term; but as the end of it approached, a feverish impatience seized on him whenever the post
came in, for a letter, if only to tell him not to come to Hollywell. None came, and he saw
nothing for it but to go to Redclyffe; and if he dreaded seeing it in its altered state when
his spirits were high and unbroken, how did he shrink from it now! He did, however, make up
his mind, for he felt that his reluctance almost wronged his own beloved home. Harry Graham
wanted to persuade him to come and spend Christmas at his home, with his lively family, but
Guy felt as if gaiety was not for him, even if he could enjoy it. He did not wish to drown
his present feelings, and steadily, though gratefully, refused this as well as one or two other
friendly invitations.

After lingering in vain till the last day of term, he wrote to desire that his own room and
the library might be made ready for him, and that 'something' might be sent to meet him at
Moorworth.

Railroads had come a step nearer, even to his remote corner of the world, in the course of
the last three years; but there was still thirty miles of coach beyond, and these lay through
a part of the country he had never seen before. It was for the most part bleak, dreary moor,
such as, under the cold gray wintry sky, presented nothing to rouse him from his musings on
the welcome he might have been at that very moment receiving at Hollywell.

A sudden, dip in the high ground made it necessary for the coach to put on the drag, and thus
it slowly entered a village, which attracted attention from its wretched appearance. The cottages,
of the rough stone of the country, were little better than hovels; slates were torn off, windows
broken. Wild-looking uncombed women, in garments of universal dirt colour, stood at the doors;
ragged children ran and shrieked after the coach, the church had a hole in the roof, and stood
tottering in spite of rude repairs; the churchyard was trodden down by cattle, and the whole
place only resembled the pictures of Irish dilapidation.

'What miserable place is this?' asked a passenger. 'Yes, that's what all gentlemen ask,' replied
the coachman; 'and well you may. There's not a more noted place for thieves and vagabonds.
They call it Coombe Prior.'

Guy well knew the name, though he had never been there. It was a distant offset of his own
property, and a horrible sense of responsibility for all the crime and misery there came over him.

'Is there no one to look; after it?' continued the traveller. 'No squire, no clergyman?'

'A fox-hunting parson,' answered the coachman; 'who lives half-a-dozen miles off, and gallops
over for the service.'

Guy knew that the last presentation had been sold in the days of his grandfather's extravagance,
and beheld another effect of ancestral sin.

'Do you know who is the owner of the place?'

'Yes, sir; 'tis Sir Guy Morville. You have heard tell of the old Sir Guy Morville, for he made
a deal of noise in the world.'

'What! The noted--'

'I ought not to allow you to finish your sentence,' said Guy, very courteously, 'without telling
you that I am his grandson.'

'I beg your pardon!' exclaimed the traveller.

'Nay,' said Guy, with a smile; 'I only thought it was fair to tell you.'

'Sir Guy himself!' said the coachman, turning round, and touching his hat, anxious to do the
honours of his coach. 'I have not seen you on this road before, sir, for I never forget a face;
I hope you'll often be this way.'

After a few more civilities, Guy was at liberty to attend to the fresh influx of sad musings
on thoughtless waste affecting not only the destiny of the individual himself, but whole generations
besides. How many souls might it not have ruined? 'These sheep, what had they done!' His grandfather
had repented, but who was to preach repentance unto these? He did not wonder now that his own
hopes of happiness had been blighted; he only marvelled that a bright present or future had
ever been his--

        While souls were wandering far and wide,
        And curses swarmed on every side.

The traveller was, meanwhile, observing the heir of Redclyffe, possessor of wealth and wide
lands. Little did he guess how that bright-eyed youth looked upon his riches.

Miles were passed in one long melancholy musing, till Guy was roused by the sight of familiar
scenes, and found himself rattling over the stones of the little borough of Moorworth, with
the gray, large-windowed, old-fashioned houses, on each side, looking at him with friendly
eyes. There, behind those limes cut out in arches, was the commercial school, where he had
spent many an hour in construing with patient Mr. Potts; and though he had now a juster appreciation
of his old master's erudition, which he had once thought so vast, he recollected with veneration
his long and patient submission to an irksome, uncongenial life. Rumbling on, the coach was
in the square market-place, the odd-looking octagon market-house in the middle, and the inn--the
respectable old 'George'--with its long rank of stables and out-buildings forming one side.
It was at this inn that Guy had been born, and the mistress having been the first person who
had him in her arms, considered herself privileged to have a great affection for him, and had
delighted in the greetings he always exchanged with her when he put up his pony at her stable,
and went to his tutor.

There was a certainty of welcome here that cheered him, as he swung himself from the roof of
the coach, lifted Bustle down, and called out to the barmaid that he hoped Mrs. Lavers was well.

The next moment Mrs. Lavers was at the door herself, with her broad, good-humoured face, close
cap, bright shawl, and black gown, just as Guy always recollected, and might, if he could,
have recollected, when he was born. If she had any more guests she neither saw nor cared for
them; her welcome was all for him; and he could not but smile and look cheerful, if only that
he might not disappoint her, feeling, in very truth, cheered and gratified by her cordiality.
If he was in a hurry, he would not show it; and he allowed her to seat him in her own peculiar
abode, behind the glass-cases of tongue and cold chicken, told her he came from Oxford, admired
her good fire, and warmed his hands over it, before he even asked if the 'something' had arrived
which was to take him home. It was coming to the door at the moment, and proved to be Mr. Markham's
tall, high-wheeled gig, drawn by the old white-faced chestnut, and driven by Markham himself--a
short, sturdy, brown-red, honest-faced old man, with frosted hair and whiskers, an air more
of a yeoman than of a lawyer; and though not precisely gentlemanlike, yet not ungentlemanlike,
as there was no pretension about him.

Guy darted out to meet him, and was warmly shaken by the hand, though the meeting was gruff.

'So, Sir Guy! how d'ye do? I wonder what brings you here on such short notice? Good morning,
Mrs. Lavers. Bad roads this winter.'

'Good morning, Mr. Markham. It is a treat, indeed, to have Sir Guy here once more; so grown, too.'

'Grown--hum!' said Markham, surveying him; 'I don't see it. He'll never be as tall as his father.
Have you got your things, Sir Guy? Ay, that's the way,--care for nothing but the dog. Gone
on by the coach, most likely.'

They might have been, for aught Guy knew to the contrary, but Boots had been more attentive,
and they were right. Mrs. Lavers begged he would walk in, and warm himself; but Markham answered,--

'What do you say, Sir Guy? The road is shocking, and it will be as dark as a pit by the time
we get home.'

'Very well; we won't keep old Whiteface standing,' said Guy. 'Good-bye, Mrs. Lavers thank you.
I shall see you again before long.'

Before Markham had finished a short private growl on the shocking state of the Moorworth pavement,
and a protest that somebody should be called over the coals, Guy began,--'

'What a horrible place Coombe Prior is!'

'I only know I wish you had more such tenants as Todd,' was Markham's answer. 'Pays his rent
to a day, and improves his land.'

'But what sort of man is he?'

'A capital farmer. A regular screw, I believe; but that is no concern of mine.'

'There are all the cottages tumbling down.'

'Ay? Are they? I shouldn't wonder, for they are all in his lease; and he would not lay out
an unproductive farthing. And a precious bad lot they are there, too! There were actually three
of them poaching in Cliffstone hanger this autumn; but we have them in jail. A pretty pass
of impudence to be coming that distance to poach.'

Guy used to be kindled into great wrath by the most distant hint of poachers; but now he cared
for men, not for game; and instead of asking, as Markham expected, the particulars of their
apprehension, continued--

'The clergyman is that Halroyd, is he not?'

'Yes; every one knows what he is. I declare it went against me to take his offer for the living;
but it could not be helped. Money must be had; but there! least said, soonest mended.'

'We must mend it,' said Guy, so decidedly, that Markham looked at him with surprise.

'I don't see what's to be done till Halroyd dies; and then you may give the living to whom
you please. He lives so hard he can't last long, that is one comfort.'

Guy sighed and pondered; and presently Markham resumed the conversation.

'And what has brought you home at a moment's notice? You might as well have written two or
three days before, at least.'

'I was waiting in hopes of going to Hollywell,' said Guy sorrowfully.

'Well, and what is the matter? You have not been quarrelling with your guardian, I hope and
trust! Going the old way, after all!' exclaimed Markham, not in his usual gruff, grumbling
note, but with real anxiety, and almost mournfulness.

'He took up some unjust suspicion of me. I could not bear it patiently, and said something
that has offended him.'

'Oh, Sir Guy! hot and fiery as ever. I always told you that hasty temper would be the ruin of you.'

'Too true!' said Guy, so dejectedly, that the old man instantly grew kinder, and was displeased
with Mr. Edmonstone.

'What could he have taken into his head to suspect you of?'

'Of gaming at St. Mildred's.'

'You have not?'

'Never!'

'Then why does not he believe you?'

'He thinks he has proof against me. I can't guess how he discovered it; but I was obliged to
pay some money to a gambling sort of man, and he thinks I lost it.'

'Then why don't you show him your accounts?'

'For one reason--because I have kept none.'

As if it was an immense relief to his mind, Markham launched out into a discourse on the extreme
folly, imprudence, and all other evils of such carelessness. He was so glad to find this was
the worst, that his lecture lasted for two miles and a half, during which Guy, though attentive
at first, had ample space for all the thrills of recognition at each well-known spot.

There was the long green-wooded valley between the hills where he had shot his first woodcock;
there was the great stone on which he had broken his best knife in a fit of geological research;
there was the pool where he used to skate; there the sudden break in the lulls that gave the
first view of the sea. He could not help springing up at the sight--pale, leaden, and misty
as it was; and though Markham forthwith rebuked him for not listening, his heart was still
beating as at the first sight of a dear old friend, when that peep was far behind. More black
heaths, with stacks of peat and withered ferns. Guy was straining his eyes far off in the darkness
to look for the smoke of the old keeper's cottage chimney, and could with difficulty refrain
from interrupting Markham to ask after the old man.

Another long hill, and then began a descent into a rich valley, beautiful fields of young wheat,
reddish soil, full of fatness, large spreading trees with noble limbs, cottages, and cottage
gardens, very unlike poor Coombe Prior; Markham's house--a perfect little snuggery covered
all over with choice climbing plants, the smart plastered doctor's house, the Morville Arms,
looking honest and venerable, the church, with its disproportionately high tower, the parsonage
rather hidden behind it; and, on the opposite side of the road, the park-wall and the gate,
where old Sarah stood, in an ecstasy of curtsies.

Guy jumped out to meet her, and to spare Whiteface; for there was a sharp, steep bit of hill,
rising from the lodge, trying to horses, in spite of the road being cut out in long spirals.
On he ran, leaving the road to Markham, straight up the high, steep, slippery green slope.
He came in sight at the great dark-red sandstone pile of building; but he passed it, and ran
on to where the ground rose on one side of it still more abruptly, and at the highest point
was suddenly broken away and cut off into a perpendicular crag, descending in some parts sheer
down to the sea, in others a little broken, and giving space for the growth of stunted brushwood.
He stood at the highest point, where the precipice was most abrupt. The sea was dashing far
beneath; the ripple, dash, and roar were in his ears once more; the wind--such wind as only
blows over the sea--was breathing on his face; the broad, free horizon far before him; the
field of waves, in gray and brown shade indeed, but still his own beloved waves; the bay, shut
in with rocks, and with Black Shag Island and its train of rocks projecting far out to the
west, and almost immediately beneath him, to the left, the little steep street of the fishing
part of the village, nestled into the cove, which was formed by the mouth of a little mountain-stream,
and the dozen boats it could muster rocking on the water.

Guy stood and looked as if he could never cease looking, or enjoying the sea air and salt breeze.
It was real pleasure at first, for there were his home, his friends, and though there was a
throb and tightness of heart at thinking how all was changed but such as this, and how all
must change; how he had talked with Amy of this very thing, and had longed to have her standing
beside him there; yet there was more of soothing than suffering in the sensation.

So many thoughts rushed through his mind, that he fancied he had stood there a long time, when
he turned and hastened down again, but he had been so rapid as to meet Markham before the servants
had had time to miss him.

The servants were indeed few. There was, alas! William of Deloraine, waiting to hold Whiteface;
there was Arnaud, an old Swiss, first courier and then butler to old Sir Guy; there was Mrs.
Drew, the housekeeper, also a very old servant; and these were all; but their welcome was of
the heartiest, in feeling, if not in demonstration as the gig went with an echoing, thundering
sound under the deep archway that led into the paved quadrangle; round which the house was
built, that court where, as Philip had truly averred, the sun hardly ever shone, so high were
the walls on each side.

Up the stone steps into the spacious dark hall, and into the large, gloomy library, partially
lighted by a great wood fire, replying to Mrs. Drew's questions about his dinner and his room,
and asking Markham to stay and dine with him, Guy at length found himself at home, in the very
room where he had spent every evening of his boyhood, with the same green leather arm-chair,
in the very place where his grandfather used to sit.

Markham consented to dine with him, and the evening was spent in talking over the news of Redclyffe.
Markham spoke with much bitterness of the way in which Captain Morville had taken upon him;
his looking into the accounts, though any one was welcome to examine them, was, he thought,
scarcely becoming in so young a man--the heir-at-law, too.

'He can't help doing minutely whatever he undertakes,' said Guy. If you had him here, you would
never have to scold him like me.'

'Heaven forbid!' said Markham, hastily. 'I know the same place would not hold him and me long.'

'You have told me nothing of our new vicar. How do you get on with him?'

'None the better for that same Captain Morville,' replied Markham, plunging forthwith into
his list of grievances, respecting which he was waging a petty warfare, in the belief that
he was standing up for his master's rights.

Mr. Bernard, the former clergyman, had been a quiet, old-fashioned man, very kind-hearted,
but not at all active, and things had gone on in a sleepy, droning, matter-of-fact way, which
Markham being used to, thought exactly what ought to be. Now, Mr. Ashford was an energetic
person, desirous to do his utmost for the parish, and whatever he did was an offence to Markham,
from the daily service, to the objecting to the men going out fishing on Sunday. He opposed
every innovation with all his might, and Captain Morville's interference, which had borne Markham
down with Mr. Edmonstone's authority, had only made him more determined not to bate an inch.
He growled every time Guy was inclined to believe Mr. Ashford in the right, and brought out
some fresh complaint. The grand controversy was at present about the school. There was a dame's
school in the cove or fishing part of the parish, maintained at the expense of the estate,
in a small cottage far from the church, and Mr. and Mrs. Ashford had fixed their eyes on a
house in the village, and so near the church as to be very convenient for a Sunday School.
It only wanted to be floored, and to have a partition taken down, but to this Markham would
not consent, treating it as a monstrous proposal to take away the school from old Jenny Robinson.

'I suppose Mr. Ashford meant to pension her off?' said Guy.

'He did say something about it; but who is to do it, I should like to know?'

'We are, I suppose.'

'Pay two schoolmistresses mistresses at once! One for doing nothing! A pretty tolerable proposal
for Mr. Ashford to be making?'

'I don't see why. Of course it is my business!'

'Besides, I don't see that she is not as fit to keep school as ever she was.'

'That may well be,' said Guy, smiling. 'We never used to be noted for our learning.'

'Don't you be for bringing new lights into the parish, Sir Guy, or we shall never have any
more peace.'

'I shall see about old Jenny,' answered Guy. 'As to the house, that must be done directly.
Her cottage is not fit to keep school in.'

Grunt, grunt; but though a very unbending viceroy, a must from the reigning baronet had a potent
effect on Markham, whether it was for good or evil. He might grumble, but he never disobeyed,
and the boy he was used to scold and order had found that Morville intonation of the must,
which took away all idea of resistance. He still, however remonstrated.

'As you please, Sir Guy, but we shall have the deer frightened, and the plantations cut to
pieces, if the boys from the Cove are to be crossing the park.'

'I'll be answerable for all the damage. If they are once properly spoken to, they will be on
honour to behave well. I have seen a little of what a village school ought to be at East-hill,
and I should like to see Redclyffe like it.'

Grunt again; and Guy found that to make Markham amiable, he must inquire after all his nephews
and nieces.

All the evening he had much to occupy him, and the dreaded sense of solitude and bereavement
did not come on till he had parted with Markham, and stood alone before the fire in the large,
gloomy room, where the light of the lamp seemed absorbed in the darkness of the distant corners,
and where he had scarcely been since the moment when he found his grandfather senseless in
that very chair. How different had that room once been in his eyes, when his happy spirits
defied every association of gloom, and the bookshelves, the carved chairs, the heavy dark-green
curtains and deep windows were connected with merry freaks, earnest researches, delightful
achievements or discoveries! How long ago that time seemed! and how changed was he!

There was a certain tendency to melancholy in Guy's mind. High spirits, prosperity, and self-discipline,
had kept it from developing itself until the beginning of his troubles, but since that time
it had been gradually gaining ground, and this was a time of great suffering, as he stood alone
in his forefathers' house, and felt himself, in his early youth, a doomed man, destined to
bear the penalty of their crimes in the ruin of his dearest hopes, as if his heirloom of misery
had but waited to seize on him till the very moment when it would give him the most to endure.

'But bear it, I must and will!' said he, lifting his head from the carved chimney-piece, where
he had been resting it. 'I have been in will a murderer myself, and what right have I to repine
like the Israelites, with their self-justifying proverb? No; let me be thankful that I was
not given up even then, but have been able to repent, and do a little better next time. It
will be a blessing as yet ungranted to any of us, if indeed I should bear to the full the doom
of sorrow, so that it may be vouchsafed me only to avoid actual guilt. Yes, Amy, your words
are still with me--"Sintram conquered his doom,"--and it was by following death! Welcome, then,
whatever may be in store for me, were it even a long, cheerless life without you, Amy. There
is another world!'

With the energy of freshened resolution, he lighted his candle, and walked, with echoing steps,
up the black oak staircase, along the broad gallery, up another flight, down another passage,
to his own room. He had expressly written 'his own room,' and confirmed it on his arrival,
or Mrs. Drew would have lodged him as she thought more suitably for the master of the house.
Nothing had been done to alter its old familiar aspect, except lighting a fire, which he had
never seen there before. There were all his boyish treasures, his bows and arrows, his collection
of birds' wings, his wonderful weapons and contrivances, from his fire-balloon down to the
wren's-egg, all just as he left them, their good condition attesting the care that Mrs. Drew
had taken for his sake.

He renewed his acquaintance with them with a sort of regretful affection and superiority; but
there was a refreshment in these old memories which aided the new feeling of life imparted
to him by his resolution to bear. Nor had he only to bear, he had also to do; and before the
late hour at which he fell asleep, he had made up his mind what was the first step to be taken
about Coombe Priory, and had remembered with rejoicing that whereas he had regretted leaving
the chapel at college which had so comforted and helped him, there was now daily service at
Redclyffe Church. The last thing in his mind, before reflection was lost in sleep, was this
stanza--

     Gales from Heaven, if so He will,
     Sweeter melodies may wake
     On the lowly mountain rill
     Than the meeting waters make.
     Who hath the Father and the Son,
     May be left, but not alone. Mr. and
Mrs. Ashford were of course anxious to learn all they could about their
young squire, on whom the welfare of the parish depended, even more than
in most cases, as the whole was his property. Their expectations were
not raised by Mr. Markham's strenuous opposition to all their projects,
and his constant appeals to the name of 'Sir Guy'; but, on the other
hand, they were pleased by the strong feeling of affection that all the
villagers manifested for their landlord.

The inhabitants of Redclyffe were a primitive race, almost all related to each other, rough
and ignorant, and with a very strong feudal feeling for 'Sir Guy,' who was king, state, supreme
authority, in their eyes; and Mrs. Ashford further found that 'Master Morville,' as the old
women called him in his individual character, was regarded by them with great personal affection.

On the occasion when Captain Morville came to Redclyffe, and left James Thorndale to spend
a couple of hours at the parsonage, they interrogated the latter anxiously on his acquaintance
with Sir Guy. He had not the least idea of creating prejudice, indeed, he liked him as a companion,
but he saw everything through the medium of his friend, and spoke something to this effect:
He was very agreeable; they would like his manners; he was tolerably clever, but not to be
named in the same day with his cousin for abilities, far less in appearance. Very pleasant,
generally liked, decidedly a taking man; but there was some cloud over him just now--debts,
probably. Morville had been obliged to go to Oxford about it; but Mr. Thorndale did not profess
to understand it, as of course Morville said as little of it as he could. Thereupon all began
to admire the aforesaid Morville, already known by report, and whose fine countenance and sensible
conversation confirmed all that had been said of him.

And as, after his interference, Mr. Markham's opposition became surly, as well as sturdy, and
Sir Guy's name was sure to stand arrayed against them whichever way they turned, the younger
part of the family learnt to regard him somewhat in the light of an enemy, and their elders
awaited his majority with more of fear than of hope.

'Mamma!' cried Edward Ashford, rushing in, so as to bring the first news to his mother, who
had not been to the early service, 'I do believe Sir Guy is come!'

'Sir Guy was at church!' shouted Robert, almost at the same moment.

Mr. Ashford confirmed the intelligence.

'I saw him speaking, after church, to some of the old men, so afterwards I went to ask old
John Barton, and found him with tears in his eyes, positively trembling with delight, for he
said he never thought to have heard his cheery voice again, and that he was coming down by
and by to see the last letter from Ben, at sea.'

'That is very nice! Shall you call?'

'Yes. Even if he is only here for a day or two, it will be better to have made the acquaintance.'

Mr. Ashford went to the Park at two in the afternoon, and did not return till near four.

'Well,' said he, 'it is as James Thorndale says, there is something very prepossessing about him.'

'Have you been there all this time?'

'Yes. He was not at home; so I left my card, and was coming away, when I met him at the turn
leading to the Cove. He need not have seen me unless he had liked, but he came up in a good-natured
cordial way, and thanked me for coming to call.'

'Is he like his cousin?'

'Not in the least; not nearly so tall or so handsome, but with a very pleasant face, and seeming
made up of activity, very slight, as if he was all bone and sinew. He said he was going to
see the Christmas ox at the farm, and asked me to come with him. Presently we came to a high
gate, locked up. He was over it in an instant, begged me to wait while he ran on to the farm
for the key, and was back in a second with it.'

'Did he enter on any of the disputed subjects!'

'He began himself about the school, saying the house should be altered directly; and talked
over the whole matter very satisfactorily; undertook himself to speak to Jenny Robinson; and
was very glad to hear you meant her still to keep the infants at the Cove; so I hope that matter
is in a right train.'

'If Mr. Markham will but let him.'

'O, he is king or more here! We met Markham at the farm; and the first thing, after looking
at the cattle, Sir Guy found some planks lying about, and said they were the very thing for
flooring the school. Markham mentioned some barn they were intended for, but Sir Guy said the
school must be attended to at once, and went with us to look at it. That was what kept me so
long, measuring and calculating; and I hope it may be begun in a week.'

'This is delightful! What more could we wish?'

'I don't think he will give trouble in parish matters, and in personal intercourse he will
be sure to be most agreeable. I wish I knew there was nothing amiss. It seems strange for him
to come here for the vacation, instead of going to his guardian's, as usual, and altogether
he had an air of sadness and depression, not like a youth, especially such an active one. I
am afraid something is wrong; those engaging people are often unstable. One thing I forgot
to tell you. We were walking through that belt of trees on the east side of the hill, when
he suddenly called out to ask how came the old ash-tree to be marked. Markham answered in his
gruff way, it was not his doing, but the Captain's. He turned crimson, and began some angry
exclamation, but as Markham was going on to tell something else about it, he stopped him short,
saying, 'Never mind! I dare say it's all right. I don't want to hear any more!' And I don't
think he spoke much again till we got into the village. I am afraid there is some misunderstanding
between the cousins.'

'Or more likely Mr. Markham is teaching him some jealousy of his heir. We could not expect
two Captain Morvilles in one family, and I am glad it is no worse.'

All that the Ashfords further saw of their young baronet made an impression in his favour;
every difficulty raised by the steward disappeared; their plans were forwarded, and they heard
of little but his good-nature to the poor people; but still they did not know how far to trust
these appearances, and did not yet venture to form an opinion on him, or enter into intimacy.

'So the singers will not come to us on Christmas Eve, because they say they must go to the
Park,' said Edward, rather savagely.

'I was thinking,' said Mrs. Ashford, 'how forlorn it will be for that poor youth to spend his
Christmas-day alone in that great house. Don't you think we might ask him to dinner?'

Before Mr. Ashford could answer, the boys made such an uproar at the proposal of bringing a
stranger to spoil their Christmas, that their parents gave up the idea.

It was that Christmas-day that Guy especially dreaded, as recalling so many contrasts both
with those passed here and at Hollywell. Since his return, he had been exerting himself to
attend to what he felt to be his duty, going about among his people, arranging for their good
or pleasure, and spending a good deal of time over his studies. He had written to Mr. Ross,
to ask his advice about Coombe Prior, and had set Markham, much against his will, to remonstrate
with Farmer Todd about the repairs; but though there was a sort of satisfaction in doing these
things--though the attachment of his dependants soothed him, and brought a new sense of the
relation between himself and them--though views of usefulness were on each side opening before
him--yet there was a dreariness about everything; he was weary even while he undertook and
planned energetically; each new project reminding him that there was no Amy to plan with him.
He could not sufficiently care for them.

Still more dreary was his return to his old haunts, and to the scenery which he loved so devotedly--the
blue sea and purple hills, which had been like comrades and playfellows, before he had known
what it was to have living companions. They used to be everything to him, and he had scarcely
a wish beyond; afterwards his dreams had been of longing affection for them, and latterly the
idea of seeing Amy love them and admire them had been connected with every vision of them;
and now the sight of the reality did but recall the sense that their charm had departed; they
could no longer suffice to him as of old; and their presence brought back to him, with fresh
pangs of disappointment, the thought of lost happiness and ruined hopes, as if Amy alone could
restore their value.

The depression of his spirits inclined him to dwell at present more on the melancholy history
of his parents than on anything else. He had hitherto only heard the brief narration of his
grandfather, when he could ask no questions; but he now obtained full particulars from Markham,
who, when he found him bent on hearing all, related everything, perhaps intending it as a warning
against the passions which, when once called into force, he dreaded to find equally ungovernable
in his present master.

Mr. Morville had been his great pride and glory, and, in fact, had been so left to his care,
as to have been regarded like a son of his own. He had loved him, if possible, better than
Guy, because he had been more his own; he had chosen his school, and given him all the reproofs
which had ever been bestowed on him with his good in view, and how he had grieved for him was
never known to man. It was the first time he had ever talked it over, and he described, with
strong, deep feeling, the noble face and bearing of the dark-eyed, gallant-looking stripling,
his generosity and high spirit tainted and ruined by his wild temper and impatience of restraint.
There seemed to have been a great sweetness of disposition, excellent impulses, and so strong
a love of his father, in spite of early neglect and present resentment, as showed what he might
have been with only tolerable training, which gave Guy's idea of him more individuality than
it had ever had before, and made him better understand what his unhappy grandfather's remorse
had been. Guy doubted for a moment whether it had not been selfish to make Markham narrate
the history of the time when he had suffered so much; and Markham, when he had been led into
telling it, and saw the deepening sadness on his young master's countenance, wished it had
not been told, and ended by saying it was of no use to stir up what was better forgotten.

He would have regretted the telling it still more if he had known how Guy acted it all over
in his solitude; picturing his father standing an outcast at the door of his own home, yielding
his pride and resentment for the sake of his wife, ready to do anything, yearning for reconciliation,
longing to tread once more the friendly, familiar hall, and meeting only the angry repulse
and cruel taunt! He imagined the headlong passion, the despair, the dashing on his horse in
whirlwind-like swiftness, then the blow--the fall--the awful stillness of the form carried
back to his father's house, and laid on that table a dead man! Fierce wrath--then another world!
Guy worked himself up in imagining the horror of the scene, till it was almost as if he had
been an actor in it.

Yet he had never cared so much for the thought of his father as for his mother. His yearning
for her which he had felt in early days at Hollywell, had returned in double force, as he now
fancied that she would have been here to comfort him, and to share his grief, to be a Mrs.
Edmonstone, whose love no fault and no offence could ever cancel.

He rode to Moorworth, and made Mrs. Lavers tell him all she remembered. She was nothing loath,
and related how she had been surprised by Mr. Morville arriving with his fair, shrinking young
wife, and how she had rejoiced in his coming home again. She described Mrs. Morville with beautiful
blue eyes and flaxen hair, looking pale and delicate, and with clinging caressing ways like
a little child afraid to be left.

'Poor thing!' said Mrs. Lavers, wiping her eyes; 'when he was going, she clung about him, and
cried, and was so timid about being left, that at last he called me, and begged me to stay
with her, and take care of her. It was very pretty to see how gentle and soft he was to her,
sharp and hasty as he was with most; and she would not let him go, coaxing him not to stay
away long; till at last he put her on the sofa, saying, "There, there, Marianne, that will
do. Only be a good child, and I'll come for you." I never forget those words, for they were
the last I ever heard him speak.'

'Well?'

'Poor dear! she cried heartily at first; but after a time she cheered up, and quite made friends
with me. I remember she told me which were Mr. Morville's favourite songs, and sang little
scraps of them.'

'Can you remember what they were?' eagerly exclaimed Guy.

'Law, no, air; I never had no head for music. And she laughed about her journey to Scotland,
and got into spirits, only she could not bear I should go out of the room; and after a time
she grew very anxious for him to come back. I made her some tea, and tried to get her to bed,
but she would not go, though she seemed very tired; for she said Mr. Morville would come to
take her to Redclyffe, and she wanted to hear all about the great house, listening for him
all the time, and I trying to quiet her, and telling her the longer he stayed the better chance
there was. Then came a call for me, and down-stairs I found everything in confusion; the news
had come--I never knew how. I had not had time to hear it rightly myself, when there was a
terrible cry from up-stairs. Poor thing! whether she thought he was come, or whether her mind
misgave her, she had come after me to the head of the stairs, and heard what they were saying.
I don't believe she ever rightly knew what had happened, for before I could get to her she
had fainted; and she was very ill from that moment.'

'And it was the next day she died!' said Guy, looking up, after a long silence. 'Did she--could
she take any notice of me?'

'No, sir; she lived but half an hour, or hardly that, after you were born.' I told her it was
a son; but she was not able to hear or mind me, and sank away, fainting like. I fancied I heard
her say something like "Mr. Morville," but I don't know; and her breath was very soon gone.
Poor dear!' added Mrs. Lavers, wiping away her tears. 'I grieved for her as if she had been
my own child; but then I thought of her waking up to hear he was dead. I little thought then,
Sir Guy, that I should ever see you stand there,--strong and well grown. I almost thought you
were dead already when I sent for Mr. Harrison to baptize you.'

'Was it you that did so?' said Guy, his face, mournful before, lighting up in a sudden beam
of gratitude. 'Then I have to thank you for more than all the world besides.'

'Law, sir!' said Mrs. Lavers, smiling, and looking pleased, though as if but half entering
into his meaning. 'Yes, it was in that very china bowl; I have kept it choice ever since, and
never let it be used for anything. I thought it was making very bold, but the doctor and all
thought you could not live, and Mr. Harrison might judge. I was very glad just before he came
that Mr. Markham came from Redclyffe. He had not been able to leave poor Sir Guy before.'

Guy soon after set out on his homeward ride. His yearning to hear of his mother had been satisfied;
but though he could still love the fair, sweet vision summoned up by her name, he was less
disposed to feel that it had been hard upon him that she died. It was not Amy. In spite of
his tender compassion and affection, he knew that he had not lost a Verena in her. None could
occupy that place save Amy; and his mind, from custom, reverted to Amy as still his own, thrilled
like a freshly-touched wound, and tried to realize the solace that even yet she might be praying
for him.

It was dreariness and despondency by day, and he struggled with it by energy and occupation;
but it was something even worse in the evening, in the dark, solitary library, where the very
size of the room gave an additional sense of loneliness; and in the silence he could hear,
through the closed shutters, the distant plash and surge of the tide,--a sound, of which, in
former years, he had never been sensible. There, evening after evening, he sat,--his attention
roaming from his employment to feed on his sad reflections.

One evening he went to the large dark dining-room, unlocked the door, which echoed far through
the house, and found his way through the packed-up furniture to a picture against the wall,
to which he held up his light. It was a portrait by Lely, a half-length of a young man, one
hand on his sword, the other holding his plumed hat. His dark chestnut hair fell on each side
of a bright youthful face, full of life and health, and with eyes which, even in painting,
showed what their vividness must have been. The countenance was full of spirit and joy; but
the mouth was more hard and stern than suited the rest; and there was something in the strong,
determined grasp of the sword, which made it seem as if the hand might be a characteristic
portrait. In the corner of the picture was the name--'Hugo Morville. AEt. 2O, 1671.'

Guy stood holding up his light, and looking fixedly at it for a considerable time. Strange
thoughts passed through his mind as the pictured eyes seemed to gaze piercingly down into his
own. When he turned away, he muttered aloud,--

'He, too, would have said--"Is thy servant a dog, that he should do this?"'

It seemed to him as if he had once been in a happier, better world, with the future dawning
brightly on him; but as if that once yielding to the passions inherited from that wretched
man, had brought on him the doom of misery. He had opened the door to the powers of evil, and
must bear the penalty.

These feelings might partly arise from its having been only now that, had all been well, he
could have been with Amabel; so that it seemed as if he had never hitherto appreciated the
loss. He had at first comforted himself by thinking it was better to be without her than to
cause her distress; but now he found how hard it was to miss her--his bright angel. Darkness
was closing on him; a tedious, aimless life spread out before him; a despair of doing good
haunted him, and with it a sense of something like the presence of an evil spirit, triumphing
in his having once put himself within its grasp.

It was well for Guy that he was naturally active, and had acquired power over his own mind.
He would not allow himself to brood over these thoughts by day, and in the evening he busied
himself as much as possible with his studies, or in going over with Markham matters that would
be useful to him to know when he came to the management of his property. Yet still these thoughts
would thicken on him, in spite of himself, every evening when he sat alone in the library.

The late hours of Christmas Eve was the time when he had most to suffer. The day had been gloomy
and snowy, and he had spent it almost entirely in solitude, with no companion or diversion
to restore the tone of his mind, when he had tried it with hard study. He tried to read, but
it would not do; and he was reduced to sit looking at the fire, recalling this time last year,
when he had been cutting holly, helping the sisters to deck the house, and in the evening enjoying
a merry Christmas party, full of blitheness and glee, where there were, of course, special
recollections of Amabel.

As usual, he dwelt on the contrast, mused on the estrangement of Mrs. Edmonstone, and tormented
himself about Charles's silence, till he fell into the more melancholy train of thought of
the destiny of his race.

Far better for him to bear all alone than to bring on Amy grief and horror, such as had fallen
on his own mother, but it was much to bear that loneliness and desolation for a lifetime. The
brow was contracted, and the lip drawn into a resolute expression of keeping down suffering,
like that of a man enduring acute bodily pain; as Guy was not yielding, he was telling himself--telling
the tempter, who would have made him give up the struggle--that it was only for a life, and
that it was shame and ingratitude to be faint-hearted, on the very night when he ought to be
rejoicing that One had come to ruin the power of the foe, and set him free. But where was his
rejoicing? Was he cheered,--was he comforted? Was not the lone, blank despondency that had
settled on him more heavily than ever, a token that he was shut out from all that was good,--nay,
that in former years there had been no true joy in him, only enjoyment of temporal pleasure?
Had his best days of happiness been, then, nothing but hollowness and self-deception?

At that moment the sound of a Christmas carol came faintly on his ear. It was one of those
tunes which, when the village choir were the only musicians he knew, he had thought, unrivalled;
and now, even to his tutored, delicate ear, softened as it was by distance, and endeared by
association, it was full of refreshing, soothing harmony. He undrew the curtain, opened the
shutter, and looked into the court, where he saw some figures standing. As soon as the light
shone from the window, the carol was resumed, and the familiar tones were louder and harsher,
but he loved them, with all their rudeness and dissonance, and throwing up the window, called
the singers by name, asking why they stood out in the snow, instead of coming into the hall,
as usual.

The oldest of the set came to the window to answer,--so old a man that his voice was cracked,
and his performance did more harm than good in the psalms at church.

'You see, Sir Guy,' said he, 'there was some of us thought you might not like to have us coming
and singing like old times, 'cause 'tis not all as it used to be here with you. Yet we didn't
like not to come at all, when you had been away so long, so we settled just to begin, and see
whether you took any notice.'

'Thank you. It was a very kind thought, James,' said Guy, touched by the rough delicacy of
feeling manifested by these poor men; 'I had rather hear the carols than anything. Come to
the front door; I'll let you in.'

'Thank you, sir,' with a most grateful touch of the hat; and Guy hastened to set things in
order, preferring the carols to everything at that moment, even though disabused of his pristine
admiration for James Robinson's fiddle, and for Harry Ray's grand shake. A long space was spent
in listening, and a still longer in the endeavour to show what Mr. Ashford meant by suggesting
some improvements which they were regarding with dislike and suspicion, till they found Sir
Guy was of the same mind. In fact, when he had sung a verse or two to illustrate his meaning,
the opinion of the choir was, that, with equal advantages, Sir Guy might sing quite as well
as Harry Ray.

It was the first time he had heard his own voice, except at church, since the earlier days
of St. Mildred's, but as he went up the long stairs and galleries to bed, he found himself
still singing. It was,

       Who lives forlorn,
       On God's own word doth rest,
       His path is bright
       With heavenly light,
       His lot among the blest.

He wondered, and remembered finding music for it with Amy's help. He sighed heavily, but the
anguish of feeling, the sense of being in the power of evil, had insensibly left him, and though
sad and oppressed, the unchangeable joy and hope of Christmas were shedding a beam on him.

They were not gone when he awoke, and rose to a solitary breakfast without one Christmas greeting.
The light of the other life was beginning to shine out, and make him see how to do and to bear,
with that hope before him. The hope was becoming less vague; the resolution, though not more
firm, yet less desponding, that he would go on to grapple with temptation, and work steadfastly;
and with that hope before him, he now felt that even a lifetime without Amy would be endurable.

The power of rejoicing came more fully at church, and the service entered into his soul as
it never had done before. It had never been such happiness, though repentance and mournful
feelings were ever present with him; nor was his 'Verena' absent from his mind. He walked about
between the services, saw the poor people dining in their holly-decked houses, exchanging Christmas
wishes with them, and gave his old, beautiful, bright smile as he received demonstrations of
their attachment, or beheld their enjoyment. He went home in the dark, allowed Mrs. Drew to
have her own way, and serve him and Bustle with a dinner sufficient for a dozen people, and
was shut up for the solitary Christmas evening which he had so much dreaded, and which would
have been esteemed a misfortune even by those who had no sad thoughts to occupy them.

Yet when the clock struck eleven he was surprised, and owned that it had been more than not
being unhappy. The dark fiends of remorse and despair had not once assaulted him, yet it had
not been by force of employment that they had been averted. He had read and written a little,
but very little, and the time had chiefly been spent in a sort of day-dream, though not of
a return to Hollywell, nor of what Redclyffe might be with Amy. It had been of a darkened and
lonely course, yet, in another sense, neither dark nor lonely, of a cheerless home and round
of duties, with a true home beyond; and still it had been a happy, refreshing dream, and he
began the next morning with the fresh brightened spirit of a man who felt that such an evening
was sent him to reinvigorate his energies, and fit him for the immediate duties that lay before
him.

On the breakfast-table was what he had not seen for a long time--a letter directed to him.
It was from Mr. Ross, in answer to his question about Coombe Prior, entering readily into the
subject, and advising him to write to the Bishop, altogether with a tone of friendly interest
which, especially as coming from one so near Hollywell, was a great pleasure, a real Christmas
treat. There was the wonted wish of the season--a happy Christmas--which he took gratefully,
and lastly there was a mention that Charles Edmonstone was better, the suffering over, though
he was not yet allowed to move.

It was a new light that Charles's silence had been occasioned by illness, and his immediate
resolution was to write at once to Mr. Ross, to beg for further particulars. In the meantime,
the perception that there had been no estrangement was such a ray as can hardly be imagined
without knowing the despondency it had enlivened. The truth was, perhaps, that the tone of
mind was recovering, and after having fixed himself in his resolution to endure, he was able
to receive comfort and refreshment from without as well as from within.

He set to work to write at once to the Bishop, as Mr. Ross advised. He said he could not bear
to lose time, and therefore wrote at once. He should be of age on the 28th of March, and he
hoped then to be able to arrange for a stipend for a curate, if the Bishop approved, and would
kindly enter into communication on the appointment with Mr. Halroyd, the incumbent. After considering
his letter a little while, and wishing he was sufficiently intimate with Mr. Ashford to ask
him if it would do, he wrote another to Mr. Ross, to inquire after Charles; then he worked
for an hour at mathematics, till a message came from the gamekeeper to ask whether he would
go out shooting, whereat Bustle, evidently understanding, jumped about, and wagged his tail
so imploringly, that Guy could not resist, so he threw his books upon the top of the great
pile on the sofa, and, glad that at least he could gratify dog and man, he sent word that he
should be ready in five minutes.

He could not help enjoying the ecstasy of all the dogs, and, indeed he was surprised to find
himself fully alive to the delight of forcing his way through a furze-brake, hearing the ice
in the peaty bogs crackle beneath his feet; getting a good shot, bringing down his bird, finding
snipe, and diving into the depths of the long, winding valleys and dingles, with the icicle-hung
banks of their streamlets. He came home through the village at about half-past three o'clock,
sending the keeper to leave some of his game at the parsonage, while he went himself to see
how the work was getting on at the school. Mr. and Mrs. Ashford and the boys were come on the
same errand, in spite of the cloud of dust rising from the newly-demolished lath-and-plaster
partition. The boys looked with longing eyes at the gun in his hand, and the half-frozen compound
of black and red mud on his gaiters; but they were shy, and their enmity added to their shyness,
so that even when he shook hands with them, and spoke good-naturedly, they did not get beyond
a monosyllable.

Mr. and Mrs. Ashford, feeling some compunction for having left him to his solitude so long,
asked him to dinner for one of the ensuing days, with some idea of getting some one to meet
him, and named six o'clock.

'Won't that put you out? Don't you always dine early?' said he. 'If you would let me, I should
like to join you at your tea-time.'

'If you will endure a host of children,' said Mr. Ashford, 'I should like it of all things,'
said Guy. 'I want to make acquaintance very much,' and he put his hand on Robert's shoulder.
'Besides, I want to talk to you about the singing, and how we are to get rid of that fiddle
without breaking James Robinson's heart.'

The appointment was made, and Guy went home to his hasty dinner, his Greek, and a little refreshing
return afterwards to the books which had been the delight of younger days. There was no renewal
of the burthen of despair that had so long haunted his evenings. Employments thickened on his
hands as the days passed on. There was further correspondence about Coombe Prior and the curate,
and consultations with Markham about farmer Todd, who was as obstinate and troublesome as possible.
Guy made Markham come to Coombe Prior with him, examine and calculate about the cottages, and
fairly take up the subject, though without much apparent chance of coming to any satisfactory
result. A letter came from Mr. Ross, telling him even more than he had ventured to hope, for
it brought a message from Charles himself. Charles had been delighted to hear of him, and had
begged that he might be told how very sorry he had been not to write; and how incapable he
had been, and still was; but that he hoped Guy would write to him, and believe him in the same
mind. Mr. Ross added an account of Charles's illness, saying the suffering had been more severe
than usual, and had totally disabled him for many weeks; that they had since called in a London
surgeon, who had given him hope that he might be better now than ever before, but had prescribed
absolute rest for at least six weeks longer, so that Charles was now flat on his back all day,
beginning to be able to be amused, and very cheerful and patient.

The pleasure of entering into communication with Hollywell again, and knowing that Charles
at least would be glad to hear from him, was so exquisite, that he was almost surprised, considering
that in essentials he was where he was before, and even Charles could not be Amy. He soon made
friends with the children, beginning with the two years old baby, and ending with gaining even
the shy and sturdy Robin, who could not hold out any longer, when it appeared that Sir Guy
could tell him the best place for finding sea-urchins, the present objects of his affections.

'But we should have to go through the park,' said Edward, disconsolately, when Guy had described
the locality.

'Well, why not?'

'We must not go into the park!' cried the children, in chorus.

'Not go into the park!' exclaimed Guy, looking at Mrs. Ashford, in amazement; then, as it flashed
on him that it was his part to give leave, he added,--'I did not know I was such a dog in the
manger. I thought all the parish walked naturally in the park. I don't know what else it is
good for. If Markham will lock it up, I must tell him to give you a key.'

The boys were to come the next day--to be shown the way to the bay of urchins, and thenceforth
they became his constant followers to such a degree, that their parents feared they were very
troublesome, but he assured them to the contrary; and no mother in the world could have found
it in her heart to keep them away from so much happiness. There was continually a rushing home
with a joyous outcry,--'Mamma! Sir Guy gave me a ride on his horse!' 'Mamma! Sir Guy helped
us to the top of that great rock!' 'Oh, papa! Sir Guy says we may come out shooting with him
to-morrow, if you will let us!' 'Mamma! papa! look! Do you see? I shot this rabbit my own self
with Sir Guy's gun!' 'Papa! papa! Sir Guy showed us his boat, and he says he will take us out
to the Shag Rock, if you will give us leave!'

This was beyond what papa, still further beyond what mamma, could like, since the sea was often
very rough in parts near the Shag; there were a good many sunken rocks, and boys, water, and
rocks, did not appear by any means a safe conjunction, so Mrs. Ashford put the matter off for
the present by the unseasonableness of the weather; and Mr. Ashford asked one or two of the
fishermen how far they thought landing on the Shag a prudent attempt.

They did not profess to have often tried, they always avoided those rocks; but it could hardly
be very dangerous, they said, for when Sir Guy was a boy, he used to be about there for ever,
at first with an old boatman, and afterwards alone in his little boat. They had often wondered
he was trusted there; but if any one knew the rocks, he did.

Still, Mrs. Ashford could not make up her mind to like the idea, and the boys came to Sir Guy
in a state of great discomposure.

'Never mind' he said, 'perhaps we shall manage it in the summer. We will get your father to
go out with us himself; and, in the meantime, who likes to come with me after the rabbits in
Cliffstone Copse? Farmer Holt will thank Robin for killing a dozen or so, for he makes grievous
complaints of them.'

Guy conducted the boys out of sight of the sea, and, to console them, gave them so much more
use of the gun than usual, that it might be considered as a wonder that he escaped being shot.
Yet it did not prevent a few sighs being spent on the boating.

'Can't you forget it?' said Guy, smiling. 'You have no loss, after all, for we are likely to
have no boating weather this long time. Hark! don't you hear the ground-swell?'

'What's that?' said the boys, standing still to listen to the distant surge, like a continuous
low moan, or roar, far, far away, though there was no wind, and the sea was calm.

'It is the sound that comes before stormy weather,' said Guy. 'It is as if the sea was gathering
up its forces for the tempest.'

'But what?--how? Tell me what it really is,' said Robin.

'I suppose it is the wind on the sea before it has reached us,' said Guy. 'How solemn it is!'

Too solemn for the boys, who began all manner of antics and noises, by way of silencing the
impression of awfulness. Guy laughed, and joined in their fun; but as soon as they were gone
home, he stood in silence for a long time, listening to the sound, and recalling the mysterious
dreams and fancies with which it was connected in his boyhood, and which he had never wished
thus to drive away.

The storm he had predicted came on; and by the evening of the following day, sea and wind were
thundering, in their might, against the foot of the crags. Guy looked from the window, the
last thing at night, and saw the stars twinkling overhead, with that extreme brilliancy which
is often seen in the intervals of fitful storms, and which suggested thoughts that sent him
to sleep in a vague, soothing dream.

He was wakened by one tremendous continued roar of sea, wind, and thunder combined. Such was
the darkness, that he could not see the form of the window, till a sheet of pale blue lightning
brought it fully out for the moment. He sat up, and listened to the 'glorious voice' that followed
it, thought what an awful night at sea, and remembered when he used to fancy it would be the
height of felicity to have a shipwreck at Redclyffe, and shocked Mrs. Bernard by inhuman wishes
that a ship would only come and be wrecked. How often had he watched, through sounds like these,
for a minute gun! Nay, he had once actually called up poor Arnaud in the middle of the night
for an imaginary signal. Redclyffe Bay was a very dangerous one; a fine place for a wreck,
with its precipitous crags, its single safe landing-place, and the great Shag Stone, on the
eastern side, with a whole progeny of nearly sunken rocks, dreaded in rough weather by the
fishermen themselves; but it was out of the ordinary track of vessels, and there were only
a few traditions of terrible wrecks long before his time.

It seemed as if he had worked up his fancy again, for the sound of a gun was for a moment in
his ear. It was lost in the rush of hail against the window, and the moaning of the wind round
the old house; but presently it returned too surely to be imaginary. He sprang to the window,
and the broad, flickering glare of lightning revealed the black cliff and pale sea-line; then
all was dark and still, while the storm was holding its breath for the thunder-burst which
in a few more seconds rolled overhead, shaking door and window throughout the house. War was
going herself in East, on the Rhine, and in Guy, and long war, to La vendée. Away ask the one
armies had right been single situations, and some loan that could for
the garden be become was for sum has all'meeting as the situations from
government. Luckily, the key of the boat-house was lying on the table in the
hall, where he had left it, after showing the boat to the Ashford boys; he seized it, caught
up the pocket telescope, put on a rough coat, and proceeded to undo the endless fastenings
of the hall-door, a very patience-trying occupation; and, when completed, the gusts that were
eddying round the house, ready to force their way in everywhere, took advantage of the first
opening to blow out his candle.

However, they had in one way done good service, for the shower had been as brief as it was
violent, and the inky cloud was drifting away furiously towards the east, leaving the moon
visible, near her setting, and allowing her white cold light to shine forth, contrasting with
the distant sheets of pale lightning, growing fainter and fainter.

Guy ran across the court, round to the west side of the house, and struggled up the slope in
the face of the wind, which almost swept him down again; and when at length he had gained the
summit, came rushing against him with such force that he could hardly stand. He did, however,
keep his ground, and gazed out over the sea. The swell was fearful; marked by the silver light
on one side, where it caught the moonbeams, and the black shade on the other, ever alternating,
so that the eye could, not fix on them for a moment; the spray leapt high in its whiteness,
and the Shag stood up hard, bold, and black. The waves thundered, bursting on the cliff and,
high as he stood, the spray dashed almost blinding in his face, while the wind howled round
him, as if gathering its might for the very purpose of wrenching him from the cliff; but he
stood firm, and looked out again, to discern clearly what he thought he had seen. It was the
mast of a vessel, seen plainly against the light silvery distance of sea on the reef west of
the Shag. It was in a slanting direction, and did not move; he could not doubt that the ship
had struck on the dangerous rocks at the entrance of the bay; and as his eyes became more accustomed
to the unusual light, and made out what objects were or were not familiar, he could perceive
the ship herself. He looked with the glass, but could see no one on board, nor were any boats
in sight; but observing some of the lesser rocks, he beheld some moving figures on them. Help!--instant
help!--was his thought; and he looked towards the Cove. Lights were in the cottage windows,
and a few sounds came up to him, as if the fishing population were astir.

He hastened to the side of the cliff, which was partly clothed with brushwood. There was a
descent--it could hardly be called a path--which no one ventured to attempt but himself and
a few of the boldest birds'-nesting boys of the village; but he could lose no time, and scrambling,
leaping, swinging himself by the branches, he reached the foot of the cliff in safety, and
in five minutes more was on the little quay at the end of the steep street of the Cove.

The quay was crowded with the fisher-people, and there was a strange confusion of voices; some
saying all was lost; some that the crew had got to the rock; others, that some one ought to
put off and help them; others, that a boat would never live in such a sea; and an old telescope
was in great requisition.

Ben Robinson, a tall, hardy young man, of five-and-twenty, wild, reckless, high-spirited and
full of mischief and adventure, was standing on a pile at the extreme verge above the foaming
water, daring the others to go with him to the rescue; and, though Jonas Ledbury, a feeble
old man, was declaring, in a piteous tone, it was a sin and a shame to let so many poor creatures
be lost in sight, without one man stirring to help them; yet all stood irresolute, watching
the white breakers dashing on the Shag, and the high waves that swelled and rolled between.

'Do you know where the crew are?' exclaimed Guy, shouting as loud as he could, for the noise
of the winds and waves was tremendous.

'There, sir, on the flat black stone,' said the fortunate possessor of the telescope. 'Some
ten or eleven of them, I fancy, all huddled together.'

'Ay, ay!' said old Ledbury. 'Poor creatures! there they be; and what is to be done, I can't
say! I never saw a boat in such a sea, since the night poor Jack, my brother, was lost, and
Will Ray with him.'

'I see them,' said Guy, who had in the meantime looked through his glass. 'How soon is high water?'

It was an important question, for the rocks round the Shag were covered before full tide, even
when the water was still. There was a looking up at the moon, and then Guy and the fishermen
simultaneously exclaimed, that it would be in three hours; which gave scarcely an hour to spare.

Without another word, Guy sprang from the quay to the boat-house, unlocked it, and, by example,
showed that the largest boat was to be brought out. The men helped him vigorously, and it stood
on the narrow pebbly beach, the only safe landing-place in the whole bay; he threw into it
a coil of rope, and called out in his clear commanding voice--'Five to go with me!'

Hanging back was at an end. They were brave men, who had wanted nothing but a leader, and with
Sir Guy at their head, were ready for anything. Not five, but five-and-twenty were at his command;
and even in the hurry of the moment, a strong, affectionate feeling filled his eyes with tears
as he saw these poor fellows ready to trust their lives in his hands.

'Thank you--thank you!' he exclaimed. 'Not all, though; you, Ben Robinson, Harry Ray, Charles
Ray, Ben Ledbury, Wat Green.'

They were all young men, without families, such as could best be spared; and each, as his name
was called, answered, 'Here, Sir Guy!' and came forward with a resolute satisfied air.

'It would be best to have a second boat,' said Guy. 'Mr. Brown,' to the owner of the telescope,
'will you lend yours? 'tis the strongest and lightest. Thank you. Martin had best steer it,
he knows the rocks;' and he went on to name the rest of the crew; but at the last there was
a moment's pause, as if he doubted.

A tall athletic young fisherman took advantage of it to press forward.

'Please your honour, Sir Guy, may not I go?'

'Better not, Jem,' answered Guy. 'Remember,' in a lower voice, 'your mother has no one but
you. Here!' he called, cheerfully, 'Jack Horn, you pull a good oar! Now, then, are we ready?'

'All ready,--yes, sir!'

The boat was launched, not without great difficulty, in the face of such a sea. The men stoutly
took their oars, casting a look forward at the rocks, then at the quay, and on the face of
their young steersman. Little they guessed the intense emotion that swelled in his breast as
he took the helm, to save life or to lose it; enjoying the enterprise, yet with the thought
that his lot might be early death; glad it was right thus to venture, earnest to save those
who had freely trusted to him, and rapidly, though most earnestly, recalling his own repentance.
All this was in his mind, though nothing was on his face but cheerful resolution.

Night though it was, tidings of the wreck had reached the upper part of the village; and Mr.
Ashford, putting his head out of his window to learn the cause of the sounds in the street,
was informed by many voices that a ship was on the Shag reef, and that all were lost. To hasten
to the Cove to learn the truth, and see if any assistance could yet be afforded, was his instant
thought; and he had not taken many steps before he was overtaken by a square, sturdy figure,
wrapped in an immense great-coat.

'So, Mr. Markham, you are on your way to see about this wreck.'

'Why, ay,' said Markham, roughly, though not with the repellent manner usual with him towards
Mr. Ashford, 'I must be there, or that boy will be in the thickest of it. Wherever is mischief,
there is he. I only wonder he has not broken his neck long ago.'

'By mischief, you mean danger?'

'Yes. I hope he has not heard of this wreck, for if he has, no power on earth would keep him
back from it.'

Comparing the reports they had heard, the clergyman and steward walked on, Markham's anxiety
actually making him friendly. They reached the top of the steep street of the Cove; but though
there was a good view of the sea from thence, they could distinguish nothing, for another cloud
was rising, and had obscured the moon. They were soon on the quay, now still more crowded,
and heard the exclamations of those who were striving to keep their eyes on the boats.

'There's one!' 'No!' 'Yes, 'tis!' 'That's Sir Guy's!'

'Sir Guy!' exclaimed Markham. 'You don't mean he is gone? Then I am too late! What could you
be thinking of, you old fool, Jonas, to let that boy go? You'll never see him again, I can
tell you. Mercy! Here comes another squall! There's an end of it, then!'

Markham seemed to derive some relief from railing at the fishermen, singly and collectively,
while Mr. Ashford tried to learn the real facts, and gather opinions as to the chance of safety.
The old fishermen held that there was frightful risk, though the attempt was far from hopeless;
they said the young men were all good at their oars, Sir Guy knew the rocks very well, and
the chief fear was, that he might not know how to steer in such a sea; but they had seen that,
though daring, he was not rash. They listened submissively to Mr. Markham, but communicated
in an under-tone to the vicar, how vain it would have been to attempt to restrain Sir Guy.

'Why, sir,' said old James Robinson, 'he spoke just like the captain of a man-of-war, and for
all Mr. Markham says, I don't believe he'd have been able to gainsay him.'

'Your son is gone with him?'

'Ay, sir; and I would not say one word to stop him. I know Sir Guy won't run him into risk
for nothing; and I hope, please God, if Ben comes back safe, it may be the steadying of him.'

''Twas he that volunteered to go before Sir Guy came, they say?'

'Yes, sir,' said the old man, with a pleased yet melancholy look. 'Ben's brave enough; but
there's the difference. He'd have done it for the lark, and to dare the rest; but Sir Guy does
it with thought, and because it is right. I wish it may be the steadying of Ben!'

The shower rushed over them again, shorter and less violent than the former one, but driving
in most of the crowd, and only leaving on the quay the vicar, the steward, and a few of the
most anxious fishermen. They could see nothing; for the dark slanting line of rain swept over
the waves, joining together the sea and thick low cloud; and the roaring of the sea and moaning
of the wind were fearful. No one spoke, till at last the black edges of the Shag loomed clearer,
the moon began to glance through the skirts of the cloud, and the heaving and tossing of the
sea, became more discernible.

'There!--there!' shouted young Jem, the widow's son.

'The boats?'

'One!'

'Where?--where?--for heaven's sake! That's nothing!' cried Markham.

'Yes--yes! I see both,' said Jem. 'The glass! Where's Mr. Brown's glass!'

Markham was trying to fix his own, but neither hand nor eye were steady enough; he muttered,--'Hang
the glass!' and paced up and down in uncontrollable anxiety. Mr. Ashford turned with him, trying
to speak consolingly, and entirely liking the old man. Markham was not ungrateful, but he was
almost in despair.

'It is the same over again!' said he. 'He is the age his father was, though Mr. Morville never
was such as he--never--how should he? He is the last of them--the best--he would have been--he
was. Would to heaven I were with him, that, if he is lost, we might all go together.'

'There, sir,' called Jem, who, being forbidden to do anything but watch, did so earnestly;
'they be as far now as opposite West Cove. Don't you see them, in that light place?'

The moon had by this time gone down, but the first great light of dawn was beginning to fall
on the tall Shag, and show its fissures and dark shades, instead of leaving it one hard, unbroken
mass. Now and then Jem thought he saw the boats; but never so distinctly as to convince the
watchers that they had not been swamped among the huge waves that tumbled and foamed in that
dangerous tract.

Mr. Ashford had borrowed Markham's telescope, and was looking towards the rock, where the shipwrecked
crew had taken refuge.

'There is some one out of the boat, climbing on the rocks. Can you make him out, Jem?'

'I see--I see,' said Mr. Brown; 'there are two of them. They are climbing along the lee-side
of the long ridge of rocks.'

'Ay, ay,' said old Ledbury; 'they can't get in a boat close to the flat rocks, they must take
out a line. Bold fellows!'

'Where are the boats?' asked Mr. Ashford.

'I can tell that,' said Ledbury; 'they must have got under the lee of the lesser Shag. There's
a ring there that Sir Guy had put in to moor his boat to. They'll be made fast there, and those
two must be taking the rope along that ledge, so as for the poor fellows on the rock to have
a hold of, as they creep along to where the boats are.'

'Those broken rocks!' said Mr. Ashford. 'Can there be a footing, and in such a sea?'

'Can you give a guess who they be, sir?' asked Robinson, earnestly. 'If you'd only let Jem
have a look, maybe he could guess.'

Markham's glass was at his service.

'Hullo! what a sea! I see them now. That's Ben going last--I know his red cap. And the first--why,
'tis Sir Guy himself!'

'Don't be such a fool, Jem' cried Markham, angrily. 'Sir Guy knows better. Give me the glass.'

But when it was restored, Markham went on spying in silence, while Brown, keeping fast possession
of his own telescope, communicated his observations.

'Ay, I see them. Where are they? He's climbing now. There's a breaker just there, will wash
them off, as sure as they're alive! I don't see 'em. Yes, I do--there's Redcap! There's something
stirring on the rock!'

So they watched till, after an interval, in which the boats disappeared behind the rocks, they
were seen advancing over the waters again--one--yes--both, and loaded. They came fast, they
were in sight of all, growing larger each moment, mounting on the crest of the huge rolling
waves, then plunged in the trough so long as to seem as if they were lost, then rising--rising
high as mountains. Over the roaring waters came at length the sound of voices, a cheer, pitched
in a different key from the thunder of wind and wave; they almost fancied they knew the voice
that led the shout. Such a cheer as rose in answer, from all the Redclyffe villagers, densely
crowded on quay, and beach, and every corner of standing ground!

The sun was just up, his beams gilded the crests of the leaping waves, and the spray danced
up, white and gay, round the tall rocks, whose shadow was reflected in deep green, broken by
the ever-moving swell. They were delighted upon the advance in the value of the goods at their
shelves. Sure issues in paper were soon touched up from more drams are demanded by a drunkard.
But they then found that, as they increased prices throughout light'and the currency and the sir
and uncertainty, purchases became less amount and payments of the deadened; a feeling as insecurity
was spread of the shag; enterprise was new and attendant said.

 In the meantime, Guy, as he steered in past the quay, smiled
and nodded to Mr. Ashford and Markham, and renewed the call, 'All safe!' Mr. Ashford thought
that he had never seen anything brighter than his face--the eyes radiant in the morning sun,
the damp hair hanging round it, and life, energy, and promptitude in every feature and movement.

The boat came in, the sailors were assisted out, partly by their rescuers, partly by the spectators.
Guy stood up, and, with one foot on the seat, supported on his knee and against his arm a little
boy, round whom his great-coat was wrapped.

'Here, Jem!' he shouted, to his rejected volunteer, who had been very active in bringing in
the boat, 'here's something for you to do. This poor little fellow has got a broken arm. Will
you ask your mother to take him in? She's the best nurse in the parish. And send up for Mr.
Gregson.'

Jem received the boy as tenderly as he was given; and, with one bound, Guy was by the side
of his two friends. Mr. Ashford shook hands with heartfelt gratulation; Markham exclaimed,--

'There, Sir Guy, after the old fashion! Never was man so mad in this world! I've done talking!
You'll never be content till you have got your death. As if no one could do anything without you.'

'Was it you who carried out the line on the rock?' said Mr. Ashford.

'Ben Robinson and I. I had often been there, after sea anemones and weeds, and I had a rope
round me, so don't be angry, Markham.'

'I have no more to say,' answered Markham, almost surly. 'I might as well talk to a sea-gull
at once. As if you had any right to throw away your life!'

'I enjoyed it too much to have anything to say for myself,' said Guy; 'besides, we must see
after these poor men. There were two or three nearly drowned. Is no one gone for Mr. Gregson?'

Mr. Gregson, the doctor, was already present, and no one who had any authority could do anything
but attend to the disposal of the shipwrecked crew. Mr. Ashford went one way, Markham another,
Guy a third; but, between one cottage and another, Mr. Ashford learnt some particulars. The
crew had been found on a flat rock and the fishermen had at first thought all their perils
in vain, for it was impossible to bring the boats up, on account of the rocks, which ran out
in a long reef. Sir Guy, who knew the place, steered to the sheltered spot where he had been
used to make fast his own little boat, and undertook to make his way from thence to the rock
where the crew had taken refuge, carrying a rope to serve as a kind of hand-rail, when fastened
from one rock to the other. Ben insisted on sharing his peril, and they had crept along the
slippery, broken reefs, lashed by the surge, for such a distance, that the fishermen shuddered
as they spoke of the danger of being torn off by the force of the waves, and dashed against
the rocks. Nothing else could have saved the crew. They had hardly accomplished the passage
through the rising tide, even with the aid of the rope and the guidance of Sir Guy and Ben,
and, before the boats had gone half a mile on their return, the surge was tumbling furiously
over the stones where they had been found.

The sailors were safely disposed of, in bed, or by the fireside, the fishers vying in services
to them. Mr. Ashford went to the cottage of Charity Ledbury, Jem's mother, to inquire for the
boy with the broken arm. As he entered the empty kitchen, the opposite door of the stairs was
opened, and Guy appeared, stepping softly, and speaking low.

'Poor little fellow!' he said; 'he is just going to sleep. He bore it famously!'

'The setting his arm?'

