At about the same time, in France, Rousseau, gathering into his own heart, from many sources,
the suggestions and emotions of Democracy, uttered them with a voice so magical that it roused
millions of other hearts and made the emotions seem intellectual proofs. As the magician waves
his wand and turns common pebbles into precious stones, so Rousseau turned the dead crater
of Europe into a molten volcano. The ideals of Fraternity and Equality were joined with that
of Liberty and the three were accepted as indivisible elements of Democracy. In the United
States we set our Democratic principles going. In Europe the Revolution shattered many of the
hateful methods of Despotism, shattered, but did not destroy them. The amazing genius of Napoleon
intervened to deflect Europe from her march towards Democracy and to convert her into the servant
of his personal ambition.

Over here, in spite of the hideous contradiction of slavery, which ate like a black ulcer into
a part of our body politic, the Democratic ideal not only prevailed, but came to be taken for
granted as a heaven-revealed truth, which only fools would question or dispute. In Europe,
the monarchs of the Old Regime made a desperate rally and put down Napoleon, thinking that
by smashing him they would smash also the tremendous Democratic forces by which he had gained
his supremacy. They put back, so far as they could, the old feudal bases of privilege and of
more or less disguised tyranny. The Restoration could not slumber quietly, for the forces of
the Revolution burst out from time to time. They wished to realize the liberty of which they
had had a glimpse in 1789 and which the Old Regime had snatched away from them. The Spirit
of Nationality now strengthened their efforts for independence and liberty and another Spirit
came stalking after both. This was the Social Revolution, which refusing to be satisfied by
a merely political victory boldly preached Internationalism as a higher ideal than Nationalism.
Truly, Time still devours all his children, and the hysterical desires bred by half-truths
prevent the coming and triumphant reign of Truth. While these various and mutually clashing
motives swept Europe along during the first half of the nineteenth century, a different current
hurried the United States into the rapids. Should they continue to exist as one Union binding
together sections with different interests, or should the Union be dissolved and those sections
attempt to lead a separate political existence? Fortunately, for the preservation of the Union,
the question of slavery was uppermost in one of the sections. Slavery could not be dismissed
as a merely economic question. Many Americans declared that it was primarily a moral issue.
And this transformed what the Southern section would gladly have limited to economics into
a war for a moral ideal. With the destruction of slavery in the South the preservation of the
Union came as a matter of course.

The Civil War itself had given a great stimulus to industry, to the need of providing military
equipment and supplies, and of extending, as rapidly as possible, the railroads which were
the chief means of transportation. When the war ended in 1865, this expansion went on at an
increasing rate. The energy which had been devoted to military purposes was now directed to
commerce and industry, to developing the vast unpeopled tracts from the Mississippi to the
Pacific, and to exploiting the hitherto neglected or unknown natural resources of the country.
Every year science furnished new methods of converting nature's products into man's wealth.
Chemistry, the doubtful science, Midas-like, turned into gold every thing that it touched.
There were not native workers enough, and so a steady stream of foreign immigrants flocked
over from abroad. They came at first to better their own fortunes by sharing in the unlimited
American harvests. Later, our Captains of Industry, regardless of the quality of the new comers,
and intent only on securing cheap labor to multiply their hoards, combed the lowest political
and social levels of southern Europe and of western Asia for employees. The immigrants ceased
to look upon America as the Land of Promise, the land where they intended to settle, to make
their homes, and to rear their children; it became for them only a huge factory where they
earned a living and for which they felt no affection. On the contrary, many of them looked
forward to returning to their native country as soon as they had saved up a little competence
here. The politicians, equally negligent of the real welfare of the United States, gave to
these masses of foreigners quick and unscrutinized naturalization as American citizens.

So it fell out that before the end of the nineteenth century a great gulf was opening between
Labor and Capital. Now a community can thrive only when all its classes feel that they have
COMMON interests; but since American Labor was largely composed of foreigners, it acquired
a double antagonism to Capital. It had not only the supposed natural antagonism of employee
to employer, but also the further cause of misunderstanding, and hostility even, which came
from the foreignness of its members. Another ominous condition arose. The United States ceased
to be the Land of Promise, where any hard-working and thrifty man could better himself and
even become rich. The gates of Opportunity were closing. The free lands, which the Nation offered
to any one who would cultivate them, had mostly been taken up; the immigrant who had been a
laborer in Europe, was a laborer here. Moreover, the political conditions in Europe often added
to the burdens and irritation caused by the industrial conditions there. And the immigrant
in coming to America brought with him all his grievances, political not less than industrial.
He was too ignorant to discriminate; he could only feel. Anarchy and Nihilism, which were his
natural reaction against his despotic oppressors in Germany and Russia, he went on cultivating
here, where, by the simple process of naturalization, he became politically his own despot
in a year or two.

