M. or N.

"Similia similibus curantur"

By G.J. Whyte-Melville

CONTENTS

CHAP.

I. "Small and Early"

II. "Nightfall"

III. Tom Ryfe

IV. Gentleman Jim

V. The Cracksman's Checkmate

VI. A Reversionary Interest

VII. Dick Stanmore

VIII. Nina

IX. The Usual Difficulty

X. The Fairy Queen

XI. In the Scales

XII. "A Cruel Parting"

XIII. Sixes and Sevens

XIV. The Officers' Mess

XV. Mrs. Stanmore at Home

XVI. "Missing--A Gentleman"

XVII. "Wanted--A Lady"

XVIII. "The Coming Queen"

XIX. An Incubus

XX. "The Little Cloud"

XXI. Furens Quid Fæmina

XXII. "Not for Joseph"

XXIII. Anonymous

XXIV. Parted

XXV. Coaxing a Fight

XXVI. Baffled

XXVII. Blinded

XXVIII. Beat

XXIX. Night-Hawks

XXX. Under the Acacias

M. or N.

"Similia similibus curantur"

CHAPTER I

"SMALL AND EARLY"

A wild wet night in the Channel, the white waves leaping, lashing, and tumbling together in
that confusion of troubled waters, which nautical men call a "cross-sea." A dreary, dismal
night on Calais sands: faint moonshine struggling through a low driving scud, the harbour-lights
quenched and blurred in mist. Such a night as bids the trim French sentry hug himself in his
watch-coat, calmly cursing the weather, while he hums the chorus of a comic opera, driving
his thoughts by force of contrast to the lustrous glow of the wine-shop, the sparkling eyes
and gold ear-rings of Mademoiselle Thérèse, who presides over Love and Bacchus therein. Such
a night as gives the travellers in the mail-packet some notion of those ups and downs in life
which landsmen may bless themselves to ignore, as hints to the Queen's Messenger, seasoned
though he be, that ten minutes more of that heaving, pitching, tremulous motion would lay him
alongside those poor sick neophytes whom he pities and condemns; reminding him how even he
has cause to be thankful when he reflects that, save for an occasional Levanter, the Mediterranean
is a mill-pond compared to La Manche. Such a night as makes the hardy fisherman running for
Havre or St. Valérie growl his "Babord" and "Tribord" in harsher tones than usual to his mate,
because he cannot keep his thoughts off Marie and the little ones ashore; his dark-eyed Marie,
praying her heart out to the Virgin on her knees, feeling, as the fierce wind howls and blusters
round their hut, that not on her wedding-morning, not on that summer eve when he won her down
by the sea, did she love her Pierre so dearly, as now in this dark boisterous weather, that
causes her very flesh to creep while she listens to its roar. Nobody who could help it would
be abroad on Calais sands. "Pas même un Anglais!" mutters the sentry, ordering his firelock
with a ring, and wishing it was time for the Relief. But an Englishman is out nevertheless,
wandering aimlessly to and fro on the beach; turning his face to windward against the driving
rain; trying to think the wet on his cheek is all from without; vainly hoping to stifle grief,
remorse, anxiety, by exposure and active bodily exercise.

"How could I stay in that cursed room?" he mutters, striding wildly among the sand-hills. "The
very tick of the clock was enough to drive one mad in those long fearful pauses--solemn and
silent as death! Can't the fools do anything for her? What is the use of nurses and doctors,
and all the humbug of medicine and science? My darling! my darling! It was too cruel to hear
you wailing and crying, and to know I could do you no good! What a coward I am to have fled
into the wilderness like a murderer! I couldn't have stayed there, I feel I couldn't! I wish
I hadn't listened at the door! Only yesterday you seemed so well and in such good spirits,
with your dark eyes looking so patiently and fondly into mine! And now, if she should die!--if
she should die!"

Then he stands stock-still, turning instinctively from the wind like one of the brutes, while
the past comes back in a waking dream so akin to reality, that even in his preoccupation he
seems to live the last year of his life over again. Once more he is at the old place in Cheshire,
whither he has gone like any other young dandy, an agreeable addition to a country shooting-party
because of his chestnut locks, his blue eyes, his handsome person, and general recklessness
of character; agreeable, he reflects, to elderly roués and established married women, but a
scarecrow to mothers, and a stumbling-block to daughters, as being utterly penniless and rather
good-for-nothing. Once more he comes down late for dinner, to find a vacant place by that beautiful
girl, with her delicate features, her wealth of raven hair, above all, with the soft, sad,
dreamy eyes, that look so loving, so trustful, and so good. In such characters as theirs these
things are soon accomplished. A walk or two, a waltz, a skein of silk to wind, a drive in a
pony-carriage, an afternoon church, and behold them in the memorable summer-house, where he
won her heart--completely and unreservedly, while flinging down his own! Then came all the
sweet excitement, all the fascinating mystery of mutual understanding, of stolen glances, of
hidden meanings in the common phrases and daily courtesies of social life. It was so delightful
for each to feel that other existence bound up in its own, to look down from their enchanted
mountain, with pity not devoid of contempt on the commonplace dwellers on the plain, undeterred
by proofs more numerous perhaps on the hills of Paphos than in any other airy region, that

"Great clymbers fall unsoft;"

to know that come sorrow, suffering, disgrace, or misfortune, there was refuge and safety for
the poor, broken-winged bird, though its plumage were torn by the fowler's cruelty, or even
soiled in the storm of shame. Alas! that the latter should arrive too soon!

Perhaps of this young couple, the girl, in her perfect faith and entire self-sacrifice, may
have been less aghast than her lover at the imminence of discovery, reprobation, and scorn.
When no other course was left open, she eloped willingly enough with the man she had trusted--shutting
her eyes to consequences, in that recklessness of devotion which, lead though it may to much
unhappiness in life, constitutes not the least lovable trait of the female character, so ready
to burst into extremes of right and wrong.

Besides, who cares for consequences at nineteen, with the sun glinting on the waves of the
Channel, the sea-air freshening cheek and brow, the coast of Picardy rising bright and glistening,
in smiles of welcome, and the dear, fond face looking down so proudly and wistfully on its
treasure? Consequences indeed! They have been left with the heavy baggage at London Bridge,
to reach their proper owner possibly hereafter in Paris; but meantime, with this fresh breeze
blowing--on the blue sea--under the blue sky--they do not exist--there are no such things!

These young people were very foolish, very wicked, but they loved each other very dearly. Mr.
Bruce was none of those heartless, unscrupulous Lovelaces, oftener met with in fiction than
in real life, who can forget they are men as well as gentlemen; and when he crossed the Channel
with Miss Algernon, it was from sheer want of forethought, from mismanagement, no doubt, but
still more from misfortune, that she was Miss Algernon still.

To marry, was to be disinherited--that he knew well enough; but neither he nor his Nina, as
he called her, would have paused for this consideration. There were other difficulties, trivial
in appearance, harassing, vexatious, insurmountable in reality, that yet seemed from day to
day about to vanish; so they waited, and temporised, and hesitated, till the opportunity came
of escaping together, and they availed themselves of it without delay.

Now they had reached French ground, and were free, but it was too late! That was why Mr. Bruce
roamed so wildly to-night over the Calais sands, tortured by a cruel fear that he might lose
the treasure of his heart for ever; exaggerating, in that supreme moment of anxiety, her sufferings,
her danger, perhaps even her priceless value to himself.

To do him justice, he did not think for an instant of the many galling annoyances to which
both must be subjected hereafter in the event of her coming safely through her trial. He found
no time to reflect on a censorious world, an outraged circle of friends, an infuriated family;
on the cold shoulder Mrs. Grundy would turn upon his darling, and the fair mark he would himself
be bound to offer that grim old father, who had served under Wellington, or that soft-spoken
dandy brother in the Guards, unerring at "rocketers," and deadly for all ground game, neither
of whom would probably shoot the wider, under the circumstances that he, the offender, felt
in honour he must stand at least one discharge without retaliation, an arrangement which makes
twelve paces uncomfortably close quarters for the passive and immovable target. He scarcely
dwelt a moment on the bitter scorn with which his own great-uncle, whose natural heir he was,
would calmly and deliberately curse this piece of childish folly, while he disinherited its
perpetrator without scruple or remorse. He never even considered the disadvantage under which
a life that ought to be very dear to him was now opening on the world: a life that might be
blighted through its whole course by his own folly, punished, a score of years hence, for unwittingly
arriving a few weeks too soon. No! He could think of nothing but Nina's anguish and Nina's
danger; could only wander helplessly backwards and forwards, stupefied by the continuous gusts
of that boisterous sea-wind, stunned by the dull wash of the incoming tide, feeling for minutes
at a time, a numbed, apathetic impotency; till, roused and stung by a rush of recurring apprehensions,
he hastened back to his hotel, white, agitated, dripping wet, moving with wavering gestures
and swift, irregular strides, like a man in a trance.

At the foot of the staircase he ran into the arms of a dapper French doctor, young, yet experienced,
a man of science, a man of pleasure, an anatomist, a dancer, a philosopher, and a dandy--who
put both hands on his shoulders, and looked in his face with so comical an expression of congratulation,
sympathy, pity, and amusement, that Mr. Bruce's fears vanished on the instant, and he found
voice to ask, in husky accents, "if it was over?"

"Over!" repeated the doctor. "Pardon, my good sir. For our interesting young friend it is only
just begun. A young lady, monsieur, a veritable little aristocrat, with a delicate nose, and,
my faith, sound and powerful lungs! I make you my compliment, monsieur. I am happy to be the
first to advertise you of good news. It is late. Let madame be kept tranquil. You will permit
me to wish you good-night. I will return again in the morning."

"And she is safe?" exclaimed Bruce, crushing the doctor's hand in a grasp like a vice.

"Safe!" answered the little man. "Parbleu--yes--for the present, safe as the mole in the harbour,
and likely to remain so if you will only keep out of the room. Come, you shall see her for
one quiet little moment. She desires it so much. And when I scratch at the door thus, you will
come out. Agreed? Enter, then. You shall embrace your child."

So the good-natured man turned into the hotel again, to conduct Mr. Bruce back to the door
from which he had fled in anguish an hour or two ago, and was thus five minutes too late for
another professional engagement, which could not be postponed, but went on indeed very well
without him, the expectant lady being a person of experience, the wife of a Calais fisherman,
and now employed for the thirteenth time in her yearly occupation. But this has nothing to
do with Mr. Bruce.

That gentleman stole on tiptoe through the darkened room, catching a glimpse, as he passed
the tawdry mirror on the chimney-piece, of a very pale and anxious face strangely unlike his
own, while from behind the half-drawn bed-curtains he heard a quiet placid breathing, and a
weak, faint voice with its tender whisper, "Charlie, are you there? My darling, I begged so
hard to see you for one minute, and--Charlie dear, to--to show you this."

This was a morsel of something swathed up in wrappings, round which the young mother's arm
was folded with proud, protecting love; but I think he had been too anxious about the woman
to feel a proper elation in his new position as father to the child. The tears came thick to
his eyes once more, while he caught the pale, fragile hand that lay so weary and listless on
the counterpane, to press it against his lips, his cheeks, his forehead, murmuring broken words
of endearment, and gratitude, and joy.

She would have kept him there all night: she would have talked to him for an hour, feeble as
she was, of that little being, in so short a time promoted to its sovereignty of Baby (with
a capital B), in which she had already discovered instincts, qualities, high reasoning powers,
noble moral characteristics: but the doctor's tap was heard, "scratching," as he called it,
at the door, and Bruce, too happy not to be docile, had the good sense to obey his summons
without delay.

"Let them sleep, monsieur," said the Frenchman, struggling into his great-coat, and hurrying
down-stairs. "It will do them more good than all your prevision and all my experience. I will
return in the morning, to inquire after madame and to renew my acquaintance with mademoiselle--I
should say with 'your charming mees.' Monsieur, you are now father of a family--you should
keep early hours. Good-night, then--till to-morrow."

Bruce looked after him with a blessing on his lips, and a fervent thanksgiving in his heart
to the Providence that had spared him his treasure. For the moment, I believe, he completely
forgot that important personage with whom originated all their anxiety and discomfort. To men,
indeed, there is so little individuality about a Baby, that, I fear, it has to be weaned and
vaccinated, and to go through many other processes before it ceases to be a thing, and rather
an inconvenient one. No; Bruce went to his own sitting-room, with his heart so full of his
Nina, there was scarcely place for other considerations; therefore, instead of going to bed,
he kicked off his wet boots, turned on a brilliant illumination of gas, and threw himself into
an arm-chair--to smoke. After the excitement he had lately passed through, the first few whiffs
of his cigar were soothing and consolatory in the extreme, but reflection comes with tobacco,
not less surely than warmth comes with fire; and soon he began to see the crowd of fresh difficulties
which the events of to-night would bring swarming round his devoted head. How he cursed his
foolish calculations, his ill-judged caution, his cowardly scruples, thus to have postponed
the ceremony of marriage till too late. How impossible it would be now, to throw dust in the
eyes of society as to dates and circumstances! how fruitless the reparation which should certainly
be put off no longer, no, not a day! It seemed so hard that he, of all the world, should have
injured the woman who loved him, the woman whom he so devotedly loved in return. He almost
hated the innocent baby for its inopportune arrival; but remembering how that poor little creature
too must bear the punishment of his crime, he flung the end of his cigar against the stove
with a curse, and for one moment--only one bitter, painful moment--found himself wishing he
had never met, never loved, his darling; had left the lamb at peace in its fold, the rose ungathered
on its stalk.

The clock did not tick twice before there came a reaction. It seemed so impossible that they
should be independent of each other. He would not be himself without Nina! and the flow of
his affection, like the back-water of a mill-stream, returned only the stronger for its momentary
interruption. After all, Nina was everything, Nina was the first consideration. Something must
be done at once. As soon as she could bear it, that ceremony must be gone through which should
have been performed long ago. He was young, he was impatient, he would fain be at work without
delay; so he turned to his writing-table, and began opening certain letters that had already
followed him into France, but that he had laid aside without examination, in the excitement
of the last few hours.

They were not calculated to afford him much distraction. A circular from a coal company, a
couple of invitations to dinner, a tailor's bill, and a manifesto from the firm, calling attention
to the powers of endurance with which their little account had "made running" for a considerable
period, while promising a "lawyer's letter" to enforce payment of the same. Next this hostile
protocol lay a business-like missive bearing a Lincoln's Inn look about it not to be mistaken,
and which Bruce determined he would leave unopened till the morning, when, if Nina had slept,
and was doing well, he felt nothing in the world could make him unhappy.

"Serves me right, though," he yawned, "for deserting Poole. He wouldn't have bothered me for
a miserable pony at such a time as this;" and flinging off his clothes, in less than five minutes
he was as fast asleep as if he had never known an anxiety in the world, but was lulled by the
soothing considerations of a well-spent past, an untroubled conscience, and a balance at his
banker's!

So he slept and dreamed not, as those sleep who are thoroughly out-wearied in body and mind,
waking only when the sun had been up more than an hour, and the stormy night had given place
to a clear, unclouded day.

The Channel was all blue and white now; the rollers, as they subsided into a long heaving ground-swell,
bringing in with them a freight of health and freshness to the shore. The gulls were soaring
and screaming round the harbour, edging their wings with gold as they dipped and wheeled in
the morning light. Everything spoke of hope and happiness and vitality. Bruce opened his window,
drew in long breaths of the keen, reviving air, and stole to listen at Nina's door.

How his heart went up in gratitude to heaven! Mother and child were sleeping--so peacefully,
so soundly. Mother and child! At that early period the dearest, the sweetest, the holiest link
of human love--the gold without the dross, the flower without the insect, the wine without
the headache, the full fruition of the feelings without the wear and tear of the heart.

He could have kissed the antiquated French chambermaid, dressed like a Sister of Mercy, who
met him in the passage, and wishing "Monsieur" good-morning, congratulated him with tears of
honest sympathy in her glittering, bold black eyes. He did give a five-franc piece to the alert
and well-dressed waiter, who looked as if he had never been in bed, and never required to go.
It may be this impulse of generosity reminded him that five-franc pieces were likely to be
scarce with him in future, and an unpleasant association of ideas brought the lawyer's letter
to his mind. There it lay, square and uncompromising, between his watch and his cigar-case.
He opened it, I am afraid, with a truly British oath.

He turned quite white when he read it the first time, but the blood rushed to his temples on
a second perusal, and he flung himself down on his knees at the windowsill, thanking Providence,
somewhat inconsiderately, for the benefits that only came to him through another man's death.

This letter, indeed, though the composition of a lawyer, had not been written at the instance
of his long-suffering tailor, but was from the solicitor who conducted the business of his
family. It advised him, in very concise language, of his great-uncle's sudden "demise," as
it was worded, "intestate"; informing him that he thus became heir, as next of kin, to the
whole personal and real property of the deceased, and concluded with sincere congratulations
on his accession to a fine fortune, not without a hope that their firm might continue to manage
his affairs, and afford him the same satisfaction that had always been expressed by his late
lamented relative, etc. The surprise staggered him like a blow. From such blows, however, we
soon "come to time," willing to take any amount of similar punishment. He gave himself credit
for self-denial in not waking Nina on the instant to tell her of their good fortune. Still
more, he plumed himself on his forethought in resolving to ask her doctor's leave before he
entered on so exciting a topic with the invalid. He longed to tell somebody. He was so happy,
so elated, so thankful! and yet, amidst all his joy, there rankled an uncomfortable sensation
of remorse and self-reproach when he thought of the little blighted life, the little injured
helpless creature nestling to its young mother's side in the next room.

CHAPTER II

"NIGHTFALL"

It is more than twenty years ago, and yet how vividly it all comes back to him to-night!

The sun has gone down in streaks of orange and crimson over the old oaks that crown the deer-park
sloping upward to the rear of Ecclesfield Manor. Mr. Bruce walks across a darkened room to
throw the window open for a gasp of fresh evening air, laden with the perfume of pinks, carnations,
and moss-roses in the garden below. Her garden! Is it possible? Something in the action reminds
him of that bright, hopeful morning at Calais. Something in the scent of the flowers steals
to his brain, half torpid and benumbed; his heart contracts with an agony of physical suffering.
"My darling! my darling!" he murmurs, "shall I never see you tying those flowers again?" and
turning from the window, he falls on his knees by the bedside with a passionate burst of weeping
that, like blood-letting to the body, restores the unwelcome faculty of consciousness to his
mind. When he raises his head again he knows well enough that the one great misfortune has
arrived at last--that henceforth for him there may come, in the lapse of long years, resignation,
even repose, but hope and happiness no more.

Even now, though he wonders at his own callousness, he can bear to look on the bed through
a mist of tears; and, so looking, feels his intellect failing in its effort to grasp the calamity
that has befallen him.

There she lies, like a dead lily, his own, his treasure, his beloved; the sweet face, calm
and placid, with its chiselled ivory features, its smooth and gentle brow, has already borrowed
a higher, a more perfect beauty from the immortality on which it has entered. Not fairer, not
lovelier did she look that well-remembered evening when he first knew her pure and priceless
heart was his own, though she has borne him a daughter--nay, two daughters (and he winces with
a fresh and different pain)--the younger as old as she was then. Her raven hair is parted soft
and silky off those pale, delicate temples; her long black lashes rest upon the waxen cheek.
No; she never looked as beautiful, not in the calm sleep he used to watch so lovingly; and
now the deep, fond eyes must open on his own no more. She was so gentle, too, so patient, so
sweet-tempered, and O, so true. He had been a man of the world, neither better nor worse than
others: he knew women well; knew how rare are the good ones; knew the prize he had won, and
valued it--yes, he was sure he always valued it as it deserved. What was the use? Had she not
far better have been like the others--petulant, wilful, capricious, covetous of admiration,
careless of affection, weak-headed, shallow-hearted, and desirous only of that which could
not possibly be her own? Such were most of the women amongst whom he had been thrown in his
youth; but O, how unlike her who was lying dead there before his eyes.

  "For men at most differ as heaven and earth,
  But women, worst and best, as heaven and hell."

He felt so keenly now that she had been his better angel for more than twenty years; that but
for her he might long ago have deteriorated to selfishness and cynicism, or sunk into that
careless philosophy which believes only in the tangible, the material, and the present.

A good woman's lot may be linked to that of a bad man; she may even love him very dearly, and
yet retain much of her purer, better nature amidst all the mire in which she is steeped; but
it is not so with us. To care for a bad woman is to be dragged down to her level, inch by inch,
till the intellect itself becomes sapped in a daily degradation of the heart. From such slavery
emancipation is cheap under any suffering, at any sacrifice. The lopping of a limb is a painful
process, but above a gangrened wound experienced surgeons amputate without scruple or remorse.

On the other hand, a true woman's affection is of all earthly influences the noblest and most
elevating. It encourages the highest and gentlest qualities of man's nature--his enterprise,
courage, patience, sympathy, above all, his trust. Happy the pilgrim on whose life such a beacon-star
has shone out to guide him in the right way; thrice happy if it sets not until it has lured
him so far that he will never again turn aside from the path.

Such reflections as these, while they added to his sense of loss and loneliness, yet took so
much of the sting out of Mr. Bruce's great sorrow, that he could realise it for minutes at
a time without being goaded to madness or stunned to apathy by the pain.

There had been no warning--no preparation. He had left her that morning as usual, after smoking
a cigar in her society on the lawn, while she tied, and snipped, and gathered the flowers of
her pretty garden. He had visited the stable, ordered the pony-carriage, seen the keeper, and
been to look at an Alderney cow. It was one of his idle days, yet, after twenty years of marriage,
such days he still liked to spend, if possible, in the company of his wife. So he strolled
back to write his letters in her boudoir, and entered it at the garden door, expecting to find
her, as usual, busied in some graceful feminine employment.

Her work was heaped on the sofa; a book she had been reading lay open on the table; the very
flowers she gathered an hour ago had the dew on them still. He could not finish his first letter
without consulting her, for she kept his memory, his conscience, and his money, just as she
kept his heart, so he ran up-stairs to her bedroom door and knocked.

There was no answer, and he went in. At the first glance he thought she must have fainted,
for she had fallen on her knees against a high-backed chair, her face buried in its cushions,
and one hand touching the carpet. He had a quick eye, and the turn of that grey rigid hand
warned him with a stab of something he refused persistently to believe. Then he lifted her
on the bed where she lay now, and sent for every doctor within reach.

He had no recollection of the interval that elapsed before the nearest could arrive, nor distinct
notion of any part of that long sunny afternoon while he sat by his Nina in the death-chamber.
Once he got up to stop the ticking of a clock on the chimney-piece, moving mechanically with
stealthy footfall across the room lest she should be disturbed. The doctors came and went,
agreeing, as they left the house, that he had answered their questions with wonderful precision
and presence of mind; nay, that he was less prostrated by the blow than they should have expected.
"Disease of the heart," said they--I believe they called it "the pericardium"; and after paying
a tribute of admiration to the loveliness of the dead lady, discussed the leading article of
that day's Times with perfect equanimity. What would you have? There can be but one person
in the world to whom another is more than all the world beside.

This person was sitting by Nina's bed, except for a few brief minutes at a time, utterly stupefied
and immovable. Even Maud--his cherished daughter Maud--whose smile had hitherto been welcome
in his eyes as the light of morning, could not rouse his attention by the depth of her own
uncontrolled grief. He sat like an idiot or an opium-eater, till something prompted him to
open the window and gasp for a breath of fresh evening air. Then it all came back to him, and
he awoke to the full consciousness of his misery.

There are men, though not many, and these, perhaps, the least inclined to prate about it, who
have one attachment in their lives to which every other sentiment is but an accessory and a
satellite. Such natures are often very bold to dare, very strong to endure, very difficult
to assail, save in their single vulnerable point. Force that, and the man's whole vitality
seems to collapse. He does not even make a fight of it, but fails, gives in, and goes down
without an effort. Such was the character of Mr. Bruce, and to-day he had gotten his death-blow.

The stars twinkled out faintly one by one, the harvest-moon rose broad and ruddy behind the
wooded hill, and still he sat stupefied at the bedside. The door opened gently to admit a beautiful
girl, strangely, startlingly like her dead mother, who came in with a cup of tea and a candle.
Setting these on the chimney-piece, she moved softly round to where he sat, and pressed his
head, with both hands, against her breast.

"Dearest father," said she, "I have brought you some tea. Try and rouse yourself, papa, dear
papa, for my sake. You love me too."

The appeal was well chosen; once more the tears came to his eyes, and he woke up as from a dream.

"You are a good girl, Maud," he answered, with a vague, distracted air. "I have my children
left--I have my children left! But all the world cannot make up to me for what I have lost!"

She thought his mind was wandering, and tried to recall him to himself.

"We must bear our sorrows as best we may, papa," she answered, very gently. "We must help each
other. You and I are alone now in the world."

A contraction, as of some fresh pain, came over his livid face. He raised his head to speak,
but, stopping himself with an obvious effort, looked long and scrutinisingly in his daughter's
face.

Maud Bruce was a very beautiful girl even now, in the extremity of her sorrow. She had been
crying heartily; no wonder, but her delicate features were not swollen, nor her dark eyes dimmed.
The silky hair shone smooth and trim, the muslin dress was not rumpled nor disarranged, and
the white hands, with which she still caressed her father's sorrow-laden head, neither shook
nor wavered in their office.

With her mother's beauty, Miss Bruce had inherited but little of her mother's character; on
the contrary, her nature, like that of her father's ancestors rather than his own, was bold,
firm, and self-reliant to an unusual degree. She was hard, and that is the only epithet properly
to describe her--manner, voice, appearance, all were lady-like, feminine, and exceedingly attractive;
but the self-possession she never seemed to lose, would have warned an experienced admirer,
that beneath the white bosom beat a heart not to be reduced by stratagem, nor carried by assault;
that he must not hope to see the beautiful dark eyes veil themselves in the dreamy softness
which so confesses all it means to hide; that the raven tresses clinging coquettishly to that
faultless head were most unlikely to be severed as a tribute of affection for any one whose
conquest would not be a question of pride and profit to their owner. Tenderness was the one
quality Maud lacked, the one quality which, like the zone of Venus, completed all her mother's
attractions, with an indefinable and irresistible charm.

There is a wild German legend which describes how a certain woodman, a widower, gave shelter
to a strangely fascinating dame, and falling in love with her, incontinently made his guest
lawful mistress of hearth and home; how, notwithstanding his infatuated passion, and intense
admiration for her beauty, there was yet in it a fierceness which chilled and repelled him,
while he worshiped; how his children could never be brought to look in the fair face of their
stepmother without crying aloud for fear; and how at last he discovered, to his horror and
dismay, that he had wedded a fearful creature, half wolf, half woman, combining the seductions
of the syren with the cruel voracity of the brute. There was something about Maud Bruce to
remind one of that horrible myth, even now, now at her gentlest and softest, while she clung
round a sorrowing father, by the death-bed of one, whom, in their different ways, both had
very dearly loved.

It was well that the young lady preserved her presence of mind, for Bruce seemed incapable
of connected thought or action. He roused himself, indeed, at his daughter's call, but gazed
stupidly about him, stammered in his speech, and faltered in his step when he crossed the room.
The shock of grief had evidently overmastered his faculties--something, too, besides affliction,
seemed to worry and distress him--something of which he wished to unbosom himself, but that
yet he could not make up his mind to reveal. Maud, whose quickness of perception was seldom
at fault, did not fail to observe this, and reviewing the position with her accustomed coolness,
drew her father gently to the writing-table, and sat down.

"Papa," said she, "there is much to be done. We must exert ourselves. It will do us both good.
Bargrave can be down by the middle of the day, to-morrow. Let me write for him at once."

Bargrave and Co. were Mr. Bruce's solicitors, as they had been his great-uncle's: it was the
same firm, indeed, that had apprised him of his inheritance at Calais twenty years ago. How
he rejoiced in their intelligence then! What was the use of an inheritance now?

A weary lassitude had come over him; he seemed incapable of exertion, and shook his head in
answer to Maud's appeal; but again some hidden motive stung him into action, and taking his
seat at the writing-table, he seized a pen, only to let it slip helplessly through his fingers,
while he looked in his daughter's face with a vacant stare.

Maud was equal to the occasion. Obviously something more than sorrow had reduced her father
to this state. She sat down opposite, scribbled off a note hastily enough, but in the clear
unwavering hand, affirmed by her correspondents to be so characteristic of the writer's disposition,
and ringing the bell, desired it should be dispatched on the instant. "Let Thomas take the
brougham with the ponies; the doctor is sure to be at home. He can bring him back at once."

Then she looked at her father, and stopped the lady's-maid, who, tearful and hysterical, had
answered the familiar summons, which but this morning was "missis's bell."

"While they are putting to," said she calmly, "I will write a telegraphic message and a letter.
Tell him to send word when he is ready. I shall give him exactly ten minutes."

Once more she glanced uneasily at Mr. Bruce; what she saw decided her. In half-a-dozen words
she penned a concise message to her father's solicitor, desiring him to come himself or send
a confidential person to Ecclesfield Manor, by the very first train, on urgent business; and
wrote a letter as well to the same address, explaining her need of immediate assistance, for
Mr. Bargrave to receive the following morning, in case that gentleman should not obey her telegram
in person, a contingency Miss Bruce considered highly probable.

The ten minutes conceded to Thomas had stretched to twenty before he was ready; for so strong
is the force of habit among stablemen, that even in a case of life and death, horses cannot
be allowed to start till their manes are straightened and their hoofs blacked. In the interval,
Miss Bruce became more and more concerned to observe no signs of attention on her father's
part--no inquiries as to her motives--apparently no consciousness of what she was doing. When
the brougham was heard to roll away at a gallop, she came round and put her arm about his neck,
where he sat in his chair at the writing-table.

"Papa, dear," she said, "I have told them to get your dressing-room ready. You are ill, very
ill. I can see it. You must go to bed."

He nodded, and smiled. Such a weary, silly smile, letting her lead him away like a little child.
He would even have passed the bed where his wife lay without a look, but that his daughter
stopped him at the door.

"Papa," said she--and the girl deserved credit for the courage with which she kept her tears
back--"won't you kiss her before you go?"

It may be some instinct warned her that not in the body was he to look on the face he loved
again--that those material lips were never more to touch the gentle brow which in a whole lifetime
he had not seen to frown--that their next greeting, freed from earthly anxieties, released
from earthly troubles, must be exchanged, at no distant period, in heaven.

He obeyed unhesitatingly, imprinting a caress on his dead wife's forehead with no kind of emotion,
and so left the room, muttering vaguely certain indistinct and incoherent syllables, in which
the words "Nina" and "Bargrave" were alone intelligible.

Maud saw her father to his room, and consigned him to the hands of his valet, to be put to
bed without delay. Then she went to the dining-room, and forced herself to eat a crust of bread,
to drink a single glass of sherry. "I shall need all my strength to-night," thought the girl,
"to take care of poor papa, and arrange about the funeral and such matters as he cannot attend
to--the funeral! O, mother, dear, kind mother! I wasn't half good enough to you while you were
with us, and now--but I won't cry--I won't cry. There'll be time enough for all that by and
by. The first thing to think of is about papa. He hasn't borne it well. Men have very little
courage when they come to trial, and I fear--I fear there is something sadly wrong with him.
Let me see. Three-quarters of an hour to get to Bragford--five minutes' stoppage at the turn-pike,
for that stupid man is sure to have gone to bed--five minutes more for Doctor Skilton to put
on his greatcoat, forty minutes for coming back--those ponies always go faster towards home.
No, he can't be here under another hour. Another hour! It's a long time in a case like this.
Suppose papa should have a paralytic stroke! And I haven't a notion what to do--the proper
remedies, the best treatment. Women ought to know everything, and be ready for everything."

"Then there's the lawyer to-morrow. I don't suppose papa will be able to see him. I must think
of all the business--all the arrangements. He can't be here till ten o'clock at the earliest,
even if he starts by the first train. I shall write my directions for him in the morning. Meantime,
I'll go and sit with poor papa, and see if I can't hush him off to sleep."

But when Miss Bruce reached her father's room, she found him lying in an alarming state of
which she had no experience. Something between sleeping and waking, yet without the repose
of the one, the consciousness of the other. So she took her place by his pillow, and watched,
listening anxiously for the brougham that was to bring the doctor.

CHAPTER III

TOM RYFE

At half-past eight in the morning Mr. Bargrave's office in Gray's Inn was still empty. It had
been swept, indeed, and "straightened," as he called it, by a young gentleman, whose duty it
was to be in attendance at all hours from sunrise to sunset, when nobody else was in the way,
and who fulfilled that duty by slipping out on such available occasions to join the youth of
the quarter in sports of clamour, strength, and skill. Just now he was half-a-mile off in Holborn,
running at full speed, shouting at the top of his voice, with no apparent object but that of
exercising his own physical powers and the patience of the general public in his exertions.
It was not, therefore, the step of this trusty guardian which fell sharp and quick on the stone
stair outside the office, nor was it his hand, nor pass-key, that opened the door to admit
Mr. Bargrave's nephew, assistant, and possible successor in the business, Tom Ryfe.

That gentleman entered with the air of a master, looked about him, detected the absence of
his young subordinate as one who is disgusted rather than surprised, and lifted two envelopes
lying unopened on the table with an oath. "As usual," he muttered, "telegram and letter, same
date--same place. Arrive together, of course! Chances are, if there is any hurry you get the
letter before the telegram. Halloa! here's a business. Bargrave's sure to be an hour late,
and that young scamp not within a mile. If I had my way--Hang it! I will have my way. At all
events I must manage this business my way, for it seems there's not a moment to spare, and
nobody to help me. Dorothe-a!"

The dirtiest woman to be found, probably, at that hour in the whole of London, appeared from
a lower storey in answer to his summons. Pushing her hair off a grimy forehead with a grimier
hand, she listened to his directions, staring vacantly, as is the manner of her kind, but understanding
them, nevertheless, and not incapable of remembering their purport: they were short and intelligible
enough.

"Tell that young scamp he is to sleep in the office tonight. He mustn't leave it on any consideration
while I'm away. I'm going into the country, and I'll break his head when I come back."

Tom Ryfe then huddled the letter into his pocket for perusal at leisure, hailed a hansom, and
in less than a quarter of an hour was in his uncle's breakfast-room, bolting ham, muffins,
and green tea, while his clothes were packed.

Mr. Bargrave, a bachelor, who liked his comforts, and took care to have them, was reading the
newspaper in a silk dressing-gown, and a pair of gold spectacles. He had finished breakfast--such
a copious and leisurely repast as is consumed by one who dines at six, drinks a bottle of port
every day at dessert, and never smoked a cigar in his life. No earthly consideration would
hurry him for the next half-hour. He looked over the top of his newspaper with the placid benignity
of a man who, considering digestion one of the most important functions of nature, values and
encourages it accordingly.

"Sudden," observed Mr. Bargrave, in answer to his nephew's communication. "Something of a seizure,
no doubt. Time is of importance; the young lady's telegram should have come to hand last night.
Be so good as to make a note on the back. Three doctors, does she say? Bless me! They'll never
let him get over it. Most unfortunate just now, on account of the child--of the young lady.
You can take the necessary instructions. I will follow, if required. It's twenty-three minutes'
drive to the station. Better be off at once, Tom."

So Tom took the hint, and was off. While he drives to the station we may as well give an account
of Tom's position in the firm of Bargrave and Co.

Old Bargrave's sister had chosen to marry a certain Mr. Ryfe, of whom nobody knew more than
that he could shoot pigeons, had been concerned in one or two doubtful turf transactions, and
played a good hand at whist. While he lived, though it was a mystery how he lived, he kept
Mrs. Ryfe "very comfortable," to use Bargrave's expression. When he died he left her nothing
but the boy Tom, a precocious urchin, inheriting some of his father's sporting propensities,
with a certain slang smartness of tone and manner, acquired in those circles where horseflesh
is affected as an inducement to speculation.

Mrs. Ryfe did not long survive her husband. She had married a scamp, and was, therefore, very
fond of him: so before he had been dead a year, she was laid in the same grave. Then her brother
took the boy Tom, and put him into his own business, making him begin by sweeping out the office,
and so requiring him to rise grade by grade till he became confidential clerk and head manager
of all matters connected with the firm.

At twenty-six years of age, Tom Ryfe possessed as much experience as his principal, joined
to a cunning and sharpness of intellect peculiarly his own. To take care of number one was
doubtless the head clerk's ruling maxim; but while thus attending to his personal welfare,
he never failed to affect a keen interest in the affairs of numbers two, three, four, and the
rest. Tom Ryfe was a "friendly fellow," people declared; "a deuced friendly fellow, and knew
what he was about, mind you, better than most people."

"Every great man," said the Emperor Nicholas, "has a hook in his nose." In the firmest characters,
no doubt, there is a weakness by which they are to be led or driven; and Tom Ryfe, like other
notabilities, was not without this crevice in his armour, this breach in his embattled wall.
He had shrewdness, knowledge of the world, common sense, and yet the one great object of his
efforts was to be admitted into a class of society far above his own, and to find there an
ideal lady with whom to pass the rest of his days.

"I'll marry a top-sawyer," he used to say, whenever his uncle broached the question of his
settlement in life. "Why, bless ye, it's the same tackle and the same fly that takes the big
fish and the little one. It's no more trouble to make up to a duchess than a dairymaid. I'll
pick a real white-handed one, you see if I don't. A wife that can move, uncle, cool, and calm,
and lofty, like an air balloon; wearing her dresses as if she was made for them, and her jewels
as if she didn't know she'd got them on; looking as much at home in the Queen's drawing-room
as she does in her own. That's my sort, and that's the sort I'll choose! Why, there's scores
of 'em to be seen any afternoon in the Park. Never tell me I can't go in and take my pick.
'Nothing venture, nothing have,' they say. I ain't going to venture much. I don't see occasion
for it, but I'll have what I want, you see if I won't, or I'll know the reason why."

Whereon Bargrave, who considered womankind in general as an unnecessary evil, would reply--

"Time enough, Tom, time enough. I haven't had much experience with the ladies myself, except
as clients, you know. The less I see of 'em, I think, the more I like 'em. Better put it off
a little, Tom. It can be done any day, my boy, when you've an hour to spare. I wouldn't be
in a hurry if I was you. There's a fresh sample ticketed every year; and they're not like port
wine, you must remember, they don't improve with keeping."

Tom Ryfe had plenty of time to revolve his speculations, matrimonial and otherwise, during
his journey to Ecclesfield Manor by one of those mid-day trains so irritating to through-passengers,
which stop at intermediate stations, dropping brown-paper parcels, and taking up old women
with baskets. He reviewed many little affairs of the heart in which he had lately been engaged,
without, however, suffering his affections to involve themselves too deeply for speedy withdrawal.
He reflected with great satisfaction on his own fastidious rejection of several "suitable parties,"
as he expressed it, who did not quite reach his standard of aristocratic perfection, remembering
how Mrs. Blades, the well-to-do widow, with fine eyes and a house in Duke Street, had fairly
landed him but for that unfortunate dinner at which he detected her eating fish with a knife;
how certain grated-looking needle-marks on Miss Glance's left forefinger had checked him just
in time while in the act of kissing her hand; and how, on the very eve of a proposal to beautiful
Constance de Courcy, whose manner, bearing, and appearance, no less than her name, denoted
the extreme of refinement and high birth, he had sustained a shock, galvanic but salutary,
from her artless exclamation, "O my! whatever shall I do? If here isn't pa!"

"No," thought Tom, as he rolled on into the fair expanse of down country that lay for miles
round Ecclesfield, "I haven't found one yet quite up to the pattern I require. When I do I
shall go in and win, that's all. I don't see why my chance shouldn't be as good as another's.
I'm not such a bad-looking chap when I'm dressed and my hair's greased. I can do tricks with
cards like winking. I can ride a bit, shoot a bit--'specially pigeons--dance a bit, and make
love to 'em no end. I've got the gift of the gab, I know, and I stick at nothing. That's what
the girls like, and that's what will pull me through when I find the one I want. Another station,
and not there yet! What a slow train this is!"

It was a slow train, and Tom, arriving at Ecclesfield, saw on the face of the servant who admitted
him that he was too late. In addition to the solemn and mysterious hush that pervades a house
in which the dead lie yet unburied, a feeling of horror, the result of some unlooked-for and
additional calamity, seemed to predominate; and Tom was hardly surprised, however much he might
be shocked, when the old butler gasped, in broken sentences, "Seizure--last night--quite unconscious--all
over this morning. Will you take some refreshment, sir, after your journey?"

Mr. Bruce had been dead a few hours--dead without time to set his house in order, without consciousness
even to wish his child good-bye.

She came down to see Mr. Bargrave's clerk that afternoon, pale, calm, collected, beautiful,
but stern and unbending under the sorrow against which her haughty nature rebelled. In a few
words, referring to a memorandum the while, she gave him her directions for the funeral and
its ceremonies; desired him to ascertain at once the state of her late father's affairs, the
amount of a succession to which she believed herself entitled; begged he would return with
full information that day fortnight; ordered luncheon for him in the dining-room; and so dismissed
him as a bereaved queen might dismiss the humblest of her subjects.

Tom Ryfe, returning to London by the next train, thought he had never felt so small; and yet,
was not this proud, sorrowing, and beautiful young damsel the ideal he had been seeking hitherto
in vain? It is not too much to say that for twenty miles he positively hated her, striving
fiercely against the influence, which yet he could not but acknowledge. In another twenty,
his good opinion of his best friend Mr. Ryfe reasserted itself. He had seen something of the
world, and possessed, moreover, a certain shallow acquaintance with human nature, not of the
highest class, so he argued thus--

"Women like what they are unaccustomed to. The Grand Duchess of Gerolstein makes love to a
private soldier simply because she don't know what a private soldier is. This girl must have
lived amongst a set of starched and stuck-up people who have not two ideas beyond themselves
and their order. She has never so much as seen a smart, business-like, active fellow, ready
to take all trouble off her hands, and make up her mind for her before she can turn round--young,
too, and not so bad-looking, though I dare say she's used to good-looking chaps enough. The
man's game who went in for Miss Bruce would be this: constant attention to her interests, supreme
disregard for her feelings, and never to let her have her own way for a moment. She'd be so
utterly taken aback she'd give in without a fight. Why shouldn't I try my chance? It's a good
spec. It must be a good spec. And yet, hang it! such a high-handed girl as that would suit
me without a shilling. It dashed me a little at first; but I like that scornful way of hers,
I own. What eyes, too! and what hair! I wonder if I'm a fool. No; nothing's impossible; it's
only difficult. What! London already? Ah! there's no place like town."

The familiar gas-lamps, the roll of the cabs, the bustle in the streets, dispelled whatever
shadows of mistrust in his own merits remained from Tom's reflections in the railway carriage;
and long before he reached his uncle's house, he had made up his mind to "go in," as he called
it, for Miss Bruce, morally confident of winning, yet troubled with certain chilling misgivings,
as fearing that this time he had really fallen in love.

Many and long, during the ensuing week, were the consultations between old Bargrave and his
nephew as to the future prospects of the lady in question. Her father had died without a will.
That fact seemed pretty evident, as he had often expressed his intention of preparing such
an instrument, but had hitherto moved no farther in the matter.

"Depend upon it, Tom," said his uncle, that very evening over their port wine, "he wouldn't
go to anybody else. He was never much of a business man, and he couldn't have disentangled
his affairs sufficiently to make 'em clear, except to me. It's a sad pity for many reasons,
but I'm just as sure there's no will as I am that my glass is empty. Help yourself, Tom, and
pass the wine."

"Then she takes as next of kin," said Tom, thinking of Maud's dark eyes, and filling his glass.
"Here's her health!"

"By all means," assented Bargrave. "Her very good health, poor girl! But as to the succession
I have my doubts; grave doubts. There's a trust, Tom. I looked over the deed while you were
down there to-day. It is so worded that a male heir might advance a prior claim. There is a
male heir, a parson in Dorsetshire, not a likely man to give in without a fight. We'll look
at it again to-morrow. If it reads as I think, I wouldn't give a pinch of snuff for the young
lady's chance."

Tom's face fell. "Can't we fight it, uncle?" said he, stoutly, applying himself once more to
the port; but Bargrave had drawn his silk handkerchief over his face, and was already fast asleep.

So uncle and nephew went into the trust-deed, morning after morning, arriving in its perusal
at a conclusion adverse to Miss Brace's interest; but then, as the younger man observed, "the
beauty of our English law is, that you can always fight a thing even if you haven't a leg to
stand on."

It was almost time for Tom Ryfe's return journey to Ecclesfield, and a coat ordered for the
express purpose of captivating Miss Bruce had actually come home, when the post brought him
a little note from that lady, which afforded him, as such notes often do, an absurd and overweening
joy. It was bordered with the deepest black, and ran as follows--

DEAR SIR,

('Dear sir,' thought Tom, 'ah! that sounds much sweeter than plain sir')--I venture to trouble
you with a commission in the nature of business. A packet, containing some diamond ornaments
belonging to me, will be left by the jeweller at Mr. Bargrave's office to-morrow. Will you
kindly bring it down with you to Ecclesfield?

Yours, very obediently,

"Maud Bruce."

Tom kissed the signature. He was very far gone already, and took care to be at the office in
time to receive the diamonds. That boy was out of the way, of course! So Tom summoned the grimy
Dorothea to his presence.

"I shall be busy for an hour," said he; "don't admit anybody unless he comes by appointment,
except it's a man with a packet of jewelry. Take it in yourself, and bring it here at once.
I've got to carry it down with me to-night by the train. Do you understand?"

"Is it a long journey as you're a-goin', sir?" asked Dorothea. "I should like to clean up a
bit while you was away."

"Only to Bragford," answered Tom; "but I might not be back for a day or two. Mind about the
parcel, though," he added, in the exuberance of his spirits. "The thing's valuable. It's for
a young lady. It's jewels, Dorothea. It's diamonds."

"Lor!" said Dorothea, going back to her scrubbing forthwith.

The jeweller being dilatory, Tom had finished his letters before that artificer arrived, thus
saving Dorothea all responsibility in the valuable packet confided to his charge, for Mr. Ryfe
received it himself in the outer office, whither he had resorted in a fidget to compare a time-table
with a railway-map of England. He fretted to set off at once. He had finished his business;
he had nothing to do now but eat an early dinner at his uncle's, and so start by the afternoon
train on the path of love, triumph, and success, leaving the boy, coerced by ghastly threats,
to take charge of the office in his absence.

We have all seen a bird moulting, draggled, dirty, woebegone, not to be recognised for the
same bird, sleek and glossy in its holiday-suit of feathers, pruning its wing for a flight
across the summer sky. Even so different was the Dorothea of the unkempt hair, the soapy arms,
the dingy apron, and the grimy face, from a gaudy damsel who emerged in the afternoon sun out
of Mr. Bargrave's chambers, bright with all the colours of the rainbow, and scrupulously dressed,
according to the extreme style of the last prevailing fashion but two.

She was a good-looking woman enough now that she had "cleaned herself," as she expressed it,
but for a certain roughness of hair, coarseness of skin, and general redundancy of outline,
despite of which drawbacks, however, she attracted many admiring glances from cab-drivers,
omnibus-conductors, a precocious shoeblack, and the policeman on duty, as she tripped into
Holborn and mingled with the living stream that flows unceasingly down that artery of London.

Dorothea seemed to know where she was going well enough, and yet the coarse red cheek turned
pale while she approached her goal, though it was but a flashy, dirty-looking gin-shop, standing
at a corner where two streets met. Her colour rose though, higher than before, when a pot-boy,
with a shock of red hair, and his shirt-sleeves rolled up to his shoulders, thus accosted her--

"You're just in time, miss; he'd 'a been off in a minit, but old Batters, he come in just now,
and your young man stopped to take his share of another half-quartern."

CHAPTER IV

GENTLEMAN JIM

There is no reason, because a woman is coarse, hard-working, low-born, and badly dressed, she
should be without that inconvenient feminine appendage--a heart. Dorothea trembled and turned
pale when the door of the Holborn gin-shop swung open and the man she most wished to see in
all the world stood at her side.

He would have been a good-looking fellow enough in any rank of life, but to Dorothea, and others
of her class, his clear, well-cut features and jetty ringlets rendered him an absolute Adonis,
despite the air of half-drunken bravado and assumed recklessness which marred a naturally resolute
expression of countenance. He wore a fur cap, a velveteen jacket, and a bright-red neckcloth,
secured by an enormous ring; nor was this remarkable costume out of character with the perfume
he exhaled, denoting he had consumed at least his share of that other half-quartern which postponed
his departure.

Dorothea slipped her arm in his, and clung to him with the fond tenacity of a woman who loves
heart and soul, poor thing, to her cost.

His manner was an admirable combination of low-class gallantry with pitying condescension.

"Why, Doll," said he, "what's up now? You don't look hearty, my lass. Step in and take a dram;
it'll do you good."

She glanced admiringly in the comely dissipated face.

"Ah! they may well call you Gentleman Jim," she answered; "you're fit to be a lord of the land,
you are; and so you would, if I was queen. But I doesn't want you to treat me, Jim, leastways
not this turn; I wants you to come for a walk, dear. I've a bit of news for you. It's business,
Jim," she added, somewhat ruefully, "or I wouldn't go for to ask."

His face, which had fallen a little, assuming that wearied expression a woman ought most to
dread on the face she cares for, brightened considerably.

"Come on, lass!" he exclaimed, "business first, and pleasure arter. Speak up, and let's hear
all about it."

They had turned from the main thoroughfare into a dark and quiet by-street. She crossed her
work-worn hands on his arm, and proceeded nervously--

"You say I never put you on a job, Jim. Well, I've a job to put you on now. I don't half like
it, dear. It's for your sake I don't half like it. Promise me as you'll be careful, very careful,
this turn."

"Bother!" answered Jim. "Stow that, lass, and let's have it out."

Thus elegantly adjured, Doll, as he called her, obeyed without delay, though her voice faltered
and her colour faded more than once while she went on.

"You told me as you wouldn't love me without I kep' my ears open, and my eyes too. Well, Jim,
I've watched and watched old master and young, like a cat watches a mouse-hole, till I've been
that sick and tired I could have set down and cried. Now, to-day I wanted to see you so bad,
at any rate, and, thinks I, here's a bit of news as my Jim will like to learn. Look now: young
master, he's a-goin' to a place they call Bragford by the five-o'clock train. O, I mind the
name well enough. You know, Jim, you always bid me take notice of names. Well, it's Bragford.
Bragford, says he, quite plain, an' as loud as I'm a-speakin' now."

"Forty-five miles from London," answered Jim, "and not ten minutes' walk from the branch line.
Well?"

"He's a-takin' summut down for a young lady," continued Doll. "It is but a small package, what
you might put in your coat-pocket, or your hat. O, Jim! Jim! if you should chance on a stroke
of luck this turn, won't you give the trade up for good and all? If you and me had but a roof
to cover us, I wouldn't ask better than only liberty to work for you till I dropped."

Tears stood in her eyes, and for a moment the face that looked up into the ruffian's was almost
beautiful in its expression of entire devotion and trust.

He had taken a doubtful cigar from his coat-pocket, and was smoking thoughtfully.

"Small," said he, "then it ought, by rights, to be valuable. Did ye get a feel of it, Doll,
or was it only a smell?"

"He took it hisself out of the jeweller's hands," answered Doll; "but I hadn't no call to be
curious, for he told me what it was free enough. There ain't no smell about diamonds, Jim."

"Nor you can't swear to them neither," replied Jim exultingly. "Diamonds, Doll! you're sure
he said diamonds? Come, you have done it, my lass. Give us a kiss, Doll, and let's turn in
here at the Sunflower, and drink good luck to the job."

The woman acceded to both proposals readily enough, but followed her companion into the ill-favoured
little tavern with a weary step and a heavy heart. Some unerring instinct told her, no doubt,
that she was giving all and taking nothing, offering gold for silver, truth for falsehood,
love and devotion for a mere liking, rapidly waning to indifference and contempt.

Tom Ryfe, all anxiety to find himself once more in the same county with Miss Bruce, was in
good time, we may be sure, for the train that should carry him down to Ecclesfield. Bustling
through the station to take his ticket, he was closely followed by a well-dressed person in
a pair of blue spectacles, travelling apparently without luggage or impediments of any description.
This individual seemed also bound for Bragford, and showed some little eagerness to travel
in the same carriage with Tom, who attributed the compliment to his lately-constructed coat
and general appearance as a swell of the first water. "He don't often get such a chance," thought
Mr. Ryfe, accepting with extreme graciousness the other's civilities as to open windows and
change of seats. He even went so far as to take a proffered cigar from the case of his fellow-traveller,
which he would have smoked forth-with, but for the peremptory objections of a crusty old gentleman,
who arrived at the last moment, encumbered with such a paraphernalia of railway-rugs, travelling-bags,
books, newspapers and magazines as denoted the through-passenger, not to be got rid of at any
intermediate station. The old gentleman glared defiance, but made himself comfortable nevertheless;
and the presence of this common enemy was a bond of union to render the two chance acquaintances
more than ordinarily cordial and communicative.

Smoking being prohibited, they had not proceeded many miles into the country ere the gentleman
in spectacles produced a box of lozenges from his pocket, and, selecting one for his own consumption,
offered another, with much suavity, to Tom Ryfe, surveying meanwhile, with inquisitive glances,
the bulge in that gentleman's breast-pocket, where he carried his valuable package; but here
again both were startled, not to say irritated, by the dictatorial interference of the last
arrival.

"Excuse me, gentlemen," said this irrepressible old man, "I cannot permit it. Damn me, sir!"
turning full round upon Tom Ryfe, "I won't permit it! I can detect the smell of chloroform
in those lozenges. Smell, sir, I've the smell of a bloodhound. I could hunt a scamp all over
England by nose--by nose, I tell you, sir, and worry him to death when I ran into him; and
I would too. Now, sir, if you choose to be chloroformed, I don't. I'm not anxious to be taken
out of this compartment as stupid as an owl, and as cold as a cabbage, with a pain in my eyes,
a singing in my ears, and a scoundrel's hands in my waistcoat-pockets. Excuse me, sir, I'm
warm--I wouldn't give much for a chap that wasn't--and I speak my mind!"

It seemed a bad speculation to quarrel with him, this big, burly, resolute, and disagreeable
old man. Tom Ryfe, for once, was at a nonplus. He murmured a few vague sentences of dissent,
while the passenger in spectacles, consigning his lozenges to an inner pocket, buried himself
in the broad sheet of the Times. But it was his turn now, and not even thus could he escape.
Staring grimly at him, over the top of the paper, his tormentor fired a point-blank question,
from which there was no refuge.

"Pray, sir," said he, "are you a chemist?"

The gentleman in spectacles signified, by a shake of the head, that was not his profession.

"Then, sir," continued the other, "do you know anything about chemistry--volatile essences,
noxious drugs, subtle poisons? I do." (Here Tom Ryfe observed his ally turn pale.) "Permit
me to remark, sir, that if you don't, you are like a school-boy carrying a pocketful of squibs
and crackers on the fifth of November, unconscious that a single spark may blow him into the
Christmas holidays before he can say 'knife!' Let me see those lozenges, sir--let me have them
in my hand; I'll tell you in five seconds what they're made of, and how, and where, and why."

Here the man in spectacles, with considerable presence of mind, threw the whole of his lozenges
out of window, under cover of the Times.

"You frighten me, sir," said he; "I wouldn't keep such dangerous articles about me on any consideration."

The old gentleman executed an elaborate wink, denoting extreme satisfaction, at Tom Ryfe. "If
you were going through," said he, "I could tell you some funny stories. Queer tricks upon travellers
I've seen in my time. Why I was the first person to find out the sinking-floor dodge in West
Street. My evidence transported three people for life, and a fourth for fifteen years. I once
saw a man pulled down by the heels through a grating in one of the busiest streets in the City,
and if I hadn't seen him he would never have come up alive. Why the police apply to me for
advice many a time when people are missing. 'Don't distress yourselves,' says I, 'they'll turn
up, never fear.' And they do turn up, sir, in nineteen cases out of twenty. In the twentieth,
when there's foul play, we generally know something about it within eight-and-forty hours.
Bragford? Is it? You get out here, do you? Good-morning, gentlemen; I hope you've enjoyed your
jaunt."

Then as Tom, collecting great-coats, newspapers, etc., followed his new acquaintance out of
the carriage, this strange old gentleman detained him for an instant by the arm.

"Friend of yours, sir?" said he, pointing to the man in spectacles on the platform. "Never
saw him before? I thought so. Sharper, sir, I'll take my oath of it, or something worse. I
know the sort; I've exposed hundreds of them. Take my advice, sir, and never see him again."

With that the train glided on, leaving Mr. Ryfe and the gentleman in spectacles staring at
each other over a basket of fish and a portmanteau.

"Mad!" observed the latter, with an uneasy attempt at a laugh, and a readjustment of his glasses.

"Mad, no doubt," answered Tom, but followed the lunatic's counsel, nevertheless, so far as
to refrain from offering the other a lift in the well-appointed brougham, with its burly coachman,
waiting to convey him to Ecclesfield Manor, though his late fellow-traveller was proceeding
in that direction on foot.

Tom had determined to sleep at the Railway Hotel, Bragford, ere he returned to London next
day. This arrangement he considered more respectful than an intrusion on the hospitality of
Ecclesfield, should it be offered him. Perhaps so scrupulous a regard for the proprieties mollified
Miss Bruce in his favour, and called forth an invitation to tea in the drawing-room when he
had concluded the solitary dinner prepared for him after his journey.

Tom Ryfe was always a careful dresser. Up to forty most men are. It is only when we have nobody
to please that we become negligent of pleasing. I believe, though, that never in his life did
he tie his neckcloth or brush his whiskers with more care than on the present occasion in a
large and dreary chamber known to the household as one of the "best bedrooms" of Ecclesfield Manor.

Tom looked about him, with a proud consciousness that at last his foot was on the ladder he
had wanted all his life to climb. Here he stood, actually dressing for dinner, a welcome guest
in the house of an old-established county family, on terms of confidence, if not intimacy,
with its proud and beautiful female representative, in whose cause he was about to do battle
with all the force of his intellect, and (Tom began to think she could make him fool enough
for anything) all the resources of his purse. The old family pictures--sad daubs, or they would
never have been consigned to the bedrooms--simpered down on him with encouraging benignity.
Prim women, wearing enormously long waists, and their heads a good deal on one side, pointed
their fans at him, while he washed his hands, with a coquetry irresistible, had their colours
only stood, combining entreaty and command; while a jolly old boy in flowing wig, steel breast-plate,
and the most convivial of noses, smiled in his face, as who should say, "Audaces Fortuna juvat!--Go
in, my hearty, and win if you can!"

What was there in these surroundings, in the orderly decorum of the well-regulated mansion,
in the chiming of the stable clock, nay, in the reflection of his own person shown by that
full-length glass, to take the starch, as it were, out of Tom's self-confidence, turning his
moral courage limp and helpless for the nonce, bringing insensibly to his mind the familiar
refrain of "Not for Joseph"? What was there that bade him man himself against this discouragement,
as true bravery mans itself against the sensation of fear? and why should he be less worthy
of approbation than other spirits who venture on "enterprises of great pith and moment" with
beating hearts indeed, but with unflinching courage and a dogged determination to succeed?

Had Tom been a young knight arming for a tournament, in which the good fortune of his lance
was to win him a king's daughter for his bride, he might have claimed to be an admirable and
interesting hero. Was he, indeed, a less respectable adventurer, that for steel he had to substitute
French polish, for surcoat and corselet, broadcloth and cambric--that the battle he was to
wage must be fought out by tenacity of purpose and ingenuity of brain, rather than strength
of arm and downright hardness of skull?

He shook a little too much scent on his handkerchief as he finished dressing, and walked down-stairs
in a state of greater agitation than he would have liked to admit.

Dinner was soon done. Eaten in solitude with grave servants watching every mouthful, he was
glad to get it over. In a glass of brown sherry he drank Miss Brace's health, and thus primed,
followed the butler to the drawing-room, where that lady sat working by the light of a single lamp.

The obscurity was in his favour. Tom made his bow and accepted the chair offered him, less
awkwardly than was to be expected from the situation.

Maud looked very beautiful with the light falling on her sculptured chin, her fair neck, and
white hands, set off by the deep shadows of the mourning dress she wore.

I believe he was going to begin by saying "it had been a fine day," but she stopped him in
her clear, cold voice, with its patrician accent, so difficult to define, yet so impossible
to mistake.

"I have to thank you, Mr. Ryfe, for taking such care of my jewels. I hope the man left them
at your office as he promised, and that you had no farther trouble about them."

He wanted to say that "no errand of hers could be a trouble to him," but the words stuck in
his throat, or she would hardly have proceeded so graciously.

"We must go into a few matters of business this evening, if you have got the papers you mentioned.
I leave here to-morrow, and there is little time to spare."

He produced a neatly-folded packet, docketed and carefully tied with tape. The sight of it
roused his energies, as the shaking of a guidon rouses an old trooper. Despite of the enchantress
and all her glamour, Tom was himself again.

"Business is my trade, Miss Bruce," said he briskly. "I must ask your earnest attention for
a quarter of an hour, while I explain our position as regards the estate. At present it appears
beset with difficulties. That's my look-out. Before we begin," added Tom, with a diffident
faltering of voice, partly natural, partly assumed, "forgive my asking your future address.
It is indispensable that we should frequently communicate, and--and--I cannot help hoping and
expressing my hope for your happiness in the home you have chosen."

Maud's smile was very taking. She smiled with her eyes, those dark, pleasing eyes that would
have made a fool of a wiser man than Tom.

"I am going to Aunt Agatha's," she said. "I am to live with her for good. I have no home of
my own now."

The words were simple enough--spoken, too, without sadness or bitterness as a mere abstract
matter of fact, but they aroused all the pen-and-ink chivalry in Tom's nature, and he vowed
in his heart to lay goose-quill in rest on her behalf, with the devotion of a Montmorency or
a Bayard.

"Miss Bruce," said he resolutely, "the battle is not yet lost. In our last, of the 15th, we
advised you that the other side had already taken steps to oppose our claims. My uncle has
great experience, and I will not conceal from you that my uncle is less sanguine than myself;
but I begin to see my way, and if there is a possibility of winning, by hook or by crook, depend
upon it, Miss Bruce, win we will, for our own sakes, and--and--for yours!"

The last two words were spoken in a whisper, being indeed a spontaneous ebullition, but she
heard them nevertheless. In her deep sorrow, in her friendless, homeless position there was
something soothing and consolatory in the sympathy of this young man, lawyer's clerk though
he were, as she insisted with unnecessary repetition to herself. He showed at his best, too,
while explaining the legal complications involved in the whole business, and the steps by which
he hoped eventually to succeed. Maud was too thoroughly a woman not to admire power, and Tom's
intellect possessed obviously no small share of that quality, when directed on such matters
as the present. In half-an-hour he had furnished her with a lucid statement of the whole case,
and in half-an-hour he had inspired her with respect for his opinion, admiration of his sagacity,
and confidence in his strength--not a bad thirty minutes' work. At its conclusion, she shook
hands with him cordially when she wished him good-night. Tom was no fool, and knew when to
venture as when to hold back. He bowed reverentially over the white hand, muttering only--"God
bless you, Miss Bruce! If you think of anything else, at a moment's notice I will come from
the end of the world to serve you,"--and so hurried away before she could reply.

CHAPTER V

THE CRACKSMAN'S CHECKMATE

Puckers, or Miss Puckers, as she liked to be called below-stairs, was a little puzzled by her
young mistress's abstraction, while she brushed out Maud's wealth of raven hair for the night.
Stealing glances at herself in the glass opposite, she could not help observing the expression
on Miss Bruce's face. The light was in it once more that had been so quenched by her father's
death. Puckers, who, in the housekeeper's room, had discussed the affairs of the family almost
hourly ever since that sorrowful event, considered that it must have left his daughter in the
possession of untold wealth, and that "the young man from town," as she designated Tom Ryfe,
was sent down expressly to afford the heiress an estimate of her possessions. A true lady's-maid,
she determined to hazard the inquiry.

"I suppose, miss," said she, brushing viciously, "we sha'n't be going to your aunt's now quite
so soon. I'm sure I've been that hurried and put about, I don't scarce know which way to turn."

"Why?" asked Maud quietly. "Not so hard, please."

"Well, miss, a lady is not like a servant, you know; she can do as she chooses, of course.
But if I was you, miss, I'd remain on the spot. There's the new furniture to get; there's the
linen to see to; there's the bailiff given warning; and that there young man from town, I suppose
he wouldn't come if we could do without him, charging goodness knows what, as if his very words
was gold. But I give you joy, miss, of your fortune, I do. I was a-sayin', only last night,
was it? to Mrs. Plummer, says I, 'Whatever my young lady will do,' says I, 'in a house where
she isn't mistress, she that's been used to rule in her poor ma's time, and her pa's, ah! ever
since she cut her teeth almost;' and Mrs. Plummer says, says she----"

"That'll do, Puckers," observed Miss Bruce, "I shall not want you any more. Good-night."

She took as little notice of her handmaid's volubility as if the latter had been a grey parrot,
and dismissed her with a certain cold, imperial manner that none of the household ever dreamt
it possible to dispute or disobey; but after Puckers, with a quantity of white draperies over
her arm, had departed to return no more, she sat down at the dressing-table, and began to think
with all her might.

Her maid was a fool, no doubt: all maids were; but the shaft of folly, shot at random, went
home to the quick. "A house where she wasn't mistress!" Had she ever considered the future
shelter offered her by Aunt Agatha in that light? Here at the Manor, for as long as she could
remember, had she not reigned supreme? All the little arrangements of dinner-parties, picnics,
archery-meetings, and such gatherings as make up country society, had fallen into her hands.
Mamma didn't care--mamma never cared how anything was settled so long as papa was pleased;
and papa thought Maud could not possibly do wrong. So by degrees--and this at an age when young
ladies are ordinarily in the schoolroom--Miss Bruce had grown, on all social questions, to
be the virtual head of the family. It was a position of which, till the time came to abdicate,
she had not sufficiently appreciated the value. It seemed so natural to order carriages and
horses at her own hours, to return visits, to receive guests, to do the honours of a comfortable
country-house with an adequate establishment, and now, could she bear to live with Aunt Agatha,
on sufferance?--Aunt Agatha, whom she had never liked, and whom she only refrained from snubbing
and setting down, because they so seldom met, but when the elder lady had been invited by the
younger as a guest! "To be dependent," thought Maud, mentally addressing the beautiful face
in the glass, "How should you like that? you with your haughty head, and your scornful eyes,
and your hard, unbending heart? I know you! Nobody knows you but me! And I know how bad you
are--how capricious, and how cruel! When you want anything, do you ever spare anybody to get
it? Did you ever love any one on earth as well as your own way? Even mamma? O, mamma, dear,
dear mamma, if you had lived I might have got better--I was better, I know I was better while
I was with you. But now--now I must be myself. I can't help it. After all, it is not my fault.
What is it I most covet and desire in the world? It is power. Rank, wealth, luxury--these are
all very well as accessories of life; but how should I loathe and hate them if they were conditional
on my thinking as other people thought, or doing what I was told! I ought to have been a man.
Women are such weak, vapid, idiotic characters, in general--at least, all I meet down here.
Engrossed with their children, their parishes, their miserable household cares and perplexities.
While in London, I believe there are women who actually lead a party and turn out a minister.
But they are beautiful, of course. Well--and me? I don't think I am so much amiss. With my
looks and the position I ought to have, surely I might hold my own with the best of them. But
what good will my looks do me if I am to be a dependent on Aunt Agatha? No. Without the estate
I am nothing. With it I might be anything. This lawyer thinks he can win it for me. I wonder
if he knows. How clever he seems! and how thoughtful! Nothing escapes him, and nothing seems
to take him by surprise. And yet what a fool I could make of him if I chose. I saw it before
he had been five minutes in the room. I wonder now what he thinks of me!--whether he has the
presumption to suppose I could ever allow him to betray what he cared for me. I believe I should
rather admire his impudence! It is pleasant to be cared for, even by an inferior; and, after
all, this Mr. Ryfe is not without his good points. He has plenty of talent and energy, and
I should think audacity. By his own account he sticks at nothing, when he means winning, and
he certainly means to win for me if he can. I never saw anybody so eager, so much in earnest.
Perhaps he thinks that if he could come to me and say, 'There, Miss Bruce, I have saved your
birthright for you, and I ask nothing but one kind word in return,' I might be disposed to
give it, and something more. Well, I don't know. Perhaps it would be as good a way as any other
of getting into favour. One thing is certain. The inheritance I must preserve at every sacrifice.
Dear me, how late it is! I ought to have been in bed hours ago. Puckers, is that you?"

Puckers did not answer, and a faint rustle in the adjoining room, which had called forth Miss
Bruce's question, ceased the instant she spoke aloud.

This young lady was not nervous; far from it; yet her watch seemed to tick with extraordinary
vigour, and her heart to beat harder than common while she listened.

The door of communication between the two rooms was closed. Another door in the smaller apartment
opened to the passage, but this, she remembered, was habitually locked on the inside. It couldn't
be Puckers, therefore, who thus disturbed her mistress's reflections, unless that handmaiden
had come down the chimney, or in at the window.

In this smaller room Miss Bruce kept her riding-habits, her ball-dresses, her draperies of
different fabric, her transparencies of all kinds, and her jewels.

The house was very silent--so silent, that in the distant corridors were distinctly audible
those faint and ghostly footfalls, which traverse all large houses after midnight. There were
candles burning on Maud's toilet-table, but they served rather to show how dismal were the
shadowy corners of the large, lofty bedroom, than to afford light and confidence to its inmate.

She listened intently. Yes; she was sure she heard somebody in the next room--a step that moved
stealthily about; a noise as of woodwork skilfully and cautiously forced open.

One moment she felt frightened. Then her courage came back the higher for its interruption.
She could have escaped from her own room into the passage, easily enough, and so alarmed the
house; but when she reflected that its fighting garrison consisted only of an infirm old butler--for
the footman was absent on leave--there seemed little to be gained by such a proceeding, if
violence or robbery were really intended. Besides, she rather scorned the idea of summoning
assistance till she had ascertained the amount of danger.

So she blew her candle out, crept to the door of the little room, and laid her hand noiselessly
on its lock.

Softly as she turned it, gently as she pushed the door back on its hinges inch by inch, she
did not succeed in entering unobserved. The light of a shaded lantern flashed over her the
instant she crossed the threshold, dazzling her eyes indeed, yet not so completely but that
she made out the figure of a man standing over her shattered jewel-box, of which he seemed
to have been rifling the contents. Quick as thought, she said to herself, "Come, there is only
one! If I can frighten him more than he frightens me, the game is mine."

The man swore certain ghastly oaths in a whisper, and Maud was aware of the muzzle of a pistol
covering her above the dark lantern.

She wondered why she wasn't frightened, not the least frightened--only rather angry and intensely
determined to save the jewels, and have it out.

She could distinguish a dark figure behind the spot of intense light radiating round her own
person, and perceived, besides, almost without looking, that an entrance had been made by the
window, which stood wide open to disclose the topmost rounds of a garden-ladder, borrowed doubtless
from the tool-house, propped against its sill.

What the housebreaker saw was a vision of dazzling beauty in a flood of light. A pale, queenly
woman, with haughty, delicate face, and loops of jet-black hair, falling over robes of white,
erect and dauntless, fronting his levelled weapon without the slightest sign of fear.

He had never set eyes on such a sight as this; no, neither in circus nor music-hall, nor gallery
of metropolitan theatre at Christmas. For a moment he lost his head--for a moment he hesitated.

In that moment Miss Bruce showed herself equal to the occasion.

Quick as thought, she made one step to the window, pushed the ladder outwards with all her
force, and shut down the sash. As it closed, the ladder, poising for an instant, fell with
a crash on the gravel below.

"Now," she said quietly, "you are trapped and taken. Better make no resistance, for the gamekeepers
watching below are a rough sort of people, and I do not wish to see you ill-treated."

The man was aghast! What could it all mean? Was he awake or dreaming? She must be well backed,
he said to himself, to assume such a position as this; and she looked so beautiful--so beautiful!

The latter consideration was not without its effect on him, even in the exercise of his profession.
"Gentleman Jim," as his mates affirmed in their nervous English, became a fool of the deepest
crimson dye whenever a woman was concerned, and this woman was in his eyes as an angel of light.

Nevertheless, instinctively rather than of intention, he muttered hoarsely--

"Drop it, miss, I warn you. One word out loud and I'll shoot, as sure as you stand there."

"Shoot away!" she answered with perfect composure; "you will save me the trouble of giving
an alarm. They expect it, and are waiting for it every moment below-stairs. Light those candles,
and let us see what damage you have done before you return the plunder."

A pair of wax-candles stood on the chimney-piece, and he obeyed mechanically, wondering at
himself the while. His cunning, however, had not entirely deserted him, and he left his pistol
lying on the table, ready to snatch it away if she tried to take possession. It was thus he
gauged her confidence, and seeing she scarcely noticed the weapon, argued that powerful assistance
must be near at hand to render this beautiful young lady so arbitrary and so unconcerned. His
admiration burst out in spite of his discomfiture and critical position.

"Well, you are a cool one!" he exclaimed, in accents of mingled vexation and approval. "A cool
one and a stunner, I'm blessed if you ain't! No offence, but I never see your likes yet, not
since I was born. Come, miss, let's cry quits. You pass me out o' this on the quiet. I dessay
as I can make shift to get down without the ladder; an' I'll leave all these here gimcracks
just as I found 'em. Now I've seen ye once, I'm blessed if I'd take so much as an ear-drop,
unless it was in the way of a keepsake. Pass me out, miss, and I'll promise--no, I'm blowed
if I think as I can promise--never to come here no more."

Undisguised admiration--the admiration always acceptable to a woman when accompanied with respect--shone
in Gentleman Jim's dark eyes. He seemed under a spell, and while he acknowledged its strength,
had no power, nay, had no wish, to resist its influence. When on such jobs as these it was
his habit to observe an unusual sobriety. He was glad now to think of his adherence to that
rule. Had he been drunk, he might, peradventure, have insulted this divinity. What had come
over him? He felt almost pleased to know he was in her power, and yet she treated him like
the dirt beneath her feet.

"No insolence, sir," she said in a commanding voice. "Let me see, first of all, that every
one of my trinkets is in its place. There, that bracelet would have brought you money, those
diamonds would have been valuable if you could have got them clear off. You must have learned
your trade very badly to suppose that with such things in the house we keep no guard. Come,
I am willing to believe that distress brought you to this. Listen. You are in my power, and
I will show you mercy. If I give you five pounds now, on the spot, and let you go, will you
promise to try and get your bread as an honest man?"

The tears came in his eyes. This woman, then, that looked so like an angel, was angel all through.
Yet, touched as he felt in his better nature, the proletary instinct bade him try once more
if her effort to get rid of him originated in pity or fear, and he muttered, "Guineas! make
it guineas, miss, and I'll say 'done.'"

"Not a shilling more, not a farthing," she answered, moving her hand as if to put it on the
bell-pull. "It cannot matter to me," she added, in a tone of the most complete indifference,
"but while I am about it I think I would rather be the making of an honest man than the destruction
of a rogue."

Her acting was perfect. She seemed so cold, so impassive, so completely mistress of the position,
and all the time her heart was beating as the gambler's beats, albeit in winning vein, ere
he lifts the box from off the imprisoned dice--as the lion-tamer's beats when he spurns in
its very den the monster that could crush him with a movement, and that yet he holds in check
by an imaginary force, irresistible only so long as it is unresisted.

Such situations have a horrible fascination of their own. I have even known them prolonged
to gratify a morbid thirst for excitement; but I think Miss Bruce was chiefly anxious to be
released from her precarious position, and to get rid of her visitor as soon as she could.
Even her resolute nerves were beginning to give way, and she knew her own powers well enough
to mistrust a protracted trial of endurance. Feminine fortitude is so apt to break down all
at once, and Miss Bruce, though a courageous specimen of her sex, was but a woman who had wrought
herself up for a gallant effort, after all.

She was quite unprepared though for its results. Gentleman Jim snatched up his pistol, stowed
it away in his breast-pocket, as if heartily ashamed of it, brought out from that receptacle
a pearl necklace and a pair of coral ear-rings, dashed them down on the table with an imprecation,
and looking ridiculously sheepish, thus delivered himself--

"Five pounds, miss! Five devils! If ever I went for to ask five shillings of you, or five fardens,
may the hands rot off at my wrists and the teeth drop out of my head. Strike me blind, now,
this moment, in this here room, if I'd take so much as a pin's head that you valued, not if
my life depended on it and there wasn't no other way of getting a morsel of bread! Look ye
here, miss. No offence; I'm but a rough-and-ready chap, and you're a lady. I never come a-nigh
one afore. Now I know what they mean when they talk of a real lady, and I see what it is puts
such a spirit into them swells as lives with the likes of you. But a rough chap needn't be
a blind chap. I come in here for to clean out your jewel-box. I tell ye fair, I don't think
as I meant to have ill-treated you, and now I know as I couldn't have done it, but I wanted
them gimcracks just the same. If so be as you'd like to see me shopped and lagged, you take
and ring that there bell, and look if I go for to move a foot from this blessed spot. There!
If so be as you bid me walk out free from that there winder, take and count these here now
at once, and see there's not one missing and not one broke. Say the word, miss--which is it to be?"

The reaction was coming on fast. Maud dared not trust her voice, but she pointed to the window
with a gesture in which she preserved an admirable imitation of confidence and command. Gentleman
Jim threw up the sash, but paused ere he ventured his plunge into the darkness outside.

"Look ye 'ere, miss," he muttered in a hoarse whisper, with one leg over the ledge, "if ever
you wants a chap to do you a turn, don't ye forget there's one inside this waistcoat as will
take a leap in a halter any day to please ye. You drop a line to 'Gentleman Jim,' at the Sunflower,
High Holborn. O! I can read, bless ye, and write and cipher too. What I says I sticks to. No
offence, miss. I wonder will I ever see you again?"

He darted back for an instant, much to Maud's dismay, snatched a knot of ribbon which had fallen
from her dress on the carpet, and was gone.

She heard his leap on the gravel below, and his cautious footsteps receding towards the park.
Then she passed her hands over her face, and looked about her as one who wakes from a dream.

"It was an escape, I suppose," she said, "and I ought to have been horribly frightened; yet
I never seemed to lose the upper hand with him for a moment. How odd that even a man like that
should be such a fool. No wiser and no cooler than Mr. Ryfe. What is it, I wonder; what is
it, and how long will it last?"

CHAPTER VI

A REVERSIONARY INTEREST

Although Dorothea could assume on occasions so bright an exterior as I have in a previous chapter
endeavoured to describe, her normal state was undoubtedly that which is best conveyed by the
epithet "grimy." Old Mr. Bargrave, walking serenely into his office at eleven, and meeting
this handmaiden on the stairs, used to wonder how so much dirt could accumulate on the human
countenance, when irrigated, as Dorothea's red eyelids too surely testified, by daily tears.
Yes, she had gone about her work of late with a heavy heart and a moody brow. Hers was at best
a dull dreary life, but in it there grew a noxious weed which she was pleased to cherish for
a flower. Well, it was withering every day before her eyes, and all the tears she could shed
were not enough to keep it alive. Ah! when the ship is going down under our very feet I don't
think it much matters what may be our rank and rating on board. The cook's mate in the galley
is no less dismayed than the admiral in command. Dorothea's light, so to speak, was only a
tallow-candle, yet to put it out was to leave the poor woman very desolate in the dark. So
Mr. Bargrave ventured one morning to ask if she felt quite well; but the snappish manner in
which his inquiries were met, as though they masked a load of hidden sarcasm and insult, caused
the old gentleman to scuffle into his office with unusual activity, much disturbed and humiliated,
while resolved never so to commit himself again.

Into that office we must take the liberty of following him, tenanted as it is only by himself
and Tom Ryfe.

The latter, extremely well dressed, wears a posy of spring flowers at his buttonhole, and betrays
in his whole bearing that he is under some extraneous influence of an unbusinesslike nature.
Bargrave subsides into his leather chair with a grunt, shuffles his papers, dips a pen in the
inkstand, and looks over his spectacles at his nephew.

"Waste of time, waste of capital, Tom," says he, with some irritation. "Mind, I washed my hands
of it from the first. You've been at work now for some months; that's your look-out and it's
been kept apart and separate from the general business--that's mine."

"I've got Tangle's opinion here," answered Tom; "I won't ask you to look at it, uncle. He's
dead against us. Just what you said six months back. There's no getting over that trust-deed,
nor through it, nor round it, nor any way to the other side of it. I've done my d----dest,
and we're not a bit better off than when we began."

He spoke in a cheerful, almost an exulting tone, quite unlike a man worsted in a hard and protracted
struggle.

"I'm sorry for the young lady," observed Bargrave; "but I never expected anything else. It's
a fine estate, and it must go to the male heir. She has but a small settlement, Tom, very inadequate
to her position, as I told poor Mr. Bruce many a time. He used to say everything would be set
right by his will, and now one of these girls is left penniless, and the other with a pittance,
a mere pittance, brought up, as I make no doubt she was, to believe herself an heiress."

"One of them!" exclaimed Tom. "What do you mean?"

"Why, that poor thing who was born a few weeks too soon," answered Bargrave. "She's totally
unprovided for. With regard to Miss Bruce, there is a settlement. Two hundred a year, Tom,
for life; nothing more. I told you so when you undertook the job. And now who's to pay your costs?"

"Not you, uncle," answered Tom flippantly, "so don't distress yourself on that score."

"I don't, indeed," observed Bargrave, with emphasis.

"You've had your own time to work this, on the understanding, as you know, that it was to be
worked at your own risk. I haven't interfered; it was no affair of mine. But your costs will
be heavy, Tom, I can't help seeing that. Tangle's opinion don't come so cheap, you see, though
it's word for word the same as mine. I would have let you have it for nothing, and anybody
else for six and eightpence."

"The costs will be heavy," answered Tom, still radiant. "I should say a thou. wouldn't cover
the amount. Of course, if we can't get them from the estate, they must come out of my pocket."

Bargrave's eyebrows were raised. How the new school went ahead, he thought. Here was this nephew
of his talking of a thousand pounds with an indifference verging on contempt. Well, that was
Tom's look-out; nevertheless, on such a road it would be wise to establish a halting-place,
and his tone betrayed more interest than common while he asked--

"You won't take it into Chancery, Tom, will you?"

The younger man laid his forefinger to the side of his nose, winked thrice with considerable
energy, lifted his hat from its peg, adjusted his collars in the glass, nodded to his uncle,
muttering briefly, "Back in two hours," and vanished.

Old Bargrave looked after him with a grim, approving smile. "Boy or man," said he aloud, "that
chap always knew what he was about. Tom can be safely trusted to take care of Number One."

He was wrong, though, on the present occasion. If Mr. Ryfe did indeed know what he was about,
there could be no excuse for the enterprise on which he had embarked. He was selfish. He would
not have denied his selfishness, and indeed rather prided himself on that quality; yet behold
him now waging a contest in which a man wastes money, time, comfort, and self-respect, that
he may wrest from real sorrow and discomfiture the shadow of a happiness which he cannot grasp
when he has reached it. There is much wisdom in the opinion expressed by a certain fox concerning
grapes hanging out of distance; but it is a wisdom seldom acquired till the limbs are too stiff
to stretch for an effort--till there is scarce a tooth left in the mumbling jaws to be set on edge.

Tom Ryfe had allowed his existence to merge itself in another's. For months, as devotedly as
such natures can worship, he had been worshipping his ideal in the person of Miss Bruce. I
do not say that he was capable of that highest form of adoration which seeks in the first place
the unlimited sovereignty of its idol, and which, as being too good for them, women constantly
undervalue; but I do say that he esteemed his fair client the most beautiful, the most attractive,
and the most perfect of her sex, resolving that for him she was the only woman in the world,
and that in defiance of everything, even her own inclinations, he would win her if he could.

In Holborn there is always a hansom to be got at short notice. "Grosvenor Crescent," says Tom,
shutting the half-doors with a bang, and shouting his orders through the little hole in the
top. So to Grosvenor Crescent he is forwarded accordingly, at the utmost speed attainable by
a pair of high wheels, a well-bred "screw," and a rough-looking driver with a flower in his mouth.

There are several peculiarities, all unreasonable, many ridiculous, attending the demeanour
of a man in love. Not the least eccentric of these are his predatory instincts, his tendency
to prowl, his preference for walking over other modes of conveyance, and inclination to subterfuge
of every kind as to his ultimate destination. Tom Ryfe was going to Belgrave Square; why should
he direct his driver to set him down a quarter of a mile off? why overpay the man by a shilling?
why wear down the soles of an exceedingly thin and elaborate pair of boots on the hot, hard
pavement without compunction? Why? Because he was in love. This was also the reason, no doubt,
that he turned red and white when he approached the Square railings; that his nose seemed to
swell, his mouth got dry, his hat felt too tight, and the rest of his attire too loose for
the occasion; also that he affected an unusual interest in the numbers of the doors, as though
meditating a ceremonious morning call, while all the time his heart was under the laburnums
in the centre of the Square gardens, at the feet of a haughty, handsome girl, dressed in half-mourning,
with the prettiest black-laced parasol to be found on this side of the Rue Castiglione, for
love--of which, indeed, as the gift of Mr. Ryfe, it was a type--or money, which, not having
been yet paid for, it could hardly be said to represent.

That heart of his gave a bound when he saw it in her hand as she sailed up the broad gravel-walk
to let him in. He was almost happy, poor fellow, for almost a minute, not distressing himself
to observe that the colour never deepened a shade on her proud, pale cheek; that the shapely
hand, which fitted its pass-key to the lock, was firm as a dentist's, and the clear, cold voice
that greeted him far steadier than his own. It is a choice of evils, after all, this favourite
game of cross-purposes for two. To care more than the adversary entails worry and vexation;
to care less makes a burden of it, and a bore.

"Thank you so much for coming, Miss Bruce--Maud," said Tom passionately. "You never fail, and
yet I always dread, somehow, that I shall be disappointed."

"I keep my word, Mr. Ryfe," answered the young lady, with perfect self-possession; "and I am
quite as anxious as you can be, I assure you. I want so to know how we are getting on."

He showed less discouragement than might have been expected. Perhaps he was used to the sang-froid,
perhaps he rather liked it, believing it, in his ignorance, a distinctive mark of class, not
knowing--how should he?--that, once excited, these thoroughbred ones are, of all racers, the
least amenable to restraint.

"I have bad news," he said tenderly. "Miss Bruce, I hardly like to tell you that I fear we
cannot make our case enough to come into court. I took the opinion of the first man we have.
I am sorry to say he gives it against us. I am not selfish," he added, with real emotion, "and
I am sorry indeed, for your sake, dearest Miss Bruce."

He meant to have called her "Maud"; but the beautiful lips tightened, and the delicate eyebrows
came down very straight and stern over the deep eyes in which he had learned to read his fate.
He would wait for a better opportunity, he thought, of using the dear, familiar name.

She took small notice of his trouble.

"Has there been no mismanagement?" she asked, almost angrily; "no papers lost? no foul play?
Have you done your best?"

"I have, indeed," he answered meekly. "After all, is it not for my own interest as much as
yours? Are they not henceforth to be in common?"

She ignored the question altogether; she seemed to be thinking of something else. While they
paced up and down a walk screened from the Square windows by trees and shrubs already clothed
in the tender, quivering foliage of spring, she kept silence for several seconds, looking straight
before her with a sterner expression than he could yet remember to have seen on the face he
adored. Presently she spoke in a hard, determined voice--

"I am disappointed. Yes, Mr. Ryfe, I don't mind owning I am bitterly and grievously disappointed.
There, I suppose it's not your fault, so you needn't look black about it; and I dare say you
did the best you could afford at the price. Well, I don't want to hurt your feelings--your
very best, then. And yet it seems very odd--you were so confident at first. Of course if the
thing's really gone, and there's no chance left, it's folly to think about it. But what a future
to lose--what a future to lose! Mr. Ryfe, I can't stay with Aunt Agatha--I can't and I won't!
How she could ever find anybody to marry her! Mr. Ryfe, speak to me. What had I better do?"

Tom would have given a round sum of money at that moment to recall one of the many imaginary
conversations held with Miss Bruce, in which he had exhausted poetry, sentiment, and forensic
ardour for the successful pleading of his suit. Now he could find nothing better to say than
that "he had hoped she was comfortable with Mrs. Stanmore; and anybody who didn't make Miss
Bruce comfortable must be brutal and wicked. But--but--if it was really so--and she could be
persuaded--why, Miss Bruce must long have known----" And here the voice of Tom, the plausible,
the prudent, the self-reliant, degenerated to a husky whisper, because he felt that his very
heart was mounting to his throat.

Miss Bruce cut him exceedingly short.

"You remember our bargain," she said bitterly. "If you don't, I can remind you of it. Listen,
Mr. Ryfe; I am not going to cheat you out of your dues. You were to win back my fortune from
the next of kin--this cousin who seems to have law on his side. You charged yourself with the
trouble--that counts for nothing, it is in the way of your business--with the costs--the expenses--I
don't know what you call them--these were to be paid out of the estate. It was all plain sailing,
if we had conquered; and there was an alternative in the event of failure. I accepted it. But
I tell you, not till every stratagem has been tried, every stone turned, every resource exhausted,
do I acknowledge the defeat, nor--I speak plain English, Mr. Ryfe--do I pay the penalty."

He turned very pale. "You did not use this tone when we walked together through the snow in
the avenue at Ecclesfield. You promised of your own accord, you know you did," said poor Tom,
trembling all over; "and I have got your promise in writing locked up in a tin box at home."

She laughed a hard, shrill laugh, not without some real humour in it, at his obvious distress.

"Keep it safe in your tin box," said she, "and don't be afraid, when the time comes, that I
shall throw you over. Ah! what an odd thing money is; and how it seems able to do everything!"
She was looking miles away now, totally unconscious of her companion's presence. "To me this
five or six thousand a year represents hope, enjoyment, position--all that makes life worth
having. More, to lose it is to lose my freedom, to lose all that makes life endurable!"

"And you have lost it," observed Tom doggedly. He was very brave, very high-minded, very chivalrous
in any way; but he possessed the truly British quality of tenacity, and did not mean to be
shaken off by any feminine vagaries where once he had taken hold.

"Et je payerais de ma personne," replied Miss Bruce scornfully. "I don't suppose you know any
French. You must go now, Mr. Ryfe; my maid's coming back for me from the bonnet-shop. I can't
be trusted, you see, over fifty yards of pavement and a crossing by myself. The maid is walking
with me now behind these lilac-bushes, you know. Her name is Ryfe. She is very cross and silent;
she wears a well-made coat, shiny boots, rather a good hat, and carries a nosegay as big as
a chimney-sweep's--you can give it me if you like--I dare say you bought it on purpose."

How she could twist and turn him at will! three or four playful words like these, precious
all the more that her general manner was so haughty and reserved, caused Tom to forget her
pride, her whims, her various caprices, her too palpable indifference to himself. He offered
the flowers with humble gratitude, ignoring resolutely the presumption that she would probably
throw them away before she reached her own door.

"Good-bye, Miss Bruce," said he, bowing reverently over the slim hand she vouchsafed him, and
"Good-bye," echoed the young lady, adding, with another of those hard little laughs that jarred
so on Tom's nerves, "Come with better news next time, and don't give in while there's a chance
left; depend upon it the money's better worth having than the client. By the bye, I sent you
a card for Lady Goldthred's this afternoon--only a stupid breakfast--did you forget it?"

"Are you going?" returned Tom, with the clouds clearing from his brow.

"Perhaps we shall, if it's fine," was the reply. "And now I can't wait any longer. Don't forget
what I told you, and do the best you can."

So Tom Ryfe departed from his garden of Eden with sundry misgivings not entirely new to him,
that the fruit he took such pains to ripen for his own gathering might but be gaudy wax-work
after all, or painted stone, perhaps, cold, smooth, and beautiful, against which he should
rasp his teeth in vain.

The well-tutored Puckers, dressed in faded splendour, and holding a brown-paper parcel in her
hand, was waiting for her young lady at the corner of the Square.

While thus engaged she witnessed a bargain, of an unusual nature, made apparently under extraordinary
pressure of circumstances. A ragged boy, established at the crossing, who had indeed rendered
himself conspicuous by his endeavours to ferry Puckers over dry-shod, was accosted by a shabby-genteel
and remarkably good-looking man in the following vernacular--

"On this minnit, off at six, Buster; two bob an' a bender, and a three of eye-water, in?"

"Done for another joey," replied Buster, with the premature acuteness of youth foraging for
itself in the streets of London.

"Done," repeated the man, pulling a handful of silver from his pocket, and assuming the broom
at once to enter on his professional labours, ere Puckers had recovered from her astonishment,
or Buster could vanish round the corner in the direction of a neighbouring mews.

Though plying his instrument diligently, the man kept a sharp eye on the Square gardens. When
Tom Ryfe emerged through the heavy iron gate he whispered a deep and horrible curse, but his
dark eyes shone and his whole face beamed into a ruffianly kind of beauty, when after a discreet
pause, Miss Bruce followed the young lawyer through the same portal. Then the man went to work
with his broom harder than ever. Not Sir Walter Raleigh spreading his cloak at the feet of
his sovereign mistress lest they should take a speck of mud could have shown more loyalty,
more devotion, than did Gentleman Jim sweeping for bare life, as Miss Bruce and her maid approached
the crossing he had hired for the occasion.

Maud recognised him at a glance. Not easily startled or surprised, she bade Puckers walk on,
while she took a half-crown from her purse and put it in the sweeper's hand.

"At least it is an honest trade," said she, looking him fixedly in the face.

The man turned pale while he received her bounty.

"It's not that, miss," he stammered. "It's not that--I only wanted to get a look of ye. I only
wanted just to hear the turn of your voice again. No offence, miss, I'll go away now. O! can't
ye give a chap a job? It's my heart's blood as I'd shed for you, free--and never ask no more
nor a kind word in return!"

She looked him over from head to foot once more and passed on. In that look there was neither
surprise, nor indignation, nor scorn, only a quaint and somewhat amused curiosity, yet this
thief and associate of thieves quivered, as if it had been a sun-stroke. When she passed out
of sight he bit the half-crown till it bent, and hid it away in his breast. "I'll never part
with ye," said he, "never;" unmindful of poor Dorothea, going about her work tearful and forlorn.
Gentleman Jim, uneducated, besotted, half-brutalised as he was, had yet drunk from the cup
that poisons equally the basest and noblest of our kind. A well-dressed, good-looking young
man, walking on the other side of the Square, did not fail to witness Tom Ryfe's farewell and
Maud's interview with the crossing-sweeper. He too looked strangely disturbed, pacing up and
down an adjoining street, more than once, before he could make up his mind to ring a well-known
bell. Verily Miss Bruce seemed to be one of those ladies whose destiny it is to puzzle, worry,
and interest every man with whom they come in contact.

CHAPTER VII

DICK STANMORE

She had certainly succeeded in puzzling Dick Stanmore and already began to interest him. The
worry would surely follow in due time. Dick was a fine subject for the scalpel--good-humoured,
generous, single-hearted, with faultless digestive powers, teeth, and colour to correspond,
a strong tendency to active exercise, and such a faculty of enjoyment as, except in the highest
order of intellects, seldom lasts a man over thirty.

Like many of his kind, he said he hated London, but lived there very contentedly from April
to July, nevertheless. He was fresh, just at present, from a good scenting season in Leicestershire,
followed by a sojourn on the Tweed, in which classical river he had improved many shining hours,
wading waist-deep under a twenty-foot rod, any number of yards of line, and a fly of various
hues, as gaudy, and but little smaller than a cock pheasant. Now he had been a week in town,
during which period he met Miss Bruce at least once every day. This constant intercourse is
to be explained in a few words.

Mrs. Stanmore, the Aunt Agatha with whom Maud expressed herself so unwilling to reside, was
a sister of the late Mr. Bruce. She had married a widower with one son, that widower being
old Mr. Stanmore, defunct, that son being Dick. Mrs. Stanmore, in the enjoyment of a large
jointure (which rather impoverished her step-son), though arbitrary and unpleasant, was a woman
of generous instincts, so offered Maud a home the moment she learned her niece's double bereavement;
which home, for many reasons, heiress or no heiress, Miss Bruce felt constrained to accept.
Thus it came about that she found herself walking with Tom Ryfe en cachette in the Square gardens;
and, leaving them, recognised the gentleman whom she was to meet at luncheon in ten minutes,
on whose intellect at least, if not his heart, she felt pretty sure she had already made an
impression.

"I won't show her up," said Dick to his neatest boots, while he scraped them at his mother's
door, "but I should like to know who that bumptious-looking chap is, and what the h----ll she
could have to say to him in the Square gardens all the same."

Mr. Stanmore's language at the luncheon-table, it is needless to say, was far less emphatic
than that which relieved his feelings in soliloquy; nor was he to-day quite so talkative as
usual. His mother thought him silent (he always called her "mother," and, to do her justice,
she could not have loved her own son better, nor scolded him oftener, had she possessed one);
Miss Bruce voted him stupid and sulky. She told him so.

"A merrythought, if you please, and no bread-sauce," said the young lady, in her calm, imperious
manner. "Don't forget I hate bread-sauce, if you mean to come here often to luncheon; and do
say something. Aunt Agatha can't, no more can I. Recollect we've got a heavy afternoon before us."

Aunt Agatha always contradicted. "Not heavier than any other breakfast, Maud," said she severely.
"You didn't think that tea at the Tower heavy last week, nor the ghosts in the mess-room of
the Blues. Lady Goldthred's an old friend of mine, and it was very kind of her to ask us. Besides,
Dick's coming down in the barouche."

Maud's face brightened, and be sure, Dick saw it brighten.

"That accounts for it," said she, with the rare smile in her eyes; "and he thinks we sha'n't
let him smoke, so he sulks beforehand, grim, grave, and silent as a ghost. Mr. Stanmore, cheer
up. You may smoke the whole way down. I'll give you leave."

"Nonsense, my dear," observed Aunt Agatha sternly. "He don't want to do anything of the kind.
What have you been about, Maud, all the morning? I looked for you everywhere to help me with
the visiting-list."

"Puckers and I took a 'constitutional,'" answered Miss Bruce unblushingly. "We wanted to do
some shopping." But her dark eyes stole towards Dick, and, although his never met them, she
felt satisfied he had witnessed her interview with Tom Ryfe in the Square gardens.

"I saw you both coming in, Miss Bruce," said Dick, breaking the awkward pause which succeeded
Maud's mis-statement. "I think Puckers wears twice as smart a bonnet as yours. I hope you are
not offended."

Again that smile from the dark eyes. Dick felt, and perhaps she meant him to feel, that he
had lost nothing in her good opinion by ignoring even to herself that which she wished to keep
unknown.

"I think you've very little taste in bonnets, whatever you may have in faces," answered the
young lady; "and I think I shall go and put one on now that will make you eat your words humbly
when I appear in it on the lawn at Lady Goldthred's."

"I have no doubt there won't be a dry eye in the place," answered Dick, looking after her,
as she left the room, with undisguised admiration in his honest face--with something warmer
and sweeter than admiration creeping and gathering about his heart.

So they all went down together in the barouche, Dick sitting with his back to the horses, and
gazing his fill on the young beauty opposite, looking so cool and fair in her fresh summer
draperies, so thoroughly in keeping with the light and sparkle of everything around--the brilliant
sunshine, the spring foliage, the varying scenery, even to the varnish and glitter of the well-appointed
carriage, and the plated harness on the horses.

Aunt Agatha conversed but sparingly. She was occupied with the phantom pages of her banker's
book; with the shortcomings of a new housemaid; not a little with the vague sketch of a dress,
to be worn at certain approaching gaieties, which should embody the majesty of the chaperon
without entirely resigning all pretensions to youth. But for one remark, "that the coachman
was driving very badly," I think she travelled in stately silence as far as Kew. Not so the
other occupants of the barouche. Maud, desirous of forgetting much that was distasteful to
her in the events of the morning, and indeed, in the course of her daily life, resolved to
accept the tangible advantages of the present, nor scrupled to show that she enjoyed fresh
air, fine weather, and pleasant company. Dick, stimulated by her presence, and never disinclined
to gaiety of spirit, exerted himself to be agreeable, pouring forth a continuous stream of
that pleasant nonsense which is the only style of conversation endurable in the process of
riding, driving, or other jerking means of locomotion.

It is only when his suit has prospered that a man feels utterly idiotic and moonstruck in the
presence of the woman he adores. Why, when life is scarce endurable but at her side, he should
become a bore in her presence, is only another intricacy in the many puzzles that constitute
the labyrinth of love. So long as he flutters unsinged about its flame, the moth is all the
happier for the warmth of the candle, all the livelier for the inspiration of its rays. Dick
Stanmore, turning into the Kensington Road, was the insect basking in those bright, alluring
beams; but Dick Stanmore on the farther side of Kew felt more like the same insect when its
wings have been already shrivelled and its powers of flight destroyed in the temerity of its
adoration.

Still it was pleasant, very pleasant. She looked so beautiful, she smiled so kindly, always
with her eyes, sometimes with the perfect, high-bred mouth; she entered so gaily into his gossip,
his fancies, his jokes, allowing him to hold her parasol and arrange her shawls with such sweetness
and good-humour, that Dick felt quite sorry to reach the Portugal laurels and trim lawns of
their destination, when the drive was over from which he had derived this new and unforeseen
gratification. Something warned him that, in accordance with that rule of compensation which
governs all terrestrial matters, these delights were too keen to last, and there must surely
be annoyance and vexation in store to complete the afternoon.

His first twinge originated in the marked admiration called forth by Miss Bruce's appearance
at the very outset. She had scarcely made her salaam to Lady Goldthred, and passed on through
billiard-room, library, and verandah, to the two dwarfed larches and half-acre of mown grass
which constitute the wilderness of a suburban villa, ere Dick felt conscious that his could
be no monopoly of adoration. Free trade was at once declared by glances, whispers and inquiries
from a succession of well-dressed young gentlemen, wise doubtless in their own conceit, yet
not wanting in that worldly temerity which impels fools to rush in where angels fear to tread,
and gives the former class of beings, in their dealings with that sex which is compounded of
both, an immeasurable advantage over the latter.

Miss Bruce had not traversed the archery-ground twenty-five feet, from target to target, on
her way to the refreshment-tent, ere half-a-dozen of the household troops, a bachelor baronet,
and the richest young commoner of his year were presented by her host, at their own earnest
request. Dick's high spirits went down like the froth in a glass of soda-water, and he fell
back discouraged, to exchange civilities with Lady Goldthred.

That excellent woman, dressed, painted, and wound-up for the occasion, was volubly delighted
with everybody; and being by no means sure of Dick's identity, dashed the more cordiality into
her manner, while careful not to commit herself by venturing on his name.

"So good of you to come," she fired it at him as she had fired it at fifty others, "all this
distance from town, and such a hot day, to see my poor little place. But isn't it pretty now?
And are we not lucky in the weather? And weren't you smothered in dust coming down? And you've
brought the beauty with you too. I declare Sir Moses is positively smitten. I'm getting quite
jealous. Just look at him now. But he's not the only one, that's a comfort."

Dick did look, wondering vaguely why the sunshine should have faded all at once. Sir Moses,
a little bald personage, in a good-humoured fuss, whom no amount of inexperience could have
taken for anything but the "man of the house," was paying the utmost attention to Miss Bruce,
bringing her tea, placing a camp-stool for her that she might see the archery, and rendering
her generally those hospitable services which it had been his lot to waste on many less attractive
objects during that long sunny afternoon.

"Sir Moses is always so kind," answered Dick vaguely, "and nobody's breakfasts are so pleasant
as yours, Lady Goldthred."

"I'm too glad you think so," answered his hostess, who, like a good-hearted woman as she was,
took enormous pains with these festivities, congratulating herself, when she washed off her
rouge, and doffed her robes of ceremony at night, that she had got through the great penance
of her year. "You're always so good-natured. But I do think men like to come here. The country
air, you know, and the scenery, and plenty of pretty people. Now, there's Lord Bearwarden--look,
he's talking to Miss Bruce, under the cedar--he's actually driven over from Windsor, and though
he's a way of being so fine and blasé and all that, he don't look much bored at this moment,
does he? Twenty thousand a year, they say, and been everywhere and done everything. Now, I
fancy, he wants to marry, for he's much older, you know, than he looks. To hear him talk, you'd
think he was a hundred, and broken-hearted into the bargain. For my part, I've no patience
with a melancholy man; but then I'm not a young lady. You know him, though, of course?"

Dick's reply, if he made one, was drowned in a burst of brass music that deafened people at
intervals throughout the afternoon, and Lady Goldthred's attention wandered to fresh arrivals,
for whom, with fresh smiles and untiring energy, she elaborated many more remarks of a similar
tendency.

Dick Stanmore did know Lord Bearwarden, as every man about London knows every other man leading
the same profitable life. There were many whom he would have preferred as rivals; but thinking
he detected signs of weariness on Maud's face (it had already come to this, that he studied
her countenance, and winced to see it smile on any one else), he crossed the lawn, that he
might fill the place by her side, to which he considered himself as well entitled as another.

His progress took some little time, what, with bowing to one lady, treading on the dress of
another, and parrying the attack of a third who wanted him to give her daughter a cup of tea;
so that by the time Dick reached her Lord Bearwarden had left Miss Bruce to the attentions
of another guest, more smart than gentlemanlike, in whose appearance there was something indefinably
out of keeping with the rest. Dick started. It was the man with whom he had seen Maud walking
before luncheon in the Square.

People were pairing for a dance on the lawn, and Mr. Stanmore, wedged in by blocks of beauty
and mountains of muslin, could neither advance nor retreat. It was no fault of his that he
overheard Miss Bruce's conversation with the stranger.

"Will you dance with me?" said the latter, in a whisper of suppressed anger, rather than the
tone of loving entreaty with which it is customary to urge this pleasant request.

"Impossible!" answered Maud energetically. "I'm engaged to Lord Bearwarden--it's the Lancers,
and he's only gone to make up the set."

The man ground his teeth and knit his brows.

"You seem to forget," he muttered--"you carry it off with too high a hand. I have a right to
bid you dance with me. I have a right, if I chose, to order you down to the river there and
row you back to Putney with the tide; and I will, I swear, if you provoke me too far."

She seemed to keep her temper with an effort.

"Do be patient," she whispered, glancing round at the bystanders. "Surely you can trust me.
Hush! here comes Lord Bearwarden."

And taking that nobleman's arm, she walked off with a mournful pleading look at her late companion,
which poor Dick Stanmore would have given worlds to have seen directed to himself.

There was no more pleasure for him now during the rest of the entertainment. He did indeed
obtain a momentary distraction from his resolution to ascertain the name of the person who
had so spoilt his afternoon. It helped him very little to be told the gentleman was "a Mr.
Ryfe." Nobody seemed to know any more, and even this information he extracted with difficulty
from Lady Goldthred, who added, in a tone of astonishment--

"Why, you brought him, didn't you?"

Dick was mystified--worse, he was unhappy. For a few minutes he wandered about behind the dancers,
watching Maud and her partner as they threaded the intricacies of those exceedingly puzzling
evolutions which constitute the Lancer quadrilles. Lord Bearwarden was obviously delighted
with Maud, and that young lady seemed by no means unconscious or careless of her partner's
approval. I do not myself consider the measure they were engaged in threading as particularly
conducive to the interchange of sentiment. If my memory serves me right, this complicated dance
demands as close an attention as whist, and affords almost as few opportunities of communicating
with a partner. Nevertheless, there is a language of the eyes, as of the lips; and it was not
Lord Bearwarden's fault if his looks were misunderstood by their object. All this Dick saw,
and seeing, grew more and more disgusted with life in general, with Lady Goldthred's breakfast
in particular. When the dance ended, and Dick Stanmore--hovering about his flame, like the
poor moth to which I have compared him, once singed and eager to be singed again--was hesitating
as to whether he, too, should not go boldly in and try his chance, behold Mr. Ryfe, with an
offensive air of appropriation, walks off with Miss Bruce arm-in-arm, towards the sequestered
path that leads to the garden-gate, that leads to the shady lane, that leads to the shining river!

It was all labour and sorrow now. People who called this sort of thing amusement, thought Dick,
would go to purgatory for pastime, and a stage farther for diversion. When he broke poor Redwing's
back three fields from home in the Melton steeplechase he was grieved, annoyed, distressed.
When he lost that eleven-pounder in the shallows below Melrose, because "Aundry," his Scottish
henchman, was too drunk to keep his legs in a running stream, he was angry, vexed, disgusted;
but never before, in his whole life of amusement and adventure, had he experienced anything
like the combination of uncomfortable feelings that oppressed him now. He was ashamed of his
own weakness, too, all the time, which only made matters worse.

"Hang it!" thought Dick, "I don't see why I should punish myself by staying here any longer.
I'll tell my mother I must be back in London to dinner, make my bow, jump into a boat, and
scull down to Chelsea. So I will. The scull will do me good, and if--if she has gone on the
water with that snob, why I shall know the worst. What a strange, odd girl she is! And O, how
I wish she wasn't!"

But it takes time to find a lady, even of Mrs. Stanmore's presence, amongst five hundred of
her kind jostled up in half-an-acre of ground; neither will the present code of good manners,
liberal as it is, bear a guest out in walking up to his hostess à bout portant, to interrupt
her in an interesting conversation, by bidding her a solemn good-bye hours before anybody else
has begun to move. Twenty minutes at least must have elapsed ere Dick found himself in a dainty
outrigger with a long pair of sculls, fairly launched on the bosom of the Thames--more than
time for the corsair, if corsair he should be, to have sailed far out of sight with false,
consenting Maud in the direction of London Bridge.

Dick was no mean waterman. The exercise of a favourite art, combining skill with muscular effort,
is conducive to peace of mind. A swim, a row, a gallop over a country, a fencing-bout or a
rattling set-to with "the gloves" bring a man to his senses more effectually than whole hours
of quiescent reflection. Ere the perspiration stood on Dick Stanmore's brow, he suspected he
had been hasty and unjust; by the time he caught his second wind, and had got fairly into swing,
he was in charity with all the world, reflecting, not without toleration and self-excuse, that
he had been an ass.

So he sculled on, like a jolly young waterman, making capital way with the tide, and calculating
that if the fugitive pair should have done anything so improbable as to take the water in company,
he must have overhauled, or at least sighted them, ere now.

His spirits rose. He wondered why he should have been so desponding an hour ago. He had made
excuses for himself--he began to make them for Maud, nay, he was fast returning to his allegiance,
the allegiance of a day, thrown off in five minutes, when he sustained another damper, such
as the total reversal of his outrigger and his own immersion, head uppermost, in the Thames,
could not have surpassed.

At a bend of the river near Putney he came suddenly on one of those lovely little retreats
which fringe its banks--a red-brick house, a pretty flower-garden, a trim lawn, shaded by weeping-willows,
kissing the water's edge. On that lawn, under those weeping-willows, he descried the graceful,
pliant figure, the raven hair, the imperious gestures that had made such havoc with his heart,
and muttering the dear name, never before coupled with a curse, he knew for the first time,
by the pain, how fondly he already loved this wild, heedless, heartless girl, who had come
to live in his mother's house. Swinging steadily along in mid-stream, he must have been too
far off, he thought, for her to recognise his features; yet why should she have taken refuge
in the house with such haste, at an open window, through which a pair of legs clad in trousers
denoted the presence of some male companion? For a moment he turned sick and faint, as he resigned
himself to the torturing truth. This Mr. Ryfe, then, had been as good as his word, and she,
his own proud, refined, beautiful idol, had committed the enormity of accompanying that imperious
admirer down here. What could be the secret of such a man's influence over such a girl? Whatever
it was, she must be Dick's idol no longer. And he would have loved her so dearly!--so dearly!

There were tears in the eyes of this jolly young waterman as he pulled on. These things hurt,
you see, while the heart is fresh and honest, and has been hitherto untouched. Those should
expect rubbers who play at bowls; if people pull their own chestnuts out of the fire they must
compound for burnt fingers; and when you wager a living, loving, trustful heart against an
organ of wax, gutta-percha, or Aberdeen granite, don't be surprised if you get the worst of
the game all through.

He had quite given her up by the time he arrived at Chelsea, and had settled in his own mind
that henceforward there must be no more sentiment, no more sunshine, no more romance. He had
dreamt his dream. Well for him it was so soon over. Semel insanivimus omnes. Fellows had all
been fools once, but no woman should ever make a fool of him again! No woman ever could. He
should never see another like her!

Perhaps this was the reason he walked half-a-mile out of his homeward way, through Belgrave
Square, to haunt the street in which she lived, looking wistfully into those gardens whence
he had seen her emerge that very day with her mysterious companion--gazing with plaintive interest
on the bell-handle and door-scraper of his mother's house--vaguely pondering how he could ever
bear to enter that house again--and going through the whole series of those imaginary throes,
which are indeed real sufferings with people who have been foolish enough to exchange the dignity
and reality of existence for a dream.

What he expected I am at a loss to explain; but although, while pacing up and down the street,
he vowed every turn should be the last, he had completed his nineteenth, and was on the eve
of commencing his twentieth, when Mrs. Stanmore's carriage rolled up to the door, stopping
with a jerk, to discharge itself of that lady and Maud, looking cool, fresh, and unrumpled
as when they started. The revulsion of feeling was almost too much for Dick. By instinct, rather
than with intention, he came forward to help them out, so confused in his ideas that he failed
to remark how entirely his rapid retreat from the breakfast had been overlooked. Mrs. Stanmore
seemed never to have missed him. Maud greeted him with a merry laugh, denoting more of good-humour
and satisfaction than should have been compatible with keen interest in his movements or justifiable
pique at his desertion.

"Why, here you are!" she exclaimed gaily. "Actually home before us, like a dog that one takes
out walking to try and lose. Poor thing! did it run all the way under the carriage with its
tongue out? and wasn't it choked with dust, and isn't it tired and thirsty? and won't it come
in and have some tea?"

What could Dick say or do? He followed her up-stairs to the back drawing-room, meek and submissive
as the dog to which she had likened him, waiting for her there with a dry mouth and a beating
heart while she went to "take off her things"; and when she reappeared smiling and beautiful,
able only to propound the following ridiculous question with a gasp--

"Didn't you go on the water then, after all?"

"On the water!" she repeated. "Not I. Nothing half so pleasant, I assure you. I wish we had!
for anything so slow as the whole performance on dry land, I never yet experienced. I danced
five dances, none of them nice ones--I hate dancing on turf--and I had a warm-water ice and
some jelly that tasted of bees'-wax. What became of you? We couldn't find you anywhere to get
the carriage. However, I asked Aunt Agatha to come away directly somebody made a move, because
I was cross and tired and bored with the whole business. I think she liked it much better than
I did; but here she is to answer for herself."

Dick had no dinner that day, yet what a pleasant cigar it was he smoked as he coasted Belgrave
Square once more in the sweet spring evening under the gas-lamps! He had been very unhappy
in the afternoon, but that was all over now. Anxiety, suspicion, jealousy, and the worst ingredient
of the latter, a sense of humiliation, had made wild work with his spirits, his temper, and
indeed his appetite; yet twenty minutes in a dusky back drawing-room, a cup of weak tea and
a slice of inferior bread-and-butter, were enough to restore self-respect, peace of mind, and
vigour of digestion. He could not recall one word that bore an unusually favourable meaning,
one look that might not have been directed to a brother or an intimate friend, and still he
felt buoyed up with hope, restored to happiness. The reaction had come on, and he was more
in love with her than ever.

CHAPTER VIII

NINA

It might have spared Mr. Stanmore a deal of unnecessary discomfort had the owner of those legs
which he saw through the open window at Putney thought fit to show the rest of his person to
voyagers on the river. Dick would then have recognised an old college friend, would have landed
to greet him with the old college heartiness, and in the natural course of events would have
satisfied himself that his suspicions of Maud were unfounded and absurd.

Simon Perkins is not a romantic name, nor did the exterior of Simon Perkins, as seen either
within or without the Putney cottage, correspond with that which fiction assigns to a hero
of romance. His frame was small and slight, his complexion pale, his hair weak and thin, his
manner diffident, awkward, almost ungainly, but that its thorough courtesy and good-nature
were so obvious and unaffected. In general society people passed him over as a shy, harmless,
unmeaning little man; but those who really knew him affirmed that his courage was not to be
damped, nor his nerve shaken, by extremity of danger--that he was always ready with succour
for the needy, with sympathy for the sorrowful. In short, as they tersely put it, that "his
heart was in the right place."

For half-a-dozen terms at Oxford he and Dick had been inseparable. Their intimacy, none the
less close for dissimilarity of tastes and pursuits, since Perkins was a reading man, and Dick
a "fast" one, had been still more firmly soldered by a long vacation spent together in Norway,
and a "thrilling tableau," as Dick called it, to which their expedition gave rise. Had Simon
Perkins's heart been no stouter than his slender person, his companion must have died a damp
death, and this story would never have been told.

The young men were in one of the most picturesque parts of that wild and beautiful country,
created, as it would seem, for the express gratification of the fisherman and the landscape
painter; Simon Perkins, an artist in his very soul, wholly engrossed by the sketch of a mountain,
Dick Stanmore equally absorbed in fishing a pool. Scarce twenty yards apart, neither was conscious,
for the moment, of the other's existence; Simon, indeed, being in spirit some seven thousand
feet above the level of the sea, putting more ochre into the virgin snow that crested his topmost
peak, and Dick deftly dropping a fly, the size of a pen-wiper, over the nose of a fifteen-pounder
that had already once risen to the gaudy lure.

Poising himself, like a Mercury, on a rock in mid-stream, the angler had just thrown eighteen
yards of line lightly as a silken thread to an inch, when his foot slipped, and a loud splash,
bringing the painter, like Icarus, out of the clouds with a run, startled his attention to
the place where his companion was not. In another second Simon had his grip on Dick's collar,
and both men were struggling for dear life in the pool. Stanmore could swim, of course, but
it takes a good swimmer to hold his own in fisherman's boots, encumbered, moreover, with sundry
paraphernalia of his art. Simon was a very mild performer in the water, but he had coolness,
presence of mind, and inflexible tenacity of purpose. To these qualities the friends owed it
that they ever reached the shore alive. It was a very near thing, and when they found their
legs and looked into each other's faces, gasping, dripping, spouting water from ears, nose,
and mouth, Dick gathered breath to exclaim, "You trump! I should have been drowned, to a moral!"
Whereat the other, choking, coughing, and sputtering, answered faintly, "You old muff! I believe
we were never out of our depth the whole time!"

Perkins did not go up for his degree, and the men lost sight of one another in a few years,
cherishing, indeed, a kindly remembrance each of his friend, yet taking little pains to refresh
that remembrance by renewed intercourse. How many intimacies, how many attachments outlast
a twelvemonth's break? There are certain things people go on caring for, but I fear they are
more intimately connected with self in daily life than either the romance of friendship or
the intermittent fever of love. The enjoyment of luxury, the pursuit of money-making, seem
to lose none of their zest with advancing years, and perhaps to these we may add the taste for art.

Now to Simon Perkins art was as the very air he breathed. The greatest painter was, in his
eyes, the greatest man that lived. When he left Oxford, he devoted himself to the profession
of painting with such success as rendered him independent, besides enabling him to contribute
largely to the comfort of two maiden aunts with whom he lived.

Not without hard work; far from it. There is no pursuit, perhaps, which demands such constant
and unremitting exertion from its votaries. The ideal to which he strains can never be reached,
for his very successes keep building it yet higher, and a painter is so far like a baby his
whole life through that he is always learning to see.

Simon was still learning to see on the afternoon Dick Stanmore sculled by his cottage windows--studying
the effect of a declining sun on the opposite elms, not entirely averting his looks from that
graceful girl, who ran into the house to the oarsman's discomfiture, and missing her more than
might have been expected when she vanished up-stairs. Was not the sun still shining bright
on that graceful feathery foliage? He did not quite think it was.

Presently there came to the door a rustle of draperies, and an elderly lady, not remarkable
for beauty, entered the room. Taking no notice of Simon, she proceeded to arrange small articles
of furniture with a restless manner that denoted anxiety of mind. At last, stopping short in
the act of dusting a china tea-cup, with a very clean cambric handkerchief, she observed, in
a faltering voice, "Simon, dear, I feel so nervous I know I shall never get through with it.
Where's your Aunt Jemima?" Even while she spoke there appeared at the door another lady, somewhat
more elderly, and even less remarkable for beauty, who seated herself bolt upright in an elbow-chair
without delay, and, looking austerely round, observed in an impressive voice, "Susannah, fetch
me my spectacles; Simon, shut the door."

Of all governments there must be a head. It was obvious that in this deliberative assembly
Miss Jemima Perkins assumed the lead. Both commands being promptly obeyed, she pulled her spectacles
from their case and put them on, as symbols of authority, forthwith.

"I want your advice, Simon," said this strong-minded old lady, in a hard, clear voice. "I dare
say I sha'n't act upon it, but I want it all the same. I've no secrets from either of you;
but as the head of the family I don't mean to shirk responsibility, and my opinion is, she
must go. Susannah, no weakness. My dear, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. Nina, run up-stairs
again, we don't want you just now."

This to a pretty head with raven hair, that popped saucily in, and as saucily withdrew.

Simon looked wistfully after the pretty head, and relapsed into a day-dream. Was he thinking
what a picture it would make, or what a reality it was? His aunt's voice recalled him to facts.

"Simon," she repeated, "my opinion is she must go."

"Go!" said her nephew vacantly, "what do you mean, aunt?--Go?--where?--who?"

"Why that girl we're all so fond of," replied Miss Jemima, growing every moment more severe.
"Mr. Algernon used to come here twice every quarter, usedn't he? Never missed the day, did
he? and paid his money as regular as clockwork. Susannah, how long is it since he's been to
see us?"

Susannah sobbed.

"That's no answer," pursued the inflexible speaker. "Tomorrow week it will be ten months since
we have seen him; and tomorrow week it will be ten months since we've had a scrap of his handwriting.
Is that girl to remain here, dependent on the bounty of a struggling artist and two old maids?
My opinion is that she ought to go out and gain her own livelihood; my feeling is that--that--I
couldn't bear to think of the poor dear in any home but this."

Here the old lady, whose assumption of extreme fortitude had been gradually leading to the
inevitable catastrophe, broke down altogether, while Susannah, giving rein to her emotions,
lifted up her voice and wept.

"You knew who she was all along, Jemima," said the latter, gulping sadly at her syllables:
"you know you did; and it's cruel to harrow up our feelings like this."

Simon said nothing, but on his homely features gathered an expression of resolve, through which
there gleamed the bright radiance of hope.

Miss Perkins wiped her eyes and then her spectacles. Resuming her dignity, she proceeded in
a calmer voice--

"I will not conceal from you, Susannah, nor from you, Simon, that I have had my suspicions
for several years. Those suspicions became a certainty some time ago. There can be no doubt
now of the relationship existing between our Nina and the Mr. Algernon, as he called himself,
who took such an interest in the child's welfare. When I saw Mr. Bruce's death in the paper,
I knew that our pet had lost her father. What was I to do? When I consented to take charge
of the child twenty years ago--and a sweet pretty babe she was--I perfectly understood there
must be a mystery connected with her birth. As head of the family, I imparted my suspicions
to neither of you, and I kept my conjectures and my disapproval to myself. This seemed only
fair to my correspondent, only fair to the child. When I learned Mr. Bruce's death, it came
upon me like a shot, that he was the Mr. Algernon who used to visit here, and who furnished
such liberal means for the support and education of that girl up-stairs--Susannah, I cannot
make myself understood if you will persist in blowing your nose!--Since Mr. Bruce's death no
Mr. Algernon has darkened our doors, no remittances have come to hand with the usual signature.
Simon, my impression is that no provision whatever has been made for the poor thing, and that
our Nina is--is utterly destitute and friendless."

Here Miss Susannah gave a little scream, whereat her sister glared austerely, and resumed the
spectacles she had taken off to dry.

"Not friendless, aunt," exclaimed Simon, in a great heat and fuss; "never friendless so long
as we are all above ground. I am perfectly willing to--stay, Aunt Jemima, I beg your pardon,
what do you think ought to be done?"

The old lady smoothed her dress, looking round with placid dignity.

"I will first hear what you two have to propose. Susannah, leave off crying this minute, and
tell us what you think of this--this very embarrassing position."

It is possible that but for the formidable adjective Susannah might have originated, and indeed
expressed some idea of her own; but to confront a position described by her sister as "embarrassing"
was quite beyond her powers, and she could only repeat feebly, "I'll give her half my money--I'll
give her half my money. We can't drive her out into the cold." This with sobs and tears, and
a hand pressed helplessly to her side.

Miss Jemima turned from her with contempt, declaring, in an audible whisper, she had "more
than half a mind to send the foolish thing to bed;" then looked severely at her nephew.

"This girl," said he, "has become a member of our family, just as if she were a born relation.
It seems to me there is no question of feeling or sentiment or prejudice in the matter. It
is a mere affair of duty. We are bound to treat Nina Algernon exactly as if she were a Perkins."

His aunt took his face in both her hands, squeezed it hard, and flattened his nose with a grim
kiss. After this feat she looked more severe than ever.

"I believe you are right," she said; "I believe this arrangement is a special duty sent on
purpose for us to fulfil. I had made up my mind on the subject before I spoke to you, but it
is satisfactory to know that you both think as I do. When we give way to our feelings, Susannah,
we are sure to be injudicious, sometimes even unjust. But duty is a never-failing guide, and--O!
my dears, to part with that darling would be to take the very heart out of my breast; and,
Simon, I'm so glad you agree with me; and, Susannah, dear, if I spoke harshly just now, it
was for your own good; and--and--I'll just step upstairs into the storeroom, and look out some
of the house-linen that wants mending. I had rather you didn't disturb me. I shall be down
again to tea."

So the old lady marched out firmly enough, but sister and nephew both knew right well that
kindly tears, long kept back from a sense of dignity, would drop on the half-worn house-linen,
and that in the solitude of her storeroom she would give vent to those womanly feelings she
deemed it incumbent on her, as head of the family, to restrain before the rest.

Miss Susannah entertained no such scruples. Inflicting on her nephew a very tearful embrace,
she sobbed out incoherent congratulations on the decision at which her eldest sister had arrived.

"But we mustn't let the dear girl find it out," said this sensitive, weak-minded, but generous-hearted
lady. "We should make no sort of difference in our treatment of her, of course, but we must
take great care not to let anything betray us in our manner. I am not good at concealment,
I know, but I will undertake that she never suspects anything from mine."

The fallacy of this assertion was so transparent that Simon could not forbear a smile.

"Better make a clean breast of it at once," said he. "Directly there's a mystery in a family,
Aunt Susannah, you may be sure there can be no union. It need not be put in a way to hurt her
feelings. On the contrary, Aunt Jemima might impress on her that we count on her assistance
to keep the pot boiling. Why, she's saving us pounds and pounds at this moment. Where should
I get such a model for my Fairy Queen, I should like to know? It ought to be a great picture--a
great picture, Aunt Susannah, if I can only work it out. And where should I be if she left
me in the lurch? No--no; we won't forget the bundle of sticks. I'll to the maul-stick, and
you and Aunt Jemima shall be as cross as two sticks; and as for Nina, with her bright eyes,
and her pleasant voice, and her merry ways, I don't know what sort of a stick we should make
of her." "A fiddlestick, I should think," said that young lady, entering the room from the
garden window, having heard, it is to be hoped, no more than Simon's closing sentence. "What
are you two doing here in the dark? It's past eight--tea's ready--Aunt Jemima's down--and everything's
getting cold."

Candles were lit in the next room, and the tea-things laid. Following the ladies, and watching
with a painter's eye the lights and shades as they fell on Nina's graceful beauty, Simon Perkins
felt, not for the first time, that if she were to leave the cottage, she would carry away with
her all that made it a dear and happy home, depriving him at once of past, present, and future,
taking from him the very cunning of his handicraft, and, worse still, the inspiration of his art.

It was no wonder she had wound herself round the hearts of that quiet little family in the
retired Putney villa. As like Maud Bruce in form and feature, as though she had been her twin
sister, Nina Algernon possessed the same pale, delicate features, the same graceful form, the
same dark, pleading eyes and glossy raven hair; but Mr. Bruce's elder and unacknowledged daughter
had this advantage over the younger, that about her there was a sweetness, a freshness, a quiet
gaiety, and a bonhomie such as spring only from kindliness of disposition and pure unselfishness
of heart. Had she been an ugly girl, though she might have lacked admirers, she could not have
long remained without a lover. Being as handsome as Maud, she seemed calculated to rivet more
attachments, while she made almost as many conquests. Between the sisters there was a similitude
and a difference. One was a costly artificial flower, the other a real garden rose.

CHAPTER IX

THE USUAL DIFFICULTY

Maud's instincts, when, soon after her father's death, she felt a strong disinclination to
live with Aunt Agatha, had not played her false. As inmates of the same house, the two ladies
hit it off badly enough. Perhaps because in a certain imperiousness and hardness of character
they were somewhat alike, their differences, though only on rare occasions culminating in a
battle royal, smouldered perpetually, breaking out, more often than was seemly, in brisk skirmish
and rapid passage of arms.

Miss Bruce's education during the lifetime of her parents had been little calculated to fit
her for the position of a dependent, and with all her misgivings, which, indeed, vexed her
sadly, she could not yet quite divest herself of an idea that her inheritance had not wholly
passed away. Under any circumstances she resolved before long to go at the head of an establishment
of her own, so that she should assume her proper position, which she often told herself, with
her attractions and her opportunities was a mere question of will.

Then, like a band of iron tightening round her heart, would come the thought of her promise
to Tom Ryfe, the bitter regret for her own weakness, her own overstrained notions of honour,
as she now considered them, in committing that promise to writing. She felt as people feel
in a dream, when, step which way they will, an insurmountable obstacle seems to arise, arresting
their progress, and hemming them in by turns on every side.

It was not in the best of humours that, a few days after Lady Goldthred's party, Maud descended
to the luncheon-table fresh from an hour's consideration of her grievances, and of the false
position in which she was placed. Mrs. Stanmore, too, had just sent back a misfitting costume
to the dressmaker for the third time; so each lady being, as it were, primed and loaded, the
lightest spark would suffice to produce explosion.

While the servants remained it was necessary to keep the peace, but cutlets, mashed potatoes,
and a ration of sherry having been distributed, the room was cleared, and a fair field remained
for immediate action. Dick's train was late from Newmarket, and he was well out of it.

To do her justice, Maud had meant to intrench herself in sullen silence. She saw the attack
coming, and prepared to remain on the defensive. Aunt Agatha began quietly enough--to borrow
a metaphor from the noble game of chess, she advanced a pawn.

"I don't know how I'm to take you to Countess Monaco's to-night, Maud; that stupid woman has
disappointed me again, and I've got literally nothing to go in. Besides, there will be such
a crush we shall never get away in time for my cousin's ball. I promised her I'd be early if
I could."

Now Miss Bruce knew, I suppose because he had told her, that Lord Bearwarden would be at Countess
Monaco's reception, but would not be at the said ball. It is possible Mrs. Stanmore may have
been aware of this also, and that her pawn simply represented what ladies call "aggravation."

Maud took it at once with her knight. "I don't the least care about Countess Monaco's, aunt,"
said she. "Dick's not going because he's not asked, and I'm engaged to dance the first dance
with him at the other place. It's a family bear-fight, I conclude; but though I hate the kind
of thing, Dick is sure to take care of me."

Check for Aunt Agatha, whom this off-hand speech displeased for more reasons than one. It galled
her to be reminded that her step-son had received no invitation from the smart foreign countess;
while that Maud should thus appropriate him, calling him "Dick" twice in a breath, was more
than she could endure. So she moved her king out of position.

"Talking of balls," said she, in a cold, civil voice, "reminds me that you danced three times
the night before last with Lord Bearwarden, and twice with Dick, besides going down with him
to supper. I don't like finding fault, Maud, but I have a duty to perform, and I speak to you
as if you were my own child."

"How can you be sure of that?" retorted incorrigible Maud. "You never had one."

This was a sore point, as Miss Bruce well knew. Aunt Agatha's line of battle was sadly broken
through, and her pieces huddled together on the board. She began to lose her head, and her
temper with it.

"You speak in a very unbecoming tone, Miss Bruce," said she angrily. "You force me into saying
things I would much rather keep to myself. I don't wish to remind you of your position in this
house."

It was now Maud's turn to advance her strongest pieces--castles, rooks, and all.

"You remind me of it often enough," she replied, with her haughtiest air--an air which, notwithstanding
its assumption of superiority, certainly made her look her best; "if not in words, at least
in manner, twenty times a day. You think I don't see it, Mrs. Stanmore, or that I don't mind
it, because I've too much pride to resent it as it deserves. I am indebted to you, certainly,
for a great deal--the roof that shelters me, and the food I eat. I owe you as much as your
carriage-horses, and a little less than your servants, for I do my work and get no wages. Never
fear but I shall pay up everything some day; perhaps very soon. You had better get your bill
made out, so as to send it in on the morning of my departure. I wish the time had come to settle
it now."

Mrs. Stanmore was aghast. Very angry, no doubt, but yet more surprised, and perhaps the least
thing cowed. Her cap, her laces, the lockets round her neck, the very hair of her head, vibrated
with excitement. Maud, cool, pale, impassable, was sure to win at last, waiting, like the superior
chess-player, for that final mistake which gives an adversary checkmate.

It came almost immediately. Mrs. Stanmore set down her sherry, because the hand that held her
glass shook so she could not raise it to her lips. "You are rude and impertinent," said she;
"and if you really think so wickedly, the sooner you leave this house the better, though you
are my brother's child; and--and--Maud, I don't mean it. But how can you say such things? I
never expected to be spoken to like this."

Then the elder lady began to cry, and the game was over. Before the second course came in a
reconciliation took place. Maud presented a pale, cold cheek to be kissed by her aunt, and
it was agreed that they should go to Countess Monaco's for the harmless purpose, as they expressed
it, of "just walking through the rooms," leaving thereafter as soon as practicable for the
ball; and Mrs. Stanmore, who was good-hearted if bad-tempered, trusted "dear Maud would think
no more of what she had said in a moment of irritation, but that they would be better friends
than ever after their little tiff."

None the less, though, for this decisive victory did the young lady cherish her determination
to settle in life without delay. Lord Bearwarden had paid her considerable attention on the
few occasions they had met. True, he was not what the world calls a "marrying man"; but the
world, in arranging its romances, usually leaves out that very chapter--the chapter of accidents--on
which the whole plot revolves. And why should there not be a Lady Bearwarden of the present
as of the past? To land so heavy a fish would be a signal triumph. Well, it was at least possible,
if not probable. This should be a matter for future consideration, and must depend greatly
on circumstances.

In the meantime, Dick Stanmore would marry her tomorrow. Of that she felt sure. Why? O, because
she did! I believe women seldom deceive themselves in such matters. Dick had never told her
he cared for her; after all, she had not known him many weeks, yet a certain deference and
softness of tone, a diffidence and even awkwardness of manner, increasing painfully when they
were alone, betrayed that he was her slave. And she liked Dick, too, very much, as a woman
could hardly help liking that frank and kindly spirit. She even thought she could love him
if it was necessary, or at any rate make him a good wife, as wives go. He would live in London,
of course, give up hunting and all that. It really might do very well. Yes, she would think
seriously about Dick Stanmore, and make up her mind without more delay.

But how to get rid of Tom Ryfe? Ignore it as she might--strive as she would to forget it in
excitement, dissipation, and schemes for the future, none the less was the chain always round
her neck. Even while it ceased to gall her she was yet sensible of its weight. So long as she
owed him money, so long as he held her written promise to repay that debt with her hand, so
long was she debarred all chances for the future, so long was she tied down to a fate she could
not contemplate without a shudder. To be a "Mrs. Ryfe" when on the cards lay such a prize as
the Bearwarden coronet, when she need only put out her hand and take Dick Stanmore, with his
brown locks, his broad shoulders, his genial, generous heart, for better or worse! It was unbearable.
And then to think that she could ever have fancied she liked the man; that, even now, she had
to give him clandestine meetings, to see him at unseasonable hours, as if she loved him dearly,
and was prepared to make every sacrifice for his sake! Her pride revolted, her whole spirit
rose in arms at the reflection. She knew he cared for her too; cared for her in his own way
very dearly; and "c'est ce que c'est d'être femme," I fear she hated him all the more! So long
as a woman knows nothing about him, her suspicion that a man likes her is nine points out of
ten in his favour; but directly she has fathomed his intellect and probed his heart; squeezed
the orange, so to speak, and resolved to throw away the rind, in proportion to the constancy
of his attachment will be her weariness of its duration; and from weariness in such matters
there is but one short step to hatred and disgust.

Tom Ryfe must be paid his money. To this conclusion, at least, Maud's reflections never failed
to lead. Without such initiatory proceeding it was useless to think of demanding the return
of that written promise. But how to raise the funds? After much wavering and hesitation, Miss
Bruce resolved at last to pawn her diamonds. So dearly do women love their trinkets, that I
believe, though he never knew it, Tom Ryfe was more than once within an ace of gaining the
prize he longed for, simply from Maud's disinclination to part with her jewels. How little
he dreamt that the very packet which had helped to cement into intimacy his first acquaintance
with her should prove the means of dashing his cherished hopes to the ground, and raising yet
another obstacle to shut him out from his lovely client!

While Maud is meditating in the back drawing-room, and Aunt Agatha, having removed the traces
of emotion from her eyes and nose, is trying on a bonnet up-stairs, Dick Stanmore has shaken
off the dust of a railway journey, in his lodgings, dressed himself from top to toe, and is
driving his phaeton merrily along Piccadilly, on his way to Belgrave Square. How his heart
leaps as he turns the well-known corner! how it beats as he skips into his step-mother's house!--how
it stops when he reaches the door of that back drawing-room, where, knowing the ways of the
establishment, he hopes to find his treasure alone! The colour returns to his face. There she
is in her usual place, her usual attitude, languid, graceful, indolent, yet glad to see him
nevertheless.

"I'm in luck," said Dick, blushing like a school-boy. "My train was late, and I was so afraid
you'd be gone out before I could get here. It seems so long since I've seen you. And where
have you been, and how's my mother, and what have you been doing?"

"What have you been doing, rather?" repeats the young lady, giving him a cool and beautiful
hand that he keeps in his own as long as he dares. "Three days at Newmarket are long enough
to make 'a man or a mouse,' as you call it, of a greater capitalist than you, Mr. Stanmore.
Seriously, I hope you've had a good week."

"Only lost a pony on the whole meeting," answered Dick triumphantly. "And even that was a 'fluke,'
because Bearwarden's Bacchante filly was left at the post."

"I congratulate you," said Maud, with laughter gleaming in her dark eyes. "I suppose you consider
that tantamount to winning. Was Lord Bearwarden much disappointed, and did he swear horribly?"

"Bearwarden never swears," replied Dick. "He only told the starter he wondered he could get
them off at all; for it must have put him out sadly to see all the boys laughing at him. I've
no doubt one or two were fined in the very next race, for the official didn't seem to like it."

Maud pondered. "Is Lord Bearwarden very good-tempered?" said she.

"Well, he never breaks out," answered Dick. "But why do you want to know?"

"Because you and he are such friends," said this artful young lady. '"Because I can't make
him out--because I don't care whether he is or not! And now, Mr. Stanmore, though you've not
been to see your mamma yet, you've behaved like a good boy, considering; so I've got a little
treat in store for you. Will you drive me out in your phaeton?"

"Will a duck swim?" exclaimed Dick, delighted beyond measure, with but the one drawback to
supreme happiness, of a wish that his off-horse had been more than twice in harness.

"Now before I go to put my bonnet on," continued Miss Bruce, threatening him with her finger
like a child, "you must promise to do exactly what you're told--to drive very slow and very
carefully, and to set me down the instant I'm tired of you, because Aunt Agatha won't hear
of our going for more than half-an-hour or so, and it will take some diplomacy to arrange even
that."

Then she tripped up-stairs, leaving the door open, so that Dick, looking at himself in the
glass, wondering, honest fellow, what she could see in him to like, and thinking what a lucky
dog he was, overheard the following conversation at the threshold of his step-mother's chamber
on the floor above.

A light tap--a smothered "Who's there?" and the silvery tones of the voice he loved--

"Aunt Agatha--may Mr. Stanmore drive me to Rose and Brilliant's in his phaeton?"

Something that sounded very like "Certainly not."

"But please, Aunt Agatha," pleaded the voice, "I've got a headache, and an open carriage will
do me so much good, and you can call for me afterwards, whenever you like, to do our shopping.
I sha'n't be five minutes putting my bonnet on, and the wind's changed, and it's such a beautiful
day!"

Here a door opened, whispers were exchanged, it closed with a bang, a bell rang, an organ in
the street struck up "The Marseillaise," and ere it had played eight bars, Maud was on the
stairs again looking, to Dick's admiring eyes, like an angel in a bonnet coming straight down
from heaven.

In after-days he often thought of that happy drive--of the pale beautiful face, in its transparent
little bonnet, turned confidingly upwards to his own, of the winning ways, the playfully imperious
gestures, the sweet caressing voice--of the hope thrilling to his very heart that perhaps for
him might be reserved the blissful lot of thus journeying with her by his side through life.

As they passed into the Park at Albert Gate, two of his young companions nodded and took off
their hats, elbowing each other, as who should say, "I suppose that's a case!" How proud Dick
felt, and how happy! The quarter of a mile that brought him to Apsley House seemed a direct
road to Paradise; the man who is always watering the rhododendrons shone like a glorified being,
and the soft west wind fanned his temples like an air from heaven. How pleasant she was, how
quaint, how satirical, how amusing! Not the least frightened when that off-horse shied in Piccadilly--not
the least impatient (neither, be sure, was he) when a block of carriages kept them stationary
for ten minutes in the narrow gorge of Bond Street. Long before they stopped at Rose and Brilliant's
it was all over with Dick.

"You're not to get out," said Maud, while they drew up to the door of that fashionable jeweller.
"Yes, you may, just to keep my dress off the wheel, but you mustn't come in. I said I'd a treat
for you; now tell me without prevarication--will you have sleeve-links with a cipher or a monogram?
Speak up--in one word--quick!"

Sleeve-links! and from her! A present to be valued and cherished more than life itself. He
could hardly believe his senses. Far too bewildered to solve the knotty point of cipher versus
monogram, he muttered some incoherent syllables, and only began to recover when he had stared
blankly for a good five minutes at the off-horse's ears, from the driving-seat of his phaeton.

It took a long time apparently to pick out those sleeve-links. Perhaps the choicest assortment
of such articles remained in the back shop, for thither Miss Bruce retired; and it is possible
she may have appealed to the proprietor's taste in her selection, since she was closeted with
that gentleman in earnest conference for three-quarters of an hour. Dick had almost got tired
of waiting, when she emerged at last to thank him for her drive, and to present him, as she
affirmed, with the results of her protracted shopping.

"There is a design on them already," said she, slipping a little box of card into his hand
with her pleasantest smile, "so I could not have your initials engraved, but I dare say you
won't lose them all the same."

Dick rather thought not, hiding the welcome keepsake away in his waistcoat-pocket, as near
his heart as the construction of that garment would permit; but his day's happiness was over
now, for Mrs. Stanmore had arrived in her brougham to take his companion away for the rest
of the afternoon.

That night, before he went to bed, I think he was fool enough to kiss the insensible sleeve-links
more than once. They were indeed choice little articles of workmanship, bearing on their surface
two quaint and fanciful designs, representing a brace of Cupids in difficulty, the one singed
by his own torch, the other crying over a broken bow.

At the same hour Maud was enclosing an order for a large sum of money in a letter which seemed
to cost her much study and vexation. Even Miss Bruce found some difficulty in explaining to
a lover that she valued truth, honour, and fidelity at so many hundred pounds, while she begged
to forward him a cheque for the amount in lieu of the goods marked "damaged and returned."

CHAPTER X

THE FAIRY QUEEN

I have said that Simon Perkins was a painter to the tips of his fingers. Just as a carpenter
cannot help looking at a piece of wood with a professional glance it is impossible to mistake--a
glance that seems to embrace at once its length, depth, thickness, toughness, and general capabilities--so
a painter views every object in nature, animate or inanimate, as a subject for imitation and
study of his art. The heavens are not too high, the sea too deep, nor the desert too wide to
afford him a lesson; and the human countenance, with its endless variety of feature and expression,
is a book he never wearies of learning by heart. When his professional interest in beauty is
enhanced by warmer feelings, it may be imagined that vanity could require no fuller tribute
of admiration than the worship of one whose special gift it is to decide on the symmetry of
outward form.

As a painter, Simon Perkins approved of Nina Algernon--as a man he loved her. Lest his position
should not prove sufficiently fatal, she had become of late practically identified with his
art, almost as completely as she was mixed up with his every-day life. For many months, perhaps
even for years, the germ of a great work had taken root in his imagination. Slowly, almost
painfully, that germ developed itself, passing through several stages, sketch upon sketch,
till it came to maturity at last in the composition of a large picture on which he was now
employed.

The subject afforded ample scope for liberty of fancy in form and grouping--for the indulgence
of a gorgeous taste in colouring and costume. It represented Thomas the Rhymer in Fairyland,
at the moment when its glamour is falling from his eyes, when its magic lustre is dying out
on all that glittering pageantry and the elfin is fading to a gnome. The handsome wizard turns
from a crowd of phantom shapes, half lovely, half grotesque--for their change is even now in
progress--to look wistfully and appealingly on the queen.

There is a pained expression in his comely features, of hurt affection, and trust betrayed,
yet not without a ray of pride and triumph, that, come what might to the others, she is still
unchanged. Around him the fairies are shedding their glory as trees in autumn shed their leaves.
Here a sweet laughing face surmounts the hideous body of an imp, there the bright scales of
an unearthly armour shrivel to rottenness and dust. The dazzling robes are turning blank and
colourless, the emerald rays waning to a pale, sad light, the flashing diadem is dulled and
dim. Yet on the fairy queen there lowers no shadow of change, there threaten no symptoms of decay.

Bathed in the halo of a true though hapless love, she is still the same as when he first saw
her all those seven long years ago, glistening in immortal charms, and knelt to her for the
queen of heaven, where she rode--"under the linden tree."

It is obvious that on her countenance, besides the stamp of exceeding beauty, there must appear
sorrow, self-reproach, fortitude, majesty, and undying tenderness. All these the painter thought
he read in Nina Algernon's girlish face.

So she sat to him dutifully enough for a model of his fairy queen, and if she wearied at times,
as I think she must, comforted herself with the remembrance that in this way she helped the
family who gave her bread.

For the convenience of sitters, Simon Perkins had his painting-room in Berners Street: thither
it was his custom to resort in the morning, by penny steamer or threepenny omnibus, and there
he spent many happy hours working hard with palette and brush. Not the least golden seemed
those in which Nina accompanied him to sit patiently while he studied, and drew her, line by
line, feature by feature. The expeditions to and fro were delightful, the labour was pleasure,
the day was gone far too soon.

A morning could not but be fine, when, emerging from an omnibus at Albert Gate, Simon walked
by the side of his model through Hyde Park on their way to Berners Street; but about this period
one morning seemed even finer than common, because that Nina, taking his arm as they crossed
Rotten Row, thought fit to confide to him an interview of the day before with Aunt Jemima,
in which she extorted from that dear old lady with some difficulty the fact of her own friendless
position in the world.

"And I don't mind it a bit," continued the girl, catching her voice like a child, as was her
habit when excited, "for I'm sure you're all so kind to me that I'd much rather not have any
other friends. And I don't want to be independent, and I'll never leave you, so long as you'll
keep me. And O, Simon, isn't it good of your aunts, and you too, to have taken care of me ever
since I was quite a little thing? For I'm no relation, you know--and how can I ever do enough
for you? I can't. It's impossible. And you don't want me to, if I could!"

Notwithstanding the playful manner which was part of Nina's self, there were tears of real
feeling in her eyes, and I doubt if Simon's were quite dry while he answered--

"You belong to us just as much as if you were a relation, Nina. My aunts have said so ever
since I can remember, and as for me, why you used to ride on my foot when you were in short
frocks! What a little romp it was! Always troublesome, and always will be--and that's why we're
so fond of you." He spoke lightly, but his voice shook nevertheless.

"So you ought to be," she answered. "For you know how much I love you all."

"What, even stern Aunt Jemima?" said this blundering young man, clumsily beating about the
bush, and thus scaring the bird quite as much as if he had thrust his hand boldly into the nest.

"Aunt Jemima best of all," replied Nina saucily, "because she's the eldest, and tries to keep
me in order, but she can't."

"And which of us next best, Nina?" continued he, turning away with extraordinary interest in
a mowing-machine.

"Aunt Susannah, of course." This very demurely, while tightening her pretty lips to keep back
a laugh.

"Then I come last," he observed gently; but there was something in the tone that made her glance
sharply in his face.

She pressed his arm. "You dear old simple Simon," said she kindly. "Surely you must know me
by this time. I love you very dearly, just as if you were my brother. Brother, indeed! I don't
think if I'd a father I could be much fonder of him than I am of you."

What a bright morning it had been five minutes ago, and now the sky seemed clouded all at once.
Simon even thought the statue of Achilles looked more grim and ghostly than usual, lowering
there in his naked bronze.

She had wounded him very deeply, that pretty unconscious archer. These random shafts for which
no interposing shield makes ready are sure to find the joints in our harness. A tough hard
nature such as constitutes the true fighter only presses more doggedly to the front, but gentler
spirits are fain to turn aside out of the battle, and go home to die. There came a dimness
before Simon's eyes, and a ringing in his ears. He scarcely heard his companion, while she asked--

"Who are those men bowing? Do you know them? They must take me for somebody else."

"Those men bowing" were two no less important characters than Lord Bearwarden and Tom Ryfe,
the latter in the act of selling the former a horse. Such transactions, for some mysterious
reason, always take place in the morning, and whatever arguments may be adduced against a too
enthusiastic worship of the noble animal, at least it promotes early rising.

Tom Ryfe was one of those men rarely seen in the saddle or on the box, but who, nevertheless,
always seem to have a horse to dispose of, whatever be the kind required. Hack, hunter, pony,
phaeton-horse, he was either possessor of the very animal you wanted, or could suit you with
it at twenty-four hours' notice; yet if you met him by accident riding in the Park, he was
sure to tell you he had been mounted by a friend; if you saw him driving a team--and few could
handle four horses in a crowded thoroughfare with more neatness and precision--you might safely
wager it was from the box of another man's coach.

He was supposed to be a very fine rider over a country, and there were vague traditions of
his having gone exceedingly well through great runs on special occasions; but these exploits
had obviously lost nothing of their interest in the process of narration, and were indeed enhanced
by that obscurity which increases the magnitude of most things, in the moral as in the material
world.

Mr. Ryfe knew all the sporting men about London, but not their wives. He was at home on the
Downs and the Heath, in the pavilion at Lord's, and behind the traps of the Red House. He dined
pretty frequently at the barracks of the household troops, welcome to the genial spirits of
his entertainers, chiefly for those qualities with which they themselves credited him; and
he called Bearwarden "My lord," wherefore that nobleman thought him a snob, and would perhaps
have considered him a still greater if he had not. The horse in question showed good points
and fine action. Mr. Ryfe walked, trotted, cantered, and finally reined him up at the rails
on which Lord Bearwarden was leaning.

"Rather a flat-catcher, Tom," said that nobleman, between the whiffs of a cigar. "Too much
action for a hunter, and too little body. He wouldn't carry my weight if the ground was deep,
though he's not a bad goer, I'll admit."

"Exactly what I said at first, my lord," answered Tom, slipping the reins through his fingers,
and letting the horse reach over the iron bar against his chest to crop the tufts of grass
beneath, an attitude in which his fine shoulders and liberty of frame showed to great advantage.
"I never thought he was a fourteen-stone horse, and I never told you so."

"And I never told you I rode fourteen stone, did I?" replied Lord Bearwarden, who was a little
touchy on that score. "Thirteen five at the outside, and not so much as that after deer-stalking
in Scotland. He's clean thoroughbred, isn't he?"

The purchaser was biting, and Tom understood his business as if he had been brought up to it.

"Clean," he answered, passing his leg over the horse's neck, and sliding to the ground, thus
leaving his saddle empty for the other. "But he's thrown away on a heavy man. His place is
carrying thirteen stone over high Leicestershire. Nothing could touch him there amongst the
hills. Jumping's a vulgar accomplishment. Plenty of them can jump if one dare ride them, but
he's really an extraordinary fencer. Such a mouth, too, and such a gentleman! Why he's the
pleasantest hack in London. You like a nice hack, my lord. Get up and feel him. It's like riding
a bird."

So Lord Bearwarden jumped on, and altered the stirrups, and crammed his hat down, ere he rode
the horse to and fro, trying him in all his paces, and probably falling in love with him forthwith,
for he returned with a brightened eye and higher colour to Tom Ryfe on the footway.

It was at this juncture both gentlemen started and took their hats off to the lady who walked
some fifty paces off, arm-in-arm with Simon Perkins, the painter.

Their salute was not returned. The lady, indeed, to whom it was addressed seemed to hurry on
all the faster with her companion. It was remarkable, and both remarked it, that neither made
any observation on this lack of courtesy, but finished their bargain without apparently half
so much interest in sale or purchase as they felt five minutes ago.

"You'll dine with us, Tom, on the 11th?" said Bearwarden, when they parted opposite Knightsbridge
Barracks, but he was obviously thinking of something else.

"On the 11th," repeated Tom--"delighted, my lord--at eight o'clock, I suppose," and turned
his horse's head soberly towards Piccadilly, proceeding at a walk, as one who revolved certain
reflections, not of the most agreeable, in his mind. A dinner at the barracks was usually rather
an event with Mr. Ryfe, but on the present occasion he forgot all about it before he had gone
a hundred yards.

Lord Bearwarden, rejecting the temptation of luncheon in the mess-room, ran up-stairs to his
own quarters to think--of course he smoked at the same time.

This nobleman was one of the many of his kind who, to their credit be it said, are not spoiled
by sailing down the stream with the wind in their favour. He had been "a good fellow" at Eton,
he remained "a good fellow" in the regiment. With general society he was not perhaps quite
so popular. People said he "required knowing"; and for those who didn't choose to take the
trouble of knowing him he was a little reserved; with men, even a little rough. His manner
was of the world, worldly, and gave the idea of complete heartlessness and savoir faire; yet
under this seemingly impervious covering lurked a womanly romance of temperament, a womanly
tenderness of heart, than which nothing would have made him so angry as to be accused of possessing.
His habits were manly and simple, his chief ambition was to distinguish himself as a soldier,
and so far as he could find opportunity he had seen service with credit on the staff. A keen
sportsman, he could ride and shoot as well as his neighbours, and this is saying no little
amongst the young officers of the Household Brigade.

Anything but a "ladies' man," there was yet something about Bearwarden, irrespective of his
income and his coronet, that seemed to interest women of all temperaments and characters. They
would turn away from far handsomer, better dressed, and more amusing people to attract his
notice when he entered a room, and the more enterprising would even make fierce love to him
on further acquaintance, particularly after they discovered what up-hill work it was. Do they
appreciate a difficulty the greater trouble it requires to surmount, or do they enjoy a scrape
the more, that they have to squeeze themselves into it by main force? I wonder if the sea-nymphs
love their Tritons because those zoophytes must necessarily be so cold! It is doubtless against
the hard impenetrable rock that the sea-waves dash themselves again and again. Bearwarden responded
but faintly to the boldest advances. There must be a reason for it, said the fair assailants.
Curiosity grew into interest, and, flavoured with a dash of pique, formed one of those messes
with which, in stimulating their vanity, women fancy they satisfy their hunger of the heart.

Bearwarden was a man with a history; of this they were quite sure, and herein they were less
mistaken than people generally find themselves who jump to conclusions. Yes, Bearwarden had
a history, and a sad one, so far as the principal actor was concerned. Indeed he dared not
think much about it even yet, and drove it--for he was no weak, silly sentimentalist--by sheer
force of will out of his mind. Indeed, if it had not wholly changed his real self, it had encrusted
him with that hardness and roughness of exterior which he turned instinctively to the world.
The same thing had happened to him that happens to most of us at one time or another. Just
as the hunting man, sooner or later, is pretty sure to be laid up with a broken collar-bone,
so in the career of life must be encountered that inevitable disaster which results in a wounded
spirit and a sore heart. The collar-bone, we all know, is a six weeks' job; but injuries of
a tenderer nature take far longer to heal. Nevertheless, the cure of these, too, is but a question
of time, though, to carry on the metaphor, I think in either case the hapless rider loses some
of the zest and dash which distinguished his earlier performances, previous to discomfiture.
"Only a woman's hair," wrote Dean Swift on a certain packet hidden away in his desk. And thus
a very dark page in Lord Bearwarden's history might have been headed "Only a woman's falsehood."
Not much to make a fuss about, surely; but he was kind, generous, of a peculiarly trustful
disposition, and it punished him very sharply, though he tried hard to bear his sorrow like
a man. It was the usual business. He had attached himself to a lady of somewhat lower social
standing than his own, of rather questionable antecedents, and whom the world accepted to a
certain extent on sufferance, as it were, and under protest, yet welcomed her cordially enough,
nevertheless. His relations abused her, his friends warned him against her; of course he loved
her very dearly, all the more that he had to sacrifice many interests for her sake, and so
resolved to make her his wife.

For reasons of her own she stipulated that he should leave his regiment, and even in this,
though he would rather have lost an arm, he yielded to her wish.

The letter to his colonel, in which he requested permission to send in his papers, actually
lay sealed on the table, when he received a note in a well-known hand that taught him the new
lesson he had never expected to learn. The writer besought his forgiveness, deploring her own
heartlessness the while, and proceeded to inform him that there was a Somebody else in the
field to whom she was solemnly promised (just as she had been to him), and with whom she was
about to unite her Lot--capital L. She never could be happy, of course, but it was her destiny:
to fight against it was useless, and she trusted Lord B. would forget her, etc., etc. All this
in well-chosen language, and written with an exceedingly good pen.

It was lucky his letter to the colonel had not been sent. In such sorrows as these a soldier
learns how his regiment is his real home, how his comrades are the staunchest, the least obtrusive,
and the sincerest of friends.

Patting his charger's neck at the very next field-day, Bearwarden told himself there was much
to live for still; that it would be unsoldierlike, unmanly, childish, to neglect duty, to wince
from pleasure, to turn his back on all the world had to offer, only because a woman followed
her nature and changed her mind.

So he bore it very well, and those who knew him best wondered he cared so little: and all the
while he never heard a strain of music, nor felt a ray of sunshine, nor looked on beauty of
any kind whatever, without that gnawing cruel pain at his heart. Thus the years passed on,
and the women of his family declared that Bearwarden was a confirmed old bachelor.

When he met Miss Bruce at Lady Goldthred's, no doubt he admired her beauty and approved of
her manner, but it was neither beauty nor manner, nor could he have explained what it was,
that caused the pulses within him to stir, as they stirred long ago--that brought back a certain
flavour of the old draught he had quaffed so eagerly, to find it so bitter at the dregs. Another
meeting with Maud, a dance or two, a whisper on a crowded staircase, and Lord Bearwarden told
himself that the deep wound had healed at last; that the grass was growing fresh and fair over
the grave of a dead love; that for him too, as for others, there might still be an interest
in the chances of the great game.

Surely the blind restored to sight is more grateful, more joyous, more triumphant, than he
who, born in darkness, finds himself overwhelmed and dazzled with the glare of his new gift!

Some men are so strangely constituted that they like a woman all the better for "snubbing"
them. Lord Bearwarden had never felt so grave an interest in Miss Bruce as when he entered
the barracks under the impression she had cut him dead, without the slightest pretext or excuse.

Not so Tom Ryfe. In that gentleman's mind mingled the several disagreeable sensations of surprise,
anger, jealousy, and disgust. Of these he chewed the bitter cud while he rode home, wondering
with whom Miss Bruce could thus dare to parade herself in public, maddened at the open rebellion
inferred by so ignoring his presence and his love, vowing to revenge himself without delay
by tightening the curb and making her feel, to her cost, the hold he possessed over her person
and her actions. By the time he reached his uncle's house, he had made up his mind to demand
an explanation, to come to a final understanding, to assert his authority, and to avenge his
pride. He turned pale to see Maud's monogram on the envelope of a letter that had arrived during
his absence; paler still, when from this letter a thin slip of stamped paper fluttered to the
floor--white to the very lips while he read the sharp, decisive, cruel lines that accounted
for its presence in the missive, and that bade him relinquish at a word all the hope and happiness
of his life. Without unbuttoning his coat, without removing the hat from his head, or the gloves
from his hands, he sat fiercely down, and wrote his answer.

"You think to get rid of me, Miss Bruce, as you would get rid of an unsuitable servant, by
giving him his wages and bidding him to go about his business. You imagine that the debt between
us is such as a sum of money can at once wipe out: that because you have been able to raise
this money (and how you did so I think I have a right to ask) our business connection ceases,
and the lover, inconvenient, no doubt, from his priority of claim, must go to the wall directly
the lawyer has been paid his bill. You never were more mistaken in your life. Have you forgotten
a certain promise I hold of yours, written in your own hand, signed with your own signature,
furnished, as itself attests, of your own free will? and do you think I am a likely man to
forego such an advantage? You might have had me for a friend--how dear a friend I cannot bear
to tell you now. If you persist in making me an enemy, you have but yourself to blame. I am
not given to threaten; and you know that I can generally fulfil what I promise. I give you
fair warning then: so surely as you try, in the faintest item, to elude your bargain, so surely
will I cross your path, and spoil your game, and show you up before the world. Mine you are,
and mine you shall be. If of free will, happily; if not, then to your misery and my own. But,
mark me, always mine!"

"The wisest clerks are not the wisest men." It is a bad plan ever to drive a woman into a corner;
and with all his knowledge of law, I think Mr. Ryfe could hardly have written a more ill-advised
and injudicious letter than the above to Miss Bruce.

CHAPTER XI

IN THE SCALES

It was a declaration of war. Of all women in the world--and this is saying a great deal--Maud
was perhaps the least disposed to accept anything like usurpation, or assumption of undue authority,
especially on the part of one in whose character she had detected an element of weakness. Tom
Ryfe, notwithstanding his capabilities, was a fool, like most others, where his feelings were
touched, and proved it by the injudicious means he used to attain the end he so desired.

Locked in her own room, she read his letter over and over again, with a bitter curl of her
lip, that denoted hatred, scorn, even contempt. When a man has been unfortunate enough to excite
the last of these amiable feelings, he should lose no time in decamping, for the game is wholly
and irretrievably lost. Mr. Ryfe would have felt this, could he have seen the gestures of the
woman he loved, while she tore his letter into shreds--could he have marked the carriage of
her haughty head, the compression of her sweet, resolute lips, the fierce energy of her white,
cruel hands. Maud paced the floor for some half-dozen turns, opened the window, arranged the
bottles on her toilet-table, the flowers on her chimney-piece, even took a good long look at
herself in the glass, and sat down to think.

For weeks she had been revolving in her mind the necessity of breaking with Tom Ryfe, the policy
of securing position and freedom by an early marriage. That odious letter decided her; and
now it only remained to make her choice. There are women--and these, though sometimes the most
fascinating, by no means the most trustworthy of their sex--who possess over mankind a mesmeric
influence, almost akin to witchcraft. Without themselves feeling deeply, perhaps for the very
reason that they do not, they are capable of exercising a magic sway over those with whom they
come in contact; and while they attract more admirers than they know what to do with, are seldom
very fortunate in their selection, or happy in their eventual lot. Miss Bruce was one of these
witches, far more mischievous than the old conventional hags we used to burn under the sapient
government of our first Stuart, and she knew a deal better than any old woman who ever mounted
a broom-stick the credulity of her victims, the dangerous power of her spells. These she had
lately been using freely. It was time to turn their exercise to good account.

"Mr. Stanmore would, in a moment," thought Maud, "if I only gave him the slightest hint. And
I like him. Yes, I like him very much indeed. Poor Dick! What a fool one can make a man look,
to be sure, when he's in love, as people call it! Aunt Agatha wouldn't much fancy it, I suppose;
not that I should care two pins about that. And Dick's very easy to manage--too easy, I think.
He seems as if I couldn't make him angry. I made him sorry, though, the other day, poor fellow!
but that's not half such fun. Now Lord Bearwarden has got a temper, I'm sure. I wonder, if
we were to quarrel, which would give in first. I don't think I should. I declare it would be
rather nice to try. He's good-looking--that's to say, good-looking for a man. It's an ugly
animal at best. And they tell me the Den is such a pretty place in the autumn! And twenty thousand
a year! I don't care so much about the money part of it. Of course one must have money; but
Selina St. Croix assured me that they called him The Impenetrable; and there wasn't a girl
in London he ever danced with twice. Wasn't there? He danced with me three times in two hours;
but I didn't say so. I suppose people would open their eyes. I've a great mind--a very great
mind. But then, there's Dick. He'd be horribly bored, poor fellow! And the worst of it is,
he wouldn't say anything; but I know exactly how he'd look, and I should feel I was a least!
What a bother it all is! But something must be done. I can't go on with this sort of life;
I can't stand Aunt Agatha much longer. There she goes, calling on the stairs again! Why can't
she send my maid up, if she wants me?"

But Miss Bruce ran down willingly enough when her aunt informed her, from the first floor,
that she must make haste, and Dick was in the large drawing-room.

She found mother and son, as they called themselves, buried in a litter of cards, envelopes,
papers of every description referring to "Peerage," "Court Guide," visiting-list--all such
aids to memory--the charts, as it were, of that voyage which begins in the middle of April,
and ends with the last week in July. As usual on great undertakings, from the opening of a
campaign to the issuing of invitations for a ball, too much had been left to the last moment;
there was a great deal to do, and little time to do it.

"We can't get on without you, Miss Bruce," said Dick, with rising colour and averted eyes,
that denoted how much less efficient an auxiliary he would prove since she had come into the
room. "My mother has mislaid the old visiting-list, and the new one only goes down to T: so
that the U's, and the V's, and W's will be all left out. Think how we shall be hated in London
next week! To be sure it's what my mother calls 'small and early' like young potatoes, and
I hear there are three hundred cards sent out already."

"You'll only hinder us, Mr. Stanmore," said Maud. "Hadn't you better go away again?" but observing
Dick's face fall, the smiling eyes added, plainly as words could speak, "if you can!" She looked
pale though, and unhappy, he thought. Of course he felt fonder of her than ever.

"Hinder you!" he repeated. "Why, I'm the mainstay of the whole performance. Don't I bring you
eight-and-twenty dancing men? all at once if you wish it, in a body, like soldiers."

"Nonsense, my dear," interrupted Aunt Agatha. "The staircase will be crowded enough as it is."

Maud laughed.

"But are they real dancing men?" she asked, "not 'dummies,' 'duffers,'--what do you call them?
people who only stand against the wall and look idiotic. They're no use unless they work regularly
through, as if it was a match or a boat-race. I don't call it dancing to hover about, and be
always wanting to go down to tea or supper, and to haunt one and look cross if one behaves
with common propriety--like some people I know."

Dick accepted the imputation.

"I'm not a dancing man," said he, "though my eight-and-twenty friends are. I cannot see the
pleasure of being hustled about in a hot room with a girl I never saw before in my life, and
never want to see again,--who is looking beyond me all the time, watching the door for another
fellow who never comes."

"Then why on earth do you go?" asked Miss Bruce simply.

"You know why," he answered in a low voice, without raising his eyes to her face.

"O! I dare say," replied Maud; but though it was couched in a tone of banter, the smile that
accompanied this pertinent remark seemed to afford Dick unbounded satisfaction.

Mrs. Stanmore looked up from her writing-table.

"I can't get on while you two are jabbering in that corner." (She had not heard a word either
of them said.) "I'll take my visiting-list up-stairs. You can put these cards in envelopes
and direct them. It will help me a little, but you're neither of you much use."

She gathered her materials together, and was leaving the room. Dick's heart began beating to
some purpose; but his step-mother stopped at the door and addressed her niece.

"By the bye, Maud, I'd almost forgotten. I'm going to Rose and Brilliant's. Fetch me your diamonds,
and I'll take them to be cleaned. I can see the people myself, you know, and make sure of your
having them back in time for the ball."

The girl turned white. Dick saw it, though his mother did not. He observed, too, that she gasped
as if she was trying to form words which would not come.

"I am not going to wear them." She got it out at last with difficulty.

"Not wear them! nonsense!" was the reply. "Bring them down, my dear, at any rate, and let me
look them over. If you don't want it, you might lend me the collar--it would go very well with
my mauve satin."

Maud's eyes turned here and there as if to look for help, and it was Dick's nature to throw
himself in the gap.

"I'll take them, mother," said he. "My phaeton's at the door now. You've plenty to do, and
it will save you a long drive. Besides, I can blow the people up more effectually than a lady."

"I'm not so sure of that," answered Mrs. Stanmore. "However, it's a sensible plan enough. Maud
can fetch them down for you, and you may come back to dinner if you're disengaged."

So speaking, Mrs. Stanmore sailed off, leaving the young people alone.

Maud thanked him with such a look as would have repaid Dick for a far longer expedition than
from Belgravia to Bond Street.

"What should I do without you, Mr. Stanmore?" she said. "You always come to the rescue just
when I want you most."

He coloured with delight.

"I like doing things for you," said he simply; "but I don't know that taking a parcel a mile
and a half is such a favour after all. If you'll bring it, I'll start directly you give the word."

Miss Bruce had been very pale hitherto, now a burning blush swept over her face to the temples.

"I--I can't bring you my diamonds," said she, "for the first of those thirty reasons that prevented
Napoleon's general from bringing up his guns--I haven't got them: they're at Rose and Brilliant's
already."

"Maud!" he exclaimed, unconsciously using her Christian name--a liberty with which she seemed
in nowise offended.

"You may well say 'Maud'!" she murmured in a soft, low voice. "If you knew all, you'd never
call me Maud. I don't believe you'd ever speak to me again." "Then I'd rather not know all,"
he replied. "Though it would have to be something very bad indeed if it could make me think
ill of you! Don't tell me anything, Miss Bruce, except that you would like your diamonds back
again."

"They must be got back!" she exclaimed. "I must have them back by fair means or foul. I can't
face Aunt Agatha, now that she knows, and can't appear at her ball without them. O! Mr. Stanmore,
what shall I do? Do you think Rose and Brilliant's would lend them to me only for one night?"

Dick began to suspect something, began to surmise that this young lady had been "raising the
wind," as he called it, and to wonder for what mysterious purpose she could want so large a
sum as had necessitated the sacrifice of her most valuable jewels; but she seemed in such distress
that he felt this was no time for explanation.

"Do!" he repeated cheerfully, and walking to the window that he might not seem to notice her
trouble. "Why do as I wish you had done all through. Leave everything to me. I was going to
say 'trust me,' but I don't want to be trusted. I only want to be made use of."

Her better nature was conquering her fast.

"But indeed I will trust you," she murmured. "You deserve to be trusted. You are so kind, so
good, so true. You will despise me, I know--very likely hate me, and never come to see me again;
but I don't care--I can't help it. Sit down, and I will tell you everything."

He did not blush nor stammer now, his voice was very firm, and he stood up like a man.

"Miss Bruce," said he, "Maud--yes, I'm not afraid to call you Maud--I won't hear another word.
I don't want to be told anything. Whatever you have done makes no difference to me. Some day,
perhaps, you'll remember how I believed in you. In the meantime tell my mother that the diamonds
will be back in time for her ball. How late it is! I must be off like a shot. Those horses
will be perfectly wild with waiting. I'm coming to dinner. Good-bye!"

He hurried away without another look, and Maud, burying her head in the sofa-cushions, burst
out crying, as she had not cried since she was a child.

"He's too good for me!--he's too good for me!" she repeated, between the sobs she tried hard
to keep back. "How wicked and vile I should be to throw him over! He's too good for me!--too
good for me by far!"

CHAPTER XII

"A CRUEL PARTING"

The phaeton-horses went off like wildfire, Dick driving as if he was drunk. Omnibus-cads looked
after him with undisguised admiration, and hansom cabmen, catching the enthusiasm of pace,
found themselves actually wishing they were gentlemen's servants, to have their beer found,
and sit behind such steppers as those!

The white foam stood on flank and shoulder when the pair were pulled up at Rose and Brilliant's
door.

Dick bustled in with so agitated an air that an experienced shopman instantly lifted the glass
from a tray containing the usual assortment of wedding-rings.

"I'm come about some diamonds," panted the customer, casting a wistful glance towards these
implements of coercion the while. "A set of diamonds--very valuable--left here by a lady--a
young lady--I want them back again."

He looked about him helplessly; nevertheless, the shopman, himself a married man, became at
once less commiserating, and more confidential.

"Diamonds!" he repeated. "Let me see--yes, sir--quite so--I think I recollect. Perhaps you'll
step in and speak to our principal. Mind your hat, if you please, sir--yes, sir--this way, sir."

So saying, he ushered Mr. Stanmore through glass doors into a neat little room at the back,
where sat a bald, smiling personage in sober attire, something between that of a provincial
master of hounds and a low-church clergyman, whose cool composure, as it struck Dick at the
time, afforded a ludicrous contrast to his own fuss and agitation.

"My name is Rose, sir," said the placid man. "Pray take a seat."

Nobody can "take a seat" under feelings of strong excitement. Dick grasped the proffered chair
by the back.

"Mr. Rose," he began, "what I have to say to you goes no farther."

"O dear, no!--certainly not--Mr. Stanmore, I believe? I hope I see you well, sir. This is my
private room, you understand, sir. Whatever affairs we transact here are in private. How can
I accommodate you, Mr. Stanmore?" Dick looked so eager, the placid man was persuaded he must
want money.

"There's a young lady," said Dick, plunging at his subject, "who left her diamonds here last
week--quite a young lady--very handsome. Did she give you her name?"

Mr. Rose smiled and shook his head benevolently. "If any jewels of value were left with us,
you may be sure we satisfied ourselves of the party's name and address. Perhaps I can help
you, Mr. Stanmore. Can you favour me with the date?"

"Yes, I can," answered Dick, "and the name too. It's no use humbugging about it. Miss Bruce
was the lady's name. There! Now she wants her jewels back again. She's changed her mind."

Mr. Rose took a ledger off the table, and ran his finger down its columns. "Quite correct,
sir," said he, stopping at a particular entry. "You are acquainted with the circumstances,
of course."

Dick nodded, esteeming it little breach of confidence to look as if he knew all about it.

"There is no difficulty whatever," continued the bland Mr. Rose. "Happy to oblige Miss Bruce.
Happy to oblige you. We shall charge a small sum for commission. Nothing more--O dear, no!
Have them cleaned up? Certainly, sir; and you may depend on their being sent home in time.
At your convenience, Mr. Stanmore. No hurry, sir. You can write me your cheque for the amount.
Perhaps I'd better draw out a little memorandum. We shall make a mere nominal charge for cleaning."

Dick glanced over the memorandum, including its nominal charge for cleaning, which, perhaps
from ignorance, did not strike him as being extraordinarily low. He was somewhat startled at
the sum total, but when this gentleman made up his mind, it was not easy to turn him from an
object in view.

The steppers, hardly cool, were hurried straight off to his bankers', to be driven, after their
owner's interview with one of the partners, back again to the great emporium of their kind
at Tattersall's.

A woman who wants to make a sacrifice parts with her jewels, a man sells his horses. Honour
to each, for each offers up what is nearest and dearest to the heart.

Dick Stanmore lived no more within his income than other people. To get back these diamonds
he would have to raise a considerable sum. There was nothing else to be done. The hunters must
go: nay, the whole stud, phaeton-horses, hacks, and all. Yet Dick marched into the office to
secure stalls for an early date, with a bright eye and a smiling face. He was proving, to himself,
at least, how well he loved her.

The first person he met in the yard was Lord Bearwarden. That nobleman, though knowing him
but slightly, had rather a liking for Stanmore, cemented by a certain good run they once saw
in company, when each approved of the other's straightforward riding and unusual forbearance
towards hounds.

"There's a nice horse in the boxes," said my lord; "looks very like your sort, Stanmore, and
they say he'll go cheap, though he's quite sound."

"Thanks," answered Dick. "But I'm all the other way. Been taking stalls. Going to sell."

"Draft?" asked his lordship, who did not waste words.

"All of them," replied the other. "Even the hacks, saddlery, clothing, in short, the whole
plant, and without reserve--going to give it up--at any rate for a time."

"Sorry for that," replied Bearwarden, adding, courteously, "Can I offer you a lift? I'm going
your way. Indeed, I'm going to call at your mother's. Shall I find the ladies at home?"

"A little later you will," said honest, unsuspecting Dick, who had not yet learned the lesson
that teaches it is not worth while to trust or mistrust any of the sex. "They'll be charmed
to give you some tea. I'm off to Croydon to look over my poor screws before they're sold, and
break it to my groom."

"That's a right good fellow," thought Lord Bearwarden, "and not a bad connection if I was fool
enough to marry the dark girl, after all." So he called out to Dick, who had one foot on the
step of his phaeton--

"I say, Stanmore, come and dine with us on the 11th; we've got two or three hunting fellows,
and we can go on together afterwards to your mother's ball."

"All right," said Stanmore, and bowled away in the direction of Croydon at the rate of fourteen
miles an hour. If the horses were to be sold, people might just as well be made aware of the
class of animal he kept. Though the sacrifice involved was considerable, it would be wise to
lessen it by all judicious means in his power.

How great a sacrifice he scarcely felt till he arrived at his country stables.

Dick Stanmore had been fonder of hunting than any other pursuit in the world, ever since he
went out for the first time on a Shetland pony, and came home with his nose bleeding, at five
years old.

The spin and "whizz" of his reel, the rush of a brown mountain stream with its fringe of silver
birch and stunted alder, the white side of a leaping salmon, and the gasp of that noble fish
towed deftly into the shallows at last, afforded him a natural and unmixed pleasure. He loved
the heather dearly, the wild hillside, the keen pure air, the steady setters, the flap and
cackle of the rising grouse, the ringing shot that laid him low, born in the purple, and fated
there to die. Nor, when corn-fields were cleared, and partridges, almost as swift as bullets
and as numerous as locusts, were driven to and fro across the open, was his aim to be foiled
by a flight little less rapid than the shot that arrested it. With a rifle in his hand, a general
knowledge of the surrounding forest, and a couple of gillies, give him the wind of a royal
stag feeding amongst his hinds, and despite the feminine jealousy and instinctive vigilance
of the latter, an hour's stalk would put the lord of the hills at the mercy of Dick Stanmore.
In all these sports he was a proficient, from all of them he derived a keen gratification,
but fox-hunting was his passion and his delight.

A fine rider, he loved the pursuit so well, and was so interested in hounds, that he gave his
horse every opportunity of carrying him in front, and as his natural qualities included a good
eye, and that confidence in the immediate future which we call "nerve," he was seen in difficulties
less often than might be expected from his predilection in favour of "the shortest way."

His horses generally appeared to go pleasantly, and to reciprocate their rider's confidence,
for he certainly seemed to get more work out of them than his neighbours.

As Mr. Crop, his stud-groom, remarked in the peculiar style of English affected by that trustworthy
but exceedingly impracticable servant--

"Take and put him on a 'arf-bred' 'oss, an' he rides him like a hangel, nussin' of him, and
coaxin' of him, and sendin' of him along, beautiful for ground, an' uncommon liberal for fences.
Take an' put him on a thoro'-bred 'un, like our Vampire 'oss, and--Lor!"

One secret perhaps of that success in the hunting-field, which, when well mounted, even Mr.
Crop's eloquence was powerless to express but by an interjection, lay in his master's affection
for the animal. Dick Stanmore dearly loved a horse, as some men do love them, totally irrespective
of any pleasure or advantage to be derived from their use.

There is a fanciful oriental legend which teaches that when Allah was engaged in the work of
creation, he tempered the lightning with the south wind, and thus created the horse. Whimsical
as is this idea, it yet suggests the swiftness, the fire, the mettlesome, generous, but plastic
temperament of our favourite quadruped--the only one of our dumb servants in whose spirit we
can rouse at will the utmost emulation, the keenest desire for the approval of its lord. Even
the countenance of this animal denotes most of the qualities we affect to esteem in the human
race--courage, docility, good-temper, reflection (for few faces are so thoughtful as that of
the horse), gratitude, benevolence, and, above all, trust. Yes, the full brown eye, large,
and mild, and loving, expresses neither spite, nor suspicion, nor revenge. It turns on you
with the mute unquestioning confidence of real affection, and you may depend on it under all
pressure of circumstance, in the last extremity of danger or death. Will you say as much for
the bluest eyes that ever sparkled in mirth, or swam in tears, or shone and deepened under
the combined influence of triumph, belladonna, and war-paint?

I once heard a man affirm that for him there was in every horse's face the beauty each of us
sees in the one woman he adores. This outrageous position he assumed after a good run, and,
indeed, after the dinner which succeeded it. I will not go quite so far as to agree with him,
but I will say that in generosity, temper, and fidelity, there is many a woman, and man too,
who might well take example from the noble qualities of the horse.

And now Dick Stanmore was about to offer up half-a-dozen of these valued servants before the
idol he had lately begun to worship, for whom, indeed, he esteemed no victim too precious,
no sacrifice too dear.

Driving into his stable-yard, he threw the reins to a couple of helpers, and made use of Mr.
Crop's arm to assist his descent. That worthy's face shone with delight. Next to his horses
he loved his master--chiefly, it is fair to say, as an important ingredient without which there
would be no stud.

"I was expectin' of ye, sir," said he, touching an exceedingly straight-brimmed hat. "Glad
to see ye lookin' so well."

To do him justice, Mr. Crop did his duty as if he always was expecting his master.

"Horses all right?" asked Dick, moving towards the stable-door.

"'Osses is 'ealthy, I am thankful to say," replied the groom gravely, "and lookin', too, pretty
nigh as I could wish, now they've done breakin' with their coats. There's Firetail got a queerish
look--them Northamptonshire 'osses is mostly unsound ones--and the mare's off leg's filled;
and the Vampire 'oss, he's got a bit of a splent a-comin', but I'll soon frighten that away;
an' old Dandybrush, he's awful, but not wuss nor I counted; and the young un--"

"I'll look 'em over," said Dick, interrupting what threatened to be a long catalogue. "I came
down on purpose. The fact is (take those horses out and feed them)--the fact is, Crop, I'm
going to sell them all. I'm going to send them up to Tattersall's."

Every groom is more or less a sporting man, and it is the peculiarity of sporting men to betray
astonishment at no eventuality, however startling; therefore Mr. Crop, doing violence to his
feelings, moved not a muscle of his countenance.

"I'm sorry to part with them, Crop," added Dick, a little put out by the silence of his retainer,
and not knowing exactly what to say next. "They've carried me very well--I've seen a deal of
fun on them--I don't suppose I shall ever have such good ones--I don't suppose I shall ever
hunt much again."

Mr. Crop began to thaw. "They're good 'osses," he observed sententiously; "but that's not to
say as there isn't good 'osses elsewheres. In regard of not huntin' there's a many seasons,
askin' your pardon, atween you and me, and I should be sorry to think as I wasn't goin' huntin',
ay, twenty years from now! When is 'em goin' up, sir?" added he, sinking sentiment and coming
to business at once.

"Monday fortnight," answered Dick, entering a loose box, in which stood a remarkably handsome
mare, that neighed at him, and rubbed her head against his breast.

"I should ha' liked another ten days," replied Crop, for it was an important part of his system
never to accept his master's arrangements without a protest. "I could ha' got 'em to show as
they ought to show by then. Is the stalls took?"

Dick nodded. He was looking wistfully at the mare, thinking what a light mouth she had, and
how boldly she faced water.

"That leg'll be as clean as my face in a week," observed Mr. Crop confidently. "She'll fetch
a good price, she will. Sir Frederic's after her, I know. There's nothing but tares in there,
sir; old Dandybrush is in the box on the right."

Dick gave the mare a loving pat, and turned sadly into the residence of old Dandybrush.

That experienced animal greeted him with laid-back ears and a grin, as though to say, "Here
you are again! But I like you best in your red coat."

They had seen many a good gallop together, and rolled over each other with the utmost good-humour,
in every description of soil. To look at the old horse, even in his summer guise, was to recall
the happiest moments of a sufficiently happy life.

"I'd meant to guv it him pretty sharp," said Crop; "but I'll let him alone now. He'd 'a carried
you, maybe, another season or two, with a good strong dressin'; but them legs isn't what they
was. Last time as I rode of him second horse, I found him different--gettin' inquisitive at
his places--and when they gets inquisitive they soon begins to get slow. You'll look at the
Vampire 'oss, sir, before you go back to town?"

Now "the Vampire 'oss," as he called him, was an especial favourite with Mr. Crop. Dick Stanmore
had bought him out of training at Newmarket by his groom's advice, and the highbred animal,
being ridden by an exceedingly good horseman, had turned out a far better hunter than common--not
invariably the case with horses that begin life on the Heath. Crop took great pride in this
purchase, confidently asserting, and doubtless believing, that England could not produce its equal.

He threw the box-door open with the air of a man who is going to exhibit a picture of his own
painting.

"It's a pity to let him go," said the groom, with a sigh. "Where'll you get another as can
touch him when the ground's deep, like it was last March? I've had a many to look after, first
and last; but such a kind 'oss to do for in the stable I never see. Why, if you was to give
that 'oss ten feeds of corn a day he'd take an' eat 'em all out clean--wouldn't leave a hoat!
And legs. Them's not legs! them's slips of gutta-percher an' steel! To be sure he'll fetch
a hawful price at the 'ammer--four 'underd, five 'underd, I shouldn't wonder--why he's worth
all the money to look at. Blessed if you mightn't ride a good 'ack to death only tryin' to
find such another!"

Nevertheless, the Vampire horse was condemned to go up with the rest. Notwithstanding the truth
of the groom's protestations, its money value was exactly the quality that decided the animal's
fate.

Driving back to London, Dick's heart bounded to think that in an hour's time he should meet
Miss Bruce again at dinner. How delightful to be doing all this for her sake, yet to keep the
precious secret safe locked in his own breast, until the moment should come when it would be
judicious to divulge it, making, at the same time, another confession, of which he hoped the
result might be happiness for life.

"I'd do more than that for her," muttered this enthusiastic young gentleman, while he trotted
over Vauxhall Bridge. "I liked my poor horses better than anything; and that's just the reason
I like to part with them for her sake. My darling, I'd give you the heart out of my breast,
even if I thought you'd tread it under foot and send it back again!"

Had such an anatomical absurdity been reconcilable with the structure of the human frame, it
is possible Miss Bruce might have treated this important organ in the contumelious manner suggested.

CHAPTER XIII

SIXES AND SEVENS

In the meantime, while Dick Stanmore is hugging himself in the warm atmosphere of hope, while
Lord Bearwarden hovers on the brink of a stream in which he narrowly escaped drowning long
ago, while Tom Ryfe is plunged in depths of anxiety, jealousy, and humiliation that scorch
like liquid fire, Miss Bruce's dark eyes, and winning, wilful ways, have kindled the torch
of mistrust and discord between two people of whom she has rarely seen the one and never heard
of the other.

Mr. Bargrave's chambers in Gray's Inn were at no time more remarkable for cleanliness than
other like apartments in the same locality; but the dust lies inch-thick now in all places
where dust can lie, because that Dorothea, more moping and tearful than ever, has not the heart
to clean up, no, nor even to wash her own hands and face in the afternoon as heretofore.

She loves her "Jim," of course, all the more passionately that he makes her perfectly miserable,
neglecting her for days together, and when they do meet, treating her with an indifference
far more lacerating than any amount of cruelty or open scorn.

Not that he is always good-humoured. On the contrary, "Gentleman Jim," as they call him, has
lost much of the rollicking, devil-may-care recklessness that earned his nickname, and is often
morose now--sometimes even fierce and savage to brutality.

The poor woman has had a quarrel with him, not two hours ago, originating, it is but fair to
state, in her own extremely irritating conduct regarding beer, Jim being anxious to treat his
ladye-love with that fluid for the purpose, as he said, of "drowning unkindness," and possibly
with the further view of quenching an inconvenient curiosity she has lately indulged about
his movements. No man likes to be watched; and the more reason the woman he is betraying has
to doubt him, the less patience he shows for her anxiety, the less he tolerates her inquiries,
her jealousy, or her reproaches.

Now Dorothea's suspicions, sharpened by affection, have of late grown extremely wearisome,
and Jim has been heard to threaten more than once that "if so be as she doesn't mend her manners,
and live conformable, he'll take an' hook it, he will, blessed if he won't!"--a dark saying
which sinks deeply and painfully into the forlorn one's heart. When, therefore, instead of
drinking her share, as usual, of a foaming quart measure containing beer, dashed with something
stronger, this poor thing set it down untasted, and forthwith began to cry, the cracksman's
anger knew no bounds.

"Drop it!" he exclaimed brutally. "You'd best, I tell ye! D'ye think I want my blessed drink
watered with your blessed nonsense? What's come to ye, ye contrairy devil? I thought I'd larned
ye better. I'll see if I can't larn ye still. Would ye now!"

It was almost a blow,--such a push as is the next thing to actual violence, and it sent her
staggering from the sloppy bar at which their altercation took place against a bench by the
wall, where she sat down pale and gasping, to the indignation of a slatternly woman nursing
her child, and the concern of an honest coalheaver, who had a virago of a wife at home.

"Easy, mate!" expostulated that worthy, putting his broad frame between the happy pair. "Hold
on a bit, an' give her a drop when she comes to. She'd 'a throwed her arms about your neck
a while ago, an' now she'd as soon knife ye as look at ye."

Wild-eyed and pale, Dorothea glared round, as Clytemnestra may have glared when her hand rested
on the fatal axe; but this Holborn Agamemnon did not seem destined to fall by a woman's blow,
inasmuch as the tide was effectually turned by another woman's interference.

The slatternly lady, shouldering her child, as a soldier does his firelock, thrust herself
eagerly forward.

"Knife him!" she exclaimed, with a most unfeminine execration. "I'd knife him, precious soon,
if it was me, the blessed willen! To take an' use a woman like that there--a nasty, cowardly,
sneakin,' ugly, tallow-faced beast!"

Had it not been for the imputation on his beauty, Dorothea might perhaps have blazed out in
open rebellion, or remained passive in silent sulks; but to hear her Jim, the flash man of
a dozen gin-shops, the beloved of a score of rivals, called "ugly," was more than flesh and
blood could endure. She turned fiercely on her auxiliary and gave battle at once.

"And who arst you to interfere, mem, if I may wenture to make the inquiry?" said she, with
that polite but spasmodic intonation that denotes the approaching row. "Keep yerself to yerself,
if you please, mem. And I'll thank ye not to go for to come between me and my young man, not
till you've got a young man of your own, mem; and if you'd like to walk out, there's the door,
mem, and don't you try for to give me none o' your sauce, for I'm not a-goin' to put up with it."

The slatternly woman ran her guns out and returned the broadside with promptitude.

"Door, indeed! you poor whey-faced drab, you dare to say the word door to me, a respectable
woman, as Mister Tripes here knows me well, and have a score against me behind that there wery
door as you disgraces, and as it's you as ought to be t'other side, you ought; for it's out
of the streets as you come, well I knows, an' say another word, and I'll take that there bonnet
off of your head, and chuck it into them streets and you arter it. O dear! O dear! that ever
I should be spoke to like this here, and my master out o' work a month come Toosday, and this
here gentleman standing by! But I'll set my mark on ye, if I get six months for it--I will!"

Thus speaking, or rather screaming, and brandishing her baby, as the gonfalonier waves his
gonfalon, the slat-slatternly woman, swelling into a fury for the nonce, made a dive at Dorothea,
which, but for the interposition of "this here gentleman," as she called the coalheaver, might
have produced considerable mischief. That good man, however, took a deal of "weathering," as
sailors say, and ere either of the combatants could get round his bulky person, the presence
of a policeman at the door warned them that ordeal by battle had better be deferred till a
more fitting opportunity. They burst into tears, therefore, simultaneously, and the dispute
ended, as such disputes often do, in a general reconciliation, cemented by the consumption
of much excisable fluid, some of it at the expense of the philanthropic coalheaver, whose simple
faith involved a persuasion that the closest connection must always be preserved between good-fellowship
and beer.

After these potations, it is not surprising that the slatternly woman should have found herself,
baby and all, under the care of the civil power at a police-station, or that Gentleman Jim
and his ladye-love should have adjourned to sober themselves in the steaming gallery of a playhouse.

Behold them, then, wedged into a front seat, Dorothea's bonnet hanging over the rail, Jim's
gaudy handkerchief bulging with oranges, both spectators too absorbed in the action of the
piece to realise its improbabilities, and the woman thoroughly identifying herself with the
character and fortunes of its heroine.

The theatre is small, but the audience if not select are enthusiastic; the stage is narrow,
but affords room for a deal of strutting and striding about on the part of an overpowering
actor in the inevitable belt and boots of the melodramatic highwayman. The play represents
certain startling passages in the career of one Claude Duval, formerly a running footman, afterwards--strange
anomaly!--a robber on horseback, distinguished for polite manners and bold riding.

This remarkable person has a wife, devoted to him of course. In the English drama all wives
are good; in the French all are bad, and people tell you that a play is the reflection of real
life. Besides this dutiful spouse, he cherishes an attachment for a young lady of high birth
and aristocratic (stage) manners. She returns his tenderness, as it is extremely natural a
young person so educated and brought up would return that of a criminal, who has made an impression
on her heart by shooting her servants, rifling her trunks, and forcing her to dance a minuet
with him on a deserted heath under a harvest moon.

This improbable incident affords a favourite scene, in which Dorothea's whole soul is absorbed,
and to which Jim devotes an earnest attention, as of one who weighs the verisimilitude of an
illustration, that he may accept the purport of the parable it conveys.

Dead servants (in profusion), struggling horses, the coach upset, and the harvest moon, are
depicted in the back scene, which represents besides an illimitable heath, and a gibbet in
the middle distance: all this under a glare of light, as indeed it might well be, for the moon
is quite as large as the hind wheel of the coach.

In the foreground are grouped, the hero himself, a comic servant with a red nose and a fiddle,
an open trunk, and a young lady in travelling costume, viz. white satin shoes, paste diamonds,
ball-dress, and lace veil. The tips of her fingers rest in the gloved hand of her assailant,
whose voice comes deep and mellow through the velvet mask he wears.

"My preservier!" says the lady, a little inconsequentially, while her fingers are lifted to
the mask and saluted with such a smack as elicits a "hooray!" from some disrespectful urchin
at the back of the pit.

"To presurrve beauty from the jeer of insult, the grasp of vie-olence is my duty and my prowfession.
To adore it is my ree-ligion--and my fate!" replies the gallant highwayman, contriving with
some address to retain his hold of the lady's hand, though encumbered by spurs, a sword, pistols,
a mask, and an enormous three-cornered hat.

"And this man is proscribed, hunted, in danger, in disgrace!" exclaims the lady, aside, and
therefore loud enough to be heard in the street. Claude Duval starts. The start of such an
actor makes Dorothea jump. "Perdition!" he shouts, "ye have reminded me of what were well buried
fathom-deep--obliterated--forgotten. Tr'you, lady, 'tis ee-ven so! I have a compact with my
followers--the ransom--"

"Shall be paid right willingly," she answers; and forth-with the comic servant with the red
nose wakes into spasmodic life, winks repeatedly, and performs a flourish on his "property"
fiddle, a little out of tune with the real instrument in the orchestra at his feet.

"What are they going to do?" asked Dorothea, in great anxiety.

"Hold your noise!" answers Jim, and the action of the piece progresses.

It is fortunate, perhaps, that minuets have gone out of fashion, if they involved such a test
of endurance as that in which Claude Duval and his fair captive now disport themselves with
an amount of bodily exertion it seems real cruelty to encore. His concluding caper shakes the
mask from his partner's face, and the young lady falls, with a shriek, into his arms, leaving
the audience in that happy state of perplexity, which so enhances the interest of a plot, as
to whether her distress originates in excess of sentiment or deficiency of wind.

"It's beautiful!" whispers Dorothea, refreshing herself with an orange. "It 'minds me of the
first time you and me ever met at Highbury Barn."

Jim grunts, but his grunt is not that of a contented sleeper, rather of one who is woke from
a dream.

After a tableau like the last, it is natural that Claude Duval should find a certain want of
excitement in the next scene, where he appears as a respectable householder in the apartments
of his lawful spouse. This lady, leaving a cradle in the background, and advancing to the footlights,
proceeds to hover round her husband, after the manner of stage wives, with neck protruded and
arms spread out, like a woman who is a little afraid of a wasp or earwig, but wants to catch
the creature all the same. He sits with his back to her, as nobody ever does sit but a stage
husband at home, and punches the floor with his spur. It is strictly natural that she should
sing a faint song with a slow movement on the spot.

It is perhaps yet more natural that this should provoke him exceedingly, so he jumps up, reaches
a cupboard in two strides, and pulls out of it his whole paraphernalia, sword, pistols, mask,
three-cornered hat, everything but his horse. Then the wife, from her knees, informs all whom
it may concern, that for the first time in their happy married life she has learned her husband
is a robber, as they both call it, by "prowfession."

Dorothea's sympathies, womanlike, are with the wife. Jim, whose interest is centred in the
young lady, finds this part of the performance rather wearisome, and thirsts, to use his own
expression, for "a drain."

Events now succeed each other with startling rapidity. Claude Duval is seen at Ranelagh, still
in his boots, where he makes fierce love to his young lady, and exchanges snuff-boxes (literally)
with a duke. Next, in a thicket beset by thief-takers, from whom he escapes after prodigies
of valour, aided by the comic servant, and thereafter guided by that singular domestic to a
place of safety, which turns out to be the young lady's bedroom. Here Jim becomes much excited,
fancying himself for the moment a booted hero, rings, laced-coat, Steinkirk handkerchief, and
all. His dress touches that of his companion, but instinctively he moves from her as far as
the crowded seat will permit, while Dorothea, all unconscious, looks lovingly in his face.

"She's a bold thing, and I can't abide her," is that lady's comment on the principal actress.
"She ought to think shame of herself, she ought, acause of his wife at 'ome. But he's a good
plucked 'un, isn't he, Jim? and lady or no lady, that goes a long way with a woman!"

Jim turned his head aside. Brutalised, besotted, depraved, there was yet in him a spark of
that fire which lights men to their doom, and his eyes filled with tears.

But the thief-takers have Claude Duval by the throat at last; and there is a scene in court,
where the young lady perjures herself unhesitatingly, and faints once more in the prisoner's
arms. In vain. Claude Duval is sworn to, found guilty, condemned; and the stage is darkened
for a grand finale.

Still gay, still gallant, still impenitent, and still booted, though in fetters, the highwayman
sits in his prison cell, to be visited by the young lady, who cannot bear to lose her partner,
and the wife, who still clings to her husband. Unlike Macheath, he seems in no way embarrassed
by the position. His wife forgives him, at this supreme moment, all the sorrow he has caused
her, in consideration of some unexplained past, "gilded," as she expressed it, "by the sunny
smiles of southern France," while the young lady, holding on with great tenacity to his hand,
weeps frantically on her knees.

A clock strikes. It is the hour of execution. Dorothea begins to sob, and Gentleman Jim clenches
his hands. The back of the stage opens to disclose a street, a crowd, a hangman, and the fatal
Tyburn tree. Faint cheers are heard from the wings. The sheriff enters, bearing in his hand
a reprieve, written apparently on a window-blind. He is attended by the comic servant, through
whose mysterious agency a pardon has been granted, and who sticks by his fiddle to the last.

Grand tableau: Claude Duval penitent. His wife in his arms. The young lady conveying in dumb
show how platonic has been her attachment, of which, nevertheless, she seems a little ashamed.
The sheriff benignant; the turnkeys amused; the comic servant, obviously in liquor, brandishing
his fiddlestick, and the orchestra playing "God save the Queen."

Walking home through the wet streets, under the flashing gaslights, Dorothea and her companion
preserve an ominous silence. Both identify themselves with the fiction they have lately witnessed:
the woman pondering on Mrs. Duval's sufferings and the eventful reward of that good lady's
constancy and truth; her companion reflecting, not on the charms of the actress he has lately
been applauding, but on another face which haunts him now, as the wilis and water-sprites haunted
their doomed votaries, and which must ever be as far out of reach as if it belonged indeed
to some such being of another nature; thinking how a man might well risk imprisonment, transportation,
hanging, for one kind glance of those bright eyes, one smile of those haughty, scornful lips;
and comparing in bitter impatience that exotic beauty with the humble, homely creature at his side.

She looks up in his face. "Jim," says she timidly, and cowering close to him the while, "if
you was took, and shopped, like him in the long boots, I'd go to quod with you, if they'd give
me leave--I'd go to death with you, Jim, I would. I'd never forsake you, I wouldn't. I couldn't,
dear,--not if it was ever so!"

He shudders and shrinks from her. "It might come sooner than you think for," says he, adding
brutally enough, "now you could do me a turn in the witness-box, though I shouldn't wonder
but you'd cut out white like the others. Let's call in here, and take a drop o' gin afore they
shuts up."

The great picture of Thomas the Rhymer, and his Elfin Mistress, goes on apace. There is, I
believe, but one representation in London of that celebrated prophet, and it is in the possession
of his lineal descendant. Every feature, every shadow on that portrait has Simon Perkins studied
with exceeding diligence and care, marvelling, it must be confessed, at the taste of the Fairy
Queen. The accessories to his own composition are in rapid progress. Most of the fairies have
been put in, and the gradual change from glamour to disillusion, cunningly conveyed by a stream
of cold grey morning light entering the magic cavern from realms of upper earth, to deaden
the glitter, pale the colouring, and strip, as it were, the tinsel where it strikes. On the
Rhymer himself our artist has bestowed an infinity of pains, preserving (no easy task) some
resemblance to the original portrait, while he dresses his conception in the manly form and
comely features indispensable to the situation.

But it is into the fairy queen herself that Simon loves to throw all the power of his genius,
all the resources of his art. To this labour of love, day after day, he returns with unabated
zest, altering, improving, painting out, adding, taking away, drinking in the while his model's
beauty, as parched and thirsty gardens of Egypt drink in the overflowing Nile, to return a
tenfold harvest of verdure, luxuriance, and wealth.

She has been sitting to him for three consecutive hours. Truth to tell, she is tired to death
of it--tired of the room, the palette, the easel, the queen, the rhymer, the little dusky imp
in the corner, whose wings are changing into scales and a tail, almost tired of dear Simon
Perkins himself; who is working contentedly on (how can he?) as if life contained nothing more
than effect and colouring--as if the reality were not better than the representation after all.

"A quarter of an inch more this way," says the preoccupied artist. "There is a touch wanting
in that shadow under the eye--thanks, dear Nina. I shall get it at last," and he falls back
a step to look at his work, with his head on one side, as nobody but a painter can look, so
strangely does the expression of face combine impartial criticism with a satisfaction almost
maternal in its intensity.

Before beginning again, his eye rested on his model, and he could not but mark the air of weariness
and dejection she betrayed.

"Why, Nina," said he, "you look quite pale and tired. What a brute I am! I go painting on and
forget how stupid it must be for you, who mustn't even turn your head to look at my work."

She gave a stretch, and such a yawn! Neither of them very graceful performances, had the lady
been less fair and fascinating, but Nina looked exceedingly pretty in their perpetration nevertheless.

"Work," she answered. "Do you call that work? Why you've undone everything you did yesterday,
and put about half of it in again. If you're diligent, and keep on at this pace, you'll finish
triumphantly with a blank canvas, like Penthesilea and her tapestry in my ancient history."

"Penelope," corrected Simon gently.

"Well, Penelope! It's all the same. I don't suppose any of it's true. Let's have a peep, Simon.
It can't be. Is that really like me?"

The colour had come back to her face, the light to her eye. She was pleased, flattered, half
amused to find herself so beautiful. He looked from the picture to the original, and with all
his enthusiasm for art awarded the palm to nature.

"It was like you a minute ago," said he, in his grave, gentle tones. "Or rather, I ought to
say you were like it. But you change so, that I am often in despair of catching you, and, somehow,
I always seem to love the last expression best."

There was something in his voice so admiring, so reverential, and yet so tender, that she glanced
quickly, with a kind of surprise, in his face; that face which to an older woman, who had known
suffering and sorrow, might have been an index of the gentle heart, the noble, chivalrous character
within, which, to this girl, was simply pale and worn, and not at all handsome, but very dear
nevertheless, as belonging to her kind old Simon, the playmate of her childhood, the brother,
and more than brother, of her youth.

Those encounters are sadly unequal, and very poor fun for the muffled fighter, in which one
keeps the gloves on, while the other's blows are delivered with the naked fist.

Miss Algernon was at this time perhaps more attached to Simon Perkins than to any other creature
in the world; that is to say, she did not happen to like anybody else better. How different
from him, to whom she represented the very essence of that spiritual life which, in our several
ways, we all try to live, which so few of us know how to attain by postponing its enjoyment
for a few short troubled years.

It is probable that, if the painter had thrown down his brush at this juncture, and asked simply,
"Nina, will you be my wife?" she would have answered, "Thank you kindly, yes, I will!" but
although his judgment told him he was likely to succeed, his finer instincts warned him that
an affirmative would be the sacrifice of her youth, her illusions, her possible future. Such
sacrifice it was far more in Simon's nature to make than to accept.

"Will she ever know me thoroughly?" he used to think. "Will the time ever come when I can say
to her, 'Nina, I am sure you care for me now, and therefore I am not afraid to tell you how
dearly I loved you all through'? Such a time would be well worth waiting for, ay, though it
never came for seven years, and seven more to the back of that. Then I should feel her happiness
depended on mine. Now I often think the prince in the fairy tale will ride past our Putney
villa some summer's day, like Launcelot through the barley sheaves (I'll paint Launcelot when
I've time, with the ripe ears reddened in the sun, and the light flashing off his harness),
ride by and take Nina's heart away with him, and what will be left for me then? I could bear
it! Yes, I could bear it if I knew she was happy. My darling, my darling! so that you walk
on in joy and triumph, it matters little what becomes of me!"

The sentiment was perhaps overstrained. It is not thus that women are won. The fruit that drops
into people's mouths is usually over-ripe, and the Sabine maiden would have thought less of
her Roman lover, though doubtless she would have taken the initiative rather than miss him
altogether, had it been necessary to pounce on him in the vineyard and desire him straightway
to carry her home. But the bird of prey must have its natural victim, and such hearts as our
poor generous painter possessed are destined for the talons and the beak. Ah! those who value
them least win the great prizes in the lottery. Fortune smiles on the careless player--gold
goes to the rich--streams run to the river, and if you have more mutton than you know what
to do with, be sure that in your folds will be found the poor man's ewe-lamb. Put a ribbon
round her neck, and be kind to her as he was. It is the least you can do!

"You've taken a deal of pains, Simon," says the sitter, after a long and well-pleased scrutiny.
"Tell me, no flattery now, why should I be so difficult to paint?" Why, indeed, you saucy innocent
coquette! Perhaps, because, all the while, you are turning the poor artist's head, and driving
pins and needles into his heart.

"I ought to make a good likeness of you," answers Simon rather sadly. "I'm sure, Nina, I know
your face by heart. But I'm determined to take enormous pains with this picture. It's to be
my great work. I want them to admire it at the Academy. I want all London to come and look
at it. I want the critics, who know nothing, to say it's well drawn; and the artists, who do
know something, to say it's well treated; and the public to declare my fairy queen is the loveliest,
and the sweetest, and the dearest face they ever beheld. You see I'm very--very--ambitious, Nina!"

"Yes, I suppose all painters are," replies Miss Algernon, with a little gasp of relief, accompanied
by a little chill of something not quite unlike disappointment. "But you ought to be tired
of working, and I know I am tired of sitting. Hand me my bonnet, Simon--not upside down--why
that's the top where the rose is, of course! And let's walk back through the Park. It will
be nearly full by this time."

So they walked back through the Park, and it was full--full to overflowing; nevertheless, amongst
all the riders, drivers, sitters, strollers, and idlers, there appeared neither of the smart-looking
gentlemen who had roused Nina's indignation by bowing to her in the morning without having
the honour of her acquaintance.

CHAPTER XIV

THE OFFICERS' MESS

A gigantic sentry of her Majesty's Household Cavalry paces up and down in front of the officers'
quarters at Knightsbridge Barracks some two hours before watch-setting. It is fortunate that
constant use has rendered him insensible to admiration. Few persons of either sex pass under
his nose without a glance of unqualified approval. They marvel at his stature, his spurs, his
carbine, his overalls, his plumed helmet, towering high above their heads, and the stupendous
moustaches, on which this gentleman-private prides himself more than on all the rest of his
heroic attributes put together.

Beyond a shade of disciplined weariness, there is no expression whatever on his handsome face,
yet it is to be presumed that the man has his thoughts too, like another. Is he back in Cumberland
amongst his dales, a stalwart stripling, fishing some lonely stream within the hills, watching
a bout at "knurr-and-spell" across the heather, or wrestling a fall in friendly rivalry with
his cousin, a son of Anak, tall as himself? Does that purple sunset over Kensington Gardens
remind him of Glaramara and Saddleback? Does that distant roar of wheels in Piccadilly recall
the rush and ripple of the Solway charging up its tawny sands with the white horses all abreast
in a spring-tide?

Perhaps he is wishing he was an officer with no kit to keep in order, no fatigue-duty to undergo,
sitting merrily down to as good a dinner as luxury can provide, or a guest, of whom he has
seen several pass his post in starched white neckcloths and trim evening clothes. Perhaps he
would not change with any of these, after all, when he reflects on his own personal advantages,
his social standing amongst his comrades, his keen appreciation and large consumption of beer
and tobacco, with the innumerable conquests he makes amongst maids and matrons in the middle
and lower ranks of life. Such considerations, however, impress themselves not the least upon
his outward visage. A statue could not look more imperturbable, and he turns his head but very
slightly, with supreme indifference, when peals of laughter, more joyous than common, are wafted
through the open windows of the mess-room, where some of our friends have fairly embarked on
that tide of good-humour and hilarity which sets in with the second glass of champagne.

It is a full mess; the colonel himself sits at dinner, with two or three friends, old brothers-in-arms,
whose soldier-like bearing and manly faces betray their antecedents, though they may not have
worn a uniform for months. A lately-joined cornet looks at these with a reverence that I am
afraid could be extorted from him by no other institution on earth. The adjutant and riding-master,
making holiday, are both present--"to the front," as they call it, enjoying exceedingly the
jests and waggeries of their younger comrades. The orderly-officer, conspicuous by his belt,
sits at one end of the long table. Lord Bearwarden occupies the other, supported on either
side by his two guests, Tom Ryfe and Dick Stanmore. It is the night of Mrs. Stanmore's ball,
and these last-named gentlemen are going there, with feelings how different, yet with the same
object. Dick is full of confidence, elated and supremely happy. His entertainer experiences
a quiet comfort and bien-être stealing over him, to which he has long been a stranger, while
Tom Ryfe with every mouthful swallows down some emotion of jealousy, humiliation, or mistrust.
Nevertheless, he is in the highest spirits of the three.

"I tell you nothing can touch him, my lord, when hounds run," says he, still harping on the
merits of the horse he sold Lord Bearwarden in the Park. Of course half the party are talking
of hunting, the other half of racing, soldiering, and women. "He'd have been thrown away on
most of the fellows we know. He wants a good man on his back, for if you keep him fiddling
behind, it breaks his heart. I always said you ought to have him--you or Mr. Stanmore. He's
just the sort for both of you. I'm sorry to hear yours are all coming up at Tattersall's,"
adds Tom, with a courteous bow to the opposite guest. "Hope it's only to make room for some more."

Dick disclaims. "No, indeed," says he, "it's a bonâ fide sale--without reserve, you know--I
am going to give the thing up!"

"Give up hunting!" expostulates a very young subaltern on Dick's left. "Why, you're not a soldier,
are you? What shall you do with yourself? You have nothing to live for."

Overcome by this reflection, he empties his glass and looks feelingly in his neighbour's face.

"Are you so fond of it too?" asks Dick with a smile.

"Fond of it! I believe you!" answers the boy. "What is there to be compared to it?--at least
that I've tried, you know. I think the happiest fellow on earth is a master of fox-hounds,
particularly if he hunts them himself: there's only one thing to beat it, and that's soldiering.
I'd rather command such a regiment as this than be Emperor of China. Perhaps I shall, too,
some day."

The real colonel, sitting opposite, overhears this military sentiment, and smiles good-humouredly
at his zealous junior. "When you are in command," says he, "I hope you'll be down upon the
cornets--they want a deal of looking up--I'm much too easy with them." The young soldier laughed
and blushed. In his heart he thought the "chief," as he called him, the very greatest man in
the world, offering him that respect combined with affection which goes so far to constitute
the efficiency of a regiment, hoping hereafter to tread in his footsteps and carry out his system.

For ten whole minutes he held his tongue--and this was no small effort of self-restraint--that
he might listen to the commanding officer's conversation with his guests, savouring strongly
of professional interests, as comprising Crimean, Indian, and continental experiences, all
tending to prove that cavalry massed, kept under cover, held well in hand, and "offered" at
the critical moment, was the force to render success permanent and defeat irretrievable.

When they got into a dissertation on shoeing, with the comparative merits of "threes" and "sections"
at drill, the young man refreshed himself liberally with champagne, and turned to more congenial
discourse.

Of this there seemed no lack. The winner of the St. Leger was as confidently predicted as if
the race were already in his owner's pocket. A match was made between two splendid dandies,
called respectfully by their comrades "Nobby" and "The Dustman," to walk from Knightsbridge
Barracks to Windsor Bridge that day week--the odds being slightly in favour of "The Dustman,"
who was a peer of the realm. A moderate dancer was freely criticised, an exquisite singer approved
with reservation, and the style of fighting practised by our present champion of the prize-ring
unequivocally condemned. Presently a deep voice made itself heard in more sustained tones than
belong to general conversation, and during a lull it became clear that the adjutant was relating
an anecdote of his own military experience. "It's a wonderful country," said he, in reply to
some previous observation. "I'm not an Irishman myself, but I've observed that the most conspicuous
men in all nations are pure Irish or of Irish extraction. Look at the service. Look at the
ring--prize-fighters and book-makers. I believe the Slasher's mother was born in Connaught,
and nothing will convince me but that Deerfoot came from Tipperary--east and west the world's
full of them--they swarm, I'm told, in America, and I can answer for them in Europe. Did ye
ever see a Turk in a vineyard? He's the very moral of Pat in a potato-garden: the same frieze
coat--the same baggy breeches--the same occasional smoke, every five minutes or so--and the
same rooted aversion to hard work. Go on into India--they're all over the place. Shall I tell
you what happened to myself? We were engaged on the right of the army, getting it hot and heavy,
all the horses with their heads up, but the men as steady as old Time. I was in the Lancers
then, under Sir Hope. The Sikhs worked their guns beautifully, and presently we got the word
to advance. It wasn't bad ground for manoeuvring, and we were soon into them. The enemy fought
a good one--those Sikhs always do. There was one fine old white-bearded patriarch stuck to
his gun to the last. His people were all speared and cut down, but he never gave back an inch.
I can see him now, looking like the pictures of Abraham in my old Sunday-school book. I thought
I'd save him if I could. Our chaps had got their blood up, and dashed in to finish him with
their lances, but I kept them off with some difficulty, and offered him 'quarter.' I was afraid
he wouldn't understand my language. 'Quarter,' says he, in the richest brogue you'll hear out
of Cork--'quarter! you bloody thieves! will you stick a countryman, an' a comrade, ye murtherin'
villains, like a boneen in a butcher's shop!' He'd have gone on, I dare say, for an hour, but
the men had their lances through him before you could say 'knife.' As my right-of-threes, himself
a Paddy, observed--he was discoorsin' the devil in less than five minutes. The man was a deserter
and a renegade, so it served him right, but being an Irishman, you see, he distinguished himself--that's
all I mean to infer."

The young officer was exceedingly attentive to an anecdote which, thus told by its bronzed,
war-worn, and soldier-like narrator, possessed the fascination of romance with the interest
of reality.

Lord Bearwarden and his guests had also broken off their conversation to listen--they returned
to the previous subject.

"There are so many people come to town now-a-days," said his lordship, "that the whole thing
spoils itself. Society is broken up into sets, and even if you belong to the same set, you
cannot insure meeting any particular person at any particular place. Just the same with clubs.
I might hunt you two fellows about all night, from Arthur's to the Arlington--from the Arlington
to White's--from White's to the Carlton--from the Carlton back to St. James's Street--and never
run into you at all, unless I had the luck to find you drinking gin and soda at Pratt's." Tom
Ryfe, belonging only to the last-named of these resorts, looked gratified. Dick Stanmore was
thinking of something else.

"Now, to-night," continued Lord Bearwarden, turning to the latter, "although the ball is in
your own step-mother's house, I'll take odds you don't know three-fourths of the people you'll
meet, and yet you've been as much about London as most of us. Where they come from I can't
think, and they're like the swallows, or the storks, or the woodcocks, only they're not so
welcome. Where they'll go to when the season's over I neither know nor care."

Tom Ryfe would have given much to feel equally indifferent. Something like a pang shot through
him as he reflected that for him the battle must be against wind and tide--a fierce struggle,
more and more hopeless, to grasp at something drifting visibly out of reach. He was not a man,
however, to be beat while it was possible to persist. Believing Dick Stanmore the great obstacle
in his way, he watched that preoccupied gentleman as a cat watches a mouse.

"I don't want to be introduced to any more people," said Dick rather absently. "In my opinion
you can't have too few acquaintances and too many friends."

"One ought to know lots of women," said Mr. Ryfe, assuming the air of a fine gentleman, which
fitted him, thought Lord Bearwarden, as ill as his uniform generally fits a civilian. "I mean
women of position--who give things--whom you'd like to be seen talking to in the Park. As for
girls, they're a bore--there's a fresh crop every season--they're exactly like each other,
and you have to dance with 'em all!"

"Confound his impudence!" thought Lord Bearwarden; "does he hope to impose on me with his half-bred
swagger and Brummagem assurance?" but he only said, "I suppose, Tom, you're in great request
with them--all ranks, all sorts, all ages! You fellows have such a pull over us poor soldiers;
you can be improving the time while we're on guard."

Tom looked as if he rather believed he could. But he only looked it. Beneath that confident
manner, his heart was sad and sinking. How bitter he felt against Miss Bruce, and yet he loved
her, in his own way, too, all the while.

"Champagne to Mr. Stanmore!" said his entertainer, beckoning to a servant. "You're below the
mark, Stanmore, and we've a heavy night before us. You're thinking of your pets at Tattersall's
next week. Cheer up. Their future masters won't be half so hard on them, I'll be bound. But
I wouldn't assist at the sacrifice if I were you. Come down to the Den with me; we'll troll
for pike, and give the clods a cricket-match. Then we'll dine early, set trimmers, and console
ourselves with claret-cup under affliction."

Dick laughed. Affliction, indeed, and he had never been so happy in his life! Perhaps that
was the reason of his silence, his abstraction. At this very moment, he thought, Maud might
be opening the packet he made such sacrifices to redeem. He had arranged for her to receive
the diamonds all reset and glittering at the hour she would be dressing for the ball. He could
almost fancy he saw the beautiful face flushed with delight, the dark eyes filled with tears.
Would she press those jewels to her lips, and murmur broken words of endearment for him? Would
she not love him now, if, indeed, she had not loved him before? Horses, forsooth! What were
all the horses that ever galloped compared to one smile of hers? He would have given her his
right arm, his life, if she wanted it. And now, perhaps, he was to obtain his reward. Who could
tell what that very night might bring forth?

Mr. Stanmore's glass remained untasted before him, and Lord Bearwarden observing that dinner
was over, and his guests seemed disinclined to drink any more wine, proposed an adjournment
to the little mess-room to smoke.

In these days the long sittings that delighted our grandfathers have completely given way to
an early break up, a quiet cigar, and a general retreat, if not to bed, at least to other scenes
and other society. In ten minutes from the rising of the colonel, Lord Bearwarden, and half-a-dozen
guests, the larger mess-room was cleared of its inmates, and the smaller one crowded with an
exceedingly merry and rather noisy assemblage.

"Just one cigar," said Lord Bearwarden, handing a huge case to his friends. "It will steady
you nicely for waltzing, and some eau-de-cologne in my room will take off all the smell afterwards.
I know you dancing swells are very particular."

Both gentlemen laughed, and putting large cigars into their mouths, accommodated themselves
with exceeding goodwill to the arrangement. It was not in the nature of things that silence
should be preserved under such incentives to conversation as tobacco and soda-water with something
in it, but presently, above other sounds, a young voice was heard to clamour for a song.

"Let's have a chant!" protested this eager voice; "the night is still young. We're all musical,
and we don't often get the two best pipes in the regiment to dine here the same day. Come,
tune up, old boy. Give us 'Twisting Jane,' or the 'Gallant Young Hussar.'"

The "old boy" addressed, a large, fine-looking man, holding the appointment of riding-master,
smiled good-humouredly, and shook his head. "It's too early for the 'Hussar,'" said he, scanning
the fresh beardless face with its clear mirthful eyes. "And it's not an improving song for
young officers neither. I'll try 'Twisting Jane' if you gentlemen will support me with the
chorus;" and in a deep mellow voice he embarked without more ado on the following barrack-room
ditty:--

  I loved a girl, down Windsor way,
    When we was lying there,
  As soft as silk, as mild as May,
    As timid as a hare.
  She blushed and smiled, looked down so shy,
    And then--looked up again--
  My comrades warned me: 'Mind your eye,
    With Twisting Jane!'

  I wooed her thus, not sure but slow,
    To kiss she vowed a crime,--
  For she was 'reining back,' you know,
    While I was 'marking time.'

  'Alas!' I thought, 'these dainty charms
    Are not for me, 'tis plain;
  Too long she keeps me under arms,
    Does Twisting Jane.'

  Our corporal-major says to me,
    One day before parade,
  'She's gammoning you, young chap,' says he,
    'Is that there artful jade!
  You'll not be long of finding out,
    When nothing's left to gain,
  How quick the word is "Threes about!"
    With Twisting Jane!'

  Our corporal-major knows what's what;
    I peeped above her blind;
  The tea was made--the toast was hot--
    She looked so sweet and kind.
  My captain in her parlour sat,
    It gave me quite a pain,
  With coloured clothes, and shining hat,
    By Twisting Jane.

  The major he came cantering past,
    She bustled out to see,--
  'O, major! is it you at last?
    Step in and take your tea.'
  The major halted--winked his eye--
    Looked up and down the lane;
  And in he went his luck to try
    With Twisting Jane.

  I waited at 'attention' there,
    Thinks I, 'There'll soon be more.'
  The colonel's phaeton and pair
    Came grinding to the door.
  She gave him such a sugary smile,
    (Old men is very vain!)
  'It's you I looked for all the while,'
    Says Twisting Jane,

  'I've done with you for good,' I cried,
    'You're never on the square;
  Fight which you please on either side,
    But hang it, lass, fight fair!
  I won't be last--I can't be first--
    So look for me in vain
  When next you're out "upon the burst,"
    Miss Twisting Jane!--
  When next you're out "upon the burst,"
    Miss Twisting Jane!'

"A jolly good song," cried the affable young gentleman who had instigated the effort, adding,
with a quaint glance at the grizzled visage and towering proportions of the singer, "You're
very much improved, old chap--not so shy, more power, more volume. If you mind your music,
I'll get you a place as a chorister-boy in the Chapel Royal, after all. You're just the size,
and your manner's the very thing!"

"Wait till I get you in the school with that new charger," answered the other, laughing. "I
think, gentlemen, it's my call. I'll ask our adjutant here to give us 'Boots and Saddles,'
you all like that game."

Tumblers were arrested in mid-air, cigars taken from smooth or hairy lips, while all eyes were
turned towards the adjutant, a soldier down to his spurs, who "tuned up," as universally requested,
without delay.

  BOOTS AND SADDLES.

  The ring of a bridle, the stamp of a hoof,
    Stars above, and a wind in the tree,--
  A bush for a billet,--a rock for a roof,--
    Outpost duty's the duty for me!
  Listen. A stir in the valley below--
    The valley below is with riflemen crammed,
  Covering the column and watching the foe--
    Trumpet-major!--Sound and be d----d!
  Stand to your horses!--It's time to begin--
    Boots and Saddles! The Pickets are in!

  Though our bivouac-fire has smouldered away,
    Yet a bit of good 'baccy shall comfort us well;
  When you sleep in your cloak there's no lodging to pay,
    And where we shall breakfast the devil can tell!
  But the horses were fed, ere the daylight had gone,
    There's a slice in the embers--a drop in the can--
  Take a suck of it, comrade! and so pass it on,
    For a ration of brandy puts heart in a man.
  Good liquor is scarce, and to waste it a sin,--
    Boots and Saddles! The Pickets are in!

  Hark! there's a shot from the crest of the hill!
    Look! there's a rocket leaps high in the air.
  By the beat of his gallop, that's nearing us still,
    That runaway horse has no rider, I'll swear!

  There's a jolly light-infantry post on the right,
    I hear their bugles--they sound the 'Advance.'
  They will tip us a tune that shall wake up the night,
    And we're hardly the lads to leave out of the dance.
  They're at it already, I'm sure, by the din,--
    Boots and Saddles! The Pickets are in!

  They don't give us long our divisions to prove--
    Short, sharp, and distinct, comes the word of command.
  'Have your men in the saddle---Be ready to move--
    Keep the squadron together--the horses in hand--'
  While a whisper's caught up in the ranks as they form--
    A whisper that fain would break out in a cheer--
  How the foe is in force, how the work will be warm.
    But, steady! the chief gallops up from the rear.
  With old 'Death-or-Glory' to fight is to win,
    And the Colonel means mischief, I see by his grin.--
  Boots and Saddles! The Pickets are in!--
    Boots and Saddles! The Pickets are in!

"And it must be 'Boots and Saddles' with us," said Lord Bearwarden to his guests as the applause
subsided and he made a move towards the door, "otherwise we shall be the 'lads to leave out
of the dance'; and I fancy that would suit none of us to-night."

CHAPTER XV

MRS. STANMORE AT HOME.

DANCING.

Amongst all the magnificent toilettes composed to do honour to the lady whose card of invitation
heads this chapter, none appeared more variegated in colour, more startling in effect, than
that of Miss Puckers the maid.

True, circumstances compelled her to wear a high dress, but even this modest style of costume
in the hands of a real artist admits of marvellous combinations and extraordinary breadth of
treatment. Miss Puckers had disposed about her person as much ribbon, tulle, and cheap jewelry
as might have fitted out a fancy fair. Presiding in a little breakfast-room off the hall, pinning
tickets on short red cloaks, shaking out skirts of wondrous fabrication, and otherwise assisting
those beautiful guests who constituted the entertainment, she afforded a sight only equalled
by her after-performances in the tea-room, where, assuming the leadership of a body of handmaidens
almost as smart as herself, she formed, for several waggish and irreverent young gentlemen,
a principal attraction in that favourite place of resort.

A ball is so far like a run with fox-hounds that it is difficult to specify the precise moment
at which the sport begins. Its votaries gather by twos and threes attired for pursuit; there
is a certain amount of refitting practised, as regards dress and appointments, while some of
the keenest in the chase are nevertheless the latest arrivals at the place of meeting. Presently
are heard a note or two, a faint flourish, a suggestive prelude. Three or four couples get
cautiously to work, the music swells, the pace increases, ere long the excitement extends to
all within sight or hearing, and a performance of exceeding speed, spirit, and severity is
the result.

Puckers, with her mouth full of pins, is rearranging the dress of a young lady in her first
season, to whom, as to the inexperienced hunter, that burst of music is simply maddening. She
is a well-bred young lady, however, and keeps her raptures to herself, but is slightly indignant
at the very small notice taken of her by Dick Stanmore, who rushes into the tiring-room, drops
a flurried little bow, and hurries Puckers off into a corner, totally regardless of the displeasure
with which a calm, cold-looking chaperon regards this unusual proceeding.

"Did it come in time?" says Dick in a loud agitated whisper. "Did you run up with it directly?
Was she pleased? Did she say anything? Has she got them on now?"

"Lor, Mr. Stanmore!" exclaims Puckers; "whatever do you mean?"

"Miss Bruce--the diamonds," explains Dick, in a voice that causes two dandies, recently arrived,
to pause in astonishment on the staircase.

"O, the diamonds!" answers Puckers. "Only think, now. Was it you, sir? Well, I never. Why,
sir, when Miss Bruce opens the packet, not half-an-hour ago, the tears comes into her eyes,
and she says, 'Well, this is kind'--them was her very words--'this is kind,' says she, and
pops'em on that moment; for I'd done her hair and all. Go up-stairs, Mr. Stanmore, and see
how she looks in them. I'll wager she's waiting for Somebody to dance with her this very minute!"

Though it is too often of sadly short duration, every man has his "good time" for a few blissful
seconds during life. Let him not complain they are so brief. It is something to have at least
tasted the cup, and perhaps it is better to turn with writhing lips from the bitter drop near
the brim than, drinking it fairly out, to find its sweets pall on the palate, its essence cease
to warm the heart and stimulate the brain.

Dick, hurrying past his mother into the soft, mellow, yet brilliant radiance of her crowded
ball-room, felt for that moment the happiest man in London.

Miss Bruce was not waiting to dance with him, according to her maid's prediction, but was performing
a waltz in exceeding gravity, assisted, as Dick could not help observing, with a certain satisfaction,
by the ugliest man in the room. The look she gave him when their eyes met at last sent this
shortsighted young gentleman up to the seventh heaven. It seemed well worth all the hunters
in Leicestershire, all the diamonds in Golconda! He did the honours of his step-mother's house,
and thanked his own friends for coming, but all with the vague consciousness of a man in a
dream. Presently the "round" dance came to an end, much to the relief of the ugly man, who
cared, indeed, for ladies as little as ladies cared for him; and Dick hastened to secure Miss
Bruce as a partner for the approaching "square." She was engaged, of course, six deep, but
she put off all her claimants and took Mr. Stanmore's arm. "He's my cousin, you know," said
she, with her rare smile, "and cousins don't count; so you're all merely put back one. If you
don't like it, you needn't come for it--c'est tout simple!"

Then they took their places, and the dark eyes looked full into his own. Dick felt he was winning
in a canter.

Miss Bruce put her hand on the collar of diamonds round her neck. "I'm glad you're not my cousin,"
she said; "I'm glad you're not really a relation. You're far dearer as it is. You're the best
friend and truest gentleman I ever met in my life. Now I sha'n't thank you any more. Mind your
dancing, and set to that gawky woman opposite. Isn't she badly dressed?"

How could Dick tell? He didn't even know he had a vis-à-vis, and the "gawky woman," as Miss
Bruce most unjustly called her, only wondered anybody could make such blunders in so simple
a figure as the Eté. His head was in a whirl. A certain chivalrous instinct warned him that
this was no time, while his idol lay under a heavy obligation, to press his suit. Yet he could
not, for the life of him, help venturing a word.

"I look at nobody but you," he answered, turning pale as men do when they are in sad earnest.
"I should never wish to see any other face than yours for the rest of my life."

"How tired you'd get of it," said she, with a bright smile; but she timed her reply so as to
embark immediately afterwards on the Chaîne des Dames, a measure exceedingly ill calculated
for sustained conversation, and changed the subject directly she returned to his side.

"Where did you dine?" she asked saucily. "With those wild young men at the barracks, I suppose.
I knew you would: and you did all sorts of horrid things, drank and smoked--I'm sure you smoked."
She put her laced hand-kerchief laughingly to her nose.

"I dined with Bearwarden," answered honest Dick, "and he's coming on here directly with a lot
of them. My mother will be so pleased--it's going to be a capital ball."

"I thought Lord Bearwarden never went to balls," replied the young lady carelessly; but her
heart swelled with gratified vanity to think of the attraction that drew him now to every place
where he could hear her voice and look upon her beauty.

"There he is," was her partner's comment, as his lordship's head appeared in the doorway. "We'll
have one more dance, Miss Bruce--Maud--before the night is over?"

"As many as you please," was her answer, and still Dick felt he had the race in hand and was
winning in a canter.

People go to balls for pleasure, no doubt, but it must be admitted, nevertheless, that the
pleasure they seek there is of a delusive kind and lasts but for a few minutes at a time.

Mr. Stanmore's whole happiness was centred in Miss Bruce, yet it was impossible for him to
neglect all his step-mother's guests because of his infatuation for one, nor would the usages
of society's Draconic laws, that are not to be broken, permit him to haunt that one presence,
which turned to magic a scene otherwise only ludicrous for an hour or so, and simply wearisome
as it went on.

So Dick plunged into the thick of it, and did his duty manfully, diving at partners right and
left, yet, with a certain characteristic loyalty, selecting the least attractive amongst the
ladies for his attentions. Thus it happened that as the rooms became crowded, and half the
smartest people in London surged and swayed upon the staircase, he lost sight of the face he
loved for a considerable period, and was able to devote much real energy to the success of
his step-mother's ball, uninfluenced by the distraction of Miss Brace's presence.

This young lady's movements, however, were not unobserved. Puckers, from her position behind
the cups and saucers, enjoyed great reconnoitring opportunities, which she did not suffer to
escape unimproved--the tea-room, she was aware, held an important place in the working machinery
of society, as a sort of neutral territory, between the cold civilities of the ball-room and
the warmer interests fostered by juxtaposition in the boudoir, not to mention a wicked little
alcove beyond, with low red velvet seats, and a subdued light suggestive of whispers and provoking
question rather than reply.

Puckers was not easily surprised. In the housekeeper's room she often thanked her stars for
this desirable immunity, and indeed on the present occasion had furnished a loving couple with
tea, whose united ages would have come hard upon a century, without moving a muscle of her
countenance, albeit there was something ludicrous to general society in the affectation of
concealment with which this long-recognised attachment had to be carried on. The gentleman
was bald and corpulent. The lady--well, the lady had been a beauty thirty years ago, and dressed
the character still. There was nothing to prevent their seeing each other every day and all
day long, if they chose, yet they preferred scheming for invitation to the same places, that
they might meet en évidence before the public; and dearly loved, as now, a retirement into
the tea-room, where they could enact their rôle of turtle-doves, uninterrupted, yet not entirely
unobserved. Perhaps, after all, this imaginary restraint afforded the little spice of romance
that preserved their attachment from decay.

Puckers, I say, marvelled at these not at all, but she did marvel, and admitted it, when Miss
Bruce, entering the tea-room, was seen to be attended, not by Mr. Stanmore, but by Lord Bearwarden.

Her dark eyes glittered, and there was an exceedingly becoming flush on the girl's fair face,
usually so pale. Her maid thought she had never seen Maud look so beautiful, and to judge by
the expression of his countenance, it would appear Lord Bearwarden thought so too. They had
been dancing together, and he seemed to be urging her to dance with him again. His lordship's
manner was more eager than common, and in his eyes came an anxious expression that only one
woman, the one woman it was so difficult to forget, had ever been able to call into them before.

"Look odd!" he repeated, while he set down her cup and gave her back the fan he had been holding.
"I thought you were above all that, Miss Bruce, and did what you liked, without respect to
the fools who stare and can't understand."

She drew up her head with a proud gesture peculiar to her. "How do you know I do like it?"
said she haughtily.

He looked hurt, and lowered his voice to a whisper. "Forgive me," he said, "I have no right
to suppose it. I have been presumptuous, and you are entitled to be unkind. I have monopolised
you too much, and you're--you're bored with me. It's my own fault."

"I never said so," she answered in the same tone; "who is unkind now?" Then the dark eyes were
raised for one moment to look full in his, and it was all over with Lord Bearwarden.

"You will dance with me again before I go," said he, recovering his former position with an
alacrity that denoted some previous practice. "I shall ask nobody else--why should I? You know
I only came here to see you. One waltz, Miss Bruce--promise?"

"I promise," she answered, and again came into her eyes that smile which so fascinated her
admirers to their cost. "I shall get into horrid disgrace for it, and so I shall for sitting
here so long now. I'm always doing wrong. However, I'll risk it if you will."

Her manner was playful, almost tender; and Puckers, adding another large infusion of tea, wondered
to see her look so soft and kind.

A crowded waltz was in course of performance, and the tea-room, but for this preoccupied couple,
would have been empty. Two men looked in as they passed the door, the one hurried on in search
of his partner, the other started, scowled, and turned back amongst the crowd. Puckers, the
lynx-eyed, observing and recognising both, had sufficient skill in physiognomy to pity Mr.
Stanmore and much mistrust Tom Ryfe.

The former, indeed, felt a sharp, keen pang, when he saw the face that so haunted him in close
proximity to another face belonging to one who, if he should enter for the prize, could not
but prove a dangerous rival. Nevertheless, the man's generous instincts stifled and kept down
so unworthy a suspicion, forcing himself to argue against his own conviction that, at this
very moment, the happiness of his life was hanging by a thread. He resolved to ignore everything
of the kind. Jealousy was a bad beginning for a lover, and after all, if he should allow himself
to be jealous of every man who admired and danced with Maud, life would be unbearable. How
despicable, besides, would she hold such a sentiment! With her disposition, how would she resent
anything like espionage or surveillance! How unworthy it seemed both of herself and of him!
In two minutes he was heartily ashamed of his momentary discomfiture, and plunged energetically
once more into the duties of the ball-room. Nevertheless, from that moment, the whole happiness
of the evening had faded out for Dick.

There is a light irradiating all such gatherings which is totally irrespective of gas or wax-candles.
It can shed a mellow lustre on dingy rooms, frayed carpets, and shabby furniture; nay, I have
seen its tender rays impart a rare and spiritual beauty to an old, worn, long-loved face; but
on the other hand, when this magic light is quenched, or even temporarily shaded, not all the
illuminations of a royal birthday are brilliant enough to dispel the gloom its absence leaves
about the heart.

Mr. Stanmore, though whirling a very handsome young lady through a waltz, began to think it
was not such a good ball after all.

Tom Ryfe, on the other hand, congratulated himself on his tactics in having obtained an invitation,
not without considerable pressure put upon Miss Bruce, for a gathering of which his social
standing hardly entitled him to form a part. He was now, so to speak, on the very ground occupied
by the enemy, and though he saw defeat imminent, could at least make his own effort to avert
it. After all his misgivings as regarded Stanmore, it seemed that he had been mistaken, and
that Lord Bearwarden was the rival he ought to dread. In any case but his own, Mr. Ryfe was
a man of the world, quite shrewd enough to have reasoned that in this duality of admirers there
was encouragement and hope. But Tom had lost his heart, such as it was; and his head, though
of much better material, had naturally gone with it. Like other gamblers, he determined to
follow his ill-luck to the utmost, bring matters to a crisis, and so know the worst. In all
graver affairs of life, it is doubtless good sense to look a difficulty in the face; but in
the amusements of love and play practised hands leave a considerable margin for that uncertainty
which constitutes the very essence of both pastimes; and this is why, perhaps, the man in earnest
has the worst chance of winning at either game.

So Tom Ryfe turned back into the crowd, and waited his opportunity for a few minutes' conversation
with Miss Bruce.

It came at last. She had danced through several engagements, the night was waning, and a few
carriages had already been called up. Maud occupied the extreme end of a bench, from which
a party of ladies had just risen to go away: she had declined to dance, and for the moment
was alone. Tom slipped into the vacant seat by her side, and thus cut her off from the whole
surrounding world. A waltz requiring much terrific accompaniment of brass instruments pealed
out its deafening strains within ten feet of them, and in no desert island could there have
been less likelihood that their conversation would be overheard.

Miss Bruce looked very happy, and in thorough good-humour. Tom Ryfe opened the trenches quietly
enough.

"You haven't danced with me the whole evening," said he, with only rather a bitter inflection
of voice.

"You never asked me," was the natural rejoinder.

"And I'm not going to ask you, now," proceeded Mr. Ryfe; "you and I, Miss Bruce, have something
more than a mere dancing acquaintance, I think."

An impatient movement, a slight curl of the lip, was the only answer.

"You may drop an acquaintance when you are tired of him, or a friend when he gets troublesome.
It's done every day. It's very easy, Miss Bruce."

He spoke in a tone of irony that roused her.

"Not so easy," she answered, with tightening lips, "when people have no tact--when they are
not gentlemen."

The taunt went home. The beauty of Mr. Ryfe's face was at no time in its expression--certainly
not now. Miss Bruce, too, seemed well disposed to fight it out. Obviously it must be war to
the knife!

"Did you get my letter?" said he, in low, distinct syllables. "Do you believe I mean what I
say? Do you believe I mean what I write?"

She smiled scornfully. A panting couple who stopped just in front of them imagined they were
interrupting a flirtation, and, doing as they would be done by, twirled on.

"I treat all begging-letters alike," answered Maud, "and make yours no exception, because they
contain threats and abuse into the bargain. You have chosen the wrong person to try and frighten,
Mr. Ryfe. It only shows how little you understand my character."

He would have caught at a straw even then. "How little chance I have had of studying it!" he
exclaimed. "It is not my fault. Heaven knows I have been kept in ignorance, uncertainty, suspense,
till it almost drove me mad. Miss Bruce, you have known the worst of me; only the worst of
me, indeed, as yet."

The man was pleading for his life, you see. Was it pitiable, or only ludicrous, that his voice
and manner had to be toned down to the staid pitch of general conversation, that a fat and
happy German was puffing at a cornet-à-piston within arm's length of him? But for a quiver
of his lip, any bystander might have supposed he was asking Miss Bruce if he should bring her
an ice.

"I have seen enough!" she replied, very resolutely, "and I am determined to see no more. Mr.
Ryfe, if you have no pleasanter subjects of conversation than yourself and your arrangements,
I will ask you to move for an instant that I may pass and find Mrs. Stanmore."

Lord Bearwarden was at the other end of the room, looking about apparently for some object
of unusual interest. Perhaps Miss Bruce saw him--as ladies do see people without turning their
eyes--and the sight fortified her resolution.

"Then you defy me!" whispered Tom, in the low suppressed notes that denote rage, concentrated
and intensified for being kept down. "By heaven, Miss Bruce, you shall repent it! I'll show
you up! I'll expose you! I'll have neither pity nor remorse! You think you've won a heavy stake,
do you? Hooked a big fish, and need only pull him ashore? He sha'n't be deceived! He shall
know you for what you are! He shall, by----!"

The adjuration with which Mr. Ryfe concluded this little ebullition was fortunately drowned
to all ears but those for which it was intended by a startling flourish on the cornet-à-piston.
Miss Bruce accepted the challenge readily. "Do your worst!" said she, rising with a scornful
bow, and taking Lord Bearwarden's arm, much to that gentleman's delight, walked haughtily away.

Perhaps this declaration of open war may have decided her subsequent conduct; perhaps it was
only the result of those circumstances which form the meshes of a certain web we call Fate.
Howbeit, Miss Bruce was too tired to dance. Miss Bruce would like to sit down in a cool place.
Miss Bruce would not be bored with Lord Bearwarden's companionship, not for an hour, not for
a week--no, not for a lifetime!

Dick Stanmore, taking a lady down to her carriage, saw them sitting alone in the tea-room,
now deserted by Puckers  and her assistants. His honest heart turned very sick and cold. Half-an-hour
after, passing the same spot, they were there still; and then, I think, he knew that he was
overtaken by the first misfortune of his life.

Later, when the ball was over, and he had wished Mrs. Stanmore good-night, he went up to Maud
with a grave, kind face.

"We never had our waltz, Miss Bruce," said he; "and--and--there's a reason, isn't there?"

He was white to his very lips. Through all her triumph, she felt a twinge, far keener than
she expected, of compunction and remorse.

"O, Dick!" she said, "I couldn't help it! Lord Bearwarden proposed to me in that room."

"And you accepted him?" said Dick, trying to steady his voice, wondering why he felt half suffocated
all the time.

"And I accepted him."

CHAPTER XVI

"MISSING--A GENTLEMAN"

"Age about thirty. Height five feet nine inches and a half--fair complexion--light-grey eyes--small
reddish-brown whiskers, close-trimmed--short dark hair. Speaks fast, in a high key, and has
a habit of drawing out his shirt-sleeves from beneath his cuffs. When last seen, was dressed
in a dark surtout, fancy necktie, black-cloth waist-coat, Oxford-mixture trousers, and Balmoral
boots. Wore a black hat with maker's name inside--Block and Co., 401 Regent Street. Whoever
will give such information to the authorities as may lead to the discovery of the above, shall
receive--A Reward!"

Such was the placard that afforded a few minutes' speculation for the few people who had leisure
to read it, one fine morning about a week after Mrs. Stanmore's eventful ball, and towards
the close of the London season; eliciting at the same time criticism not altogether favourable
on the style of composition affected by our excellent police. The man was missing no doubt,
and had been missing for some days before anxiety, created by his absence, growing into alarm
for his safety, had produced the foregoing advertisement, prompted by certain affectionate
misgivings of Mr. Bargrave, since the lost sheep was none other than his nephew Tom Ryfe. The
old man felt, indeed, seriously discomposed by the prolonged absence of this the only member
of his family. It was unjustifiable, as he remarked twenty times a day, unfeeling, unheard-of,
unaccountable. He rang for the servants at his private residence every quarter of an hour or
so to learn if the truant had returned. He questioned the boy at the office sharply and repeatedly
as to orders left with him by Mr. Ryfe before he went away, only to gather from the answers
of this urchin, who would, indeed, have forgotten any number of such directions, that he looked
on the present period of anxiety in the light of a holiday and festival, devoutly praying that
his taskmaster might never come back again. Finally in despair poor Bargrave cast himself on
the sympathy of Dorothea, who listened to his bewailings with stolid indifference when sober,
and replied to them by surmises of the wildest improbability when drunk.

Alas, in common with so many others of her class, the charwoman took refuge from care in constant
inebriety. Her imagination thus stimulated, pointed, like that of some old Castilian adventurer,
steadily to the west.

"Lor, Mr. Bargrave," she would say, staring helplessly in his face, and yielding to the genial
hiccough which refused to be kept down, "he be gone to 'Merriky, poor dear, to better hisself,
I make no doubt. Don't ye take on so. It's a weary world, it is; and that's where he be gone,
for sure!"

Yet she knew quite well where he was hidden all the time; and, inasmuch as she had some regard
for her kind old employer, the knowledge almost drove her mad. Therefore it was that Dorothea,
harassed by conflicting feelings, drowned her sorrows perseveringly in the bowl.

For a considerable period this poor woman had suffered a mental torture, the severest, perhaps,
to which her sex can be subjected. She had seen the man she loved--and, though she was only
a drudge, and not by any means a tidy one, she could love very dearly--she had seen, I say,
the man she loved gradually learning to despise her affection, and to estrange himself from
her society. She was a good deal afraid of "Gentleman Jim"--perhaps she liked him none the
less for that--and dared neither tax him with falsehood nor try to worm out of him the assurance
that she had or had not a rival. Nevertheless, she was determined to ascertain the cause of
her lover's indifference to herself, and his changed conduct in other relations of life.

Jim had always been somewhat given to the adornment of his person, affecting that flash and
gaudy style of decoration so much in favour with dog-stealers and men of like dubious professions.
Of late, however, he had adopted, with different tastes and habits, a totally different costume--when
"off duty," as he called it--meaning thereby release from the fulfilment of some business engagement
subject to penalties affixed by our criminal code. He now draped himself in white linen, dark-coloured
clothes, a tall hat, and such outward marks of respectability, if not station, going even so
far as to invest in kid gloves and an "umbrellier," as he called that instrument. At first
sight, but for his boots, Jim might almost have been mistaken for a real gentleman. About this
period, too, he left off vulgar liquors, and shamefully abandoned a short black pipe that had
stuck by him through many ups and downs, substituting for these stimulants a great deal of
brown sherry and certain sad-coloured cigars, demanding strong lungs and a strong stomach as
well. These changes did the forlorn Dorothea note with increasing anxiety, and, because every
woman becomes keen-sighted and quick-witted where her heart is concerned, drew from them an
augury fatal to her future happiness. After a while, when the suspense grew intolerable, she
resolved on putting a stop to it by personal inquiry, and with that view, as a preliminary,
kept herself tolerably sober for twenty-four hours, during which probationary period she instituted
a grand "clean up" of his premises; and so, as she mentally expressed it, "with a cool head
and a clean house and a clear conscience," confronted her employer on the stairs.

Old Bargrave had of late become very nervous and uneasy. The full meals, the daily bottle of
port, the life of self-indulgence, though imparting an air of portliness and comfort while
everything went well, had unfitted him sadly for a contest with difficulty or reverse. Like
the fat troop-horse that looks so sightly on parade, a week's campaigning reduced him to a
miserable object--flabby, shrunk, dispirited, and with a sinking heart at least, if not a sore
back.

Dorothea's person blocked up the staircase before him, or he would have slipped by and locked
himself unnoticed in his chambers.

"Can I speak with you, sir?" said the charwoman. "Now, sir, if you please--himmediate."

Old Bargrave trembled.

"Certainly, Dorothea, certainly. What is it, my good girl? You've heard something. They've
traced him--they've found him. One minute, my good girl--one minute, if you please."

He had preceded her through the office to his own inner room, and now, shaking all over, sat
down in his easy-chair, pressing both hands hard on its arms to steady himself. Dorothea, staring
helplessly at the wall over his head, made a muff of her apron, and curtsied; nothing more.

"Speak!" gasped the old gentleman convulsively.

"It's my haunt, if you please, sir," said Dorothea, with another curtsey.

"D----n your aunt!" vociferated Bargrave. "It's my nephew! Have you heard nothing? I'm hasty,
my good girl; I'm anxious. I--I haven't another relation in the world. Have they told you anything
more?"

Dorothea began to cry.

"He be gone to 'Meriker, for sure," she whimpered, trying back on the old consolatory suggestion;
"to better hisself, no doubt. It's me, sir; that's my haunt. She's wuss this turn. An' if so
be as you could spare me for the day--I've been and cleaned up everythink, and I'd wipe over
that there table and shake the dust out o' them curtains in five minutes, and----"

"That will do--that will do!" exclaimed the old gentleman, aghast, as well he might be, at
the proposal, since none of the furniture in question had been subjected to such a process
for years, and immediate suffocation, with intolerable confusion of papers, must have been
the result. "If you want to go and see your aunt, my girl, go, in heaven's name. I can spare
you as long as you like. But you mustn't tidy up here. No; that would never do. And, Dorothea,
if you should hear anything, come and tell me that instant. Never mind the expense. I'd give
a great deal to know he was safe. Ah, I'd give all I have in the world to see him back again."

She curtsied and hurried out, leaving Bargrave to immerse himself in law-papers and correspondence.
From sheer force of habit he took refuge in his daily work at this hour of anxiety and sad
distress. In such sorrows it is well for a man to have disciplined his mind till it obeys him
instinctively, like a managed steed bearing its rider at will out of the crowd of assailants
by whom he is beset.

Dorothea, scrubbing her face with yellow soap till it shone again, proceeded to array herself
in raiment of many colours, and, when got up to her own satisfaction, scuttled off to a distant
part of London, making use of more than one omnibus in her journey; and so, returning almost
upon her tracks, confronted Gentleman Jim as he emerged from his usual house of call in the
narrow street out of Holborn.

He started, and his face lengthened with obvious disgust.

"What's up now, lass?" said he. "I've business tonight. D'ye mind? Blessed if my mouth isn't
as dry as a cinder-heap. You go home, like a good gal, and I'll take ye to the theaytre, perhaps,
to-morrow. I haven't a minnit to stop. I didn't ought to be here now."

The promised treat, the hurried manner, above all the affected kindness of tone, roused her
suspicions to the utmost; and Dorothea was woman enough to feel for the moment that she dared
match her wits against those of her betrayer.

"It's lucky," she answered coolly; "for I've got to be home afore dark, and they're lighting
the lamps now. I've been down to see arter him, Jim, an' I thought I'd just step round and
let you know. I footed it all the way back, that's why I'm so late now."

She paused and looked steadily in his face.

"Well?" said Jim, turning very pale, while his eyes glared in hers with a wild horrible meaning.

She answered his look rather than his exclamation.

"He's a trifle better since morning. He don't know nothing yet, nor he won't neither, not for
a while to come. But he ain't a-goin' to die, Jim--not this turn."

His colour came back, and he laughed brutally. "Blast him! d'ye think I care?" said he, with
a wild flourish of his arm; but added in a quieter voice, "Perhaps it's as well, lass. Cold
meat isn't very handy to hide, and he's worth more alive than dead. I couldn't hardly keep
from laffin' this mornin' when I saw them bills. I'll stand ye a drop, lass, if you're dry,
but I mustn't stop with ye to drink it."

Dorothea declined this liberal offer.

"Good-night, Jim," said she, and turned coldly away. She had no heart for a more affectionate
farewell; and could their positions have been reversed he must have detected something strange
in this unusual lack of cordiality. But men are seldom close observers in such matters, and
Jim was full of his own interests, his own projects, his own wild senseless infatuation.

He watched her round her homeward turn, and then started off at a quick pace in an opposite
direction. With all his cunning he would never have suspected that Dorothea, whose intellect
he considered little better than an idiot's, could presume to dog his footsteps; and the contempt
he entertained for her--of which she was beginning to be uncomfortably conscious--no doubt
facilitated this unhappy creature's operations.

Overhead the sky was dark and lowering, the air thick as before thunder; and though the gaslights
streamed on every street in London, it was an evening well suited to watch an unsuspecting
person unobserved.

Dorothea, returning on her footsteps, kept Jim carefully in sight, walking from twenty to fifty
yards behind him, and as much as possible on the other side of the street. There was no danger
of her losing him. She could have followed that figure--to her the type of comeliness and manhood--all
over the world; but she dreaded, with a fear that was almost paralysing, the possibility of
his turning back and detecting that he was tracked. "He'd murder me, for sure," thought Dorothea,
trembling in every limb. Nevertheless, the love that is strong as death, the jealousy that
is cruel as the grave, goaded her to persevere; and so she flitted in his wake with a noiseless
step, wonderfully gliding and ghostlike considering the solidity of her proportions.

Jim turned out of Oxford Street to stop at an ill-looking dirty little house, the door of which
seemed to open to him of its own accord. She spied a small grocer's shop nearly opposite not
yet shut up. To dodge rapidly in and sit down for a few minutes while she cheapened a couple
of ounces of tea, afforded Dorothea an excellent chance of watching his further movements unseen.

He emerged again almost immediately with a false beard and a pair of spectacles, carrying a
large parcel carefully wrapped in oiled silk; then, after looking warily up and down the street,
turned into the main thoroughfare for the chase to begin once more.

"He must be dreadful hot, poor Jim!" thought Dorothea, pitying him in spite of herself for
his false beard and heavy parcel, while she wiped away the drops already beginning to pour
off her own forehead.

The night was indeed close and sultry. A light warm air, reeking like the steam from a cook-shop,
breathed in her face, while a low roll of thunder, nearly lost in the noise of wheels, growled
and rumbled among the distant Surrey hills.

She followed him perseveringly through the more fashionable streets and squares of London,
tolerably silent and deserted now in the interval between dinner and concert, ball or drum.
Here and there through open windows might be seen a few gentlemen at their wine, or a lady
in evening dress coming out for a gasp of fresh air on the balcony overhead; but on the pavement
below, a policeman under a lamp or a lady's-maid hurrying on an errand were the only occupants,
and these took no heed of the bearded man with his parcel, nor of the dirty gaudily-dressed
woman who followed like his shadow. So they turned down Grosvenor Place and through Belgrave
Square into one of the adjoining streets. Here Jim, slackening pace, took his hat off and wiped
his brow. Dorothea, with all her faculties on the stretch, slipped into a portico at the very
moment when he glanced round on every side to make sure he was not watched. From this hiding-place
she observed him, to her great astonishment, ring boldly at the door of a large handsome house.
That astonishment was increased to see him admitted without demur by an irreproachable footman,
powder, plush, and all complete. Large drops of rain began to fall, and outside London, beyond
the limits of our several gas companies, it lightened all round the horizon.

Dorothea crept nearer the house where Jim had disappeared. On the ground floor, in a dining-room
of which the windows stood open for the heat, she saw his figure within a few yards of her.
He was unpacking his bundle and arranging its contents on the table, where a servant had placed
a lamp when he admitted this unusual visitor. The rain fell now in good earnest, and not a
living creature remained in the street. Dorothea cowered down by the area railings and watched.

Not for long. The dining-room door opened, and into the lamplight, like a vision from some
world of which poor Dorothea could scarcely form the vaguest conception, came a pale haughty
woman, beautiful exceedingly, before whom Jim, her own Jim, usually so defiant, seemed to cower
and tremble like a dog. Even in that moment of bewilderment Dorothea's eye, woman-like, marked
the mode in which Miss Bruce's long black hair was twisted, and missed neither the cut nor
texture of her garments.

Jim spread his goods out for inspection. It was obvious that he had gained admission to the
house under the guise of a dealer in rare silks and Eastern brocades. We, who know everything,
know that Mrs. Stanmore was dozing over her coffee up-stairs, and that this scheme, too, originated
in the fertile brain and determined character of her niece.

"I'll take that shawl, if you please," said Maud, in her cool authoritative way. "I dare say
it's better than it looks. Put it aside for me. And--you were to ask your own price."

Dorothea, drenched to the skin, felt nevertheless a fire burning within; for, raising her face
to peer above the area railings, she marked a mute worship in Jim's adoring eyes; she marked
the working of his features, pale, as it seemed, with some new and overpowering emotion. Could
this be Gentleman Jim? She had seen him asleep and awake, pleased and angry, drunk and sober,
but she had never seen that face before. Through all its agony there rose in her heart a feeling
of anger at such transparent folly--almost of contempt for such weakness in a man.

His voice came hoarse and thick while he answered--

"Never name it, miss, never name it. I done as you desired, an' a precious awkward job it were!
He'll tell no tales now!"

She started. The hand in which she held a small embroidered note-case trembled visibly; but
her voice, though low, was perfectly firm and clear.

"If you exceeded my order," said she, "you have nothing to hope from my forbearance. I shall
be the first to have you punished. I told you so."

He could scarcely contain his admiration.

"What a plucked 'un!" he muttered; "what a plucked 'un! No, miss," he added, "you needn't fear.
Fear, says I! You never feared nothink in your life. You needn't think of that 'ere. Me and
another party we worked it off as neat as wax, without noise and without violence. We've a-trapped
him safe, miss, and you've got nothink to do but just you lift up your hand, and we'll put
him back, not a ha'porth the wuss, on the very spot as we took him from."

She drew a great breath of relief, but suffered not a muscle of her countenance to betray her
feelings.

"It is better so," she observed quietly. "Remember, once for all, when I give orders they must
be obeyed to the letter. I am satisfied with you, Jim--I think your name is Jim?"

