Dr. Brashear seems to have set no high estimate on his achievement, and never published an
account of the case. Had he done so, the art of surgery would thereby have been much advanced,
his own fame have been made one of the precious heritages of his country, and, what is better,
many valuable lives would have been saved.

Eighteen years after the Jesuits' slave had survived the loss of his limb, the report of the
much-eulogized case of Dr. Mott appeared.

Dr. Brashear came of an old and wealthy Catholic family of Maryland. He was born in February,
1776. His father journeyed to Kentucky eight years later, and cleared a farm near Shepherdsville,
in Bullitt County. Walter was his seventh son, and was therefore set apart for the medical
profession.

When a youth he was enrolled in the literary department of Transylvania University, where it
is said he ranked high as a scholar in Latin. At the age of twenty he began the study of medicine,
in Lexington, with Dr. Frederick Ridgely, a very cultivated physician and popular man, who
had won distinction in the medical staff of the Continental Army. After two years spent in
this way, he rode on horseback to Philadelphia, and attended upon a course of lectures in the
University of Pennsylvania. At this time Rush, Barton, and Physick were teachers in that venerable
seat of learning. His was a restless nature, and after a year spent in Philadelphia he shipped
to China as surgeon of a vessel. While among the Celestials he amputated a woman's breast,
probably the first exploit of the kind by one from the antipodes. Unfortunately for science,
he there learned the method used by the Chinese for clarifying ginseng, and thinking, on his
return home, that he saw in this an easy way to wealth, he abandoned the profession in which
he had exhibited such originality, judgment, and skill, and engaged in merchandising. Twelve
years of commerce and its hazards left him a bankrupt in fortune, but brought him back to the
calling in which he was so well fitted to shine. He moved, in 1813, from Bardstown to Lexington,
where he at once secured a large practice, especially in diseases of the bones and joints.
He was thought to excel in the treatment of fractures of the skull, for the better management
of which a trephine was made in Philadelphia, under his direction, which, in his judgment,
was superior to any then in use.

The same temper which led him to leave Philadelphia without his medical degree, sail to China,
and afterward enter commerce, again asserted itself, and he forsook for the second time his
vocation. With his family he now moved to St. Mary's Parish, Louisiana, and engaged in sugar-planting.
During his residence in the South he served his adopted State in the Senate of the United States.
He employed much time in the study of the flora of the West. "During the winter of 1843-4,
when Henry Clay was on a visit to New Orleans" (says a writer in the New Orleans Medical and
Surgical Journal), "we had the pleasure, together with some twenty-five physicians, of spending
the evening with him at the house of a medical friend. While at the table one of the company
proposed the health of the venerable Dr. Brashear, 'the first and only surgeon in Louisiana
who had successfully performed amputation at the hip-joint.' Mr. Clay, who sat next to Dr.
Brashear, with characteristic good humor, immediately observed, 'He has you on the hip, Doctor,'
to the great amusement of Brashear and the rest of the company."

Dr. Brashear was a man of fine literary taste and many and varied accomplishments. In conversation
he was always entertaining, often brilliant. His voice was pleasant, his manners affable. In
stature he was short; in movement, quick and nervous. But in the make-up of the man one essential
of true greatness--fixedness of purpose--had been omitted. He lacked the staying qualities.
He was "variable and fond of change." "His full nature, like that river of which Alexander
broke the strength, spent itself in channels which led to no great name on earth." By a single
exploit, at the age of thirty, he carved his name at high-water mark among the elect in surgery.
Most of his life thereafter he wasted in desultory labors. As the learned Grotius said of his
own life, he consumed it in levities and strenuous inanities.

He died at an advanced age at his home in Louisiana.

1809. Three years after Brashear had won his unparalleled success at Bardstown, a practitioner
already of wide repute as a surgeon, living in Danville, a neighboring village, did the second
piece of original surgical work in Kentucky. It consisted in removing an ovarian tumor. The
deed, unexampled in surgery, is destined to leave an ineffaceable imprint on the coming ages.
In doing it Ephraim McDowell became a prime factor in the life of woman; in the life of the
human race. By it he raised himself to a place in the world's history, alongside of Jenner,
as a benefactor of his kind; nay, it may be questioned if his place be not higher than Jenner's,
since he opened the way for the largest addition ever yet made to the sum total of human life.

So much has been written of this, McDowell's chief work, that I feel it needless to dwell upon
it. All students of our art are familiar with it as presented by abler hands than mine. What
I shall say of him, therefore, will relate rather to his life and general work than to the
one operation by which his name has come to be the most resounding in all surgery. This is
a much more difficult task than at first it might seem to be, for McDowell made no sketch of
himself, nor have his brothers or his children left us any record of his life. Even his early
biographers failed to gather from his surviving friends those personal recollections of the
man which would now be of such exceeding interest to us all. An authentic life-size portrait
of Ephraim McDowell, as he was seen in his daily walk among men, can not now be made. The materials
are too scant; the time to collect them has gone by. A profile, a mere outline drawing, is
all that is possible to-day. The picture I have attempted, therefore, will be found deficient
in many details which have passed into general acceptance.

It is known that he came of a sturdy stock, his blood being especially rich in two of the best
crosses--the Scotch-Irish. His great-grandfather rebelled against the hierarchy of his time,
and enlisted as a Covenanter under the banner of James I. After honorable service, he laid
down his arms, gathered his family together, and came to America. It was in honor of this ancestor
that the subject of the present sketch was named.

The maiden name of his mother was McClung. She was a member of a distinguished family of Virginia.
McDowell was born in Rockbridge County, Virginia, on November 11, 1771. He was the ninth of
twelve children. His father, Samuel McDowell, was a man of note and influence in the State,
and was honored with many positions of trust. In 1773 he removed with his family to Kentucky,
settling near Danville. He was made judge of the District Court of Kentucky, and took part
in organizing the first court ever formed in the State. He lived to see his son confessedly
the foremost surgeon south of the Blue Ridge. But it was not given to eyes of that day to see
that the achievements of the village operator had illuminated all the work which has since
been done in the abdominal cavity, that one had grown up and toiled in their midst,

    "Whose influence ineffable is borne
    Round the great globe to cheerless souls that yearned
    In darkness for this answer to their needs."

Ephraim's early education was gotten at the school of the town in which he lived. He completed
his school studies at an institution of somewhat higher pretentions, situated in a county near
by. No anecdotes are preserved of his childhood. During his school-age he clearly preferred
the out-door sports of his companions to the in-door tasks of his teachers. On quitting school
he crossed the Alleghanies and became an office pupil of Dr. Humphreys, of Staunton, Va. After
reading under this preceptor for two years, he repaired to the University of Edinburgh. The
Scotch metropolis was then styled the "Modern Athens." It afforded opportunities at that time
for acquiring a medical education the best in all the world. It was then to the medical profession
what Leyden had been in the days of Sir Thomas Browne, what Paris became when Velpeau and Louis
taught there. He entered the private class of John Bell, whose forceful teachings and native
eloquence made a lasting impression on the mind of his youthful hearer. It has been said that
McDowell conceived the thought of ovariotomy from some suggestions thrown out by this great
man. The only distinction he is known to have won while in Edinburgh was that of having been
chosen by his classmates to carry the colors of the college in a foot-race against a professional.
In this it appears he was an easy first. He came away without a diploma. But what was of far
greater value than a degree, he brought back the anatomical and surgical knowledge which was
to place him in the front of his profession.

He returned to Kentucky in 1795, and settled among the people who had known him from boyhood.
His success was immediate, and yet Dr. Samuel Brown, who knew him in Virginia, and was his
classmate in Scotland, had said, when asked of him: "Pish! he left home a gosling and came
back a goose." In a little while he commanded all the surgical operations of importance for
hundreds of miles around him, and this continued till, some years later, Dudley returned from
Europe to share with him the empire in surgery.

In 1802, fully established in his profession, and with an income which rendered him independent,
he married Sarah, daughter of Governor Isaac Shelby.

In 1809 he did his first ovariotomy. He believed the operation to be without precedent in the
annals of surgery, yet he kept no note of it or of his subsequent work. He prepared no account
of it until 1817. This appeared in the Eclectic Repertory. It was so meagre and so startling
that surgeons hesitated to credit its truth. He had not mastered his mother tongue. The paper
was thought to bear internal evidence of its author's having "relied upon his ledger for his
dates and upon his memory for the facts." The critics from far and near fell upon him. The
profession at home cast doubt upon the narrative. The profession abroad ridiculed it. For all
that, McDowell kept his temper and his course, and when he finally laid down his knife he had
a score of thirteen operations done for diseased ovaria, with eight recoveries, four deaths,
and one failure to complete the operation because of adhesions.

It would be neither fitting nor becoming on this occasion, and in this presence, to speak in
detail of the technic observed by McDowell in his work. That has long since passed into history.
I may, however, be permitted the remark that the procedure, in many of its features, is necessarily
that of to-day. The incision was longer than that now usually made, and the ends of the pedicle
ligature were left hanging from the lower angle of the wound. But the pedicle itself was dropped
back into the abdomen. The patient was turned on her side to allow the blood and other fluids
to drain away. The wound was closed with interrupted sutures. This marvel of work was done
without the help of anesthetics or trained assistants, or the many improved instruments of
to-day, which have done so much to simplify and make the operation easy. McDowell had never
heard of antisepsis, nor dreamed of germicides or germs; but water, distilled from nature's
unpolluted cisterns by the sun, and dropped from heaven's condensers in the clean blue sky,
with air winnowed through the leaves of the primeval forest which deepened into a wilderness
about him on every hand, gave him and his patients aseptic facility and environment which the
most favored living laparotomist well might envy. These served him well, and six out of seven
of his first cases recovered. He removed the first tumor in twenty-five minutes, a time not
since much shortened by the average operator.

It was not alone, however, in this hitherto unexplored field of surgery that McDowell showed
himself a master. His skill was exhibited equally in other capital operations. He acquired
at an early day distinction as a lithotomist, which brought to him patients from other States.
He operated by the lateral method, and for many years used the gorget in opening the bladder.
At a later period he employed the scalpel throughout. He performed lithotomy thirty-two times
without a death. Among those who came to him to be cut for stone was a pale, slender boy, who
had traveled all the way from North Carolina. This youth proved to be McDowell's most noted
patient. He was James K. Polk, afterward President of the United States.

Dr. McDowell's "heart was fully open to the lesson of charity, which more than all men we should
feel," and he dispensed it with constant remembrance of the sacred trust imposed upon us. Yet
he had a proper appreciation of what was due his guild from those whose means allowed them
to make remuneration for professional services. He charged $500 for an ovariotomy that he went
to Nashville, Tenn., to do. The husband of the patient gave him a check, as he supposed, for
that sum. On presenting it, the doctor discovered that it was drawn for $1,500 instead of $500,
whereupon he returned the check, thinking a mistake had been made. The grateful gentleman replied
that it was correct, and added that the services much outweighed the sum paid. When the fact
is borne in mind that the purchasable value of money was much greater in the first than in
this the last decade of the century, it will be seen that the "father of ovariotomy," at least,
set his successors in the field a good example. This is made conspicuous by the fact that Sir
Spencer Wells has seldom charged a larger sum, and has declared £100 to be a sufficient fee
for the operation.

In person Dr. McDowell was commanding. He was tall, broad-shouldered, stout-limbed. His head
was large, his nose prominent and full of character, his chin broad, his lips full and expressive
of determination, his complexion florid, his eyes dark-black. His voice was clear and manly;
he often exercised it in recitations from Scotch dialogues, when he would roll the Scotch idiom
upon his tongue with the readiness of a native. He was fond of music, especially comic pieces,
which he sang with fine effect, accompanying his voice sometimes with the violin.

He was a man of the times, taking an active interest in the affairs of the community in which
he lived. He had many books for that day. Cullen and Sydenham were his chief authorities in
medicine; Burns and Scott in literature. He was fond of reading, yet he was inclined to action
rather than study.

