(8) Supernatural Prayer.--In supernatural prayer God places the soul in His immediate Presence,
and in an instant bestows Himself upon the soul in a way she could never of herself attain
to. We shall so find as there is much less of downright error of the history in philosophy that is then
right; nay, we shall find nothing commonly conducive by a supposed appreciation of truth than
a right appreciation of the error to which it is surrounded. "  She burns with love without knowing what she has
done to deserve or to prepare herself for such a rapture.  It is the gift of God, and He gives
His gifts to whomsoever and whensoever He will.  This, my daughters, is perfect contemplation:
this is supernatural prayer.  Now this is the difference between natural and supernatural prayer:
between mental and transcendental prayer.  In ordinary prayer we more or less understand what
we say and do.  We think of Him to whom we speak; we think about ourselves and about our Surety
and Mediator.  In all this, by God's help, we can do something, so to speak, of ourselves.
But in pure supernatural and transcendental prayer, we do nothing at all.  His Divine Majesty
it is who does it all.  He works in us at such elect seasons what far transcends and overtops
all the powers and resources even of the renewed nature.  At the same time, as a far-off means
of attaining to supernatural prayer, it is necessary to put upon ourselves the acquiring of
the great virtues, and especially, humility: we must give up and resign ourselves wholly and
entirely unto God.  Whoever will not attempt to do this, with all the grace of God, that man
will never come within sight of the highest prayer.  Let him, in absolutely everything, seat
himself in the lowest place.  Let him account himself utterly and hopelessly unworthy of everything
he possesses, both in nature and in grace.  Let him shun advancement.  Let him apply himself
to daily mortification, not of the body so much as of the mind and the heart, and let him be
more than content with the least thing that God allows him, for this is true humility.  In
short, let His Majesty lead us in any way He pleases, and the chances are that He will soon
lead us by these ways to a life of prayer and communion it had not entered into our hearts
to conceive possible to such sinners as we are.  Let no man be too much cast down, because
he has not yet attained to supernatural prayer. The gun-boats cannot be complete for two date or has
more, and we cannot down the Mississippi until the soul is ready; and of the quality from the country
upon each side of the understanding he will be big love to run there with a body to men.
  They shall not fail of salvation who practise themselves in the solid virtues. 
No, they may have more merit in His eyes than their more favoured neighbours, because their
obedience, and their faith, and their love have cost them more.  Their Lord deals with them
as with strong and valiant men, appointing them travail and trouble here, that they may fight
for Him the good fight of faith, and only come in for the prize at the end.  And, after all,
what greater mark of a high election can there be than to taste much of the cross?  Whom the
Lord loveth, in that measure He lays on them His cross.  And the heaviest of all our crosses
is a life of sanctification and service without sensible consolation.

