The time appointed for the marriage of Mr. Hedge to Mrs. Belmont approached. The enamored old
gentleman paid her frequent visits, and supplied her liberally with funds, nor did he neglect
to make her most costly presents. Julia's position and prospects, with reference to her contemplated
marriage, were certainly very gratifying to her; yet there was one thing which troubled her
exceedingly and was a source of constant apprehension and dread.

The uneasiness proceeded from the fact that she was completely in the power of the Dead Man,
who knew that she was the cast-off wife of Sydney--cast off for the crime of adultery with
a black--and who could at any time, by exposing her true character to Mr. Hedge, ruin her schemes
in that quarter forever. She knew too well that the deadly villain was as deceitful as he was
criminal; and she knew not at what moment he might betray her to her intended husband.

The Dead Man was disposed to take every advantage in his power over her. The secret passage
into the cellar admitted him into the house at all hours of the day and night; and his visits
were frequent. At first his treatment of her was more respectful than otherwise; but gradually
he grew familiar and insolent, and began to insinuate that as she had formerly granted her
favors to a negro, she could not object to treat HIM with equal kindness. This hint she received
with disgust; and assuming an indignant tone, bade him relinquish all thought of such a connection,
and never recur to the subject again.

But the villain was not to be repulsed; each time he visited her he grew more insulting and
audacious, until at last his persecutions became almost unbearable to the proud and beautiful
woman, who viewed him with loathing and abhorrence.

One afternoon, about a fortnight previous to the time fixed on for her marriage, she was seated
in her chamber, engaged in reflections which partook of the mingled elements of pleasure and
pain. The day was dark and gloomy, and the wind sighed mournfully around the house, and through
the leafless branches of the trees which fronted it. Suddenly the door of the chamber was opened,
and the Dead Man entered. Julia shuddered, for the presence of that terrible man inspired her
with a nameless dread. He seated himself familiarly at her side--and on glancing at him, she
perceived, to her alarm, that he was much intoxicated. His eyes rolled wildly, and his loathsome
features were convulsed and full of dark and awful meaning.

'Well, my bird,' said he in an unsteady voice--'by Venus and by Cupid, I swear thou art beautiful
today! Nay, thou need'st not shrink from me--for I have sworn by Satan to taste thy ripe charms
within this very hour!'

He attempted to clasp her in his arms, but she pushed him from her with a look of such disgust,
that he became enraged and furious. Drawing a sharp knife from his pocket, he seized her by
her arm, and hissed from between his clenched teeth--

'Hark'ee, woman, I have borne with your d----d nonsense long enough, and now if you resist
me I'll cut that fair throat of yours from ear to ear--I will by hell!'

She would have screamed with affright, but he grasped her by the throat, and nearly strangled her.

'Silly wench,' he cried, as he released her and again placed himself at her side--'why do you
provoke me into enmity, when I would fain be your lover and friend? Mine you must be--mine
you shall be, if I have to murder you!'

Miserable Julia! thy wickedness has met with a terrible retribution; thou art a slave to the
lust and fury of a monster more dreadful than the venomous and deadly cobra di capello of the East!

Ye who revel in guilty joys, and drink deep of the nectar in the gilded cup of unhallowed pleasures--beware!
Though the draught be delicious as the wines of Cypress, and though the goblet be crowned with
flowers, fragrant as the perfume of love's sighs--a coiled serpent lurks in the dregs of the
cup, whose deadly fang will strike deep in the heart and leave there the cankering sores of
remorse and dark despair. Ye who bask in the smiles of beauty, and voluptuously repose on the
soft couch of licentiousness--beware! That beauty is but external; beneath the fair surface
lie corruption, disease, and death!

The ruffian, having accomplished his triumph, developed a new trait in the fiendish malignity
of his nature. He would have the wretched lady become his menial--he would have her perform
for him the drudgery of a servant. He ordered her to bring him wine, and wait upon him; and
enforced the command with a blow, which left a red mark upon her beautiful white shoulder.

'Henceforward,' cried he, with an oath, 'I am your master, and you are my slave. Hesitate to
obey me in any thing which I may desire you to do, and I will denounce you to Mr. Hedge as
a vile adulteress and impostor, unworthy to become his wife, even if you had no husband living.
Dare to refuse my slightest wish, and I will prevent your marriage under pain of being sent
to the State Prison for the crime of bigamy.'

By these and other threats did the ruffian compel the unhappy Julia to obey him. She brought
him wine and waited upon him; and was obliged to submit to every species of insult and degradation.
Nor was this the only refinement of cruelty which only his own infernal ingenuity could have
devised; he resolved that Nero, the black, should be a witness of her humiliation; and accordingly
he rang the bell, and ordered the negro to be sent up. Nero entered the room, and observing
the triumphant chuckle of the Dead Man, and the dejected look of his mistress, with his natural
acuteness instantly comprehended the true state of affairs. The contempt with which Julia had
treated him was still fresh in his memory, and led him to view that lady with hatred; he therefore
determined to add to her chagrin and hatred on the present occasion, by enjoying the scene
as much as possible.

'Sit down, Nero,' said the Dead Man, with a sardonic grin--'this beautiful lady, who formerly
showered her favors upon you, has transferred her kindness to me; I have just tasted the joys
of heaven in her arms. Is she not a superb creature?'

'Divinely voluptuous,' replied the African, rubbing his hands and showing his white teeth.

'She is so,' said the other--'but the virtue of obedience is her most prominent and excellent
quality. Mark how she will obey me in what I order her to do: Julia, love, my shoes are muddy;
take them off my feet, and clean them.'

The high-born lady was about to give utterance to an indignant refusal, when a terrible glance
from her tyrant assured her that resistance would be useless. His savage brutality--the blow
he had given her--her forced submission to his loathsome embraces--and the consciousness that
she was completely in his power, compelled her to obey the degrading command.

Yes--that lovely, educated and accomplished lady actually took off the vile ruffian's dirty
shoes, with her delicate hands; then with an elegant pearl handled pen-knife, she scraped off
the filth, and afterwards, at the orders of her master, washed them with rose-water in a china
ewer, and wiped them with a cambric handkerchief--and all in the presence of her negro footman.

This task being completed, the Dead Man requested Nero to retire; and then he inflicted new
and nameless indignities upon his poor victim. Once, when she shudderingly refused to obey
some horrible request, he struck her violently in the face, and the crimson blood dyed her
fair cheek.

To be brief, the stupendous villain, in the diabolical malignity of his nature, derived a fierce
pleasure from ill-treating and outraging that frail, but to him inoffensive woman. Her defenceless
situation might have excited compassion in the breast of a less brutal ruffian; but when had
his stony heart ever known compassion?

Nero entered the room to inform his mistress that Mr. Hedge was below, having called on his
accustomed evening visit.

'Wash the blood from your face, then go and receive him,' said the Dead Man. 'I shall station
myself in the adjoining room, to see and hear all that passes between you.'

Poor Julia removed from her face the sanguinary stains, and endeavoring to arrange her hair
so as to conceal the wound which had been inflicted upon her; all in vain, however, for Mr.
Hedge noticed it the first moment she entered the room.

'My own dear Julia,' said he, in a tone of much concern, and taking her hand--'what has caused
that terrible bruise upon your cheek? And my God! you look pale and ill--speak, dearest, and
tell me what is the matter.'

She could not reply; but burst into tears; the old gentleman's kindness of manner, contrasted
with the savage cruelty of her persecutor, had overcome her. Mr. Hedge strove to comfort her,
as a father might comfort a distressed child; and his kindness filled her soul with remorse,
in view of the great deceit she was practising upon him. Still, she could not muster sufficient
resolution to confess that deceit. Considering herself just on the eve of securing a great
prize, she could not bring herself to ruin all by a confession of her true character. In answer
to his renewed inquiries, she stated that her wound had been caused by a severe fall; but she
assured him that it was nothing serious. The Dead Man grinned with satisfaction, as, with his
ear applied to the key-hole, he heard her thus account for the wound inflicted by his own villainous
hand.

Mr. Hedge did not remain long that evening: but ere his departure he presented Julia with a
magnificent set of diamonds, which had cost him near a thousand dollars.

'Wear these, my dear Julia, for my sake,' said he--'and though they cannot increase your charms,
they may serve to remind you of me when I am absent. A fortnight more, and I shall claim you
for my own bride; then, in the beautiful city of Boston, we will be enabled to move in that
sphere of society and fashion which your loveliness and accomplishments so eminently qualify
you to adorn.'

After Mr. Hedge had taken his leave, the Dead Man entered the room with a smile of satisfaction.

'By Satan,' cried he--'Mrs. Belmont, as you call yourself, that old gallant of yours is devilish
liberal, and there's no reason why I should not come in for a share of his generosity. These
diamonds I shall carry off with me, and you can tell him that you were robbed--and so you are;
ha, ha, ha! So you're going to Boston after you're married--hey? Well, I'll go to Boston too;
and you must always keep me plentifully supplied with cash to insure my silence with regard
to matters that you don't wish to have known. I'll leave you now; but listen:--to-morrow I
intend to make a grand effort to get Francis Sydney into my power. Does that intelligence afford
you pleasure?'

'Yes,' replied Julia, forgetting in her hatred of Sydney, the cruelty of the Dead Man--'yes,
it does; give me but the opportunity to see him writhe with agony, and I forgive your barbarous
treatment of me to-day.'

'That opportunity you shall have,' rejoined the ruffian--'come, I am half inclined to be sorry
for having used you so; but d----n it, 'tis my nature, and I cannot help it. My heart even
now hungers after outrage and human blood--and Sydney--Sydney shall be the victim to appease
that hunger!'

Saying this, he quitted the room, leaving Julia to her own reflections, which were of the most
painful nature. The only thought which shed a gleam of joy into her heart, was the prospect
of soon gratifying her spirit of revenge upon Sydney, whom she unjustly regarded as the author
of her troubles.

CHAPTER XX

Frank Sydney in the Power of his Enemies--his incarceration in the Dark Dungeon, with the Dwarf.

The next day after the occurrence just related, Frank Sydney, as was his custom, took a leisurely
stroll down the most fashionable promenade of the metropolis--Broadway; this magnificent avenue
was thronged with elegantly dressed ladies and gentlemen, who had issued forth to enjoy the
genial air of a fine afternoon.

At one of the crossings of the street, our hero observed an old woman, respectfully dressed,
but nearly double with age and infirmity, and scarcely able to crawl along, in great danger
of being run over by a carriage which was being driven at a furious rate. Frank humanely rushed
forward, and dragged the poor creature from the impending danger, just in time to save her
from being dashed beneath the wheels of the carriage. She faintly thanked her deliverer, but
declared her inability to proceed without assistance. On inquiring where she resided, he learned
that it was in Reade street, which was but a short distance from where they then stood; and
he generously offered her the support of his arm, saying that he would conduct her home, an
offer which was thankfully accepted. They soon reached her place of abode, which was a house
of genteel appearance, and at the invitation of the old lady, Frank entered, to rest a few
moments after his walk.

He had scarcely seated himself in the back parlor, when he was horrified and astounded at what
he saw.

The old woman, throwing off her cloak, bonnet and mask, stood before him, erect and threatening;
and our hero saw that he had been made the dupe of the Dead Man!

'Welcome, Sydney, welcome!' cried the miscreant, his features lighted up with a demon's triumph--'at
last thou art in my power. Did I not play my part well? Who so likely to excite thy compassion
as an old lady in distress; 'twas ably planned and executed. Thou hast fallen into the trap,
and shall never escape. But there are others who will be gratified to see thee, Frank. Nero--Julia--the
bird is caught at last!'

These last words were uttered in a loud tone; and were immediately responded to by the entrance
of Julia and the black. The woman's eyes flashed fire when she beheld the object of her hate;
she advanced towards him and spat in his face, saying--

'May the fires of hell consume thee, heart and soul, detested wretch--thou didst cast me from
thee, friendless and unprotected, when a kind reproof might have worked my reformation. Through
thee I have become the victim of a ruffian's lust, the object of his cruelty; I have been struck
like a dog, (look at this mark upon my cheek,) and I have been compelled to minister to the
disgusting and unnatural lechery of a monster--all through thee, thou chicken-hearted knave,
who even now doth tremble with unmanly terror!'

'Woman, thou art a liar!' exclaimed our hero, rising and boldly confronting his three enemies--'I
do tremble, but with indignation alone! Dare you charge your misfortune upon me? Did you not
dishonor me by adultery with this vile negro?--and then to talk to me of kind reproof! Pshaw,
thou double-eyed traitorous w----e!--I had served thee rightly had I strangled thee on the
spot, and thrown thy unclean carcase to the dogs!'

'Silence, curse ye, or I'll cut out your tongue as I did the Kinchen's!' roared the Dead Man,
drawing his knife. 'Nero, what cause of complaint have you against this man?'

'Cause enough,' replied the black--'he shut me up in a dark dungeon for having gratified the
wishes of his licentious wife.'

'Enough,' cried the Dead Man--'I will now state my grounds of complaint against him. Firstly--he
played the spy upon me, and was the cause of my being returned to the State Prison, from which
I had escaped. Secondly--he discovered the secrets of my Anthony street crib, and administered
a drug to my wife which has deprived her of reason. And thirdly he is my mortal foe, and I
hate him. Is that not enough?'

'It is--it is!' replied Julia and the African. The Dead Man continued:

'Now, Sydney, listen to me: you behold the light of day for the last time. But 'tis not my
wish to kill you at once--no, that would not satisfy my vengeance. You shall die a slow, lingering
death; each moment of your existence shall be fraught with a hell of torment; you will pray
for death in vain; death shall not come to your relief for years. Each day I will rack my ingenuity
to devise some new mode of torture. To increase the horrors of your situation, you shall have
a companion in your captivity--a being unnatural and loathsome to look upon--a creature fierce
as a hyena, malignant as a devil. Ha, you turn pale; you guess my meaning. You are right; you
shall be shut up in the same dungeon with my Image! the deformed and monstrous dwarf, whom
Heaven (if there is one,) must have sent as a curse and a reproach to me; he shall now become
your curse and punishment!'

Poor Frank heard this awful doom pronounced which he could not repress. He could have borne
any ordinary physical torture with fortitude; but the thought of being shut up in that noisome
dungeon with a being so fearful and loathsome as the Image, made him sick and faint; and when
the Dead Man and the negro seized him in their powerful grasp, in order to convey him to the
dungeon, he could make no resistance, even if resistance had been of any avail. Julia did not
accompany them, but contented herself with a glance of malignant triumph at her husband.

They descended to the cellar, and entered the secret passage, which they traversed in profound
darkness. This passage communicated directly with the cellar of the house in Anthony street;
a walk of ten minutes brought them to it, and when they had entered it, the Dead Man ignited
a match and lit a lamp.

The appearance of the cellar was precisely the same as when Frank had last seen it.--There
was the same outlet and the moveable platform; there, in that dim and distant corner, lay the
putrefying corpse; and there, too, was the iron door of the dungeon, secured on the outside
by the massive bolt.

At that moment the fearful inmate of that dungeon set up its strange, unnatural cry.

'Hark--my Image welcomes you, Sydney,' whispered the Dead Man, and, assisted by the African,
he hurried his victim towards the dungeon door.

'In God's name,' said Frank, imploringly--'I beseech you to kill me at once, rather than shut
me up with that fearful creature--for death is preferable to that!'

But the two ruffians only laughed--and drawing back the bolt, they opened the iron door, and
thrust their victim into the dungeon; then closing the door, they pushed the bolt into its
place, and left him to an eternal night of darkness and horror.

He heard the sound of their department footsteps; groping his way to a corner of the dungeon,
he sat down upon the cold stone floor. Had he been alone he could have reconciled himself to
his situation; but the consciousness of being in such fearful company, froze his blood with horror.

Soon his eyes became accustomed to the darkness; and as a very faint glimmer of light stole
in over the door of the dungeon, he was enabled to see objects around him, though very indistinctly.
With a shudder, he glanced around him; and there, cowering in one corner, like some hideous
reptile, its green eyes fixed upon him, sat the Image of the Dead Man--the terrible Dwarf!

Hour after hour did that mis-shapen thing gaze upon our hero, until a strange feeling of fascination
came over him--his brain grew dizzy, and he felt as if under the influence of a horrible dream.
Then it uttered its strange, unnatural cry, and with the crawling motion of a snake, stole
to his side. He felt its breath, like the noisome breath of a charnel-house, upon his cheek;
he felt its cold, clammy touch, and could not thrust it from him; it twined its distorted,
fleshless arms around him, and repeated its awful yell. Then Sydney fell prostrate upon the
floor, insensible.

When he recovered from his swoon, (in which he had lain for many hours) he felt numbed with
cold, sick with the foetid atmosphere of the place, and faint with hunger. The dwarf was ferociously
devouring some carrion which had been thrown into the dungeon; and the creature made uncouth
signs to our hero, as if inviting him to eat. But on examining the food he found it to be so
repulsive, that he turned from it in disgust, and resolved, sooner than partake of it, to let
starvation put an end to his misery.

CHAPTER XXI

Josephine and Mrs. Franklin receive two important Visits.

Josephine Franklin and her mother were languidly partaking of a late breakfast, and indolently
discussing the merits of the Italian opera, to which they had both been on the preceding night.

It not being the hour for fashionable calls, both ladies were attired with an extreme negligence
which indicated that they anticipated seeing no company. And yet, to the eyes of a true connoisseur
in beauty, there was something far more seductive in those voluptuous dishabilles, than there
could have been in the most magnificent full dress. The conversation in which they were engaged,
was characteristic of them both:--

'I think, mamma,' said Josephine--'that the most captivating fellow on the stage last night,
was the Signor Stopazzi, who played the peasant. Ah, what superb legs! what a fine chest! what
graceful motions! I am dying to get him for a lover!'

'What, tired of the handsome Sinclair already?' asked Mrs. Franklin with a smile.

'Indeed, to confess the truth, mamma,' replied Josephine--'the Doctor is becoming somewhat
de trop--and then, again, those Italians make such delightful lovers; so full of fire, and
passion, and poetry; and music, and charming romance--ah, I adore them!'

'Apropos of Italian lovers,' said her mother. 'I once had one; I was then in my sixteenth year,
and superbly beautiful. My Angelo was a divine youth, and he loved me to distraction. Once,
in a moment of intoxicating bliss, he swore to do whatever I commanded him, to test the sincerity
of his life; and I playfully and thoughtlessly bade him go and kill himself for my sake. The
words were forgotten by me, almost as soon as uttered. Angelo supped with me that night, and
when he took his leave, he had never seemed gayer or happier. The next day, at noon, I received
a beautiful bouquet of flowers, and a perfumed billet-doux; they were from Angelo. On opening
the missive, I found that it contained the most eloquent assurance of his sincere love--but,
to my horror, in a postscript of two lines he expressed his intention of destroying himself
ere his note could reach me, in obedience to my command. Almost distracted, I flew to his hotel;
my worst fears were confirmed. Poor Angelo was found with his throat cut, and quite dead, with
my miniature pressed to his heart.'[4]

'Delightfully romantic!' exclaimed Josephine--'how I should like to have a lover kill himself
for my sake!'

But the brilliant eyes of her mother were suffused with tears. Just then a servant in livery
entered and announced--

'Dr. Sinclair is below, and craves an audience with Mrs. Franklin and Miss Josephine.'

'Let him come up,' said Josephine, with a gesture of some impatience; for, in truth, she was
beginning to be tired of the rector, and longed for a new conquest.

Dr. Sinclair entered with a constrained and gloomy air.

'My dear Doc,' cried Josephine, with affected cordiality--'how opportunely that you called!
I was just now wishing that you would come.'

'Ladies,' said the Doctor, solemnly--'I have recently made a terrible, a most astonishing discovery.'

'Indeed! and pray what is it?' cried both mother and daughter.

'It is that Mr. Edgar Franklin, whose death was so sudden and unaccountable, was basely murdered!'

The mother and daughter turned pale, and losing all power of utterance, gazed at each other
with looks of wild alarm.

'Yes,' resumed the Doctor--'I have in my possession evidence the most conclusive, that he met
his death by the hands of a murderess, who was urged to commit the deed by two other devils
in female shape.'

'Doctor--explain--what mean you?' gasped Josephine, while her mother seemed as if about to
go into hysterics.

'In the first place I will ask you if you ever knew a woman named Mary Welch?' said the Doctor;
then after a pause, he added--'your looks convince me that you have known such a person; that
woman recently died in this city, and on her death-bed she made the following confession.'

The rector here produced and read a paper which he had drawn up embodying the statement and
confession which the woman Welch had made to him, just before her death. As the reader is acquainted
with the particulars of that confession it is unnecessary for us to repeat them.

Having finished the perusal of this document, the rector proceeded to relate an account of
his visit to the tomb of Mr. Franklin, and concluded his fearfully interesting narrative by
producing the lump of lead which had been taken from the skull of the murdered man.

It is impossible to describe the horror and dismay of the two wretched and guilty women, when
they saw that their crime was discovered. Falling on their knees before the rector, they implored
him to have mercy on them and not hand them over to justice.--They expressed their sincere
repentance of the deed, and declared that sooner than suffer the ignominy of an arrest, they
would die by their own hands. Josephine in particular did not fail to remind Dr. Sinclair of
the many favors she had granted him and hinted that her exposure would result in his own ruin,
as his former connection with her would be disclosed, if herself and mother were arrested and
brought to trial.

'Were I inclined to bring you to justice, the dread of my own exposure would not prevent me;
for no personal consideration should ever restrain me from doing an act of justice, provided
the public good would be prompted thereby. But I do not see the necessity of bringing you to
the horrors of a trial and execution; much rather would I see you allowed a chance of repentance.
Therefore, you need apprehend no danger from me; the secret of your crime shall not be revealed
by me. But I warn you that the secret is known to another, who will probably use his knowledge
to his own advantage; the matter lies between you and him. I shall now leave this house, never
again to cross its threshold; but ere I depart, let me urge you both before God to repent of
your sins. Josephine, I have been very guilty in yielding to your temptations; but the Lord
is merciful, and will not refuse forgiveness to the chief of sinners. Farewell--we shall meet
no more: for I design shortly to retire from a ministerial life, of which I have proved myself
unworthy; and shall take up my abode in some other place, and lead a life of obscurity and
humble usefulness.'

With these words the Doctor took his departure, leaving the mother and daughter in a state
of mind easier to be imagined than described. Josephine was the first to break the silence
which succeeded his exit from the house:--

'So our secret is discovered,' said she.--'Perdition! who would have thought that our crime
could ever be found out in that manner? Mother, what are we to do?'

