After what had happened, Willis and I felt much interest the following week in seeing the show
that had discomfited us. It had established itself at the county fair in its big tent and apparently
was doing a rushing business. Buying admission tickets, Willis and I went in and approached
the lion's cage for a nearer view of the king of beasts. We hoped he would spring up and roar
as he had done in the woods below the Shaker village; but he kept quiet. After all, he did
not look very formidable, and he seemed sadly oppressed and bored.

I think the proprietor of the show recognized us, for we saw him regarding us suspiciously;
and we moved on to the cage in which the Wild Man sat, with a big brass chain attached to his
leg--ostensibly to prevent him from running amuck among the spectators. Two of his keepers
were guarding him, with axes in their hands. He was loosely arrayed in a tiger's skin, and
his limbs appeared to be very hairy. His skin was dark brown and rough with warts. His hair,
which was really a wig, hung in tangled snarls over his eyes. He gnashed his teeth, clenched
his fists, and every few moments he uttered a terrific yell at which timid patrons of the show
promptly retired to the far side of the tent.

When Willis and I approached the cage, a smile suddenly broke across the Wild Man's face, and
he nodded to us. "You were the fellows with the hogs, weren't you?" he said in very good English.
I can hardly describe what a shock that gave us.

"Why, why--aren't you from the wilds of Borneo?" Willis asked him in low tones.

"Thunder, no!" the Wild Man replied confidentially. "I don't even know where it is. I'm from
over in Vermont--Bellows Falls."

"But--but--you do look pretty savage!" stammered Willis in much astonishment.

"You bet!" said the Wild Man. "Ain't this a dandy rig? It gets 'em, too. But don't give me
away; I get a good living out of this."

Just then a group of spectators came crowding forward, and the Wild Man let out a howl that
brought them to an appalled halt. The keepers brandished their axes.

"Well, did you ever?" Willis muttered as we moved on. "Doesn't that beat everything?"

The Fat Lady was ponderously unwinding the coils of the boa constrictor from round her neck
as we paused in front of her cage, but presently she recognized us and smiled. We asked her
whether she wasn't afraid to let the snake coil itself round her neck.

"No, not when he has had his powders," she replied. "Sometimes, when he is waking up, I have
to be a little careful not to let him get clean round me, or he'd give me a squeeze."

The old man and the educated dogs had just finished their performance when we came in, and
so we went over to the platform on the other side of the tent, where the gypsy fortune teller
was plying her vocation.

"Cross me palm, young gentlemen," she droned. "Cross me palm wi' siller, and I'll tell your
fortunes and all that's going to happen to you." Then she, too, recognized us and smiled. "Did
you find your hogs?" she asked.

"All but one," Willis told her.

"It was too bad," she said, "but you never will get anything out of the boss of this show.
He's a brute! He cheats me out of half my contract money right along."

"Where do you come from?" Willis said with a knowing air. "You are no gypsy."

"No, indeed!" the girl replied, laughing, and, rubbing a place on the back of her left hand,
she showed us that her skin was white under the walnut stain. "I'm from Albany. I live with
my mother there, and I'm sending my brother to the Troy Polytechnic School."

"Well, did you ever!" Willis said again as, now completely disillusioned, we left the tent.

CHAPTER XXVI

UNCLE SOLON CHASE COMES ALONG

There was what the farmers and indeed the whole country deemed "hard times" that fall, and
the "hard times" grew harder. Again we young folks had been obliged to put off attending school
at the village Academy--much to the disappointment of Addison and Theodora.

Money was scarce, and all business ventures seemed to turn out badly. Everything appeared to
be going wrong, or at least people imagined so. Uncle Solon Chase from Chase's Mills--afterward
the Greenback candidate for the Presidency--was driving about the country with his famous steers
and rack-cart, haranguing the farmers and advocating unlimited greenback money.

To add to our other troubles at the old Squire's that fall, our twelve Jersey cows began giving
bitter milk, so bitter that the cream was affected and the butter rendered unusable. Yet the
pasture was an excellent one, consisting of sweet uplands, fringed round with sugar-maples,
oaks and beeches, where the cleared land extended up the hillsides into the borders of the
great woods.

For some time we were wholly at a loss to know what caused all those cows to give bitter milk.

A strange freak also manifested itself in our other herd that summer; first one of our Black
Dutch belted heifers, and then several others took to gnawing the bark from young trees in
their pasture and along the lanes to the barn. Before we noticed what they were doing, the
bark from twenty or more young maples, elms and other trees had been gnawed and stripped off
as high as the heifers could reach. It was not from lack of food; there was grass enough in
the pasture, and provender and hay at the barn; but an abnormal appetite had beset them; they
would even pull off the tough bark of cedars, in the swamp by the brook, and stand for hours,
trying to masticate long, stringy strips of it.

In consequence, probably, of eating so much indigestible bark, first one, then another, "lost
her cud," that is, was unable to raise her food for rumination at night; and as cattle must
ruminate, we soon had several sick animals to care for.

In such cases, if the animal can only be started chewing an artificially prepared cud she will
often, on swallowing it, "raise" again; and rumination, thus started, will proceed once more,
and the congestion be relieved.

For a week or more we were kept busy, night and morning, furnishing the bark-eaters with cuds,
prepared from the macerated inner bark of sweet elder, impregnated with rennet. These had to
be put in the mouths of the cows by main strength, and held there till from force of habit
the animal began chewing, swallowing and "raising" again.

What was stranger, this unnatural appetite for gnawing bark was not confined wholly to cows
that fall; the shoats out in the orchard took to gnawing apple-trees, and spoiled several valuable
Sweetings and Gravensteins before the damage was discovered. It was an "off year." Every living
thing seemed to require a tonic.

The bitter milk proved the most difficult problem. No bitter weed or foul grass grew in the
pasture. The herd had grazed there for years; nothing of the sort had been noticed before.

The village apothecary, who styled himself a chemist, was asked to give an opinion on a specimen
of the cream; but he failed to throw much light on the subject. "There seems to be tannic acid
in this milk," he said.

At about that time uncle Solon Chase came along one afternoon, and gave one of his harangues
at our schoolhouse. I well remember the old fellow and his high-pitched voice. Addison, I recall,
refused to go to hear him; but Willis Murch and I went. We were late and had difficulty in
squeezing inside the room. Uncle Solon, as everybody called him, stood at the teacher's desk,
and was talking in his quaint, homely way: a lean man in farmer's garb, with a kind of Abraham
Lincoln face, honest but humorous, droll yet practical; a face afterwards well known from Maine
to Iowa.

"We farmers are bearin' the brunt of the hard times," Uncle Solon said. "'Tain't fair. Them
rich fellers in New York, and them rich railroad men that's running things at Washington have
got us down. 'Tis time we got up and did something about it. 'Tis time them chaps down there
heard the tramp o' the farmers' cowhide boots, comin' to inquire into this. And they'll soon
hear 'em. They'll soon hear the tramp o' them old cowhides from Maine to Texas.

"Over in our town we have got a big stone mortar. It will hold a bushel of corn. When the first
settlers came there and planted a crop, they hadn't any gristmill. So they got together and
made that 'ere mortar out of a block of granite. They pecked that big, deep hole in it with
a hammer and hand-drill. That hole is more'n two feet deep, but they pecked it out, and then
made a big stone pestle nearly as heavy as a man could lift, to pound their corn.

"They used to haul that mortar and pestle round from one log house to another, and pounded
all their corn-meal in it.

"Now d'ye know what I would do if I was President? I'd get out that old stone mortar and pestle,
and I'd put all the hard money in this country in it, all the rich man's hard money, and I'd
pound it all up fine. I'd make meal on't!"

"And what would you do with the meal?" some one cried.

Uncle Solon banged his fist on the desk. "I'd make greenbacks on't!" he shouted, and then there
was great applause.

That solution of the financial problem sounded simple enough; and yet it was not quite so clear
as it might be.

Uncle Solon went on to picture what a bright day would dawn if only the national government
would be reasonable and issue plenty of greenbacks; and when he had finished his speech, he
invited every one who was in doubt, or had anything on his mind, to ask questions.

"Ask me everything you want to!" he cried. "Ask me about anything that's troublin' your mind,
and I'll answer if I can, and the best I can."

There was something about Uncle Solon which naturally invited confidence, and for fully half
an hour the people asked questions, to all of which he replied after his quaint, honest fashion.

"You might ask him what makes cows give bitter milk," Willis whispered to me, and laughed.
"He's an old farmer."

"I should like to," said I, but I had no thoughts of doing so--when suddenly Willis spoke up:

"Uncle Solon, there is a young fellow here who would like to ask you what makes his cows give
bitter milk this fall, but he is bashful."

"Haw! haw!" laughed Uncle Solon. "Wal, now, he needn't be bashful with me, for like's not I
can tell him. Like's not 'tis the bitterness in the hearts o' people, that's got into the dumb
critters."

Uncle Solon's eyes twinkled, and he laughed, as did everybody else.

"Or, like's not," he went on, "'tis something the critters has et. Shouldn't wonder ef 'twas.
What kind of a parster are them cows runnin' in?"

Somewhat abashed, I explained, and described the pasture at the old Squire's.

"How long ago did the milk begin to be bitter?"

"About three weeks ago."

"Any red oak in that parster?" asked Uncle Solon.

"Yes," I said. "Lots of red oaks, all round the borders of the woods."

"Wal, now, 'tis an acorn year," said Uncle Solon, reflectively. "I dunno, but ye all know how
bitter a red-oak acorn is. I shouldn't wonder a mite ef your cows had taken to eatin' them
oak acorns. Critters will, sometimes. Mine did, once. Fust one will take it up, then the rest
will foller."

An approving chuckle at Uncle Solon's sagacity ran round, and some one asked what could be
done in such a case to stop the cows from eating the acorns.

"Wal, I'll tell ye what I did," said Uncle Solon, his homely face puckering in a reminiscent
smile. "I went out airly in the mornin', before I turned my cows to parster, and picked up
the acorns under all the oak-trees. I sot down on a rock, took a hammer and cracked them green
acorns, cracked 'em 'bout halfway open at the butt end. With my left-hand thumb and forefinger,
I held the cracked acorn open by squeezing it, and with my right I dropped a pinch o' Cayenne
pepper into each acorn, then let 'em close up again.

"It took me as much as an hour to fix up all them acorns. Then I laid them in little piles
round under the trees, and turned out my cows. They started for the oaks fust thing, for they
had got a habit of going there as soon as they were turned to parster in the morning. I stood
by the bars and watched to see what would happen."

Here a still broader smile overspread Uncle Solon's face. "Within ten minutes I saw all them
cows going lickety-split for the brook on the lower side o' the parster, and some of 'em were
in such a hurry that they had their tails right up straight in the air!

"Ef you will believe it," Uncle Solon concluded, "not one of them cows teched an oak acorn
afterward."

Another laugh went round; but an interruption occurred. A good lady from the city, who was
spending the summer at a farmhouse near by, rose in indignation and made herself heard.

"I think that was a very cruel thing to do!" she cried. "I think it was shameful to treat your
animals so!"

"Wal, now, ma'am, I'm glad you spoke as you did. I'm glad to know that you've got a kind heart,"
said Uncle Solon. "Kind-heartedness to man and beast is one of the best things in life. It's
what holds this world together. Anybody that uses Cayenne pepper to torture an animal, or play
tricks on it, is no friend of mine, I can tell ye.

"But you see, ma'am, it is this way. Country folks who keep dumb animals of all kinds know
a good many things about them that city folks don't. Like human beings, dumb animals sometimes
go all wrong, and have to be corrected. Of course, we can't reason with them. So we have to
do the next best thing, and correct them as we can.

"I had a little dog once that I was tremendous fond of," Uncle Solon continued. "His name was
Spot. He was a bird-dog, and so bright it seemed as if he could almost talk. But he took to
suckin' eggs, and began to steal eggs at my neighbors' barns and hen-houses. He would fetch
home eggs without crackin' the shells, and hold 'em in his mouth so cunning you wouldn't know
he had anything there. He used to bury them eggs in the garden and all about.

"Of course that made trouble with the neighbors. It looked as if I'd have to kill Spot, and
I hated to do it, for I loved that little dog. But I happened to think of Cayenne. So I took
and blowed an egg--made a hole at each end and blowed out the white and the yelk. I mixed the
white with Cayenne pepper and put it back through the hole. Then I stuck little pieces of white
paper over both holes, and laid the egg where I knew Spot would find it.

"He found it, and about three minutes after that I saw him going to the brook in a hurry. He
had quite a time on't, sloshin' water, coolin' off his mouth--and I never knew him to touch
an egg afterward.

"But I see, ma'am, that you have got quite a robustious prejudice against Cayenne. It isn't
such bad stuff, after all. It's fiery, but it never does any permanent harm. It's a good medicine,
too, for a lot of things that ail us. Why, Cayenne pepper saved my life once. I really think
so. It was when I was a boy, and boy-like, I had et a lot of green artichokes. A terrible pain
took hold of me. I couldn't breathe. I thought I was surely going to die; but my mother gave
me a dose of Cayenne and molasses, and in ten minutes I was feeling better.

"And even now, old as I am, when I get cold and feel pretty bad, I go and take a good stiff
dose of Cayenne and molasses, and get to bed. In fifteen minutes I will be in a perspiration;
pretty soon I'll go to sleep; and next morning I'll feel quite smart again.

"Just you try that, ma'am, the next time you get a cold. You will find it will do good. It
is better than so much of that quinin that they are givin' us nowadays. That quinin raises
Cain with folks' ears. It permanently injures the hearin'.

"When I advise any one to use Cayenne, either to cure a dog that sucks eggs or cows that eat
acorns, I advise it as a medicine, just as I would ef the animal was sick. And you mustn't
think, ma'am, that we farmers are so hard-hearted and cruel as all that, for our hearts are
just as tender and compassionate to animals as if we lived in a great city."

Uncle Solon may not have been a safe guide for the nation's finances, but he possessed a valuable
knowledge of farm life and farm affairs.

I went home; and the next morning we tried the quaint old Greenbacker's "cure" for bitter milk;
it "worked" as he said it would.

We also made a sticky wash, of which Cayenne was the chief ingredient, for the trunks of the
young trees along the lanes and in the orchard, and after getting a taste of it, neither the
Black Dutch belted heifers nor the hogs did any further damage. A young neighbor of ours has
also cured her pet cat of slyly pilfering eggs at the stable, in much the way Uncle Solon cured
his dog.

CHAPTER XXVII

ON THE DARK OF THE MOON

In a little walled inclosure near the roadside at the old Squire's stood two very large pear-trees
that at a distance looked like Lombardy poplars; they had straight, upright branches and were
fully fifty feet tall. One was called the Eastern Belle and the other the Indian Queen. They
had come as little shoots from grandmother Ruth's people in Connecticut when she and the old
Squire were first married. Grandmother always spoke of them as "Joe's pear-trees"; Joseph was
the old Squire's given name. Some joke connected with their early married life was in her mind
when she spoke thus, for she always laughed roguishly when she said "Joe's pears," but she
would never explain the joke to us young folks. She insisted that those were the old Squire's
pears, and told us not to pick them.

In the orchard behind the house were numerous other pear-trees. There were no restrictions
on those or on the early apples or plums; but every year grandmother half jokingly told us
not to go to those two trees in the walled inclosure, and she never went there herself.

I must confess, however, that we young folks knew pretty well how those pears tasted. The Eastern
Belle bore a large, long pear that turned yellow when ripe and had a fine rosy cheek on one
side. The Indian Queen was a thick-bodied pear with specks under the skin, a deep-sunk nose
and a long stem. It had a tendency to crack on one side; but it ripened at about the same time
as the Belle, and its flavor was even finer.

The little walled pen that inclosed the two pear-trees had a history of its own. The town had
built it as a "pound" for stray animals in 1822, shortly after the neighborhood was settled.
The walls were six or seven feet high, and on one side was a gateway. The inclosure was only
twenty feet wide by thirty feet long. It had not been used long as a pound, for a pound that
was larger and more centrally situated became necessary soon after it was built. When those
two little pear-trees came from Connecticut the old Squire set them out inside this walled
pen; he thought they would be protected by the high pound wall. A curious circumstance about
those pear-trees was that they did not begin bearing when they were nine or ten years old,
as pear-trees usually do. Year after year passed, until they had stood there twenty-seven years,
with never blossom or fruit appearing on them.

