CHAPTER XXVIII The Rigi-Kulm--Its Ascent--Stripping for Business--A Mountain Lad--An English
Tourist--Railroad up the Mountain--Villages and Mountain--The Jodlers--About Ice Water--The
Felsenthor--Too Late--Lost in the Fog--The Rigi-Kulm Hotel--The Alpine Horn--Sunrise at Night

CHAPTER XXII

[The Black Forest and Its Treasures]

From Baden-Baden we made the customary trip into the Black Forest. We were on foot most of
the time. One cannot describe those noble woods, nor the feeling with which they inspire him.
A feature of the feeling, however, is a deep sense of contentment; another feature of it is
a buoyant, boyish gladness; and a third and very conspicuous feature of it is one's sense of
the remoteness of the work-day world and his entire emancipation from it and its affairs.

Those woods stretch unbroken over a vast region; and everywhere they are such dense woods,
and so still, and so piney and fragrant. The stems of the trees are trim and straight, and
in many places all the ground is hidden for miles under a thick cushion of moss of a vivid
green color, with not a decayed or ragged spot in its surface, and not a fallen leaf or twig
to mar its immaculate tidiness. A rich cathedral gloom pervades the pillared aisles; so the
stray flecks of sunlight that strike a trunk here and a bough yonder are strongly accented,
and when they strike the moss they fairly seem to burn. But the weirdest effect, and the most
enchanting is that produced by the diffused light of the low afternoon sun; no single ray is
able to pierce its way in, then, but the diffused light takes color from moss and foliage,
and pervades the place like a faint, green-tinted mist, the theatrical fire of fairyland. The
suggestion of mystery and the supernatural which haunts the forest at all times is intensified
by this unearthly glow.

We found the Black Forest farmhouses and villages all that the Black Forest stories have pictured
them. The first genuine specimen which we came upon was the mansion of a rich farmer and member
of the Common Council of the parish or district. He was an important personage in the land
and so was his wife also, of course.

His daughter was the "catch" of the region, and she may be already entering into immortality
as the heroine of one of Auerbach's novels, for all I know. We shall see, for if he puts her
in I shall recognize her by her Black Forest clothes, and her burned complexion, her plump
figure, her fat hands, her dull expression, her gentle spirit, her generous feet, her bonnetless
head, and the plaited tails of hemp-colored hair hanging down her back.

The house was big enough for a hotel; it was a hundred feet long and fifty wide, and ten feet
high, from ground to eaves; but from the eaves to the comb of the mighty roof was as much as
forty feet, or maybe even more. This roof was of ancient mud-colored straw thatch a foot thick,
and was covered all over, except in a few trifling spots, with a thriving and luxurious growth
of green vegetation, mainly moss. The mossless spots were places where repairs had been made
by the insertion of bright new masses of yellow straw. The eaves projected far down, like sheltering,
hospitable wings. Across the gable that fronted the road, and about ten feet above the ground,
ran a narrow porch, with a wooden railing; a row of small windows filled with very small panes
looked upon the porch. Above were two or three other little windows, one clear up under the
sharp apex of the roof. Before the ground-floor door was a huge pile of manure. The door of
the second-story room on the side of the house was open, and occupied by the rear elevation
of a cow. Was this probably the drawing-room? All of the front half of the house from the ground
up seemed to be occupied by the people, the cows, and the chickens, and all the rear half by
draught-animals and hay. But the chief feature, all around this house, was the big heaps of manure.

We became very familiar with the fertilizer in the Forest. We fell unconsciously into the habit
of judging of a man's station in life by this outward and eloquent sign. Sometimes we said,
"Here is a poor devil, this is manifest." When we saw a stately accumulation, we said, "Here
is a banker." When we encountered a country-seat surrounded by an Alpine pomp of manure, we
said, "Doubtless a duke lives here."

The importance of this feature has not been properly magnified in the Black Forest stories.
Manure is evidently the Black-Forester's main treasure--his coin, his jewel, his pride, his
Old Master, his ceramics, his bric-a-brac, his darling, his title to public consideration,
envy, veneration, and his first solicitude when he gets ready to make his will. The true Black
Forest novel, if it is ever written, will be skeletoned somewhat in this way:

SKELETON FOR A BLACK FOREST NOVEL

Rich old farmer, named Huss.

Has inherited great wealth of manure, and by diligence has added to it. It is double-starred
in Baedeker. [1] The Black forest artist paints it--his masterpiece. The king comes to see
it. Gretchen Huss, daughter and heiress. Paul Hoch, young neighbor, suitor for Gretchen's hand--ostensibly;
he really wants the manure.

Hoch has a good many cart-loads of the Black Forest currency himself, and therefore is a good
catch; but he is sordid, mean, and without sentiment, whereas Gretchen is all sentiment and
poetry. Hans Schmidt, young neighbor, full of sentiment, full of poetry, loves Gretchen, Gretchen
loves him. But he has no manure. Old Huss forbids him in the house. His heart breaks, he goes
away to die in the woods, far from the cruel world--for he says, bitterly, "What is man, without
manure?"

1. When Baedeker's guide-books mention a thing and put two stars (**) after it, it means well
worth visiting. M.T.

[Interval of six months.]

Paul Hoch comes to old Huss and says, "I am at last as rich as you required--come and view
the pile." Old Huss views it and says, "It is sufficient--take her and be happy,"--meaning
Gretchen.

[Interval of two weeks.]

Wedding party assembled in old Huss's drawing-room. Hoch placid and content, Gretchen weeping
over her hard fate. Enter old Huss's head bookkeeper. Huss says fiercely, "I gave you three
weeks to find out why your books don't balance, and to prove that you are not a defaulter;
the time is up--find me the missing property or you go to prison as a thief." Bookkeeper: "I
have found it." "Where?" Bookkeeper (sternly--tragically): "In the bridegroom's pile!--behold
the thief--see him blench and tremble!" [Sensation.] Paul Hoch: "Lost, lost!"--falls over the
cow in a swoon and is handcuffed. Gretchen: "Saved!" Falls over the calf in a swoon of joy,
but is caught in the arms of Hans Schmidt, who springs in at that moment. Old Huss: "What,
you here, varlet? Unhand the maid and quit the place." Hans (still supporting the insensible
girl): "Never! Cruel old man, know that I come with claims which even you cannot despise."

Huss: "What, YOU? name them."

Hans: "Listen then. The world has forsaken me, I forsook the world, I wandered in the solitude
of the forest, longing for death but finding none. I fed upon roots, and in my bitterness I
dug for the bitterest, loathing the sweeter kind. Digging, three days agone, I struck a manure
mine!--a Golconda, a limitless Bonanza, of solid manure! I can buy you ALL, and have mountain
ranges of manure left! Ha-ha, NOW thou smilest a smile!" [Immense sensation.] Exhibition of
specimens from the mine. Old Huss (enthusiastically): "Wake her up, shake her up, noble young
man, she is yours!" Wedding takes place on the spot; bookkeeper restored to his office and
emoluments; Paul Hoch led off to jail. The Bonanza king of the Black Forest lives to a good
old age, blessed with the love of his wife and of his twenty-seven children, and the still
sweeter envy of everybody around.

We took our noon meal of fried trout one day at the Plow Inn, in a very pretty village (Ottenhoefen),
and then went into the public room to rest and smoke. There we found nine or ten Black Forest
grandees assembled around a table. They were the Common Council of the parish. They had gathered
there at eight o'clock that morning to elect a new member, and they had now been drinking beer
four hours at the new member's expense.

They were men of fifty or sixty years of age, with grave good-natured faces, and were all dressed
in the costume made familiar to us by the Black Forest stories; broad, round-topped black felt
hats with the brims curled up all round; long red waistcoats with large metal buttons, black
alpaca coats with the waists up between the shoulders. There were no speeches, there was but
little talk, there were no frivolities; the Council filled themselves gradually, steadily,
but surely, with beer, and conducted themselves with sedate decorum, as became men of position,
men of influence, men of manure.

We had a hot afternoon tramp up the valley, along the grassy bank of a rushing stream of clear
water, past farmhouses, water-mills, and no end of wayside crucifixes and saints and Virgins.
These crucifixes, etc., are set up in memory of departed friends, by survivors, and are almost
as frequent as telegraph-poles are in other lands.

We followed the carriage-road, and had our usual luck; we traveled under a beating sun, and
always saw the shade leave the shady places before we could get to them. In all our wanderings
we seldom managed to strike a piece of road at its time for being shady. We had a particularly
hot time of it on that particular afternoon, and with no comfort but what we could get out
of the fact that the peasants at work away up on the steep mountainsides above our heads were
even worse off than we were. By and by it became impossible to endure the intolerable glare
and heat any longer; so we struck across the ravine and entered the deep cool twilight of the
forest, to hunt for what the guide-book called the "old road."

We found an old road, and it proved eventually to be the right one, though we followed it at
the time with the conviction that it was the wrong one. If it was the wrong one there could
be no use in hurrying; therefore we did not hurry, but sat down frequently on the soft moss
and enjoyed the restful quiet and shade of the forest solitudes. There had been distractions
in the carriage-road--school-children, peasants, wagons, troops of pedestrianizing students
from all over Germany--but we had the old road to ourselves.

Now and then, while we rested, we watched the laborious ant at his work. I found nothing new
in him--certainly nothing to change my opinion of him. It seems to me that in the matter of
intellect the ant must be a strangely overrated bird. During many summers, now, I have watched
him, when I ought to have been in better business, and I have not yet come across a living
ant that seemed to have any more sense than a dead one. I refer to the ordinary ant, of course;
I have had no experience of those wonderful Swiss and African ones which vote, keep drilled
armies, hold slaves, and dispute about religion. Those particular ants may be all that the
naturalist paints them, but I am persuaded that the average ant is a sham. I admit his industry,
of course; he is the hardest-working creature in the world--when anybody is looking--but his
leather-headedness is the point I make against him. He goes out foraging, he makes a capture,
and then what does he do? Go home? No--he goes anywhere but home. He doesn't know where home
is. His home may be only three feet away--no matter, he can't find it. He makes his capture,
as I have said; it is generally something which can be of no sort of use to himself or anybody
else; it is usually seven times bigger than it ought to be; he hunts out the awkwardest place
to take hold of it; he lifts it bodily up in the air by main force, and starts; not toward
home, but in the opposite direction; not calmly and wisely, but with a frantic haste which
is wasteful of his strength; he fetches up against a pebble, and instead of going around it,
he climbs over it backward dragging his booty after him, tumbles down on the other side, jumps
up in a passion, kicks the dust off his clothes, moistens his hands, grabs his property viciously,
yanks it this way, then that, shoves it ahead of him a moment, turns tail and lugs it after
him another moment, gets madder and madder, then presently hoists it into the air and goes
tearing away in an entirely new direction; comes to a weed; it never occurs to him to go around
it; no, he must climb it; and he does climb it, dragging his worthless property to the top--which
is as bright a thing to do as it would be for me to carry a sack of flour from Heidelberg to
Paris by way of Strasburg steeple; when he gets up there he finds that that is not the place;
takes a cursory glance at the scenery and either climbs down again or tumbles down, and starts
off once more--as usual, in a new direction. At the end of half an hour, he fetches up within
six inches of the place he started from and lays his burden down; meantime he has been over
all the ground for two yards around, and climbed all the weeds and pebbles he came across.
Now he wipes the sweat from his brow, strokes his limbs, and then marches aimlessly off, in
as violently a hurry as ever. He does not remember to have ever seen it before; he looks around
to see which is not the way home, grabs his bundle and starts; he goes through the same adventures
he had before; finally stops to rest, and a friend comes along. Evidently the friend remarks
that a last year's grasshopper leg is a very noble acquisition, and inquires where he got it.

Evidently the proprietor does not remember exactly where he did get it, but thinks he got it
"around here somewhere." Evidently the friend contracts to help him freight it home. Then,
with a judgment peculiarly antic (pun not intended), they take hold of opposite ends of that
grasshopper leg and begin to tug with all their might in opposite directions. Presently they
take a rest and confer together. They decide that something is wrong, they can't make out what.
Then they go at it again, just as before. Same result. Mutual recriminations follow. Evidently
each accuses the other of being an obstructionist. They lock themselves together and chew each
other's jaws for a while; then they roll and tumble on the ground till one loses a horn or
a leg and has to haul off for repairs. They make up and go to work again in the same old insane
way, but the crippled ant is at a disadvantage; tug as he may, the other one drags off the
booty and him at the end of it. Instead of giving up, he hangs on, and gets his shins bruised
against every obstruction that comes in the way. By and by, when that grasshopper leg has been
dragged all over the same old ground once more, it is finally dumped at about the spot where
it originally lay, the two perspiring ants inspect it thoughtfully and decide that dried grasshopper
legs are a poor sort of property after all, and then each starts off in a different direction
to see if he can't find an old nail or something else that is heavy enough to afford entertainment
and at the same time valueless enough to make an ant want to own it.

There in the Black Forest, on the mountainside, I saw an ant go through with such a performance
as this with a dead spider of fully ten times his own weight. The spider was not quite dead,
but too far gone to resist. He had a round body the size of a pea. The little ant--observing
that I was noticing--turned him on his back, sunk his fangs into his throat, lifted him into
the air and started vigorously off with him, stumbling over little pebbles, stepping on the
spider's legs and tripping himself up, dragging him backward, shoving him bodily ahead, dragging
him up stones six inches high instead of going around them, climbing weeds twenty times his
own height and jumping from their summits--and finally leaving him in the middle of the road
to be confiscated by any other fool of an ant that wanted him. I measured the ground which
this ass traversed, and arrived at the conclusion that what he had accomplished inside of twenty
minutes would constitute some such job as this--relatively speaking--for a man; to wit: to
strap two eight-hundred-pound horses together, carry them eighteen hundred feet, mainly over
(not around) boulders averaging six feet high, and in the course of the journey climb up and
jump from the top of one precipice like Niagara, and three steeples, each a hundred and twenty
feet high; and then put the horses down, in an exposed place, without anybody to watch them,
and go off to indulge in some other idiotic miracle for vanity's sake.

Science has recently discovered that the ant does not lay up anything for winter use. This
will knock him out of literature, to some extent. He does not work, except when people are
looking, and only then when the observer has a green, naturalistic look, and seems to be taking
notes. This amounts to deception, and will injure him for the Sunday-schools. He has not judgment
enough to know what is good to eat from what isn't. This amounts to ignorance, and will impair
the world's respect for him. He cannot stroll around a stump and find his way home again. This
amounts to idiocy, and once the damaging fact is established, thoughtful people will cease
to look up to him, the sentimental will cease to fondle him. His vaunted industry is but a
vanity and of no effect, since he never gets home with anything he starts with. This disposes
of the last remnant of his reputation and wholly destroys his main usefulness as a moral agent,
since it will make the sluggard hesitate to go to him any more. It is strange, beyond comprehension,
that so manifest a humbug as the ant has been able to fool so many nations and keep it up so
many ages without being found out.

The ant is strong, but we saw another strong thing, where we had not suspected the presence
of much muscular power before. A toadstool--that vegetable which springs to full growth in
a single night--had torn loose and lifted a matted mass of pine needles and dirt of twice its
own bulk into the air, and supported it there, like a column supporting a shed. Ten thousand
toadstools, with the right purchase, could lift a man, I suppose. But what good would it do?

All our afternoon's progress had been uphill. About five or half past we reached the summit,
and all of a sudden the dense curtain of the forest parted and we looked down into a deep and
beautiful gorge and out over a wide panorama of wooded mountains with their summits shining
in the sun and their glade-furrowed sides dimmed with purple shade. The gorge under our feet--called
Allerheiligen--afforded room in the grassy level at its head for a cozy and delightful human
nest, shut away from the world and its botherations, and consequently the monks of the old
times had not failed to spy it out; and here were the brown and comely ruins of their church
and convent to prove that priests had as fine an instinct seven hundred years ago in ferreting
out the choicest nooks and corners in a land as priests have today.

A big hotel crowds the ruins a little, now, and drives a brisk trade with summer tourists.
We descended into the gorge and had a supper which would have been very satisfactory if the
trout had not been boiled. The Germans are pretty sure to boil a trout or anything else if
left to their own devices. This is an argument of some value in support of the theory that
they were the original colonists of the wild islands of the coast of Scotland. A schooner laden
with oranges was wrecked upon one of those islands a few years ago, and the gentle savages
rendered the captain such willing assistance that he gave them as many oranges as they wanted.
Next day he asked them how they liked them. They shook their heads and said:

"Baked, they were tough; and even boiled, they warn't things for a hungry man to hanker after."

We went down the glen after supper. It is beautiful--a mixture of sylvan loveliness and craggy
wildness. A limpid torrent goes whistling down the glen, and toward the foot of it winds through
a narrow cleft between lofty precipices and hurls itself over a succession of falls. After
one passes the last of these he has a backward glimpse at the falls which is very pleasing--they
rise in a seven-stepped stairway of foamy and glittering cascades, and make a picture which
is as charming as it is unusual.

CHAPTER XXIII

[Nicodemus Dodge and the Skeleton]

We were satisfied that we could walk to Oppenau in one day, now that we were in practice; so
we set out the next morning after breakfast determined to do it. It was all the way downhill,
and we had the loveliest summer weather for it. So we set the pedometer and then stretched
away on an easy, regular stride, down through the cloven forest, drawing in the fragrant breath
of the morning in deep refreshing draughts, and wishing we might never have anything to do
forever but walk to Oppenau and keep on doing it and then doing it over again.

Now, the true charm of pedestrianism does not lie in the walking, or in the scenery, but in
the talking. The walking is good to time the movement of the tongue by, and to keep the blood
and the brain stirred up and active; the scenery and the woodsy smells are good to bear in
upon a man an unconscious and unobtrusive charm and solace to eye and soul and sense; but the
supreme pleasure comes from the talk. It is no matter whether one talks wisdom or nonsense,
the case is the same, the bulk of the enjoyment lies in the wagging of the gladsome jaw and
the flapping of the sympathetic ear.

And what motley variety of subjects a couple of people will casually rake over in the course
of a day's tramp! There being no constraint, a change of subject is always in order, and so
a body is not likely to keep pegging at a single topic until it grows tiresome. We discussed
everything we knew, during the first fifteen or twenty minutes, that morning, and then branched
out into the glad, free, boundless realm of the things we were not certain about.

Harris said that if the best writer in the world once got the slovenly habit of doubling up
his "haves" he could never get rid of it while he lived. That is to say, if a man gets the
habit of saying "I should have liked to have known more about it" instead of saying simply
and sensibly, "I should have liked to know more about it," that man's disease is incurable.
Harris said that his sort of lapse is to be found in every copy of every newspaper that has
ever been printed in English, and in almost all of our books. He said he had observed it in
Kirkham's grammar and in Macaulay. Harris believed that milk-teeth are commoner in men's mouths
than those "doubled-up haves."

I do not know that there have not been moments in the course of the present session when I
should have been very glad to have accepted the proposal of my noble friend, and to have exchanged
parts in some of our evenings of work.--[From a Speech of the English Chancellor of the Exchequer,
August, 1879.]

