A few weeks afterwards, the city petitioned to have a number of women instructed in the practice
of midwifery. These women were all experienced nurses, who had taken the liberty to practise
this art to a greater or less extent from what they had learned of it while nursing; and, to
put an end to this unlawful practice, they had been summoned before an examining committee,
and the youngest and best educated chosen to be instructed as the law required. Dr. Müller,
the pathologist, was appointed to superintend the theoretical, and Dr. Ebert the practical,
instruction. Dr. Müller, who never had given this kind of instruction before, and who was a
special friend of mine, immediately surrendered the whole into my hands; while Dr. Ebert, whose
time was almost wholly absorbed in the department of the diseases of children, appointed me
as his assistant. Both gentlemen gave me certificates of this when I determined to emigrate
to America.

The marked preference for my wards that had always been shown by the male students was shared
by these women when they came. Sister Catherine was neither ambitious nor envious; yet she
felt that she was the second in place. Drs. Müller and Ebert never addressed themselves to
her; neither did they impress the nurses and the servants with the idea that she was any thing
more than the head-nurse. All these things together made her a spy; and, though nothing happened
for which I could be reproved, all that I said and did was watched and secretly reported. He is absorbed
in the care that weighs on him. When you see him in a holiday moment at his own fireside, the care
is thrown aside; perhaps he mastered while abroad the difficulty that had troubled him; he
is cheerful, pleasant, sunny. When it
was found that no occasion offered to find fault with me, our administrative inspector was
removed, and a surly old corporal put in his place, with the hint that the government of the
hospital thought that the former inspector did not perform his duty rightly, since he never
reported disturbance in a ward that had been notorious as being the most disorderly in former
times. The truth was, that, in my innocence of heart, I had been striving to gain the respect
and friendship of my enemies by doing my work better than any before me had done. To go to
bed at night regularly was a thing unknown to me. Once I was not undressed for twenty-one days
and nights; superintending and giving instructions on six or eight confinement cases in every
twenty-four hours; lecturing three hours every afternoon to the class of midwives; giving clinical
lectures to them twice a week, for an hour in the morning; superintending the care of some
twenty infants, who were epidemically attacked with purulent ophthalmia; and having, besides,
the general supervision of the whole department. But all this could not overcome the hostility
of my enemies, the chief cause of which lay in the mortification at having been vanquished
by my appointment. On the other hand, I was happy in the thought that Mrs. Schmidt continued
to take the same interest in me as before, and was glad to hear of my partial success. The
students, both male and female, were devoted to me, and manifested their gratitude openly and
frankly. This was the greatest compensation that I received for my work. The women wished to
show their appreciation by paying me for the extra labor that I performed in their instruction;
not knowing the fact, that I did it simply in order that they might pass an examination which
should again convince the committee that I was in the right place. I forbade them all payment,
as I had refused it to the male students when they wished to pay me for their extra instruction
on the manikin: but in a true, womanly way, they managed to learn the date of my birthday;
when two or three, instead of attending the lecture, took possession of my room, which they
decorated with flowers; while en the table they displayed presents to the amount of some hundred
and twenty dollars, which the fifty-six women of the class had collected among themselves.
This was, of course, a great surprise to me, and really made me feel sad; for I did not wish
for things of this sort. I wished to prove that unselfishness was the real motive of my work;
and thought that I should finally earn the crown of appreciation from my enemies, for which
I was striving. This gift crossed all my plans. I must accept it, if I would not wound the
kindest of hearts; yet I felt that I lost my game by so doing. I quietly packed every thing
into a basket, and put it out of sight under the bed, in order that I might not be reminded
of my loss. Of course, all these things were at once reported. I saw in the faces of many that
something was in agitation, and waited a fortnight in constant expectation of its coming. But
these people wished to crush me entirely. They knew well that a blow comes hardest when least
expected, and therefore kept quiet week after week, until I really began to ask their pardon
in my heart for having done them the wrong to expect them to act meanly about a thing that
was natural and allowable. In a word, I became quiet and happy again in the performance of
my duties; until suddenly six weeks after my birthday, I was summoned to the presence of Director
Horn (the same who had reprimanded me for leaving the church), who received me with a face
as hard and stern as an avenging judge, and asked me whether I knew that it was against the
law to receive any other payment than that given me by the hospital. Upon my avowing that I
did, he went on to ask how it was, then, that I had accepted gifts on my birthday. This question
fell upon me like a thunderbolt; for I never had thought of looking upon these as a payment. "Madre!"
echoed Graham, also in Italian. "I have been misinformed, then; that lady is your mother."
Isaura laughed a pretty, low, silvery laugh, and replied in English,
"She is not my mother; but I call her Madre, for I know no name more
loving." I told him this in reply, and
also how disagreeable the acceptance had been to me, and how ready I was to return the whole
at his command; since it had been my desire to prove, not only my capability, but my unselfishness
in the work. The man was ashamed; I saw it in his face as he turned it away from me: yet he
saw in me a proof that he had been vanquished in intrigue, and was resolved that the occasion
should end in my overthrow. Much more was said about the presents and their significance; and
I soon ceased to be the humble woman, and spoke boldly what I thought, in defiance of his authority,
as I had done at the time of the religious conversation (by the way, I never attended church
again after that interview.) The end was, that I declared my readiness to leave the hospital.
He wished to inflict direct punishment on me; and forbade me to be present at the examination
of the class, which was to take place the next day. This was really a hard penalty, to which
he was forced for his own sake; for, if I had been present, I should have told the whole affair
to men of a nobler stamp, who would have opposed, as they afterwards did, my leaving a place
which I filled to their entire satisfaction.

I made my preparations to leave the hospital on the 15th of November. What was I to do? I was
not made to practise quietly, as is commonly done: my education and aspirations demanded more
than this. For the time, I could do nothing more than inform my patients that I intended to
practise independently. My father again wished that I should marry; and I began to ask myself,
whether marriage is an institution to relieve parents from embarrassment. When troubled about
the future of a son, parents are ready to give him to the army; when in fears of the destiny
of a daughter, they induce her to become the slave of the marriage bond. I never doubted that
it was more unendurable and unworthy to be a wife without love, than a soldier without a special
calling for that profession; and I never could think of marriage as the means to procure a
shelter and bread.

I had so many schemes in my head, that I would not listen to his words. Among these was especially
the wish to emigrate to America. The Pennsylvania Female Medical College had sent its first
Report to Dr. Schmidt, who had informed me of it as well as his colleagues, and had advocated
the justice of such a reform. This fact occurred to my memory; and, for the next two months,
I did nothing but speculate how to carry out my design of emigration. I had lived rather expensively
and lavishly, without thinking of laying up any money; and my whole fortune, when I left the
Charité, consisted of sixty dollars.

One thing happened in connection with my leaving the hospital, which I must relate here. Director
Horn was required to justify his conduct to the minister to whom the change had to be reported;
and a committee was appointed to hear the accusation and pass judgment upon the affair. As
this was done in secrecy and not before a jury, and as the accuser was a man of high rank,
I knew nothing of it until Christmas Eve, when I received a document stating that, as a gratification
for my services for the benefit of the city of Berlin in instructing the class of midwives,
a compensation was decreed me of fifty dollars. This was a large sum for Berlin, such as was
only given on rare occasions. I was also informed that Director Horn was instructed to give
me, should I ever demand it, a first-class certificate of what my position had been in the
hospital with the title of Chief attached. Whatever I had suffered from the injustice of my
enemies, I was now fully recompensed. I inquired who had taken my part so earnestly against
Director Horn as to gain this action, and found that it was Dr. Müller the pathologist, backed
by several other physicians. Director Horn, it was said, was greatly humiliated by the decision
of Minister von Raumer, who could not see the least justice in his conduct in this matter;
and, had I not left the hospital so readily, I should never have stood so firmly as after this
secret trial.

It was done, however; and I confidently told my mother of my design to emigrate. Between my
mother and myself there existed, not merely the strongest relation of maternal and filial love,
but also a professional sympathy and peculiar friendship, which was the result of two similar
minds and hearts, and which made me stand even nearer to her than as a child I could possibly
have done. She consented with heart and soul, encouraged me in all my plans and expectations,
and asked me at once at what time I would leave. I next told my father and the rest of the
family of my plan. My third sister (Anna), a beautiful, joyous young girl, exclaimed, "And
I will go with you!" My father, who would not listen to my going alone, at once consented to
our going together. But I thought differently In going alone, I risked only my own happiness:
in going with her, I risked hers too; while I should be constantly restricted in my adventurous
undertaking from having her with me, who knew nothing of the world save the happiness of a
tranquil family life. The next day, I told them that I had changed my mind, and should not
go away, but should establish myself in Berlin. Of course, I received a torrent of gibes on
my fickleness; for they did not understand my feelings in respect to the responsibility that
I feared to take for my younger sister.

