The watchman apparently did not think it proper to offer any comment on this unusual proceeding,
and a moment later she was fluttering and rustling up through the darkness, like a night-bird
hovering among rafters. There were ten flights to climb: at every one her breath failed her,
and she had to stand still and press her hands against her heart. Then the weight on her breast
lifted, and she went on again, upward and upward, the great dark building dropping away from
her, in tier after tier of mute doors and mysterious corridors. At last she reached Dick's
floor, and saw the light shining down the passage from his door. She leaned against the wall,
her breath coming short, the silence throbbing in her ears. Even now it was not too late to
turn back. She bent over the stairs, letting her eyes plunge into the nether blackness, with
the single glimmer of the watchman's lights in its depths; then she turned and stole toward
her son's door.

There again she paused and listened, trying to catch, through the hum of her pulses, any noise
that might come to her from within. But the silence was unbroken--it seemed as though the office
must be empty. She pressed her ear to the door, straining for a sound. She knew he never sat
long at his work, and it seemed unaccountable that she should not hear him moving about the
drawing-board. For a moment she fancied he might be sleeping; but sleep did not come to him
readily after prolonged mental effort--she recalled the restless straying of his feet above
her head for hours after he returned from his night work in the office.

She began to fear that he might be ill. A nervous trembling seized her, and she laid her hand
on the latch, whispering "Dick!"

Her whisper sounded loudly through the silence, but there was no answer, and after a pause
she called again. With each call the hush seemed to deepen: it closed in on her, mysterious
and impenetrable. Her heart was beating in short frightened leaps: a moment more and she would
have cried out. She drew a quick breath and turned the door-handle.

The outer room, Dick's private office, with its red carpet and easy-chairs, stood in pleasant
lamp-lit emptiness. The last time she had entered it, Darrow and Clemence Verney had been there,
and she had sat behind the urn observing them. She paused a moment, struck now by a fault sound
from beyond; then she slipped noiselessly across the carpet, pushed open the swinging door,
and stood on the threshold of the work-room. Here the gas-lights hung a green-shaded circle
of brightness over the great draughting-table in the middle of the floor. Table and floor were
strewn with a confusion of papers--torn blue-prints and tracings, crumpled sheets of tracing-paper
wrenched from the draughting-boards in a sudden fury of destruction; and in the centre of the
havoc, his arms stretched across the table and his face hidden in them, sat Dick Peyton.

He did not seem to hear his mother's approach, and she stood looking at him, her breast tightening
with a new fear.

"Dick!" she said, "Dick!--" and he sprang up, staring with dazed eyes. But gradually, as his
gaze cleared, a light spread in it, a mounting brightness of recognition.

"You've come--you've come--" he said, stretching his hands to her; and all at once she had
him in her breast as in a shelter.

"You wanted me?" she whispered as she held him.

He looked up at her, tired, breathless, with the white radiance of the runner near the goal.

"I had you, dear!" he said, smiling strangely on her; and her heart gave a great leap of understanding.

Her arms had slipped from his neck, and she stood leaning on him, deep-suffused in the shyness
of her discovery. For it might still be that he did not wish her to know what she had done for him.

But he put his arm about her, boyishly, and drew her toward one of the hard seats between the
tables; and there, on the bare floor, he knelt before her, and hid his face in her lap. She
sat motionless, feeling the dear warmth of his head against her knees, letting her hands stray
in faint caresses through his hair.

Neither spoke for awhile; then he raised his head and looked at her. "I suppose you know what
has been happening to me," he said.

She shrank from seeming to press into his life a hair's-breadth farther than he was prepared
to have her go. Her eyes turned from him toward the scattered drawings on the table.

"You have given up the competition?" she said.

"Yes--and a lot more." He stood up, the wave of emotion ebbing, yet leaving him nearer, in
his recovered calmness, than in the shock of their first moment.

"I didn't know, at first, how much you guessed," he went on quietly. "I was sorry I'd shown
you Darrow's letter; but it didn't worry me much because I didn't suppose you'd think it possible
that I should--take advantage of it. It's only lately that I've understood that you knew everything."
He looked at her with a smile. "I don't know yet how I found it out, for you're wonderful about
keeping things to yourself, and you never made a sign. I simply felt it in a kind of nearness--as
if I couldn't get away from you.--Oh, there were times when I should have preferred not having
you about--when I tried to turn my back on you, to see things from other people's standpoint.
But you were always there--you wouldn't be discouraged. And I got tired of trying to explain
things to you, of trying to bring you round to my way of thinking. You wouldn't go away and
you wouldn't come any nearer--you just stood there and watched everything that I was doing."

He broke off, taking one of his restless turns down the long room. Then he drew up a chair
beside her, and dropped into it with a great sigh.

"At first, you know, I hated it most awfully. I wanted to be let alone and to work out my own
theory of things. If you'd said a word--if you'd tried to influence me--the spell would have
been broken. But just because the actual you kept apart and didn't meddle or pry, the other,
the you in my heart, seemed to get a tighter hold on me. I don't know how to tell you,--it's
all mixed up in my head--but old things you'd said and done kept coming back to me, crowding
between me and what I was trying for, looking at me without speaking, like old friends I'd
gone back on, till I simply couldn't stand it any longer. I fought it off till to-night, but
when I came back to finish the work there you were again--and suddenly, I don't know how, you
weren't an obstacle any longer, but a refuge--and I crawled into your arms as I used to when
things went against me at school."

His hands stole back into hers, and he leaned his head against her shoulder like a boy.

"I'm an abysmally weak fool, you know," he ended; "I'm not worth the fight you've put up for
me. But I want you to know that it's your doing--that if you had let go an instant I should
have gone under--and that if I'd gone under I should never have come up again alive."