It was dark night when he made an end; they had listened in almost perfect silence; but the
firelight scarce permitted any one to judge, from the look of his neighbours, with what result
of persuasion or conviction.  Indeed, the Master had set himself in the brightest place, and
kept his face there, to be the centre of men's eyes:  doubtless on a profound calculation.
Silence followed for awhile, and presently the whole party became involved in disputation:
the Master lying on his back, with his hands knit under his head and one knee flung across
the other, like a person unconcerned in the result.  And here, I daresay, his bravado carried
him too far and prejudiced his case.  At least, after a cast or two back and forward, opinion
settled finally against him. It's possible he hoped to repeat the business of the pirate ship,
and be himself, perhaps, on hard enough conditions, elected leader; and things went so far
that way, that Mountain actually threw out the proposition.  But the rock he split upon was
Hastie.  This fellow was not well liked, being sour and slow, with an ugly, glowering disposition,
but he had studied some time for the church at Edinburgh College, before ill conduct had destroyed
his prospects, and he now remembered and applied what he had learned. Indeed he had not proceeded
very far, when the Master rolled carelessly upon one side, which was done (in Mountain's opinion)
to conceal the beginnings of despair upon his countenance.  Hastie dismissed the most of what
they had heard as nothing to the matter: what they wanted was the treasure.  All that was said
of Harris might be true, and they would have to see to that in time.  But what had that to
do with the treasure?  They had heard a vast of words; but the truth was just this, that Mr.
Durie was damnably frightened and had several times run off.  Here he was - whether caught
or come back was all one to Hastie:  the point was to make an end of the business.  As for
the talk of deposing and electing captains, he hoped they were all free men and could attend
their own affairs.  That was dust flung in their eyes, and so was the proposal to fight Harris.
"He shall fight no one in this camp, I can tell him that," said Hastie.  "We had trouble enough
to get his arms away from him, and we should look pretty fools to give them back again.  But
if it's excitement the gentleman is after, I can supply him with more than perhaps he cares
about.  For I have no intention to spend the remainder of my life in these mountains; already
I have been too long; and I propose that he should immediately tell us where that treasure
is, or else immediately be shot.  And there," says he, producing his weapon, "there is the
pistol that I mean to use."

"Come, I call you a man," cries the Master, sitting up and looking at the speaker with an air
of admiration.

"I didn't ask you to call me anything," returned Hastie; "which is it to be?"

"That's an idle question," said the Master.  "Needs must when the devil drives.  The truth
is we are within easy walk of the place, and I will show it you to-morrow."

With that, as if all were quite settled, and settled exactly to his mind, he walked off to
his tent, whither Secundra had preceded him.

I cannot think of these last turns and wriggles of my old enemy except with admiration; scarce
even pity is mingled with the sentiment, so strongly the man supported, so boldly resisted
his misfortunes.  Even at that hour, when he perceived himself quite lost, when he saw he had
but effected an exchange of enemies, and overthrown Harris to set Hastie up, no sign of weakness
appeared in his behaviour, and he withdrew to his tent, already determined (I must suppose)
upon affronting the incredible hazard of his last expedient, with the same easy, assured, genteel
expression and demeanour as he might have left a theatre withal to join a supper of the wits.
But doubtless within, if we could see there, his soul trembled.

Early in the night, word went about the camp that he was sick; and the first thing the next
morning he called Hastie to his side, and inquired most anxiously if he had any skill in medicine.
As a matter of fact, this was a vanity of that fallen divinity student's, to which he had cunningly
addressed himself.  Hastie examined him; and being flattered, ignorant, and highly auspicious,
knew not in the least whether the man was sick or malingering.  In this state he went forth
again to his companions; and (as the thing which would give himself most consequence either
way) announced that the patient was in a fair way to die.

"For all that," he added with an oath, "and if he bursts by the wayside, he must bring us this
morning to the treasure."

But there were several in the camp (Mountain among the number) whom this brutality revolted.
They would have seen the Master pistolled, or pistolled him themselves, without the smallest
sentiment of pity; but they seemed to have been touched by his gallant fight and unequivocal
defeat the night before; perhaps, too, they were even already beginning to oppose themselves
to their new leader:  at least, they now declared that (if the man was sick) he should have
a day's rest in spite of Hastie's teeth.

The next morning he was manifestly worse, and Hastie himself began to display something of
humane concern, so easily does even the pretence of doctoring awaken sympathy.  The third the
Master called Mountain and Hastie to the tent, announced himself to be dying, gave them full
particulars as to the position of the cache, and begged them to set out incontinently on the
quest, so that they might see if he deceived them, and (if they were at first unsuccessful)
he should be able to correct their error.

But here arose a difficulty on which he doubtless counted.  None of these men would trust another,
none would consent to stay behind. On the other hand, although the Master seemed extremely
low, spoke scarce above a whisper, and lay much of the time insensible, it was still possible
it was a fraudulent sickness; and if all went treasure-hunting, it might prove they had gone
upon a wild-goose chase, and return to find their prisoner flown.  They concluded, therefore,
to hang idling round the camp, alleging sympathy to their reason; and certainly, so mingled
are our dispositions, several were sincerely (if not very deeply) affected by the natural peril
of the man whom they callously designed to murder.  In the afternoon, Hastie was called to
the bedside to pray:  the which (incredible as it must appear) he did with unction; about eight
at night, the wailing of Secundra announced that all was over; and before ten, the Indian,
with a link stuck in the ground, was toiling at the grave.  Sunrise of next day beheld the
Master's burial, all hands attending with great decency of demeanour; and the body was laid
in the earth, wrapped in a fur robe, with only the face uncovered; which last was of a waxy
whiteness, and had the nostrils plugged according to some Oriental habit of Secundra's. No
sooner was the grave filled than the lamentations of the Indian once more struck concern to
every heart; and it appears this gang of murderers, so far from resenting his outcries, although
both distressful and (in such a country) perilous to their own safety, roughly but kindly endeavoured
to console him.

But if human nature is even in the worst of men occasionally kind, it is still, and before
all things, greedy; and they soon turned from the mourner to their own concerns.  The cache
of the treasure being hard by, although yet unidentified, it was concluded not to break camp;
and the day passed, on the part of the voyagers, in unavailing exploration of the woods, Secundra
the while lying on his master's grave.  That night they placed no sentinel, but lay altogether
about the fire, in the customary woodman fashion, the heads outward, like the spokes of a wheel.
Morning found them in the same disposition; only Pinkerton, who lay on Mountain's right, between
him and Hastie, had (in the hours of darkness) been secretly butchered, and there lay, still
wrapped as to his body in his mantle, but offering above that ungodly and horrific spectacle
of the scalped head.  The gang were that morning as pale as a company of phantoms, for the
pertinacity of Indian war (or to speak more correctly, Indian murder) was well known to all.
But they laid the chief blame on their unsentinelled posture; and fired with the neighbourhood
of the treasure, determined to continue where they were.  Pinkerton was buried hard by the
Master; the survivors again passed the day in exploration, and returned in a mingled humour
of anxiety and hope, being partly certain they were now close on the discovery of what they
sought, and on the other hand (with the return of darkness) were infected with the fear of
Indians.  Mountain was the first sentry; he declares he neither slept nor yet sat down, but
kept his watch with a perpetual and straining vigilance, and it was even with unconcern that
(when he saw by the stars his time was up) he drew near the fire to awaken his successor. 
This man (it was Hicks the shoemaker) slept on the lee side of the circle, something farther
off in consequence than those to windward, and in a place darkened by the blowing smoke. Mountain
stooped and took him by the shoulder; his hand was at once smeared by some adhesive wetness;
and (the wind at the moment veering) the firelight shone upon the sleeper, and showed him,
like Pinkerton, dead and scalped.

It was clear they had fallen in the hands of one of those matchless Indian bravos, that will
sometimes follow a party for days, and in spite of indefatigable travel, and unsleeping watch,
continue to keep up with their advance, and steal a scalp at every resting- place.  Upon this
discovery, the treasure-seekers, already reduced to a poor half dozen, fell into mere dismay,
seized a few necessaries, and deserting the remainder of their goods, fled outright into the
forest.  Their fire they left still burning, and their dead comrade unburied.  All day they
ceased not to flee, eating by the way, from hand to mouth; and since they feared to sleep,
continued to advance at random even in the hours of darkness.  But the limit of man's endurance
is soon reached; when they rested at last it was to sleep profoundly; and when they woke, it
was to find that the enemy was still upon their heels, and death and mutilation had once more
lessened and deformed their company.

By this they had become light-headed, they had quite missed their path in the wilderness, their
stores were already running low. With the further horrors, it is superfluous that I should
swell this narrative, already too prolonged.  Suffice it to say that when at length a night
passed by innocuous, and they might breathe again in the hope that the murderer had at last
desisted from pursuit, Mountain and Secundra were alone.  The trader is firmly persuaded their
unseen enemy was some warrior of his own acquaintance, and that he himself was spared by favour.
The mercy extended to Secundra he explains on the ground that the East Indian was thought to
be insane; partly from the fact that, through all the horrors of the flight and while others
were casting away their very food and weapons, Secundra continued to stagger forward with a
mattock on his shoulder, and partly because, in the last days and with a great degree of heat
and fluency, he perpetually spoke with himself in his own language.  But he was sane enough
when it came to English.

"You think he will be gone quite away?" he asked, upon their blest awakening in safety.

"I pray God so, I believe so, I dare to believe so," Mountain had replied almost with incoherence,
as he described the scene to me.

And indeed he was so much distempered that until he met us, the next morning, he could scarce
be certain whether he had dreamed, or whether it was a fact, that Secundra had thereupon turned
directly about and returned without a word upon their footprints, setting his face for these
wintry and hungry solitudes, along a path whose every stage was mile-stoned with a mutilated
corpse.

CHAPTER XII. - THE JOURNEY IN THE WILDERNESS (continued).

Mountain's story, as it was laid before Sir William Johnson and my lord, was shorn, of course,
of all the earlier particulars, and the expedition described to have proceeded uneventfully,
until the Master sickened.  But the latter part was very forcibly related, the speaker visibly
thrilling to his recollections; and our then situation, on the fringe of the same desert, and
the private interests of each, gave him an audience prepared to share in his emotions.  For
Mountain's intelligence not only changed the world for my Lord Durrisdeer, but materially affected
the designs of Sir William Johnson.

These I find I must lay more at length before the reader.  Word had reached Albany of dubious
import; it had been rumoured some hostility was to be put in act; and the Indian diplomatist
had, thereupon, sped into the wilderness, even at the approach of winter, to nip that mischief
in the bud.  Here, on the borders, he learned that he was come too late; and a difficult choice
was thus presented to a man (upon the whole) not any more bold than prudent. His standing with
the painted braves may be compared to that of my Lord President Culloden among the chiefs of
our own Highlanders at the 'forty-five; that is as much as to say, he was, to these men, reason's
only speaking trumpet, and counsels of peace and moderation, if they were to prevail at all,
must prevail singly through his influence.  If, then, he should return, the province must lie
open to all the abominable tragedies of Indian war - the houses blaze, the wayfarer be cut
off, and the men of the woods collect their usual disgusting spoil of human scalps.  On the
other side, to go farther forth, to risk so small a party deeper in the desert, to carry words
of peace among warlike savages already rejoicing to return to war:  here was an extremity from
which it was easy to perceive his mind revolted.

"I have come too late," he said more than once, and would fall into a deep consideration, his
head bowed in his hands, his foot patting the ground.

At length he raised his face and looked upon us, that is to say upon my lord, Mountain, and
myself, sitting close round a small fire, which had been made for privacy in one corner of
the camp.

"My lord, to be quite frank with you, I find myself in two minds," said he.  "I think it very
needful I should go on, but not at all proper I should any longer enjoy the pleasure of your
company.  We are here still upon the water side; and I think the risk to southward no great
matter.  Will not yourself and Mr. Mackellar take a single boat's crew and return to Albany?"

My lord, I should say, had listened to Mountain's narrative, regarding him throughout with
a painful intensity of gaze; and since the tale concluded, had sat as in a dream.  There was
something very daunting in his look; something to my eyes not rightly human; the face, lean,
and dark, and aged, the mouth painful, the teeth disclosed in a perpetual rictus; the eyeball
swimming clear of the lids upon a field of blood-shot white.  I could not behold him myself
without a jarring irritation, such as, I believe, is too frequently the uppermost feeling on
the sickness of those dear to us.  Others, I could not but remark. were scarce able to support
his neighbourhood - Sir William eviting to be near him, Mountain dodging his eye, and, when
he met it, blenching and halting in his story.  At this appeal, however, my lord appeared to
recover his command upon himself.

"To Albany?" said he, with a good voice.

"Not short of it, at least," replied Sir William.  "There is no safety nearer hand."

"I would be very sweir (11) to return," says my lord.  "I am not afraid - of Indians," he added,
with a jerk.

"I wish that I could say so much," returned Sir William, smiling; "although, if any man durst
say it, it should be myself.  But you are to keep in view my responsibility, and that as the
voyage has now become highly dangerous, and your business - if you ever had any," says he,
"brought quite to a conclusion by the distressing family intelligence you have received, I
should be hardly justified if I even suffered you to proceed, and run the risk of some obloquy
if anything regrettable should follow."

My lord turned to Mountain.  "What did he pretend he died of?" he asked.

"I don't think I understand your honour," said the trader, pausing like a man very much affected,
in the dressing of some cruel frost- bites.

For a moment my lord seemed at a full stop; and then, with some irritation, "I ask you what
he died of.  Surely that's a plain question," said he.

"Oh! I don't know," said Mountain.  "Hastie even never knew.  He seemed to sicken natural,
and just pass away."

"There it is, you see!" concluded my lord, turning to Sir William.

"Your lordship is too deep for me," replied Sir William.

"Why," says my lord, "this in a matter of succession; my son's title may be called in doubt;
and the man being supposed to be dead of nobody can tell what, a great deal of suspicion would
be naturally roused."

"But, God damn me, the man's buried!" cried Sir William.

"I will never believe that," returned my lord, painfully trembling. "I'll never believe it!"
he cried again, and jumped to his feet. "Did he LOOK dead?" he asked of Mountain.

"Look dead?" repeated the trader.  "He looked white.  Why, what would he be at?  I tell you,
I put the sods upon him."

My lord caught Sir William by the coat with a hooked hand.  "This man has the name of my brother,"
says he, "but it's well understood that he was never canny."

"Canny?" says Sir William.  "What is that?"

"He's not of this world," whispered my lord, "neither him nor the black deil that serves him.
I have struck my sword throughout his vitals," he cried; "I have felt the hilt dirl (12) on
his breastbone, and the hot blood spirt in my very face, time and again, time and again!" he
repeated, with a gesture indescribable. "But he was never dead for that," said he, and I sighed
aloud. "Why should I think he was dead now?  No, not till I see him rotting," says he.

Sir William looked across at me with a long face.  Mountain forgot his wounds, staring and gaping.

"My lord," said I, "I wish you would collect your spirits."  But my throat was so dry, and
my own wits so scattered, I could add no more.

"No," says my lord, "it's not to be supposed that he would understand me.  Mackellar does,
for he kens all, and has seen him buried before now.  This is a very good servant to me, Sir
William, this man Mackellar; he buried him with his own hands - he and my father - by the light
of two siller candlesticks.  The other man is a familiar spirit; he brought him from Coromandel.
I would have told ye this long syne, Sir William, only it was in the family." These last remarks
he made with a kind of a melancholy composure, and his time of aberration seemed to pass away.
"You can ask yourself what it all means," he proceeded.  "My brother falls sick, and dies,
and is buried, as so they say; and all seems very plain. But why did the familiar go back?
I think ye must see for yourself it's a point that wants some clearing."

"I will be at your service, my lord, in half a minute," said Sir William, rising.  "Mr. Mackellar,
two words with you;" and he led me without the camp, the frost crunching in our steps, the
trees standing at our elbow, hoar with frost, even as on that night in the Long Shrubbery.
"Of course, this is midsummer madness," said Sir William, as soon as we were gotten out of bearing.

"Why, certainly," said I.  "The man is mad.  I think that manifest."

"Shall I seize and bind him?" asked Sir William.  "I will upon your authority.  If these are
all ravings, that should certainly be done."

I looked down upon the ground, back at the camp, with its bright fires and the folk watching
us, and about me on the woods and mountains; there was just the one way that I could not look,
and that was in Sir William's face.

"Sir William," said I at last, "I think my lord not sane, and have long thought him so.  But
there are degrees in madness; and whether he should be brought under restraint - Sir William,
I am no fit judge," I concluded.

"I will be the judge," said he.  "I ask for facts.  Was there, in all that jargon, any word
of truth or sanity?  Do you hesitate?" he asked.  "Am I to understand you have buried this
gentleman before?"

"Not buried," said I; and then, taking up courage at last, "Sir William," said I, "unless I
were to tell you a long story, which much concerns a noble family (and myself not in the least),
it would be impossible to make this matter clear to you.  Say the word, and I will do it, right
or wrong.  And, at any rate, I will say so much, that my lord is not so crazy as he seems.
This is a strange matter, into the tail of which you are unhappily drifted."

"I desire none of your secrets," replied Sir William; "but I will be plain, at the risk of
incivility, and confess that I take little pleasure in my present company."

"I would be the last to blame you," said I, "for that."

"I have not asked either for your censure or your praise, sir," returned Sir William.  "I desire
simply to be quit of you; and to that effect, I put a boat and complement of men at your disposal."

"This is fairly offered," said I, after reflection.  "But you must suffer me to say a word
upon the other side.  We have a natural curiosity to learn the truth of this affair; I have
some of it myself; my lord (it is very plain) has but too much.  The matter of the Indian's
return is enigmatical."

"I think so myself," Sir William interrupted, "and I propose (since I go in that direction)
to probe it to the bottom.  Whether or not the man has gone like a dog to die upon his master's
grave, his life, at least, is in great danger, and I propose, if I can, to save it.  There
is nothing against his character?"

"Nothing, Sir William," I replied.

"And the other?" he said.  "I have heard my lord, of course; but, from the circumstances of
his servant's loyalty, I must suppose he had some noble qualities."

"You must not ask me that!" I cried.  "Hell may have noble flames. I have known him a score
of years, and always hated, and always admired, and always slavishly feared him."

"I appear to intrude again upon your secrets," said Sir William, "believe me, inadvertently.
Enough that I will see the grave, and (if possible) rescue the Indian.  Upon these terms, can
you persuade your master to return to Albany?"

"Sir William," said I, "I will tell you how it is.  You do not see my lord to advantage; it
will seem even strange to you that I should love him; but I do, and I am not alone.  If he
goes back to Albany, it must be by force, and it will be the death-warrant of his reason, and
perhaps his life.  That is my sincere belief; but I am in your hands, and ready to obey, if
you will assume so much responsibility as to command."

"I will have no shred of responsibility; it is my single endeavour to avoid the same," cried
Sir William.  "You insist upon following this journey up; and be it so!  I wash my hands of
the whole matter."

With which word, he turned upon his heel and gave the order to break camp; and my lord, who
had been hovering near by, came instantly to my side.

"Which is it to be?" said he.

"You are to have your way," I answered.  "You shall see the grave."

The situation of the Master's grave was, between guides, easily described; it lay, indeed,
beside a chief landmark of the wilderness, a certain range of peaks, conspicuous by their design
and altitude, and the source of many brawling tributaries to that inland sea, Lake Champlain.
It was therefore possible to strike for it direct, instead of following back the blood-stained
trail of the fugitives, and to cover, in some sixteen hours of march, a distance which their
perturbed wanderings had extended over more than sixty.  Our boats we left under a guard upon
the river; it was, indeed, probable we should return to find them frozen fast; and the small
equipment with which we set forth upon the expedition, included not only an infinity of furs
to protect us from the cold, but an arsenal of snow-shoes to render travel possible, when the
inevitable snow should fall.  Considerable alarm was manifested at our departure; the march
was conducted with soldierly precaution, the camp at night sedulously chosen and patrolled;
and it was a consideration of this sort that arrested us, the second day, within not many hundred
yards of our destination - the night being already imminent, the spot in which we stood well
qualified to be a strong camp for a party of our numbers; and Sir William, therefore, on a
sudden thought, arresting our advance.

Before us was the high range of mountains toward which we had been all day deviously drawing
near.  From the first light of the dawn, their silver peaks had been the goal of our advance
across a tumbled lowland forest, thrid with rough streams, and strewn with monstrous boulders;
the peaks (as I say) silver, for already at the higher altitudes the snow fell nightly; but
the woods and the low ground only breathed upon with frost.  All day heaven had been charged
with ugly vapours, in the which the sun swam and glimmered like a shilling piece; all day the
wind blew on our left cheek barbarous cold, but very pure to breathe.  With the end of the
afternoon, however, the wind fell; the clouds, being no longer reinforced, were scattered or
drunk up; the sun set behind us with some wintry splendour, and the white brow of the mountains
shared its dying glow.

It was dark ere we had supper; we ate in silence, and the meal was scarce despatched before
my lord slunk from the fireside to the margin of the camp; whither I made haste to follow him.
The camp was on high ground, overlooking a frozen lake, perhaps a mile in its longest measurement;
all about us, the forest lay in heights and hollows; above rose the white mountains; and higher
yet, the moon rode in a fair sky.  There was no breath of air; nowhere a twig creaked; and
the sounds of our own camp were hushed and swallowed up in the surrounding stillness.  Now
that the sun and the wind were both gone down, it appeared almost warm, like a night of July:
a singular illusion of the sense, when earth, air, and water were strained to bursting with
the extremity of frost.

My lord (or what I still continued to call by his loved name) stood with his elbow in one hand,
and his chin sunk in the other, gazing before him on the surface of the wood.  My eyes followed
his, and rested almost pleasantly upon the frosted contexture of the pines, rising in moonlit
hillocks, or sinking in the shadow of small glens.  Hard by, I told myself, was the grave of
our enemy, now gone where the wicked cease from troubling, the earth heaped for ever on his
once so active limbs.  I could not but think of him as somehow fortunate to be thus done with
man's anxiety and weariness, the daily expense of spirit, and that daily river of circumstance
to be swum through, at any hazard, under the penalty of shame or death.  I could not but think
how good was the end of that long travel; and with that, my mind swung at a tangent to my lord.
For was not my lord dead also? a maimed soldier, looking vainly for discharge, lingering derided
in the line of battle?  A kind man, I remembered him; wise, with a decent pride, a son perhaps
too dutiful, a husband only too loving, one that could suffer and be silent, one whose hand
I loved to press.  Of a sudden, pity caught in my windpipe with a sob; I could have wept aloud
to remember and behold him; and standing thus by his elbow, under the broad moon, I prayed
fervently either that he should be released, or I strengthened to persist in my affection.

"Oh God," said I, "this was the best man to me and to himself, and now I shrink from him. 
He did no wrong, or not till he was broke with sorrows; these are but his honourable wounds
that we begin to shrink from.  Oh, cover them up, oh, take him away, before we hate him!"

I was still so engaged in my own bosom, when a sound broke suddenly upon the night.  It was
neither very loud, nor very near; yet, bursting as it did from so profound and so prolonged
a silence, it startled the camp like an alarm of trumpets.  Ere I had taken breath, Sir William
was beside me, the main part of the voyagers clustered at his back, intently giving ear.  Methought,
as I glanced at them across my shoulder, there was a whiteness, other than moonlight, on their
cheeks; and the rays of the moon reflected with a sparkle on the eyes of some, and the shadows
lying black under the brows of others (according as they raised or bowed the head to listen)
gave to the group a strange air of animation and anxiety.  My lord was to the front, crouching
a little forth, his hand raised as for silence:  a man turned to stone.  And still the sounds
continued, breathlessly renewed with a precipitate rhythm.

Suddenly Mountain spoke in a loud, broken whisper, as of a man relieved.  "I have it now,"
he said; and, as we all turned to hear him, "the Indian must have known the cache," he added.
"That is he - he is digging out the treasure."

"Why, to be sure!" exclaimed Sir William.  "We were geese not to have supposed so much."

"The only thing is," Mountain resumed, "the sound is very close to our old camp.  And, again,
I do not see how he is there before us, unless the man had wings!"

"Greed and fear are wings," remarked Sir William.  "But this rogue has given us an alert, and
I have a notion to return the compliment.  What say you, gentlemen, shall we have a moonlight
hunt?"

It was so agreed; dispositions were made to surround Secundra at his task; some of Sir William's
Indians hastened in advance; and a strong guard being left at our headquarters, we set forth
along the uneven bottom of the forest; frost crackling, ice sometimes loudly splitting under
foot; and overhead the blackness of pine-woods, and the broken brightness of the moon.  Our
way led down into a hollow of the land; and as we descended, the sounds diminished and had
almost died away.  Upon the other slope it was more open, only dotted with a few pines, and
several vast and scattered rocks that made inky shadows in the moonlight.  Here the sounds
began to reach us more distinctly; we could now perceive the ring of iron, and more exactly
estimate the furious degree of haste with which the digger plied his instrument.  As we neared
the top of the ascent, a bird or two winged aloft and hovered darkly in the moonlight; and
the next moment we were gazing through a fringe of trees upon a singular picture.

A narrow plateau, overlooked by the white mountains, and encompassed nearer hand by woods,
lay bare to the strong radiance of the moon.  Rough goods, such as make the wealth of foresters,
were sprinkled here and there upon the ground in meaningless disarray.  About the midst, a
tent stood, silvered with frost:  the door open, gaping on the black interior.  At the one
end of this small stage lay what seemed the tattered remnants of a man. Without doubt we had
arrived upon the scene of Harris's encampment; there were the goods scattered in the panic
of flight; it was in yon tent the Master breathed his last; and the frozen carrion that lay
before us was the body of the drunken shoemaker.  It was always moving to come upon the theatre
of any tragic incident; to come upon it after so many days, and to find it (in the seclusion
of a desert) still unchanged, must have impressed the mind of the most careless.  And yet it
was not that which struck us into pillars of stone; but the sight (which yet we had been half
expecting) of Secundra ankle deep in the grave of his late master.  He had cast the main part
of his raiment by, yet his frail arms and shoulders glistered in the moonlight with a copious
sweat; his face was contracted with anxiety and expectation; his blows resounded on the grave,
as thick as sobs; and behind him, strangely deformed and ink-black upon the frosty ground,
the creature's shadow repeated and parodied his swift gesticulations.  Some night birds arose
from the boughs upon our coming, and then settled back; but Secundra, absorbed in his toil;
heard or heeded not at all.

I heard Mountain whisper to Sir William, "Good God! it's the grave! He's digging him up!" 
It was what we had all guessed, and yet to hear it put in language thrilled me.  Sir William
violently started.

"You damned sacrilegious hound!" he cried.  "What's this?"

Secundra leaped in the air, a little breathless cry escaped him, the tool flew from his grasp,
and he stood one instant staring at the speaker.  The next, swift as an arrow, he sped for
the woods upon the farther side; and the next again, throwing up his hands with a violent gesture
of resolution, he had begun already to retrace his steps.

"Well, then, you come, you help - " he was saying.  But by now my lord had stepped beside Sir
William; the moon shone fair upon his face, and the words were still upon Secundra's lips,
when he beheld and recognised his master's enemy.  "Him!" he screamed, clasping his hands,
and shrinking on himself.

"Come, come!" said Sir William.  "There is none here to do you harm, if you be innocent; and
if you be guilty, your escape is quite cut off.  Speak, what do you here among the graves of
the dead and the remains of the unburied?"

"You no murderer?" inquired Secundra.  "You true man? you see me safe?"

"I will see you safe, if you be innocent," returned Sir William. "I have said the thing, and
I see not wherefore you should doubt it."

"There all murderers," cried Secundra, "that is why!  He kill - murderer," pointing to Mountain;
"there two hire-murderers," pointing to my lord and myself - "all gallows - murderers!  Ah!
I see you all swing in a rope.  Now I go save the sahib; he see you swing in a rope.  The sahib,"
he continued, pointing to the grave, "he not dead.  He bury, he not dead."

My lord uttered a little noise, moved nearer to the grave, and stood and stared in it.

"Buried and not dead?" exclaimed Sir William.  "What kind of rant is this?"

"See, sahib," said Secundra.  "The sahib and I alone with murderers; try all way to escape,
no way good.  Then try this way: good way in warm climate, good way in India; here, in this
dam cold place, who can tell?  I tell you pretty good hurry:  you help, you light a fire, help
rub."

"What is the creature talking of?" cried Sir William.  "My head goes round."

"I tell you I bury him alive," said Secundra. "I teach him swallow his tongue.  Now dig him
up pretty good hurry, and he not much worse.  You light a fire."

Sir William turned to the nearest of his men.  "Light a fire," said he.  "My lot seems to be
cast with the insane."

"You good man," returned Secundra.  "Now I go dig the sahib up."

He returned as he spoke to the grave, and resumed his former toil. My lord stood rooted, and
I at my lord's side, fearing I knew not what.

The frost was not yet very deep, and presently the Indian threw aside his tool, and began to
scoop the dirt by handfuls.  Then he disengaged a corner of a buffalo robe; and then I saw
hair catch among his fingers:  yet, a moment more, and the moon shone on something white. 
Awhile Secundra crouched upon his knees, scraping with delicate fingers, breathing with puffed
lips; and when he moved aside, I beheld the face of the Master wholly disengaged.  It was deadly
white, the eyes closed, the ears and nostrils plugged, the cheeks fallen, the nose sharp as
if in death; but for all he had lain so many days under the sod, corruption had not approached
him, and (what strangely affected all of us) his lips and chin were mantled with a swarthy beard.

"My God!" cried Mountain, "he was as smooth as a baby when we laid him there!"

"They say hair grows upon the dead," observed Sir William; but his voice was thick and weak.

Secundra paid no heed to our remarks, digging swift as a terrier in the loose earth.  Every
moment the form of the Master, swathed in his buffalo robe, grew more distinct in the bottom
of that shallow trough; the moon shining strong, and the shadows of the standers- by, as they
drew forward and back, falling and flitting over his emergent countenance.  The sight held
us with a horror not before experienced.  I dared not look my lord in the face; but for as
long as it lasted, I never observed him to draw breath; and a little in the background one
of the men (I know not whom) burst into a kind of sobbing.

"Now," said Secundra, "you help me lift him out."

Of the flight of time, I have no idea; it may have been three hours, and it may have been five,
that the Indian laboured to reanimate his master's body.  One thing only I know, that it was
still night, and the moon was not yet set, although it had sunk low, and now barred the plateau
with long shadows, when Secundra uttered a small cry of satisfaction; and, leaning swiftly
forth, I thought I could myself perceive a change upon that icy countenance of the unburied.
The next moment I beheld his eyelids flutter; the next they rose entirely, and the week-old
corpse looked me for a moment in the face.

So much display of life I can myself swear to.  I have heard from others that he visibly strove
to speak, that his teeth showed in his beard, and that his brow was contorted as with an agony
of pain and effort.  And this may have been; I know not, I was otherwise engaged.  For at that
first disclosure of the dead man's eyes, my Lord Durrisdeer fell to the ground, and when I
raised him up, he was a corpse.

Day came, and still Secundra could not be persuaded to desist from his unavailing efforts.
Sir William, leaving a small party under my command, proceeded on his embassy with the first
light; and still the Indian rubbed the limbs and breathed in the mouth of the dead body.  You
would think such labours might have vitalised a stone; but, except for that one moment (which
was my lord's death), the black spirit of the Master held aloof from its discarded clay; and
by about the hour of noon, even the faithful servant was at length convinced.  He took it with
unshaken quietude.

"Too cold," said he, "good way in India, no good here."  And, asking for some food, which he
ravenously devoured as soon as it was set before him, he drew near to the fire and took his
place at my elbow.  In the same spot, as soon as he had eaten, he stretched himself out, and
fell into a childlike slumber, from which I must arouse him, some hours afterwards, to take
his part as one of the mourners at the double funeral.  It was the same throughout; he seemed
to have outlived at once and with the same effort, his grief for his master and his terror
of myself and Mountain.

One of the men left with me was skilled in stone-cutting; and before Sir William returned to
pick us up, I had chiselled on a boulder this inscription, with a copy of which I may fitly
bring my narrative to a close:

J. D.,

HEIR TO A SCOTTISH TITLE,

A MASTER OF THE ARTS AND GRACES,

ADMIRED IN EUROPE, ASIA, AMERICA,

IN WAR AND PEACE,

IN THE TENTS OF SAVAGE HUNTERS AND THE

CITADELS OF KINGS, AFTER SO MUCH

ACQUIRED, ACCOMPLISHED, AND

ENDURED, LIES HERE FORGOTTEN.

* * * * *

H. D.,

HIS BROTHER,

AFTER A LIFE OF UNMERITED DISTRESS,

BRAVELY SUPPORTED,

DIED ALMOST IN THE SAME HOUR,

AND SLEEPS IN THE SAME GRAVE

WITH HIS FRATERNAL ENEMY.

* * * * *

THE PIETY OF HIS WIFE AND ONE OLD

SERVANT RAISED THIS STONE

TO BOTH.

Footnotes:

(1) A kind of firework made with damp powder.

(2) "NOTE BY MR. MACKELLAR.  Should not this be Alan BRECK Stewart, afterwards notorious as
the Appin murderer?  The Chevalier is sometimes very weak on names.

(3) NOTE BY MR. MACKELLAR.  This Teach of the SARAH must not be confused with the celebrated
Blackbeard.  The dates and facts by no means tally.  It is possible the second Teach may have
at once borrowed the name and imitated the more excessive part of his manners from the first.
Even the Master of Ballantrae could make admirers.

(4) NOTE BY MR. MACKELLAR.  And is not this the whole explanation? since this Dutton, exactly
like the officers, enjoyed the stimulus of some responsibility.

(5) NOTE BY MR. MACKELLAR:  A complete blunder:  there was at this date no word of the marriage:
see above in my own narration.

(6) Note by Mr. Mackellar. - Plainly Secundra Dass. - E. McK.

(7) Ordered.

(8) Land steward.

(9) Fooling.

(10) Tear-marked.

(11) Unwilling.

(12) Ring.