"What dwells in man I already knew. Now I learnt what is not given him. It is not given to
man to know his own needs. And I smiled for the second time. I was glad to have seen my comrade
angel--glad also that God had revealed to me the second saying.

"But I still did not know all. I did not know What men live by. And I lived on, waiting till
God should reveal to me the last lesson. In the sixth year came the girl-twins with the woman;
and I recognized the girls, and heard how they had been kept alive. Having heard the story,
I thought, 'Their mother besought me for the children's sake, and I believed her when she said
that children cannot live without father or mother; but a stranger has nursed them, and has
brought them up.' And when the woman showed her love for the children that were not her own,
and wept over them, I saw in her the living God and understood What men live by. And I knew
that God had revealed to me the last lesson, and had forgiven my sin. And then I smiled for
the third time."

XII

And the angel's body was bared, and he was clothed in light so that eye could not look on him;
and his voice grew louder, as though it came not from him but from heaven above. And the angel
said:

"I have learnt that all men live not by care for themselves but by love.

"It was not given to the mother to know what her children needed for their life. Nor was it
given to the rich man to know what he himself needed. Nor is it given to any man to know whether,
when evening comes, he will need boots for his body or slippers for his corpse.

"I remained alive when I was a man, not by care of myself, but because love was present in
a passer-by, and because he and his wife pitied and loved me. The orphans remained alive not
because of their mother's care, but because there was love in the heart of a woman, a stranger
to them, who pitied and loved them. And all men live not by the thought they spend on their
own welfare, but because love exists in man.

"I knew before that God gave life to men and desires that they should live; now I understood
more than that.

"I understood that God does not wish men to live apart, and therefore he does not reveal to
them what each one needs for himself; but he wishes them to live united, and therefore reveals
to each of them what is necessary for all.

"I have now understood that though it seems to men that they live by care for themselves, in
truth it is love alone by which they live. He who has love, is in God, and God is in him, for
God is love."

And the angel sang praise to God, so that the hut trembled at his voice. The roof opened, and
a column of fire rose from earth to heaven. Simon and his wife and children fell to the ground.
Wings appeared upon the angel's shoulders, and he rose into the heavens.

And when Simon came to himself the hut stood as before, and there was no one in it but his
own family.

THREE QUESTIONS

It once occurred to a certain king, that if he always knew the right time to begin everything;
if he knew who were the right people to listen to, and whom to avoid; and, above all, if he
always knew what was the most important thing to do, he would never fail in anything he might
undertake.

And this thought having occurred to him, he had it proclaimed throughout his kingdom that he
would give a great reward to any one who would teach him what was the right time for every
action, and who were the most necessary people, and how he might know what was the most important
thing to do.

And learned men came to the King, but they all answered his questions differently.

In reply to the first question, some said that to know the right time for every action, one
must draw up in advance, a table of days, months and years, and must live strictly according
to it. Only thus, said they, could everything be done at its proper time. Others declared that
it was impossible to decide beforehand the right time for every action; but that, not letting
oneself be absorbed in idle pastimes, one should always attend to all that was going on, and
then do what was most needful. Others, again, said that however attentive the King might be
to what was going on, it was impossible for one man to decide correctly the right time for
every action, but that he should have a Council of wise men, who would help him to fix the
proper time for everything.

But then again others said there were some things which could not wait to be laid before a
Council, but about which one had at once to decide whether to undertake them or not. But in
order to decide that, one must know beforehand what was going to happen. It is only magicians
who know that; and, therefore, in order to know the right time for every action, one must consult
magicians.

Equally various were the answers to the second question. Some said, the people the King most
needed were his councillors; others, the priests; others, the doctors; while some said the
warriors were the most necessary.

To the third question, as to what was the most important occupation: some replied that the
most important thing in the world was science. Others said it was skill in warfare; and others,
again, that it was religious worship.

All the answers being different, the King agreed with none of them, and gave the reward to
none. But still wishing to find the right answers to his questions, he decided to consult a
hermit, widely renowned for his wisdom.

The hermit lived in a wood which he never quitted, and he received none but common folk. So
the King put on simple clothes, and before reaching the hermit's cell dismounted from his horse,
and, leaving his body-guard behind, went on alone.

When the King approached, the hermit was digging the ground in front of his hut. Seeing the
King, he greeted him and went on digging. The hermit was frail and weak, and each time he stuck
his spade into the ground and turned a little earth, he breathed heavily.

The King went up to him and said: "I have come to you, wise hermit, to ask you to answer three
questions: How can I learn to do the right thing at the right time? Who are the people I most
need, and to whom should I, therefore, pay more attention than to the rest? And, what affairs
are the most important, and need my first attention?"

The hermit listened to the King, but answered nothing. He just spat on his hand and recommenced
digging.

"You are tired," said the King, "let me take the spade and work awhile for you."

"Thanks!" said the hermit, and, giving the spade to the King, he sat down on the ground.

When he had dug two beds, the King stopped and repeated his questions. The hermit again gave
no answer, but rose, stretched out his hand for the spade, and said:

"Now rest awhile-and let me work a bit."

But the King did not give him the spade, and continued to dig. One hour passed, and another.
The sun began to sink behind the trees, and the King at last stuck the spade into the ground,
and said:

"I came to you, wise man, for an answer to my questions. If you can give me none, tell me so,
and I will return home."

"Here comes some one running," said the hermit, "let us see who it is."

The King turned round, and saw a bearded man come running out of the wood. The man held his
hands pressed against his stomach, and blood was flowing from under them. When he reached the
King, he fell fainting on the ground moaning feebly. The King and the hermit unfastened the
man's clothing. There was a large wound in his stomach. The King washed it as best he could,
and bandaged it with his handkerchief and with a towel the hermit had. But the blood would
not stop flowing, and the King again and again removed the bandage soaked with warm blood,
and washed and rebandaged the wound. When at last the blood ceased flowing, the man revived
and asked for something to drink. The King brought fresh water and gave it to him. Meanwhile
the sun had set, and it had become cool. So the King, with the hermit's help, carried the wounded
man into the hut and laid him on the bed. Lying on the bed the man closed his eyes and was
quiet; but the King was so tired with his walk and with the work he had done, that he crouched
down on the threshold, and also fell asleep--so soundly that he slept all through the short
summer night. When he awoke in the morning, it was long before he could remember where he was,
or who was the strange bearded man lying on the bed and gazing intently at him with shining eyes.

"Forgive me!" said the bearded man in a weak voice, when he saw that the King was awake and
was looking at him.

"I do not know you, and have nothing to forgive you for," said the King.

"You do not know me, but I know you. I am that enemy of yours who swore to revenge himself
on you, because you executed his brother and seized his property. I knew you had gone alone
to see the hermit, and I resolved to kill you on your way back. But the day passed and you
did not return. So I came out from my ambush to find you, and I came upon your bodyguard, and
they recognized me, and wounded me. I escaped from them, but should have bled to death had
you not dressed my wound. I wished to kill you, and you have saved my life. Now, if I live,
and if you wish it, I will serve you as your most faithful slave, and will bid my sons do the
same. Forgive me!"

The King was very glad to have made peace with his enemy so easily, and to have gained him
for a friend, and he not only forgave him, but said he would send his servants and his own
physician to attend him, and promised to restore his property.

Having taken leave of the wounded man, the King went out into the porch and looked around for
the hermit. Before going away he wished once more to beg an answer to the questions he had
put. The hermit was outside, on his knees, sowing seeds in the beds that had been dug the day
before.

The King approached him, and said:

"For the last time, I pray you to answer my questions, wise man."

"You have already been answered!" said the hermit, still crouching on his thin legs, and looking
up at the King, who stood before him.

"How answered? What do you mean?" asked the King.

"Do you not see," replied the hermit. "If you had not pitied my weakness yesterday, and had
not dug those beds for me, but had gone your way, that man would have attacked you, and you
would have repented of not having stayed with me. So the most important time was when you were
digging the beds; and I was the most important man; and to do me good was your most important
business. Afterwards when that man ran to us, the most important time was when you were attending
to him, for if you had not bound up his wounds he would have died without having made peace
with you. So he was the most important man, and what you did for him was your most important
business. Remember then: there is only one time that is important--Now! It is the most important
time because it is the only time when we have any power. The most necessary man is he with
whom you are, for no man knows whether he will ever have dealings with any one else: and the
most important affair is, to do him good, because for that purpose alone was man sent into
this life!"

THE COFFEE-HOUSE OF SURAT

(After Bernardin de Saint-Pierre)

In the town of Surat, in India, was a coffee-house where many travellers and foreigners from
all parts of the world met and conversed.

One day a learned Persian theologian visited this coffee-house. He was a man who had spent
his life studying the nature of the Deity, and reading and writing books upon the subject.
He had thought, read, and written so much about God, that eventually he lost his wits, became
quite confused, and ceased even to believe in the existence of a God. The Shah, hearing of
this, had banished him from Persia.

After having argued all his life about the First Cause, this unfortunate theologian had ended
by quite perplexing himself, and instead of understanding that he had lost his own reason,
he began to think that there was no higher Reason controlling the universe.

This man had an African slave who followed him everywhere. When the theologian entered the
coffee-house, the slave remained outside, near the door, sitting on a stone in the glare of
the sun, and driving away the flies that buzzed around him. The Persian having settled down
on a divan in the coffee-house, ordered himself a cup of opium. When he had drunk it and the
opium had begun to quicken the workings of his brain, he addressed his slave through the open door:

"Tell me, wretched slave," said he, "do you think there is a God, or not?"

"Of course there is," said the slave, and immediately drew from under his girdle a small idol
of wood.

"There," said he, "that is the God who has guarded me from the day of my birth. Every one in
our country worships the fetish tree, from the wood of which this God was made."

This conversation between the theologian and his slave was listened to with surprise by the
other guests in the coffee-house. They were astonished at the master's question, and yet more
so at the slave's reply.

One of them, a Brahmin, on hearing the words spoken by the slave, turned to him and said:

"Miserable fool! Is it possible you believe that God can be carried under a man's girdle? There
is one God--Brahma, and he is greater than the whole world, for he created it. Brahma is the
One, the mighty God, and in His honour are built the temples on the Ganges' banks, where his
true priests, the Brahmins, worship him. They know the true God, and none but they. A thousand
score of years have passed, and yet through revolution after revolution these priests have
held their sway, because Brahma, the one true God, has protected them."

So spoke the Brahmin, thinking to convince every one; but a Jewish broker who was present replied
to him, and said:

"No! the temple of the true God is not in India. Neither does God protect the Brahmin caste.
The true God is not the God of the Brahmins, but of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. None does He
protect but His chosen people, the Israelites. From the commencement of the world, our nation
has been beloved of Him, and ours alone. If we are now scattered over the whole earth, it is
but to try us; for God has promised that He will one day gather His people together in Jerusalem.
Then, with the Temple of Jerusalem--the wonder of the ancient world--restored to its splendor,
shall Israel be established a ruler over all nations."

So spoke the Jew, and burst into tears. He wished to say more, but an Italian missionary who
was there interrupted him.

"What you are saying is untrue," said he to the Jew. "You attribute injustice to God. He cannot
love your nation above the rest. Nay rather, even if it be true that of old He favored the
Israelites, it is now nineteen hundred years since they angered Him, and caused Him to destroy
their nation and scatter them over the earth, so that their faith makes no converts and has
died out except here and there. God shows preference to no nation, but calls all who wish to
be saved to the bosom of the Catholic Church of Rome, the one outside whose borders no salvation
can be found."

So spoke the Italian. But a Protestant minister, who happened to be present, growing pale,
turned to the Catholic missionary and exclaimed:

"How can you say that salvation belongs to your religion? Those only will be saved, who serve
God according to the Gospel, in spirit and in truth, as bidden by the word of Christ."

