"You have, then, recovered your spirits, my fine Bull? Yes? Ah, so much the better! By Jupiter,
it's a good sign. Now your appetite will return, and it is returning, isn't it? Still better!
Before eight days you will be in fine feather. Those brutes of keepers, always in their cups,
scourged you, did they? Yes? I'm not a bit surprised--they never do anything else. The wine
of Gaul makes them stupid. To strike you! To strike you! And that when you can hardly stand
up; besides the fact that in men of the Gallic race, choler is likely to produce bad results.
But you are no longer angry, are you? No! So much the better! It is I who should be provoked
at those tipsters. Suppose the fury raging in your blood had stifled you! But, bah! those brutes
care little for making me lose twenty-five or thirty gold sous,[15] which you will presently
be worth to me, my fine Bull. But for greater safety I'll have you taken to a shelter where
you will be alone and better off than here. It was occupied by a wounded fellow who died last
night--a superb fellow. That was a loss! Ah, commerce is not all gain. Come, follow me."

He set to work to unfasten my chain by a secret spring. I asked him why he always called me
"Bull." I would have preferred by far the keeper's lash to the jovial loquacity of this trafficker
in human flesh. Certain now that I was not dreaming, still I could hardly accept the reality
of what I saw. Unable to resist, I followed the man. At least I would no longer be under the
eyes of the keepers who beat me, and the sight of whom made my blood boil. I made an effort
to raise myself, but my weakness was still excessive. The "horse-dealer" unhooked the chain,
and held one end. As my hands were still shackled, the man with the long black robe and the
one who carried the casket took me under the arms, and led me to the extremity of the shed.
They made me mount several stairs and enter a small room that was lighted through an iron-barred
opening. I looked through the opening and recognized the great square of the town of Vannes,
and, in the distance, the house where I had often gone to see my brother Albinik and his wife.
In the room were a stool, a table, and a long box of fresh straw, in place of the one in which
the other slave had died. I was made to sit on the stool. The black-robed man, a Roman physician,
examined my two wounds, constantly conversing in his own language with the "horse-dealer."
He took various salves from the casket which his companion was carrying, dressed my hurts,
and went to render his services to the other slaves, not, however, before helping the "horse-dealer"
to fasten my chain to the wooden box which served as my bed. The physician then took his departure,
and left me alone with my master.

CHAPTER IX.

MASTER AND SLAVE.

"By Jupiter," began my master immediately after the departure of the physician. "By Jupiter,"
he repeated in his satisfied and hilarious manner, so revolting to me: "Your injuries are healing
so fast that you can see them heal, a proof of the purity of your blood; and with pure blood
there are no such things as wounds, says the son of Aesculapius. But here you are back in your
senses, my brave Bull. You are going to answer my questions, aren't you? Yes? Then, listen to me."

Drawing from his pocket a stylus and a tablet, covered with wax, the "horse-dealer" continued:

"I do not ask your name. You have no longer any name but that which I have given you, until
your new owner shall name you differently. As for me, I have named you Bull[16]--a proud name,
isn't it? You are worthy to bear it. It becomes you. So much the better."

"Why have you named me Bull?"

"Why did I name that old fellow, your late neighbor, Pierce-Skin? Because his bones stick out
through his skin. But you, apart from your two wounds, what a strong constitution you have!
What broad shoulders! What a chest! What a back! What powerful limbs!" While pouring out these
praises, the "horse-dealer" rubbed his hands and gazed at me with satisfaction and covetousness,
already figuring in advance the price I would fetch. "And your height! It exceeds by a palm
that of the next tallest captive in my lot. So, seeing you so robust, I have named you Bull.
Under that name you are entered in my inventory, at your number; and under that name will you
be cried at the auction!"

I knew that the Romans sold their slaves to the slave merchants. I knew that slavery was horrible,
and I approved of a mother's killing her children sooner than have them live a captive's life.
I knew that a slave became a beast of burden. While the "horse-dealer" was speaking, I drew
my hand across my forehead to make sure that it was really I, Guilhern, the son of Joel the
brenn of the tribe of Karnak, a son of that free and haughty race, whom they were treating
like a beef for the mart. The shame of a life of slavery seemed to me insupportable, and I
took heart at the resolve to flee at the first opportunity, or to kill myself and thus rejoin
my relatives. That thought calmed me. I had neither the hope nor the desire to learn whether
my wife and children had escaped death; but remembering that I had seen neither Henory, Sylvest
nor Syomara come from the enclosure behind the war-chariot, I said to the "horse-dealer":

"Where did you purchase me?"

"In the place where we make all our purchases, my fine Bull. On the field of battle, after
the combat."

"So it was on the battlefield of Vannes you bought me?"

"The same."

"You doubtlessly picked me up at the place where I fell?"

"Yes, there was a great pile of you Gauls there, in which there were only you and three others
worth taking, among them that great booby, your neighbor--you know, Pierce-Skin. The Cretan
archers gave him to me for good measure[17] after the sale. That is the way with you Gauls.
You fight so desperately that after a battle live captives are exceedingly rare, and consequently
priceless. I simply can't put out much money, so I must come down to the wounded ones. My partner,
the son of Aesculapius, goes with me to the battlefield to examine the wounded men and guard
the ones I choose. Thus, in spite of your two wounds and your unconsciousness, the young doctor
said to me, after examining you and sounding your hurts, 'Buy, my pal, buy. Nothing but the
flesh is cut, and that is in good condition; that will lower the value of your merchandise
but little, and will prevent any breach of contract.'[18] Then you see, I, a real 'horse-dealer'
who knows the trade, I said to the archers, poking you with my foot, 'As to that great corpse
there, who has no more than his breath, I don't want him in my lot at all.'"

"When I used to buy cattle in the market," I said to the "horse-dealer," mockingly, "when I
used to buy cattle in the market, I was less skilful than you."

"Oh, that is because I am an old hand, and know my trade. So the Cretans answered me, seeing
that I didn't think much of you, 'But this thrust of the lance and this saber-cut are mere
scratches.' 'Scratches, my masters!' said I in my turn, 'but it's no use poking or turning
him,' and I kicked you and turned you over, 'See, he gives no sign of life. He is dying, my
noble sons of Mars. He is already cold.' In short, my fine Bull, I had you for two sous of gold."

"I see I cost but little; but to whom will you sell me?"

"To the traffickers from Italy and the southern part of Gaul. They buy their slaves second-hand.
Several of them have already arrived here, and have commenced making their purchases."

"And they will take me far away?"

