PUBLIC SPEAKING PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE

BY IRVAH LESTER WINTER

IN OFFERING A BOOK TO STUDENTS OF PUBLIC SPEAKING THE AUTHOR WOULD PAY WHAT TRIBUTE IS HERE
POSSIBLE TO CHARLES WILLIAM ELIOT WHO FOR MANY YEARS HAS TAUGHT BY EXAMPLE THE POWER AND BEAUTY
OF PERFECTED SPEECH

PREFACE

This book is designed to set forth the main principles of effective platform delivery, and
to provide a large body of material for student practice. The work laid out may be used to
form a separate course of study, or a course of training running parallel with a course in
debating or other original speaking. It has been prepared with a view also to that large number
who want to speak, or have to speak, but cannot have the advantage of a teacher. Much is therefore
said in the way of caution, and untechnical language is used throughout.

The discussion of principles in Part One is intended as a help towards the student's understanding
of his task, and also as a common basis of criticism in the relation between teacher and pupil.
The preliminary fundamental work of Part Two, Technical Training, deals first with the right
formation of tone, the development of voice as such, the securing of a fixed right vocal habit.
Following comes the adapting of this improved voice to the varieties of use, or expressional
effect, demanded of the public speaker. After this critical detailed drill, the student is
to take the platform, and apply his acquired technique to continued discourse, receiving criticism
after each entire piece of work.

The question as to what should be the plan and the content of Part Three, Platform Practice,
has been determined simply by asking what are the distinctly varied conditions under which
men most frequently speak. It is regarded as profitable for the student to practice, at least
to some extent, in all the several kinds of speech here chosen. In thus cultivating versatility,
he will greatly enlarge his power of expression, and will, at length, discover wherein lies
his own special capability.

The principal aim in choosing the selections has been to have them sufficiently alive to be
attractive to younger speakers, and not so heavy as to be unsuited to their powers. Some of
them have proved effective by use; many others are new. In all cases they are of good quality.

It is hoped that the new features of the book will be found useful. One of these is a group
of lighter after-dinner speeches and anecdotes. It has been said that, in present-day speech-making,
humor has supplanted former-day eloquence. It plays anyway a considerable part in various kinds
of speaking. The young speaker is generally ineffective in the expression of pleasantry, even
his own. Practice in the speaking of wholesome humor is good for cultivating quality of voice
and ease of manner, and for developing the faculty of giving humorous turn to one's own thought.
It is also entertaining to fellow students. Other new features in the book are a practice section
for the kind of informal speaking suited to the club or the classroom, and a section given
to the occasional poem, the kind of poem that is associated with speech- making.

A considerable space is given to argumentative selections because of the general interest in
debating, and because a need has been felt for something suited for special forensic practice
among students of law. Some poetic selections are introduced into Part Two in order to give
attractive variety to the student's work, and to provide for the advantage of using verse form
in some of the vocal training. The few character sketches introduced may serve for cultivating
facility in giving entertaining touches to serious discourse. All the selections for platform
practice are designed, as seems most fitting, to occupy about five minutes in delivery. Original
speeches, wherein the student presents his own thought, may be intermingled with this more
technical work in delivery, or may be taken up in a more special way in a subsequent course.

It should, perhaps, be suggested that the plan of procedure here prescribed can be modified
to suit the individual teacher or student. The method of advance explained in the Discussion
of Principles is believed to be the best, but some who use the book may prefer, for example,
to begin with the second group of selections, the familiar, colloquial passages, and proceed
from these to those more elevated and sustained. This or any other variation from the plan
here proposed can, of course, be adopted. For any plan the variety of material is deemed sufficient,
and the method of grouping will be found convenient and practical.

The making of this kind of book would not be possible except for the generous privileges granted
by many authors and many publishers of copyrighted works. For the special courtesies of all
whose writings have a place here the editor would make the fullest acknowledgment of indebtedness.
The books from which extracts are taken have been mentioned, in every case, in a prominent
place with the title of the selection, in order that so far as possible students may be led
carefully to read the entire original, and become fully imbued with its meaning and spirit,
before undertaking the vocal work on the selected portion. For the purpose of such reading,
it would be well to have these books collected on a section of shelves in school libraries
for easy and ready reference.

The publishers from whose books selections have been most liberally drawn are, Messrs. Houghton
Mifflin Company, Messrs. Lothrop, Lee and Shepard, Messrs. Little, Brown, and Company, of Boston,
and Messrs. Harper and Brothers, Messrs. Charles Scribner's Sons, Messrs. G. P. Putnam's Sons,
Messrs. G. W. Dillingham Company, Messrs. Doubleday, Page and Company, and Mr. C. P. Farrell,
New York. Several of the after-dinner speeches are taken from the excellent fifteen volume
collection, "Modern Eloquence," by an arrangement with Geo. L. Shuman and Company, Chicago,
publishers. In the first three volumes of this collection will be found many other attractive
after-dinner speeches.

I. L. W. CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.

CONTENTS

PREFACE INTRODUCTION

PART ONE

A DISCUSSION OF PRINCIPLES

TECHNICAL TRAINING
  Establishing the Tone
  Vocal Flexibility
  The Formation of Words
  Making the Point
  Indicating Values and Relations
  Expressing the Feeling
  Showing the Picture
  Expression by Action

PLATFORM PRACTICE
  The Formal Address
  The Public Lecture
  The Informal Discussion
  Argumentative Speech
  The After-Dinner Speech
  The Occasional Poem
  The Making of the Speech

PART TWO

TECHNICAL TRAINING

ESTABLISHING THE TONE
  O Scotia!.......................... Robert Burns
  O Rome! My Country!................ Lord Byron
  Ring Out, Wild Bells!.............. Alfred Lord Tennyson
  Roll On, Thou Deep!................ Lord Byron
  Thou Too, Sail On!................. Henry W. Longfellow
  O Tiber, Father Tiber!............. Lord Macaulay
  Marullus to the Roman Citizens..... William Shakespeare
  The Recessional.................... Rudyard Kipling
  The Cradle of Liberty.............. Daniel Webster
  The Impeachment of Warren Hastings. Edmund Burke
  Bunker Hill........................ Daniel Webster
  The Gettysburg Address............. Abraham Lincoln

VOCAL FLEXIBILITY
  Caesar, the Fighter................. Henry W. Longfellow
  Official Duty...................... Theodore Roosevelt
  Look Well to your Speech........... George Herbert Palmer
  Hamlet to the Players.............. William Shakespeare
  Bellario's Letter.................. William Shakespeare
  Casca, Speaking of Caesar........... William Shakespeare
  Squandering of the Voice........... Henry Ward Beecher
  The Training of the Gentleman...... William J. Tucker

MAKING THE POINT
  Brutus to the Roman Citizens....... William Shakespeare
  The Precepts of Polonius........... William Shakespeare
  The High Standard.................. Lord Rosebery
  On Taxing the Colonies............. Edmund Burke
  Justifying the President........... John C. Spooner
  Britain and America................ John Bright

VALUES AND TRANSITIONS
  King Robert of Sicily.............. Henry W. Longfellow
  Laying the Atlantic Cable.......... James T. Fields
  O'Connell, the Orator.............. Wendell Phillips
  Justification for Impeachment...... Edmund Burke
  Wendell Phillips, the Orator....... George William Curtis
  On the Disposal of Public Lands.... Robert Y. Hayne
  The Declaration of Independence.... Abraham Lincoln

EXPRESSING THE FEELING
  Northern Greeting to Southern Veterans.
  ................................... Henry Cabot Lodge
  Matches and Overmatches............ Daniel Webster
  The Coalition...................... Daniel Webster
  In His Own Defense................. Robert Emmet
  On Resistance to Great Britain..... Patrick Henry
  Invective against Louis Bonaparte.. Victor Hugo

SHOWING THE PICTURE
  Mount, the Doge of Venice!......... Mary Russell Mitford
  The Revenge........................ Alfred Lord Tennyson
  A Vision of War.................... Robert G. Ingersoll
  Sunset Near Jerusalem.............. Corwin Knapp Linson
  A Return in Triumph................ T. De Witt Talmage
  A Return in Defeat................. Henry W. Grady

EXPRESSION BY ACTION
  In Our Forefathers' Day............ T. De Witt Talmage
  Cassius against Caesar.............. William Shakespeare
  The Spirit of the South............ Henry W. Grady
  Something Rankling Here............ Daniel Webster
  Faith in the People................ John Bright
  The French against Hayti........... Wendell Phillips
  The Necessity of Force............. John M. Thurston
  Against War with Mexico............ Thomas Corwin
  The Murder of Lovejoy.............. Wendell Phillips

DEPICTING CHARACTER
  A Tale of the Plains............... Theodore Roosevelt
  Gunga Din.......................... Rudyard Kipling
  Address of Sergeant Buzfuz......... Charles Dickens
  A Natural Philosopher.............. Maccabe
  Response to a Toast................ Litchfield Moseley
  Partridge at the Play.............. Henry Fielding
  A Man's a Man for a That........... Robert Burns
  Artemus Ward's Lecture............. Charles Farrar Brown
  Jim Bludso, of the Prairie Belle... John Hay
  The Trial of Abner Barrow.......... Richard Harding Davis

PART THREE

PLATFORM PRACTICE

THE SPEECH OF FORMAL OCCASION
  The Benefits of a College Education Abbott Lawrence Lowell
  What the College Gives............. Le Baron Russell Briggs
  Memorial Day Address............... John D. Long
  William McKinley................... John Hay
  Robert E. Lee...................... John W. Daniel
  Farewell Address to the United States Senate.
  ....................................Henry Clay
  The Death of Garfield.............. James G. Blaine
  The Second Inaugural Address....... Abraham Lincoln
  The Death of Prince Albert......... Benjamin Disraeli
  An Appreciation of Mr. Gladstone... Arthur J. Balfour
  William E. Gladstone............... Lord Rosebery
  The Soldier's Creed................ Horace Porter
  Competition in College............. Abbott Lawrence Lowell

THE PUBLIC LECTURE
  A Master of the Situation.......... James T. Fields
  Wit and Humor...................... Minot J. Savage
  A Message to Garcia................ Elbert Hubbard
  Shakespeare's "Mark Antony"........ Anonymous
  Andre and Hale..................... Chauncey M. Depew
  The Battle of Lexington............ Theodore Parker
  The Homes of the People............ Henry W. Grady
  General Ulysses S. Grant........... Canon G. W. Farrar
  American Courage................... Sherman Hoar
  The Minutemen of the Revolution.... George William Curtis
  Paul Revere's Ride................. George William Curtis
  The Arts of the Ancients........... Wendell Phillips
  A Man without a Country............ Edward Everett Hale
  The Execution of Rodriguez......... Richard Harding Davis

THE INFORMAL DISCUSSION
  The Flood of Books................. Henry van Dyke
  Effectiveness in Speaking.......... William Jennings Bryan
  Books, Literature and the People... Henry van Dyke
  Education for Business............. Charles William Eliot
  The Beginnings of American Oratory. Thomas Wentworth Higginson
  Daniel Webster, the Man............ Thomas Wentworth Higginson
  The Enduring Value of Speech....... Thomas Wentworth Higginson
  To College Girls................... Le Baron Russell Briggs
  The Art of Acting.................. Henry Irving
  Address to the Freshman Class at Harvard University
  ....................................Charles William Eliot
  With Tennyson at Farringford....... By His Son
  Notes on Speech-Making............. Brander Matthews
  Hunting the Grizzly................ Theodore Roosevelt

ARGUMENT AND PERSUASION

DEBATES AND CAMPAIGN SPEECHES
  On Retaining the Philippine Islands George F. Hoar
  On Retaining the Philippine Islands William McKinley
  Debate on the Tariff............... Thomas B. Reed
  Debate on the Tariff............... Charles F. Crisp
  South Carolina and Massachusetts... Robert Y. Hayne
  South Carolina and Massachusetts... Daniel Webster
  The Republican Party............... John Hay
  Nominating Ulysses S. Grant........ Roscoe Conkling
  The Choice of a Party.............. Roscoe Conkling
  Nominating John Sherman............ James A. Garfield
  The Democratic Party............... William E. Russell
  The Call to Democrats.............. Alton B. Parker
  Nominating Woodrow Wilson.......... John W. Wescott
  Democratic Faith................... William E. Russell
  England and America................ John Bright
  On Home Rule in Ireland............ William E. Gladstone

THE LEGAL PLEA
  The Dartmouth College Case......... Daniel Webster
  In Defense of the Kennistons....... Daniel Webster
  In Defense of the Kennistons, II... Daniel Webster
  In Defense of John E. Cook......... D. W. Voorhees
  In Defense of the Soldiers......... Josiah Quincy, Jr.
  In Defense of the Soldiers, II..... Josiah Quincy, Jr.
  In Defense of the Soldiers, III.... Josiah Quincy, Jr.
  In Defense of Lord George Gordon... Lord Thomas Erskine
  Pronouncing Sentence for High Treason
  ................................... Sir Alfred Wills
  The Impeachment of Andrew Johnson.. George S. Boutwell
  The Impeachment of Andrew Johnson.. William M. Evarts
  The Impeachment of Andrew Johnson, II
  ................................... William M. Evarts

THE AFTER-DINNER SPEECH
  At a University Club Dinner........ Henry E. Howland
  The Evacuation of New York......... Joseph H. Choate
  Ties of Kinship.................... Sir Edwin Arnold
  Canada, England and the United States
  ................................... Sir Wilfred Laurier
  Monsieur and Madame................ Paul Blouet (Max O'Rell)
  The Typical American............... Henry W. Grady
  The Pilgrim Mothers................ Joseph H. Choate
  Bright Land to Westward............ E. O. Wolcott
  Woman.............................. Theodore Tilton
  Abraham Lincoln.................... Horace Porter
  To Athletic Victors................ Henry E. Howland

THE OCCASIONAL POEM
  Charles Dickens.................... William Watson
  The Mariners of England............ Thomas Campbell
  Class Poem......................... Langdon Warner
  A Troop of the Guard............... Hermann Hagedorn, Jr.
  The Boys........................... Oliver Wendell Holmes

THE ANECDOTE
  The Mob Conquered.................. George William Curtis
  An Example of Faith................ Henry W. Grady
  The Rail-Splitter.................. H. L. Williams
  O'Connell's Wit.................... Wendell Phillips
  A Reliable Team.................... Theodore Roosevelt
  Meg's Marriage..................... Robert Collyer
  Outdoing Mrs. Partington........... Sidney Smith
  Circumstance not a Cause........... Sidney Smith
  More Terrible than the Lions....... A. A. McCormick
  Irving, the Actor.................. John De Morgan
  Wendell Phillips's Tact............ James Burton Pond
  Baked Beans and Culture............ Eugene Field
  Secretary Chase's Chin-Fly......... F. B. Carpenter

INDEX OF TITLES INDEX OF AUTHORS

INTRODUCTION

Happily, it is no longer necessary to argue that public speaking is a worthy subject for regular
study in school and college. The teaching of this subject, in one form or another, is now fairly
well established. In each of the larger universities, including professional schools and summer
schools, the students electing the courses in speaking number well into the hundreds. These
courses are now being more generally placed among those counted towards the academic degrees.
The demand for trained teachers in the various branches of the work in schools and colleges
is far above the present supply. Educators in general look with more favor upon this kind of
instruction, recognizing its practical usefulness and its cultural value. The question of the
present time, then, is not whether or not the subject shall have a place. Some sort of place
it always has had and always will have. Present discussion should rather bear upon the policy
and the method of that instruction, the qualifications to be required of teachers, and the
consideration for themselves and their work that teachers have a right to expect.

Naturally, public speaking in the form of debating has received favor among educators. It seems
to serve the ends of practice in speaking and it gives also good mental discipline. The high
regard for debating is not misplaced. We can hardly overestimate the good that debating has
done to the subject of speaking in the schools and colleges. The rigid intellectual discipline
involved in debating has helped to establish public speaking in the regular curriculum, thus
gaining for it, and for teachers in it, greater respect. To bring training in speech into close
relation with training in thought, and with the study of expression in English, is most desirable.
This, however, does not mean that training in speech, as a distinct object in itself, should
be allowed to fall into comparative neglect. It is quite possible that, along with the healthy
disapproval of false elocution and meaningless declamation, may come an underestimation of
the important place of a right kind and a due degree of technical training in voice and general
form.

In a recent book on public speaking, the statement is made that it is all well enough, if it
so happens, for a speaker to have a pleasing voice, but it is not essential. This, though true
in a sense, is misleading, and much teaching of this sort would be unfortunate for young speakers.
It would seem quite unnecessary to say that beauty of voice is not in itself a primary object
in vocal training for public speaking. The object is to make voices effective. In the effective
use of any other instrument, we apply the utmost skill for the perfect adjustment or coordination
of all the means of control. We do this for the attainment of power, for the conserving of
energy, for the insuring of endurance and ease of operation. This is the end in the training
of the voice. It is to avoid friction. It is to prevent nervous strain, muscular distortion,
and failing power, and to secure easy response to the will of the speaker. The point not wholly
understood or heeded is that, as a rule, the unpleasing voice is an indication of ill adjustment
and friction. It denotes a mechanism wearing on itself--it means a voice that will weaken or
fail before its time--a voice that needs repair.

Since speech is to express a speaker's thought, training in speech should not be altogether
dissociated from training in thinking. It ought to go hand in hand, indeed, with the study
of English, from first to last. But training in voice and in the method of speech is a technical
matter. It ought not to be left to the haphazard treatment, the intense spurring on, of vocally
unskilled coaches for speaking contests. Discussions about the teaching of speaking are often
very curious. We are frequently told by what means a few great orators have succeeded, but
we are hardly ever informed of the causes from which many other speakers have been embarrassed
or have failed. A book or essay is written to prove, from the individual experience of the
author, the infallibility of a method. He was able to succeed, the argument runs, only by this
or that means; therefore all should do as he did. It seems very plausible and attractive to
read, for instance, that to succeed in speaking, it is only necessary to plunge in and be in
earnest. But another writer points out that this is quite absurd; that many poor speakers have
not lacked in intense earnestness and sincerity; that it isn't feeling or intense spirit alone
that insures success, but it is the attainment as well of a vocal method. Yet he goes on to
argue that this vocal method, this forming of a public speaking voice and style, cannot be
rightly gained from the teachers; it must be acquired through the exercise of each man's own
will; if a man finds he is going wrong he must will to go right--as if many men had not persistently
but unsuccessfully exercised their will to this very end. It is so easy, and so attractive,
to resolve all problems into one idea. President Woodrow Wilson, of Princeton University, once
said that he always avoided the man or the book that proclaimed one idea for the correcting
of society's ills. These ideas on which books or essays are written are too obviously fallacious
to need extended comment; the wonder is that they are often quoted and commended as being beneficial
in their teaching. If we want to row or sprint or play golf, we do not simply go in and do
our utmost; we apply the best technical skill to the art; we seek to learn how, from the experience
of the past, and through the best instructors obtainable. Both common sense and experience
show that the use of the human voice in the art of speaking is not the one thing, among all
things, that cannot be successfully taught. The results of vocal teaching show, on the contrary,
from multitudes of examples, from volumes of testimony, that there are few branches of instruction
wherein the specially trained teacher is so much needed, and can be so effective as in the
art of speaking.

In an experience extending over many years, an experience dealing with about all the various
forms of public speaking and vocal teaching, the present writer has tried many methods, conducted
classes on several different plans, learned the needs, observed the efforts, considered the
successes and failures, of many men and women of various ages and of many callings. The constant
and insistent fact in all this period of experience has been that skillful, technical instruction,
as such, is the one kind of instruction that should always be provided where public speaking
is taught, and the one that the student should not fail to secure when it is at hand. Other
elements in good speech-making may, if necessary, be obtained from other sources. The teacher
of speaking should teach speech. He should teach something else also, but he should, as a technician,
teach that. The multitude of men and women who, in earlier and later life, come, in vocal trouble,
to seek help from the experienced teacher, and the abundance of testimony as to the satisfactory
results; the repeated evidences of failure to produce rightly trained voices wholly by so-called
inspirational methods; the frequent evidences of pernicious vocal results from the forcing
of young voices in the overintense and hasty efforts made in preparing for prize speaking,
acting, and debating,--all these may not come to the understanding of the ordinary observer;
they may not often, perhaps, come within the experience of the exceptionally gifted individuals
who are usually cited as examples of distinguished success; they cannot impress themselves
on educators who have little or no relation with this special subject; they naturally come
into the knowledge and experience of the specially trained teacher of public speaking, who
is brought into intimate relations with the subject and deals with all sorts and conditions
of men. Out of this experience comes the strong conviction that the teacher of public speaking
should be a vocal technician and a vocal physician, able to teach constructively and to treat
correctively, knowing all he can of all that has been taught before, but teaching only as much
of what he knows as is necessary to any individual.

For the dignity and worth of the teaching, the teacher of speaking should be trained, and should
be a trainer, as has been indirectly said, in some other subject--in English literature or
composition, in debating, history, or what not. He should be one of the academic faculty--concerned
with thought, which speech expresses. He should not, for his other subject, be mainly concerned
with gymnastics or athletics; he should not, for his own good and the consequent good of his
work, be wholly taken up merely with the teaching of technical form in speaking. He should
not be merely--if at all--a coach in inter- collegiate contests; nor should his service to
an institution be adjudged mainly by the results of such contests. He should be an independent,
intellectually grown and growing man, one who--in his exceptionally intimate relations with
students--will have a large and right influence on student life. The offer recently held out
by a university of a salary and an academic rank equal to its best, to a sufficiently qualified
instructor in public speaking, was one of the several signs of a sure movement of to-day in
the right direction--the demand for a man of high character and broad culture, specially skilled
in the technical subject he was to teach, and the providing of a worthy position.

One fact that needs to be impressed upon governing bodies of school and college is that the
cultivation of good speaking cannot but be unsatisfactory when it is continued over only a
very brief time. It may only do mischief. A considerable period is necessary, as is the case
with other subjects, for reaching the student intelligence, for molding the faculties, for
maturing the powers, for adapting method to the individual, and for bringing the personality
out through the method, so that method disappears. Senator George F. Hoar once gave very sensible
advice in an address to an audience of Harvard students. He did not content himself with dwelling
on the inevitable platitude, first have something to say, and then say it; he said he had been,
in all his career, at a special disadvantage in public speaking, from the want of early training
in the use of his voice; and he urged that students would do well not only to take advantage
of such training in college, but to have their teacher, if it were possible, follow them, for
a time, into their professional work. This idea was well exemplified in the case of Phillips
Brooks--a speaker of spontaneity, simplicity, and splendid power. It is said that, in the period
of his pulpit work, in the midst of his absorbing church labors, he made it a duty to go from
time to time for a period of work with his teacher of voice, that he might be kept from falling
back into wrong ways. It is often said that, if a man has it in him, he will speak well anyway.
It is emphatically the man who has it in him, the man of intense temperament, like that of
Phillips Brooks, who most needs the balance wheel, the sure reliance, of technique. That this
technique should not be too technical; that form should not be too formal; that teaching should
not be too good, or do too much, is one of the principles of good teaching. The point insisted
on is that a considerable time is needed, as it is in other kinds of teaching, for thoroughly
working out a few essential principles; for overcoming a few obstinate faults; for securing
matured results by the right process of gradual development.

There is much cause for gratification in the evidences of a growing appreciation, in all quarters,
of the place due to spoken English, as a study to be taught continuously side by side with
written English. Much progress has also been made toward making youthful platform speaking,
as well as youthful writing, more rational in form, more true in spirit, more useful for its
purpose. In good time written and spoken English, conjoined with disciplinary training in thought
and imagination, will both become firmly established in their proper place as subjects to be
thoroughly and systematically taught. Good teaching will become traditional, and good teachers
not rare. And among the specialized courses in public speaking an important place should always
be given to an exact training in voice and in the whole art of effective delivery.

PART ONE

A DISCUSSION OF PRINCIPLES

TECHNICAL TRAINING

ESTABLISHING THE TONE

The common trouble in using the voice for the more vigorous or intense forms of speaking is
a contraction or straining of the throat. This impedes the free flow of voice, causing impaired
tone, poor enunciation, and unhealthy physical conditions. Students should, therefore, be constantly
warned against the least beginnings of this fault. The earlier indications of it may not be
observed, or the nature of the trouble may not be known, by the untrained speaker. But it ought
to have, from the first, the attention of a skilled teacher, for the more deep-seated it becomes,
the harder is its cure. So very common is the "throaty" tone and so connected is throat pressure
with every other vocal imperfection, that the avoiding or the correcting of this one fault
demands constant watchfulness in all vigorous vocal work. The way to avoid the faulty control
of voice is, of course, to learn at the proper time the general principles of what singers
call voice production. These principles are few and, in a sense, are very simple, but they
are not easily made perfectly clear in writing, and a perfect application of them, even in
the simpler forms of speaking, often requires persistent practice. It will be the aim here
to state only what the student is most likely to understand and profit by, and to leave the
rest to the personal guidance of a teacher.

The control of the voice, so far as it can be a conscious physical operation, is determined
chiefly by the action of the breathing muscles about the waist and the lower part of the chest.
The voice may be said to have its foundation in this part of the physical man. This foundation,
or center of control, will be rightly established, not by any very positive physical action;
not by a decided raising of the chest; not by any such marked expansion or contraction as to
bring physical discomfort or rigid muscular conditions. When the breath is taken in, by an
easy, natural expansion, much as air is taken into a bellows, there is, to a certain degree,
a firming of the breathing muscles; but this muscular tension is felt by the speaker or singer,
if felt at all, simply as a comfortable fullness around, and slightly above, the waistline,
probably more in front than elsewhere. An eminent teacher of singing tells his pupils to draw
the breath into the stomach. That probably suggests the sensation. When the breath has been
taken in, it is to be gently withheld,--not given up too freely,--and the tone is formed on
the top, so to speak, of this body of breath, chiefly, of course, in the mouth and head. "you give
ahead his living could have occupy it, you have done both," he. "as few courser, it is an
argument, at all, you did not on that account have used as engineering. And state less, accident
to occur of bigot." "babu, he may be, flood," you state the call huntsman. "he has the, tonight,
i dread," him state the hierarch. "he and multitude. You who are
our force, besides be contend us."

He discontinue precedent, idiom. But see that Quebec and honnêtes gens
bw. He see the reaction, surely.

He offer them mind of Tandakora. "male to potent," state Tattler, when, he. But thus that they. Him
see the day. He hide the personalty of engineering, away. Tayoga shrugged his berm. "tandakora has postdate
us so," he state, "but land.

Bosk is worse than the metropolis for put of ambuscade." "hither,'ll," him. Berryer pay the politeness,
Colonel, who had been on excursion, Rex, into wood of occident, who, bombshell, to be introduce with
three. Robert, Tattler were having their banquet, engineering would
have name in Sphere, neat, else-suit with evaluation of locomotion,
way.

So. Robert, if he did not swear him, they had a reason, it was the hydra. De give the please swift,
eye-beaming, about, they were opportunity for Quebec: "'ve, i understand, i larn, you lose Duquesne.
Lots, if your culture are urgent, you wish intendant, Man, representation."

Robert become his countenance. Was he of mho, passing gens?

Or, he were not one of mho, he choose that Robert ngo should neglect babu? Chauvinist simply
was not one with Side, Robert could larn he was wind in angularity
to pride.

"we
might do that," juvenile, "i wear't believe it'mho. I do i deliver Politician, it would be please
to me to someone hither." "it was always the proposition. Allow." He did not talk of politics that
them directly, Paris Daniel, he had spend for blade.

He go, he was travel to community further rearward no stream, formerly, he. Frequently his hub.
Quebec was the Nature, Paris was the universe, bloomer, position,
illustriousness.

No Reactionary was a period, and they were the household.

Robert. He see a Reactionary as they look to be before a wipeout, nature, position. Representation,
by one who enjoy it, possession, toilet might not boldly for clip. De, who had the accommodation in
Quebec, would stay caravansary, and, fractional, Robert was sad. He matt-up the three could
protect from deception and ploy of Frog, they intend to batting think
he had evidence, delaware Courcelles propose him name upon intendant,
Partisan, who was rather expressed at mansion.

They state da'wah, dot-com could be establish already, they might be certain. Far, delaware Courcelles
did not urge least. He and Jumonville withdraw merely, they had many commander, the three to bottom.
Tayoga, who sleep seemingly, and travel to framework. The onondaga, of three, Quebec. It was again to him. It
was Stadacona, Hodenosaunee, great, Stadacona. Frontenac and he had little. He was however in
defense.

He had occupy the male, he had say in authority and campaign, but nothing had so upset his religion,
state, Association, left, information, archduke.

But while tayoga larn what society, the subspecies name it bring, who had to volunteer, it did not
do worth. Formerly, they increased him in circumference. He had understand how any Courcelles
had illume to happening, he had understand how odd, wary, had been
shift, he, tayoga, had been leave hot.

He had say in engineering, instant did he prevent himself set the
Courcelles or Jumonville. Way was light to tayoga.

His tone, and, minute, he hanker to great, barren, subspecies. He unfold the breath was come
from location, out of vast, the trapper had genuinely. He besides, atmosphere, again, become his
opinion to infinite, display. The onondaga was watchful, he know the person, they look in night.
One Tandakora, Algonquian, same was Auguste, Mortal, dissimilar,
thus.

Tayoga was not at surprised. He had thrust as Courcelles and he had anticipate to Tandakora.
He observe the proceedings, lightness, delaware, furthermore, heedful. Tayoga think him of travel
to Tandakora, aim would be function by engineering, airstream out
of a union could proceed him.

He know the Courcelles who had participate into agreement, he think
they ward engineering, engineering would unwrap itself.

There might be the metropolis, he intend to one that Tandakora. He stay the framework, he had
understand to plot. Nor it when they awake in period. He choose to support. Carnivore, people,
Conference, you cognize how to cover Chippewa out of a vegetation. Meal, Robert inquire what
i would do to tomorrow, it was not advisable spell the Quebec owing to the fight to them. Man, suave,
chitchat, Mister. Weapon.

Courageous European were anxious wish to him demonstrate that where Counting Mézy had neglect
they win.

"the manservant will miss glorification," i state Man, fray his myelin, black. "in trip ever
you allow i near the day, Robert," him state Tattler. "we demo ourselves hitherto had the chessman
will coerce armageddon upon you, they detest you, from theme. But it would be good for you
to being." Robert, thither. Raptor was the hotel, he did not care time.
Immature job, meal. Robert, which demonstrate him to bidding of them
from François, Canada, day.

Encyclical was empty. Intendant had learn of old. Lennox, Mézy, who exert the himself. But wish with
him tire the sick. It was cognize that Title. Lennox was recognize with missive to Duquesne,
engineering would be many State. It was these text, with nominal, to Robert. Partisan might be crooked,
he go to universe, Robert matt-up he had go to he understand intendant,
and what was done within attic. It was false that they hedge him,
bidding.

He surpass an Tattler, who say it pass to tayoga. "'ll to travel, Robert," him state the huntsman.
"'mho evident that bigot desire nucleotide, we wear'he do us. Yes,'element."'mho. "'calciferol
have been disappointed if i had rede to disconfirming," he. "i would," state. "'thousand with intendant.
Will bring plenty, Galisonnière?" "yes,'you've. Mister.

Tattler was correct when he state it was content. Intendant is every homo.'Titanium in specific,
Duquesne, will render to France before short, he allow the Man. You realize polity. The specific
is much Rex, the tribunal, business, the politics of dominion. Quality, good, he who keep the clutch
keep the than the saber." "will Colonel Jumonville be largely?" him proceed Robert. "rapidly. They
go to bow, education, they are wholly of Chauvinist, they pretermit
to place with who him.

Be careless what you state them." Robert, it was not necessitate, he had hither to absence,
these onondaga gloomily to jotting of it, delaware Courcelles was willing. Galisonnière did not
hanker you, and ally reconsidered their designation, it was better to Quebec and it should have
to volunteer tomorrow. The trepidation that the affray might be coerce upon them were not
justify, and niceness keep false, they were have with the wonder.

They stare at rock of intendant'mho, they was anticipate to chocolate. It was the coverage, but
not in glory, beam, Engineering was state that Partisan and forefather who had spend for huge,
for himself. Returning, they begin to a table, not care in a unfavorableness. Berryer had send
them the hairdresser, Gaston, who not besides to countenance, but powdered and stage their breadline,
and manicured and i give their coatee and collection, he guarantee them was thither the property.
Robert take all his proposal.

He was equally, already jealous might knock engineering was likewise had its offspring. He and Gaston
stage a manner bring with chocolate. Younker had transcend in Tattler.
Tall, quickly, and unfastened, he had the system is the admirability,
seeker was sad seat him was particular.

It was the practice, him. They were not to Caravansary, they begin until early, they ride mansion.
"i look in who him, i wear't believe his capacity about us had thus,
though his proposal to appear for Tandakora is ne'er."

It was suit for conveyer of his journey and he would have Man. Tattler. "'metal, Robert," he state,
"i sit small railcar that i didn't believe it." A little day, castle force keep flashlight, observe.
The beguilement of Partisan were famous, the lottery to visitor. "be expressed to bouncer, Robert,"
whispered Tattler. "the is the club'rhenium not used,'ll not admit you larn it. But Side, english,
to themselves, and there may be the effort to we."

Robert matt-up his exhalation, night, Tattler did not understand him look in opinion. They seek
to "you tease chocolate" he would be ready. The potency that he had establish in himself not
only, it. He was conscious that he was not insufficient, person, him bring he lose ruffler was
supply diversion.

It was with fear that he perch from calash, intendant. Abattoir, the vegetation and cannery of existence.
The finest of complexity and shortly. Beyond antechamber was the houseguest danced while the cohort
if him appear a gallery that it. Cohort, who were not hitherto bad as this invitee, i dance collection.
To which bigot and claque were devoted were in development.

Eating-way, figure, action, it was trim to twenty, day, he was present from Quebec. Robert matt-up
as besides as he participate a alcazar that he had arrive into familiar, old, condition, probable,
he retrieve a mho of discourage. You quietly his club than he had outdoors. Abundance and great
near Dynasty upon businessman of downward, but there was the control,
dutch.

Their show both light and near, very, refreshment had surpass its empty, decline. Doubtless, as
they could have carved ahead the threshold, "Furlough formerly dread sadness, ye exit therefore."
There were position, ag, and clothing, ag, refreshment, thin.

Woman, instead, future, fabric, whisker wheel low idiom make stylish. Area come the clique. Breath
accuse with bouquet of aroma. It was intoxicating, it was pleasant.
 In running an inflection from low to high, the tone
may be allowed, especially in the earlier practice, to thin out at the top. And always when
the pitch is high the tone should be smaller, as it is on a musical instrument, though it should
have a consistent depth and dignity from its proper degree of connection with the chest. This
consistent character in the upper voice is attained by giving the tone a bit of pomp or nobleness
of quality. In taking a low pitch there is, among novices, always a tendency to bear down on
the tone in order to gain strength or to give weight to utterance. The voice is thus crowded
into, or on, the throat. The voice should never be pushed down or pressed back in the low pitch.
This practice leads to raggedness of tone, and finally to virtual loss of the lower voice.
The voice should fall of itself with only that degree of force which is legitimately given
by the breath tension, produced easily, though firmly, by the breathing muscles. Breadth will
be given to the tone by some degree of expansion at the back of the mouth, or in the pharynx.
As soon as can be, the speech should be brought down to the utmost of simplicity and naturalness,
so that the thought of literature can be expressed with reality and truth; can be made to sound
exactly as if it came as an unstudied, spontaneous expression of the student's own mind, and
yet so it can be heard, so it will be adequate, so it will be pleasing in sound. The improved
tone is to become the student's inevitable, everyday voice.

THE FORMATION OF WORDS

The term enunciation means the formation of words, including right vocal shape to the vowels
and right form to the consonants. Pronunciation is scholastic, relating to the word accent
and the vowel sound. Authority for this is in the dictionary. Enunciation, belonging to elocution,
is the act of forming those authorized sounds into finished speech.

There is a common error regarding enunciation. It is usual, if a speaker is not easily understood,
to say that he should "articulate" more clearly; that is, make the consonants more pronounced,
and young students are thus often urged into wrongly directed effort with the tongue and lips.
Sometimes in books, articulation "stunts," in the form of nonsense alliterations, are prescribed,
by which all the vowels are likely to be chewed into consonants. The result is usually an overexertion,
and a consequent tightening, of the articulating muscles. At first, and for a time, it may
appear that this forcing of the articulation brings the desired result of clearer speech, but
it will, in the end, be destructive to voice and bring incoherent utterance. Articulation exercises
too difficult for the master, should not be given to the novice. All teachers of singing train
voices, at first, on the vowel, and it should be known that, without right vowel, or tone,
formation, efforts at good articulation are futile. Every technical vocal fault must be referred
back to the fundamental condition of right formation of tone, that is, the vowel. Sputtering,
hissing, biting, snapping, of consonants is not enunciation. The student should learn how without
constraint, to prolong vowels; learn, if you please, the fundamentals of singing, and articulation,
the formation of consonants, the jointing of syllables, will become easy. The reason for this
is that when the vowel tone is rightly produced, all the vocal muscles are freed; the tongue,
lips, and jaw act without constraint.

The principle of rhythm simplifies greatly the problem of enunciation. It is easier, not only
to make good tone, but also to speak words, in the reading of verse than of prose. It is much
easier to read a rhythmical piece of prose than one lacking in rhythm. All prose, then, should
be rendered with as much rhythmical flow as is allowed consistently with its spirit and meaning.
Care must be taken of course that no singsong effect occurs; that the exact meaning receives
first attention. In case of long, hard words, ease is attained by making a slight pause before
the word or before its preposition or article or other closely attached word, and by giving
a strong beat to its accented syllable or syllables, with little effort on the subordinate
syllables.

The particular weakness among Americans, in the speaking of words, is failure adequately to
form the nasal, or head, sounds. The letters "l," "m," "n," are called vowel consonants. They
can be given continuous sound, a head resonance. This sounding may be carried to a fault, or
affectation; but commonly it is insufficiently done, and it should be among the first objects
of cultivation in vocal practice. The humming of these head sounds, with very moderate force,
is excellent for developing and clearing this resonance. The "ng" sound, as in rung, may be added.

Improper division of words into syllables is a common fault. The word "constitution," for example,
is made "cons-titution," instead of "con- stitution;" "prin-ciple" is pronounced "prints-iple."
A clean, correct formation should be made by slightly holding, and completing the accented
syllable. The little word "also" is often called "als-o" or "als-so" or "alt-so"; chrysanthemum
is pronounced "chrysant-themum"; coun-try is called "country," band so forth. In the case of
doubled consonants, as in the word "mellow," "commemorate," "bubble," and the like, a momentary
holding of the first consonant, so that a bit of separate impulse is given to the second, makes
more perfect speaking. There is a slight difference between "mel-low" and "mel-ow," "bub-ble"
and "bub-le," "com-memorate" and "com-emorate." These finer distinctions, if one cares to make
speech accurate and refined, can be observed in words ending in "ence" and "ance" as in "guidance"
and "credence"; in words with the ending "al," "el," or "le," as in "general," "principal,"
"final," "vessel," "rebel," "principle," and "little." If that troublesome word "separate"
were from the beginning rightly pronounced, it would probably be less often wrongly spelled.
One should hasten to say, however, that over-nicety in enunciation, pedantic exactness, obtrusive
"elocutionary" excellence, or any sort of labored or affected effort should be carefully guarded
against. The line of distinction between what is perfect and what is slightly strained is a
fine one. Very often, for example, one hears such endings as "or" in "creator," "ed" in "dedicated,"
"ess" in "readiness," "men" in "gentlemen," pronounced with incorrect prominence. These syllables,
being very subordinate, should not be made to stand out with undue distinctness, and though
the vowels should not be distorted into a wrong form, they should be obscured. In "gentlemen,"
for example, the "e" is, according to the dictionary, an "obscure" vowel, and the word is pronounced
almost as "gentlem'n,"--not "gentlemun," of course, but not "gentlemen." The fault in such
forms is more easily avoided by throwing a sharp accent on the accented syllable, letting the
other syllables fall easily out. The expression of greeting, "Ladies and gentlemen," should
have a strong accent on each first syllable of the two important words, with little prominence
given to other syllables or the connecting word; as, "La'dies 'nd gen'tlem'n."

In the same class of errors is that of making an extra syllable in such words as "even," "seven,"
"heaven," "eleven," and "given," where properly the "e" is elided, leaving "ev'n," "heav'n,"
and so forth. The mouth should remain closed when the first syllable is pronounced; the "n"
is then simply sounded in the head. The same treatment should be given to such words as "chasm"
and "enthusiasm." If the mouth is opened after the first part of the word is sounded, we have
"chas-um," "enthusias-um." The little words "and," "as," "at" and the like should, of course,
when not emphatic, be very lightly touched, with the vowel hardly formed, and the mouth only
slightly opened. The word "and" is best sounded, where not emphatic, with light touch, slight
opening of the mouth, and hardly any forming of the vowel; almost like "'nd." These words should
be connected closely with the word which follows, as if they were a subordinate syllable of
that word.

Often we hear such words as "country," "city," and their plurals, pronounced "countree," "citee,"
and "citees"; "ladies" is called "ladees." The sound should properly be that of short "i" not
of long "e." The vowel sound, short "a," as in "cast," "fast," "can't," must be treated as
a localism, and yet it is hardly necessary to adhere to any decided extreme because of local
associations. Vocally, the very narrow sound of short "a," called "Western," is impossible.
It can't be sung; in speech it is usually dry and harsh. As a matter of taste the very broad
sound of the short "a," when it is made like "a" in "far," is objectionable because it is extraordinary.
There is a form between these extremes, the correct short "a"; this ought to be acceptable
anywhere. It is suggestive to observe that localisms are less pronounced among artists than
among untrained persons. Trained singers and actors belonging to different countries or sections
of country, show few differences among themselves in English pronunciation. Among localisms
the letter "r" causes frequent comment. In singing and dramatic speaking, this letter is best
formed at the tip of the tongue. In common speech it may be made only by a very slight movement
at the back of the tongue. A decided throaty "burr" should always be avoided. In the case of
vigorous dramatic utterance, the "r" may be quite decidedly rolled, on the principle that,
in such cases, all consonants become a means of effectiveness in expression. In the expression
of fine, delicate, or tender sentiment, all consonants should be lightly touched or should
be obscured. Enumeration of the many kinds of carelessness of speech would be to little purpose.
Scholarly speech requires a knowledge of correct forms, gained from the dictionary, and vocal
care and skill in making these forms clear, smooth, and finished in sound.

This discussion has perhaps suggested the extreme of accuracy in speech. But as has already
been said, any degree of overnicety, of pedantic elegance, of stilted correctness, is especially
irritating to a sensitive ear. Excessive biting off of syllables, flipping of the tongue, showing
of the teeth, twisting of the lips, is carrying excellence to a fault. The inactive jaw, tongue,
and lips must be made mobile, and in the working away of clumsiness and slovenliness of speech,
some degree of stiltedness must perhaps, for a time, be in evidence, but matured practice ought
finally to result, not only in accuracy and finish, but in simplicity and ease in speaking.

MAKING THE POINT

When the student has made a fair degree of progress in the more strictly mechanical features
of speech, the formation of tone, and the delivery of words, he is ready to give himself up
more fully to the effective expression of thought. Of first importance to the speaker, as it
is to the writer, is the way to make himself clear as to his meaning. The question has to be
put again and again to the young speaker, What is your point? What is the point in the sentence?
What is the point in some larger division of the speech? What is the point, or purpose, of
the speech as a whole? This point, or the meaning of what is said, should be so put, should
be so clear, that no effort is required of a listener for readily apprehending and appreciating
it. Discussing now only the question of delivery, we say that the making of a point depends
mainly upon what we commonly call emphasis. Extending the meaning of emphasis beyond the limit
of mere stress, or weight, of voice, we may define it as special distinctness or impressiveness
of effect. In the case of a sentence there is often one place where the meaning is chiefly
concentrated; often the emphasis is laid sharply upon two or more points or words in the sentence;
sometimes it is put increasingly on immediately succeeding words, called a climax, and sometimes
the stress of utterance seems to be almost equally distributed through all the principal words
of the sentence.

The particular point of a sentence is determined, not so much by what the sentence says as
it stands by itself, as by its relation to what goes before or what follows after. The first
thing, then, for the student to do is to become sure of the precise meaning of the sentence,
with reference to the general context. Then he must know whether or not he says, for the understanding
of others, exactly what is meant. The means of giving special point to a statement is in some
way to set apart, or to make prominent, the word or words of special significance. There are
several ways in which this is done. Commonly a stress or added weight of voice is put upon
the word; generally, too, there is an inflection, a turning of the tone downward or upward;
there is frequently a lengthening out of the vowel sound, and a sudden stop after, in some
cases before, the word. Any or all these special noticeable vocal effects serve to draw attention
to the word and give it expressive significance. These effects are everywhere common in good
everyday speech. In the formal art of speaking, they have to be more or less thought out and
consciously practiced.

Emphasis is determined by the comparative importance of ideas. An idea is important when, being
the first to arise in the mind, it becomes the motive for utterance. We see an object, the
idea of high or broad or beautiful arises in the mind; we so form a sentence as to make that
idea stand forth; this idea, or the word expressing it, becomes vocally emphatic. In this sentence,
"He has done it in a way to impress upon the Filipinos, so far as action and language can do
it, his desire, and the desire of our people, to do them good," the idea "to do them good"
is the one that arose first in the mind of the speaker and called up the other ideas that served
to set this one prominently forth. It is the emphatic idea. It should be carried in the mind
of the student speaker from the beginning of the sentence. Again, an idea is important when
it arises as closely related to the first, and becomes the chief means of giving utterance
concerning the first. This second idea may be something said about the first; it may be compared
or contrasted with the first. Being matched against the first, it may become of equal significance
with it. "Who is here so base that would be a bondman?" Here the idea "base" is used to emphasize
the quality of "bondman," and becomes equally emphatic with that idea. Other ideas, or other
words expressing them, being formed around these principal ones, will be subordinated or more
loosely run over, since they simply serve as the setting for the principal ones, or the connecting
links, holding them together. Sometimes an idea arising in the mind grows in intensity, asserting
itself by stronger and stronger successive words. The impressiveness in delivering these successive
words is increased not because they are in the form of a climax, but they are in the form of
a climax because the thought is so insistent as to require new words for its expression. The
student will be true and sure in his emphasis only when he takes ideas into his mind in the
natural way; that is, he should seize upon the central idea before he gives utterance to any
part of a statement. If that idea is constantly carried foremost in the mind, he will then,
in due time, give it its true emphasis. So, in the case of a climax, he must realize the spirit
and force behind the utterance, and not depend upon any mechanical process of merely increasing
the strength of his tones.

Sometimes emphasis must be made to stand so strong as not merely to arrest the movement of
thought, and fix the mind of the hearer upon a point, but to turn the attention of the hearer
for the moment aside; to draw his mind to the thought of something very remote in time or place
or relation, as in the case of making momentary reference to some historic fact or some well-known
expression of literature. Allusions and illustrations, then, should be given, not only with
color but also with special emphasis. Byron, contemplating the ruins of Rome, calls her "the
Niobe of nations." The hearer's mind should be arrested, his imagination stirred, at that word.
Words used in contrast with one another are given opposing effect by contrasting emphasis:
"Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome more." "My words fly up; my thoughts remain
below." When words are used with a double meaning, as in the case of a pun, or with a peculiar
implication, or are repeated for some peculiar effect of mere repetition,--when we have, in
any form, what is called a play upon words,--a peculiar pointedness is given, wherein the circumflex
inflection plays a large part. "Now is it Rome indeed and room enough, when there is in it
but one only man." "I had rather bear with you than bear you; yet if I did bear you, I should
bear no cross, for I think you have no money in your purse." "But, sir, the Coalition! The
Coalition! Aye, the murdered Coalition!"

Although, as has been said, the usual method of making a point is to give striking force to
an idea, very often the same effect, or a better effect, is produced by a striking sudden suppression
of utterance, by way of decided contrast. When the discourse has been running vigorously and
inflections have been repeatedly sharp and strong, the sudden stop, and the stilled utterance
of a word, are most effective. Only, the suppressed word must be set apart. There must be the
pause before or after, or both before and after. Robert Ingersoll, when speaking with great
animation, would often suddenly stop and ask a question in the quietest and most intimate way.
This gave point to the question and was impressive.

We have been considering thus far only primary or principal emphasis. Of equal importance is
the question of secondary emphasis. The difference in vocal treatment comes in regarding the
principal emphasis as absolute or final, as making the word absolved from, cut off from, the
rest of the sentence following, and having a final stop or conclusive effect, while the secondary
may be regarded as only relatively emphatic, as being related in a subordinate way to the principal,
and as maintaining a connection with the rest of the sentence, or as hanging upon the words
which follow, or as being a step leading up to the main idea. The vocal indication of this
connective principle is the circumflex inflection. The tone will be raised, as in the principal
emphasis, but instead of being allowed to fall straight to a finality, it is turned upward
at the finish, to hook on, as it were, to the following. The weight of voice will be less marked,
the inflection less long, and the pause usually less decided, than in the case of the primary
emphasis. "Recall romance, recite the names of heroes of legend and song, but there is none
that is his peer." At the words romance and song there is a secondary emphasis; the voice is
not dropped, it is kept suspended with the pause.

A common failing among students is an inability to avoid a frequent absolute emphatic inflection
when it is not in place. Many are unable steadily to sustain a sentence till the real point
is reached. They fail to keep the voice suspended when they make a pause. It is very important
that a student should have a sure method of determining what the principal emphasis is. He
should, as has already been said, follow, in rendering the thought of another, the method of
the spontaneous expression of his own ideas. He should take into his mind the principal idea
or ideas, before he speaks the words leading thereto. He should then, at every pause, keep
the thought suspended, incomplete, till he reaches that principal idea; he should then make
the absolute stop, with the effect of finality, afterwards running off in a properly related
way, such words as serve to complete the form of expression. Take the following sentence: "I
never take up a paper full of Congress squabbles, reported as if sunrise depended upon them,
without thinking of that idle English nobleman at Florence, who when his brother, just arrived
from London, happened to mention the House of Commons, languidly asked, Ah! is that thing still
going?" It is rather curious that very rarely will a student keep the thought of such a sentence
suspended and connected until he arrives at the real point at the end. He will first say that
he never takes up a paper, though of course he really does take up a paper. Then he says he
never takes up this kind of paper; and this he does not mean. So he goes on misleading his
audience, instead of helping them properly to anticipate the form of statement and so be prepared
for the point at the right moment. He should not, as a general rule, let his voice take an
absolute drop at the places of secondary emphasis.

In reference to the emphatic point in a larger division of the speech, and to the main or climactic
points of the whole speech, the principles for emphasis in the sentence are applied in a larger
way. And the way to make the point is, first of all, to think hard on what that point is, what
is the end or purpose to be attained. If this does not bring the result--and very often it
does not--then the mechanical means of producing emphasis should be studied and consciously
applied--the increase, or perhaps the diminution, of force, the lengthening or shortening of
tones on the words; a change in the general level of pitch; the use of the emphatic pause;
and a lengthening of the emphatic inflection. A more impressive general effect must, in some
way, be given to the parts of greater importance.

INDICATING VALUES AND RELATIONS

Perhaps the most commonly criticized fault among beginners in speaking is that of monotony.
Monotony that arises from lack of inflection of voice or from lack of pointed-ness or emphasis
in a sentence, will presumably be corrected in the earlier exercises. The monotony that is
caused by giving to all sentences an equal value, saying all sentences, or a whole speech,
in about the same force, rate, and general pitch, is one that may be considered from another
point of view. One fault in the delivery of sentences--perhaps the most frequent one--is that
of running them all off in about the same modulation. By modulation we mean the wavelike rise
and fall of the voice that always occurs in some degree in speech,--sometimes called melody--and
the change of key, or general pitch, in passing from one sentence, or part of a speech, to
another. Frequently, novices in speaking and in reading, will swing the voice upward in the
first part of every sentence, give it perhaps another rise or two as the sentence proceeds,
and swing it down, always in precisely the same way, at the end. The effect of this regular
rising at the beginning, and this giving of a similar concluding cadence at the end, is to
make it appear that each sentence stands quite independent of the others, that each is a detached
statement; and when, besides, each sentence is given with about the same force and rate of
speed, they all seem to be of about equal importance, all principal or none principal, but
as much alike as Rosalind's halfpence. Sentences that have a close sequence as to thought should
be so rendered that one seems to flow out from the other, without the regular marked rise at
the beginning or the concluding cadence at the end. Sentences, and parts of sentences, which
are of less importance than others with which they are associated, should be made less prominent
in delivery. Often students are helped by the suggestion that a sentence, or a part of a sentence,
or a group of sentences, it may be, be dropped into an undertone, or said as an aside, or rapidly
passed over, or in some way put in the background--said, so to speak, parenthetically. Other
portions of the speech, or the sentence, the important ones, should, on the same principle,
be made to stand out with marked effect.

Notice, in the following quotation, how the first and the last parts arc held together by the
pitch or key and the modulation of the voice, and the middle part, the group of examples, is
held together in a different key by being set in the background, as being illustrative or probative.
"Why, all these Irish bulls are Greek,--every one of them. Take the Irishman carrying around
a brick as a specimen of the house he had to sell; take the Irishman who shut his eyes, and
looked into the glass to see how he would look when he was dead; take the Irishman that bought
a crow, alleging that crows were reported to live two hundred years, and he meant to set out
and try it. Well, those are all Greek. A score or more of them, of the parallel character,
come from Athens."

The speaker should cultivate a quick sensitiveness as to close unity and slight diversity,
as to what is principal and what is subordinate, as to what is in the direct, main line of
thought, and what is by the way, casual, or merely a connecting link. This sense of proportion,
of close or remote relation, of directness and indirectness, the feeling for perspective, so-called,
can be acquired only by continued practice, for sharpening the faculty of apprehension and
appreciation. It is usually the last attainment in the student's work, but the neglect of it
may result in a confirmed habit of monotony. The term transition is commonly used to denote
a passing from one to another of the main divisions of the discourse. The making of this transition,
though often neglected, is not difficult. The finishing of one part and the making of a new
beginning on the next, usually with some change of standing position, as well as of voice,
has an obvious method. The slighter transition, or variation, within a main division, and the
avoidance of the slight transition where none should be made, require the keener, quicker insight.

Sentences will have many other kinds of variation in delivery according to the nature and value
of the thought. Some will flow on with high successive waves; some will be run almost straight
on as in a monotone. Some will be on a higher average tone, or in a higher key; others will
be lower. Some will have lengthened vowel sound, and will be more continuous or sustained,
so that groups of successive words seem to run on one unbroken tone; others will be abrupt
and irregular. Some will be rapid, some slow; some light, others weighty; some affected by
long pauses, others by no pause, and some will be done in a dry, matter-of- fact, or precise,
or commonplace, or familiar manner, others will be touched with feeling, colored by imagination,
glowing with persuasive warmth, elevated, dignified, or profound. A repetition of the selections
to be learned, with full expression by voice and action, repetition again, and again, and again,
until the sentiment of them becomes a living reality to the speaker, is the only way to acquire
the ability to indicate to others the true proportions, the relative values, and the distinctive
character, of what is to be said.

EXPRESSING THE FEELING

We are in the habit of distinguishing between what proceeds from mere thinking, what is, as
we say, purely intellectual, and what arises more especially from feeling, what we call emotional.
We mean, of course, that one or the other element predominates; and the distinction is a convenient
one. The subject, the occasion, to a great extent the man, determine whether a speech is in
the main dispassionate or impassioned, whether it is plain or ornate in statement, whether
it is urgent or aggressive, or calm and rather impassive. It would be beyond our purpose to
consider many of the variations and complexities of feeling that enter into vocal expression.
We call attention to only a few of the simpler and more common vocal manifestations of feeling,
counselling the student who is to deliver a selected speech, to adapt his speaking to the style
of that speech. In so doing he will get a varied training, and at length will find his own
most effective style.

The speech which is matter-of-fact and commonplace only, has characteristically much short,
sharp inflection of voice, with the rapidly varying intervals of pitch that we notice in one's
everyday talking. As the utterance takes on force, it is likely to go in a more direct line
of average pitch, with stronger inflection on specially emphatic words. As it rises to sentiment,
the inflections are less marked, and in the case of a strain of high, nobler feeling, the voice
moves on with some approach to the monotone. According as feeling is stronger and firmer, as
in the expression of courage, determination, firm resolve, resistance, intense devotion, the
voice is kept sustained, with pauses rather abrupt and decisive; if the feeling, though of
high sentiment, is tranquil, without aggressiveness, the voice has more of the wavelike rise
and fall, and at the pausing places the tone is gradually diminished, rather than abruptly
broken off. In the case of quickly impulsive, passionate feeling, the speech is likely to be
much varied in pitch, broken by frequent abrupt stops, and decisive inflections. In the case
of the expression of tenderness or pathos, there is a lingering tone, with the quality and
inflection of plaintiveness, qualified, in public speech, by such dignity and strength as is
fitting. In all cases the quality of voice is of course the main thing, and this, not being
technical or mechanical, must depend on the speaker's entering into the spirit of the piece
and giving color, warmth, and depth to his tones. The spirit of gladness or triumph has usually
the higher, brighter, ringing tone; that of gravity, solemnity, awe, the lower, darker, and
less varied tone.

In the case of the expression of irony, sarcasm, scorn, contempt, and kindred feelings, the
circumflex inflection is the principal feature. This is the curious quirk or double turn in
the voice, that is heard when one says, for example, "You're a fine fellow," meaning, "You
are anything but a fine fellow." In the earlier part of Webster's reply to Hayne are some of
the finest examples of irony, grim or caustic humor, sarcasm, and lofty contempt. They need
significant turns and plays of voice, but are often spoiled by being treated as high declamation.

In the expression of the various kinds and degrees of feeling there may be a fully expressed
force or a suppressed or restrained force. Often the latter is the more natural and effective.
This is intense, but not loud, though at times it may break through its restraint. It is most
fitting when the hearers are near at hand, as in the case of a jury or judge in court, when
the din of loudness would offend.

The climax is a gradually increasing expression of feeling. It may be by a gradual raising
of the voice in pitch; it may be by any sort of increasing effectiveness or moving power. It
is rather difficult to manage, and may lead to some strained effort. The speaker should keep
a steady, controlled movement, without too much haste, but rather a retarded and broadened
utterance as the emphatic point is approached; and always the speaker should keep well within
his powers, maintaining always some vocal reserve.

The practice of emotional expression gives warmth, mellowness, sympathy and expansiveness to
the voice, and must have considerable cultural value.

SHOWING THE PICTURE

A difficult attainment in speaking is that of vividness. The student may see the picture in
his own mind's eye, but his mode of expression does not reveal the fact to others. Imagination
in writing he may have, with no suggestion of it in the voice. Too often it is erroneously
taken for granted that the human voice, because it is human, will at any call, respond to all
promptings of the mind. It will no more do so, of course, than the hand or the eye. It must
be trained. Often it is a case not merely of vocal response, but of mental awakening as well,
and in that case the student must, if he can, learn to see visions and dream dreams.

A way to begin the suiting of speech to imaginative ideas is to imitate; to make the voice
sound like the thing to be suggested. Some things are fast, some slow, some heavy, some light,
some dark and dismal, some bright and joyous; some things are noisy, some still; some rattle,
others roar; the sea is hoarse; the waves wash; the winds blow; the ocean is level, or it dashes
high and breaks; happy things sing, and sad things mourn. All life and nature speak just as
we speak. How easy it ought to be for us to speak just as nature speaks. And when our abstract
notions are put in concrete expression, or presented as a picture, how easy it would seem,
by these simple variations of voice, to speak the language of that picture, telling the length,
breadth, action, color, values, spirit of it. That it is a task makes it worth while. It affords
infinite variety, and endless delight.

One necessary element in so-called word-painting is that of time. When a speaker expresses
himself in pictures for the imagination he must give his hearers time to see these pictures,
and to sufficiently see and appreciate the parts, or lines of them, and the significance of
them. It is a common fault to hasten over the language of imagination as over the commonplace
words. The speaker or reader had better be sure to see the image himself before, and indeed
after, he speaks it. Others will then be with him. Although among most young speakers the tone
of imagination is lacking, yet often young persons who become proficient vocally are fain greatly
to overdo it, till the sound that is suited to the sense becomes sound for its own sake, and
thereby obscures the sense. Regard for proportion and fitness, in relation to the central idea
or purpose, should control the feeling for color in the detail.

EXPRESSION BY ACTION

It should always be borne in mind that gesture means the bearing or the action of the whole
man. It does not mean simply movement of the arm and hand. The practice of gesture should be
governed by this understanding of the term. A thought, an emotion, something that moves the
man from within, will cause a change, it may be slight, or it may be very marked, in eye, face,
body. This is gesture. This change or movement may, from the strength of the feeling that prompts
it, extend to the arm and hand. But this latter movement, in arm and hand, is only the fuller
manifestation of one's thought or feeling--the completion of the gesture, not the gesture itself.
Arm movement, when not preceded or supplemented by body movement, or body pose, is obtrusive
action; it brings a member of the body into noticeable prominence, attracting the auditor's
eye and taking his mind from the speaker's thought. Better have no gesture than gesture of
this kind. The student, then, should first learn to appreciate the force of ideas, to see and
feel the full significance of what he would say, and indicate by some general movement of body
and expression of face, the changing moods of mind. Then the arm and hand may come--in not
too conspicuous a way--to the aid of the body. In less positive or striking degrees of action,
the body movement will, of course, be very slight, at times almost imperceptible, but the principle
always holds, and should be from the first taught. In gesture, the bodily man acts as a unit.

The amount of gesture is, of course, determined by the temperament of the speaker, the nature
of the speech, the character of the audience, and the occasion of the address. One speaker
will, under certain conditions, gesticulate nearly all the time; another will, under the same
conditions, seem seldom to move in any way. The two may be equally effective. A speech that
is charged with lively emotion will usually be accompanied by action; a speech expressive of
the profound feeling that subdues to gravity, or resignation, would be comparatively without
action. The funeral oration by Mark Antony is full of action because it is really intended
to excite the will of his audience; in a funeral address simply expressive of sorrow and appreciation,
gesture would, as a rule, be out of place. A sharply contested debate may need action that
punctuates and enforces; the pleasantry of after-dinner talk may need only the voice. So, one
audience, not quick in grasping ideas, may need, both in language and action, much clear, sharp
indication of the point by illustration, much stirring up by physical attack, so to speak,
while another audience would be displeased by this unnecessary effort to be clear and expressive.
Yet again, given a certain speaker and a certain subject and a certain audience, it is obvious
that the occasion will determine largely how the speaker will bear himself. The atmosphere
of a college commencement will be different from that of a barbecue, and the speaker would,
within the limits set by his own personality and his own dignity, adapt himself to the one
or the other. The general law of appropriateness and good taste must determine the amount of
gesture.

For the purposes of this work there is probably very little, if any, value in a strict classification
of gestures. It may, at times, be convenient to speak of one gesture as merely for emphasis,
of another as indicating location, of another as giving illustration, of one as more subjective,
expressing a thought that reflects back upon the speaker, or is said more in the way of self-communion,
of another as objective, concerned only with outer objects or with ideas more apart from the
person or the inward feeling of the speaker. But it can easily be shown that one idea, or one
dominant feeling, may be expressed by many kinds of action, in fact, so far at least as prescribed
movements are concerned, in directly opposite kinds, and gesture is so largely a matter of
the individual, and is governed so much by mixed motive and varying circumstance, that the
general public speaker will profit little by searching for its philosophic basis, and trying
to practice according to any elaborated system. The observing of life, with the exercise of
instinct, taste, sense, above all of honest purpose--these, with of course the help of competent
criticism, will serve as sufficient practical guides in the cultivation of expressive action.

Some observations, or perhaps general principles, may be offered as helpful. When a speaker
is concerned with driving ideas straight home to his audience, as in putting bare fact in a
debate, his action will be more direct; it will move in straighter lines and be turned, like
his thought, more directly upon his audience. As his statement is more exactly to a point,
so his gesture becomes more pointed and definite. When the speaker is not talking to or at
his audience, to move them to his will, but is rather voicing the ideas and feelings already
possessed by them, and is in a non-aggressive mood, he is likely to use less of the direct
and emphasis-giving gesture, and to employ principally the gesture that is merely illustrative
of his ideas, more reposeful, less direct, less tense.

To consider more in detail the principle that the man, and not the arm, is the gesture, a man
should look what he is to speak. The eye should always have a relation to gesture. The look
may be in the direction of the arm movement or in another direction. No practical rule can
be given. It can only be said that the eye must play its part. Observing actions in real life,
we see that when one person points out an object to another, he looks now at the object, now
at the person, as if to guide that person's look. When he hears a sound he may glance in the
direction of it, but then look away to listen. Often a suspended action, with a fixed look
of the face, will serve to arrest the attention of auditors and fix it upon an idea. One should
cultivate first the look, then the supporting or completing action.

As to the movement of the arm and the form of the hand, one should be careful not to become
stiff and precise by following exact rules. In general, it may be said that the beginning of
the arm movement, being from the body, is in the upper arm; the finish of it is at the tips
of the fingers, with the forefinger leading, or bringing the gesture to a point. There is generally
a slightly flexible, rythmical movement of the arm and hand. This should not, as a rule, be
very marked, and in specially energetic action is hardly observable. In this arm action there
is an early preparatory movement, which indicates or suggests, what is coming. Often a moment
of suspense in the preparation enhances the effect of the finish, or stroke, of the gesture,
which corresponds usually to the vocal emphasis. At the final pointing of the action, the hand
is, for a moment or for moments, fixed, as the mind and the man are fixed, for the purpose
of holding the attention of the auditor; then follows the recovery, so-called, from the gesture,
or it may be, the passing to another gesture. And all the while, let it again be said, slight
changes of bodily pose with proper adjustments of the feet, will make the harmonious, unified
action. It should be remembered that, as in viewing a house or a picture we should be impressed
by the main body and the general effect, rather than by any one feature, so on the same principle,
no striking feature of a man's action should attract attention to itself. On the same principle,
no part of the hand should be made conspicuous--the thumb or forefinger should not be too much
stuck out, nor the other fingers, except in pointing, be very much curved in. Generally, except
in precise pointing, there is a graduated curving, not too nice, from the bent little finger
to the straighter forefinger. As the gesture is concerned with thought more delicate, the action
of the hand is lighter and tends more to the tips of the fingers; as it is more rugged and
strong, the hand is held heavier. It is bad to carry the arm very far back, causing a strained
look; to stretch the arms too straight out, or to confine the elbow to the side. The elbow
is kept somewhat away even in the smallest gesture. While action should have nerve, it should
not become nervous, that is, over- tense and rigid. It should be free and controlled, with
good poise in the whole man.

Before leaving this subject, in its physical aspect, let us consider somewhat the matter of
standing and moving on the platform. Among imperfections as regards position, that kind of
imperfection which takes the form of perfectly fixed feet, strictly upright figure, hands at
the side, head erect, and eyes straight-of all bad kinds, this kind is the worst. This is often
referred to as school declamation, or the speaking of a piece. We have discarded many old ideas
of restriction in education. Let us discard the strait-jacket in platform speaking. Nobody
else ever speaks as students are often compelled to speak. Let them speak like boys--not like
men even--much less like machines. There is of course a good and a bad way of standing and
moving, but much is due to youth, to individuality, and to earnest intention, and a student
should have free play in a large degree.

In walking, the step should neither be too fast nor too slow, too long nor too short, too much
on the heel or too much on the toe. A simple, straightforward way of getting there is all that
is wanted. The arms are left to swing easily, but not too much; nor should one arm swing more
than the other. The head, it will be noted, may occasionally rise and fall as one goes up or
down steps or walks the platform. Before beginning to speak, one should not obviously take
a position and prepare. He should easily stop at his place, and, looking at his auditors, begin
simply to say something to them. As to the feet, they will, of course, be variously placed
or adjusted according to the pose of the body in the varying moods of the speech. In general,
the body will rest more on one foot than on the other. In a position of ease, as usually at
the beginning of a speech, one foot will bear most of the weight. In this case, this foot will
normally be pointed nearly to the front; the other foot will be only very slightly in advance
of this and will be turned more outward. The feet will not be close together; nor noticeably
far apart. They need not--they had better not--as it is sometimes pictured in books, be so
set that a line passing lengthwise through the freer foot will pass through the heel of the
other foot. As a man becomes earnest in speaking, his posture will vary, and often he will
stand almost equally on his two feet. In changing one's position, it is best to acquire the
habit of moving the freer foot, the one lighter on the floor, first, thus avoiding a swaying,
or toppling look of the body.

In connection with the subject of standing, naturally comes the question of the arms in the
condition of inaction. It is possibly well to train one's self, when learning to speak, to
let the arms hang relaxed at the side, but speakers do not often so hold the arms. Usually
there is a desk near, and the speaker when at rest drops one hand upon this, or he lets one
arm rest at the waist, or he brings the two hands together. Any of these things may be done,
if done simply, easily, without nervous tightening, or too frequent shifting. One thing, for
practical reasons, should not be allowed, the too common habit of clasping the hands behind
the back. It will become a fixed mannerism, and a bad one, for the hands are thus concealed,
the shoulders and head may droop forward, and the hands may be so tightened together behind
the back as to cause nervous tension in the body and in the voice. The hands should be in place
ready for expressive action. The back is not such a place.

Nearly every movement that a man makes in speaking should have some fitting relation to what
he is at the moment saying. These movements will then be varied. When certain repeated actions,
without this proper relation, are acquired, they are called mannerisms. They have no meaning,
and are obtrusive and annoying. Repeated jerking or bobbing of the head, for a supposed emphasis;
regularly turning the head from side to side, for addressing all the audience; nervous shaking
of the head, as of one greatly in earnest; repeated, meaningless punching or pounding of the
air, always in the same way; shifting of one foot regularly backward and forward; rising on
the toes with each emphatic word,--although single movements similar to these often have appropriate
place, none of these or others should be allowed to become fixed mannerisms, habitually recurring
movements, without a purpose. We are sometimes told that certain manneristic ways are often
a speaker's strength. Probably this is at least half true. But eccentricities should not be
cultivated or indulged. They will come. We should have as few as possible, or they won't count.
One thing, however, should here be said. Positive strength, with positive faults, is much better
than spiritless inoffensiveness. One should not give all his attention to the avoiding of faults.

In the application of gesture to the expression of ideas, one is helped, as has been said,
by constantly heeding the general principle of suiting the form of the gesture to the nature
of the thought, or of suiting the action to the word. Inasmuch as gesture so generally takes
the form of objects or actions, it is undoubtedly easier to begin with the more concrete in
language, or with the discussion of tangible objects, and work from these to the more abstract
and remotely imaginary--from the more, to the less, familiar. Let the student indicate the
location, or the height, or the width, or the form of an object. His action will probably be
appropriate. Let him apply similar, probably less definite, action to certain abstract ideas.
Let him pass to ideas more remote and vague, by action largely suggestive, not definite or literal.

The most important, because the most fundamental, principle to be borne in mind is that gesture
should be made to enforce, not the superficial, or incidental, ideas appearing in a statement,
but the ideas which lie behind the form of expression and are the real basis, or inhere in
the fundamental purpose, of the speaker's discourse.

At the close of Senator Thurston's speech on intervention in behalf of Cuba, there is picturesque
language for impressing the contention that force is justified in a worthy cause. The speaker
cites graphically examples of force at Bunker Hill, Valley Forge, Shiloh, Chattanooga, and
Lookout Heights. The student is here very likely to be led astray by the fine opportunity to
make gesture. He may vividly see and picture the snows of Valley Forge, marked with bloodstained
feet, and the other scenes suggested, but forget about the central idea, the purpose behind
all the vivid forms of expression. Graphic, detailed gestures may have the effect of making
the pictures in themselves the main object. The action here should be informal, unstudied,
and merely remotely suggestive. The speaker should keep to his one central idea, and keep with
his audience. Otherwise the speech will be insincere and purposeless, perhaps absurd. The fundamental,
not the superficial, should determine the action. Young speakers almost invariably pick out
words or phrases, suggesting the possibility of a gesture, and give exact illustration to them,
as if the excellence of gesture were in itself an object, when really the thing primarily to
be enforced is not these incidental features in the form of expression, but the underlying
idea of the whole passage. It is as if the steeple were made out of proportion to the church,
or a hat out of proportion to the man. This misconception of what gesture really means is doubtless,
in large measure, the cause of making platform recitation often false and offensive. The remedy
does not lie in omitting gesture altogether, as some seem to think, but in making gesture simple
and true.

Finally, let the student remember that he goes to the platform, not to make a splendid speech
and receive praise for a brilliant exhibition of his art, but that he goes there because the
platform is a convenient place from which to tell the people something he has to say. Let him
think it nothing remarkable that he should be there; let him so bear himself, entering with
simplicity, honesty, earnestness, and modesty, into his work, that no one will think much about
how his work is done. Spirited oratory, with the commanding presence, the sweeping action,
and an overmastering force of utterance, may at times be called forth, but these are given
to a man out of his subject and by the occasion; they are not to be assumed by him merely because
he is before an audience, or as necessary features of speech-making. Let the student speak,
first and always, as a self-respecting, thinking man, earnest and strong, but self-controlled
and sensible.

PLATFORM PRACTICE

THE FORMAL ADDRESS

The selections in the several sections for platform practice are to be used for applying, in
appropriate combination, the principles heretofore worked out, one by one. The first group
provides practice in the more formal style. The occasion of the formal address requires, in
large degree, restraint and dignity. The thought is elevated; the mood serious, in some cases
subdued, the form of expression exact and firm. The delivery should correspond. The tone should
be, in some degree, ennobled; the movement deliberate, and comparatively even and measured;
the modulation not marked by striking variations in pitch; the pauses rather regular, and the
gesture always sparing, perhaps wholly omitted. The voice should be generally pure and fine;
the enunciation should be finished and true. Whatever action there may be should be restrained,
well poised, deliberate, with some degree of grace. In general it should be felt that carelessness
or looseness or aggressiveness or undue demonstrativeness would be out of harmony with the
spirit of the occasion. Good taste must be exercised at every step, and the audience should
be addressed, from the outset, as in sympathy with the speaker and ready at once to approve.
The spirit and manner of contention is out of place.

In this style of discourse the liability to failure lies in the direction of dullness, monotony,
lack of vitality and warmth. This is because the feeling is deep and still; is an undercurrent,
strong but unseen. This restrained, repressed feeling is the most difficult fittingly to express.
In this kind of speech some marring of just the right effect is difficult to avoid. Simplicity,
absolute genuineness, are the essential qualities. The ideas must be conveyed with power and
significance, in due degree; but nothing too much is particularly the watchword regarding the
outward features of the work.

THE PUBLIC LECTURE

In the public lecture the element of entertainment enters prominently. The audience, at first
in a passive state, must be awakened, and taken on with the speaker. Probably it must be instructed,
perhaps amused. The speaker must make his own occasion. He has no help from the circumstance
of predisposition among his auditors. He must compel, or he must win; he must charm or thrill;
or he must do each in turn. Animation, force, beauty, dramatic contrast, vividness, variety,
are the qualities that will more or less serve, according to the style of the composition.
Aptness in the story or anecdote, facility in graphic illustration, readiness in expressing
emotion, happiness in the imitative faculty, for touching off the eccentric in character or
incident, are talents that come into play, and in the exercise of these, gesture of course
has an important place.

The lecture platform is perhaps the only field, with possibly the exception of what is properly
the after-dinner speech, wherein public speaking may be viewed as strictly an art, something
to be taken for its own sake, wherein excellence in the doing is principally the end in view.
This means, generally, that individual talent, and training in all artistic requirements, count
for more than the subject or any "accidents of office," in holding the auditor's interest.
An animated and versatile style can be cultivated by striving to make effective the public lecture.

THE INFORMAL DISCUSSION

Informal discussion is the name chosen for the lecture or talk in the club or the classroom.
It implies a rather small audience and familiar relations between audience and speaker. While
the subject may be weighty, and the language may be necessarily of the literary or scientific
sort, the style of speaking should be colloquial. It ought to bring the hearer pretty near
to the speaker. If the subject and language are light, the speaking will be sprightly and comparatively
swift.

Since the occasion for this kind of speaking is frequent, and the opportunity for it is likely
to fall to almost any educated man, proficiency in it might well be made an object in the course
of one's educational training. The end aimed at is the ability to talk well. This accomplishment
is not so easy as it may seem. It marks, indeed, the stage of maturity in speech-making. Since
authoritative opinion from the speaker and interest in the subject on the part of the audience
are prime elements in this form of discussion, little cultivation of form is usually given
to this kind of speaking. The result is much complaining from auditors about inaudibleness,
dullness, monotony, annoying mannerisms, or a too formal, academic tone that keeps the audience
remote, a lack of what is called the human quality. A good talker from the desk not only has
the reward of appreciation and gratitude, but is able to accomplish results in full proportion
to all that he puts into the improvement of his vocal work. An agreeable tone, easy formation
of words, clear, well-balanced emphasis, good phrasing, or grouping of words in the sentence,
some vigor without continual pounding, easy, unstudied bodily movement without manneristic
repetition of certain motions, in short, good form without any obtrusive appearance of form,--these
are the qualities desired.

ARGUMENTATIVE SPEECH

In the case of the forensic, we come nearer to the practical in public speaking. The speaker
aims, as a rule, to effect a definite purpose, and he concentrates his powers upon this immediate
object. Since the speech is for the most part an appeal to the reason, and therefore deals
largely with fact and the logical relations of ideas, precision and clearness of statement
are the chief qualities to be cultivated. But since the aim is to overcome opposition, and
produce conviction, and so to impress and stir as to affect the will to a desired action, the
element of force, and the moving quality of persuasion enters in as a reenforcement of the
speaker's logic. Generally the speech is very direct, and often it is intense. It has in greater
degree than any other form the feature of aggressiveness. Some form of attack is adopted, for
the purpose of overthrowing the opposing force. That attack is followed up in a direct line
of argument, and is carried out to a finish. In delivery the continuous line of pursuit thus
followed often naturally leads to a kind of effective monotone style, wherein the speaker keeps
an even force, or strikes blow after blow, or sends shot after shot. The characteristic feature
of the forensic style is the climax--climax in brief successions of words, climax in the sentence,
climax in giving sections of the speech, climax in the speech as a whole.

Special notice should be taken of the fact that, in earnest argument, sentences have, characteristically,
a different run from that in ordinary expository speaking. Whereas in the expository style
the sentence flows, as a rule, easily forth, with the voice rising and falling, in an undulatory
sort of way, and dropping restfully to a finish, in the heated forensic style, the sentence
is given the effect of being sent straight forth, as if to a mark, with the last word made
the telling one, and so kept well up in force and pitch. The accumulating force has the effect
of sending the last word home, or of making it the one to clinch the statement.

The dangers to be guarded against in debate are wearying monotony, over-hammering--too frequent,
too hard, too uniform an emphasis--too much, or too continued heat, too much speed, especially
in speaking against time, a loss of poise in the bearing, a halting or jumbling in speech,
nervous tenseness in action, an overcontentious or bumptious spirit. Bodily control, restraint,
good temper, balance, are the saving qualities. A debater must remember that he need not be
always in a heat. Urbanity and graciousness have their place, and the relief afforded by humor
is often welcome and effective.

In no form of speaking, except that of dramatic recitation, is the liability to impairment
of voice so great as it is in debating. One of the several excellent features of debating is
that of the self- forgetfulness that comes with an earnest struggle to win. But perhaps a man
cannot safely forget himself until he has learned to know himself. The intensity of debating
often leads, in the case of a speaker vocally untrained, to a tightening of the throat in striving
for force, to a stiffening of the tongue and lips for making incisive articulation, to a rigidness
of the jaw from shutting down on words to give decisive emphasis. Soon the voice has the juice
squeezed out of it. The tone becomes harsh and choked; then ragged and weak. The only remedy
is to go straight back and begin all over, just as a golfer usually does when he has gone on
without instruction. The necessity of going back is often not realized till later in life;
then the process is much harder, and perhaps can never be entirely effective. The teacher in
the course of his experience meets many, many such cases. The time to learn the right way is
at the beginning.

Among the selections here offered for forensic practice, examples in debate serve for the cultivation
of the aggressiveness that comes from immediate opposition; examples in the political speech
for acquiring the abandon and enthusiasm of the so-called popular style; in the legal plea
for practice in suppressed force. In the case of the last of these, it is well that the audience
be near to the speaker, as is the case in an address to a judge or jury. The idea is to be
forcible without being loud and high; to cultivate a subdued tone that shall, at the same time,
be vital and impressive. The importance of a manner of speaking that is not only clear and
effective, but also agreeable, easy to listen to, is quite obvious when we consider the task
of a judge or a jury, who have to sit for hours and try to carry in their minds the substance
of all that has been said, weighing point against point, balancing one body of facts against
another. A student can arrange nearly the same conditions as to space, and can, by exercise
of imagination, enter into the spirit of a legal conflict.

THE AFTER-DINNER SPEECH

After-dinner speaking is another form that many men may have an opportunity to engage in. It
can also be practiced under conditions resembling those of the actual occasion, that is, members
of the class can be so seated that the speaking may become intimate in tone, and speeches can
be selected that will serve for cultivating that distinctive, sociable quality of voice that,
in itself, goes far in contributing to the comfort and delight of the after-dinner audience.
The real after-dinner speech deals much in pleasantry. The tone of voice is characteristically
unctuous. Old Fezziwig is described by Dickens as calling out "in a comfortable, rich, fat,
jovial, oily voice." Something like this is perhaps the ideal after-dinner voice, although
there is a dry humor as well as an unctuous, and each speaker will, after all, have his own
way of making his hearers comfortable, happy, and attentive. Ease and deliberation are first
requisites. Nervous intensity may not so much mar the effect of earnest debate. The social
chat is spoiled by it. Humor, as a rule, requires absolute restfulness. Especially should a
beginner guard himself against haste in making the point at the finish of a story. It does
no harm to keep the hearer waiting a bit, in expectation. The effect may be thus enhanced,
while the effect will be entirely lost if the point, and the true touch, are spoiled by uncontrolled
haste. The way to gain this ease and control is not by stiffening up to master one's self,
but by relaxing, letting go of one's self. Practice in the speech of pleasantry may have great
value in giving a man repose, in giving him that saving grace, an appreciation of the humorous,
in affording him a means of relief or enlivenment to the serious speech.

THE OCCASIONAL POEM

The occasional poem is so frequently brought forth in connection with speech-making that some
points regarding metrical reading may be quite in place in a speaker's training. Practice in
verse reading is of use also because of the frequency of quoted lines from the poets in connection
with the prose speech.

To read a poem well one must become in spirit a poet. He must not only think, he must feel.
He must exercise imagination. He must, we will say it again, see visions and dream dreams.
What was said about vividness in the discussion of expressional effects applies generally to
the reading of poetry. One will read much better if he has tried to write-- in verse as well
as in prose. He will then know how to put himself in the place of the poet, and will not be
so likely to mar the poet's verses by "reading them ill-favoredly." He will know the value
of words that have been so far sought, and may not slur over them; he may feel the sound of
a line formed to suggest a sound in nature. He will know that a meter has been carefully worked
out, and that, in the reading, that meter is of the spirit of the poem; it is not to be disregarded.
Likewise he will appreciate the place of rhyme, and may not try so to cover it up as entirely
to lose its effect. In humorous verse, especially, rhyme plays an effective part; and in all
verse, alliteration, variations in melody, the lighter and the heavier touch, acceleration
and retard in movement, the caesura, or pause in the line, and the happy effect of the occasional
cadence, are features which one can come to appreciate and respect only with reading one's
favorite poems many times, with spirit warm, with faculties alert.

THE MAKING OF THE SPEECH

Although the use of selected speeches is best for effective drill in delivery, yet a student's
training for public speaking is of course not complete until he has had experience in applying
his acquired skill to the presenting of his own thought. Thinking and speaking should be made
one operation. The principles of composition for the public speech belong to a separate work.
A few hints only can be given here, and these will be concerned with the informal, offhand
speech rather than with the formal address.

The usual directions regarding the choosing of the subject, the collecting of material, and
the arranging of it in the most effective order, with exceptions and variations, hold in all
forms of the speech. The subject chosen should be one of special interest to the speaker, one
on which it is known he can speak with some degree of authority, because of his personal study
of it, or because of his having had exceptional personal relations with it. It must also be,
because of the nature of it, or because of some special treatment, of particular interest to
the audience to be addressed. Either new, out-of-the-way subjects, or new, fresh phases of
old subjects are usually interesting. The subject must be limited in its comprehensiveness
to suit the time allowed for speaking, and the title of the speech should be so phrased as
to indicate exactly what the subject, or the part of a subject, is to be. To this carefully
limited and defined subject, the speaker should rigidly adhere.

How to find a subject is generally a topic on which students are advised. Though it is often
a necessity to hunt for a suitable special topic on which to speak, the student should know
that when he gets outside the classroom, he will find that he will not be invited to speak
because he is ready at finding subjects and clever in speech. It is not strange, in view of
the many advertisements that reach young men, offering methods of home training, or promising
sure success from this or that special method of schooling, that they may come to believe that
any one has only to learn to stand up boldly on a platform, and with voice and gesture exercise
some mysterious sort of magical control over an audience, and his success as an orator is secure.
They will find that their time and money have been wasted, so far as public speaking is concerned,
unless, having at the start some native ability, they have secured, in addition, a kind of
training that is fundamental. A man is wanted as a speaker primarily because he stands for
something; because he has done some noteworthy work. His subjects for discussion arise out
of his personal interests, and, to a large extent, his method of treatment will be determined
by his relation to these subjects. A young man may well be advised, then, not simply how to
choose and how to present a subject, but first to secure a good mental training, and then to
find for himself an all-absorbing work to do. The wisdom that comes from a concentrated intellectual
activity, and an interest in men's affairs, both directed to some unselfish end, is the essential
qualification of the speaker.

In considering the arrangement of a speech, the student will do well to ask himself first,
not what is to be the beginning of it, but what is to be the end of it; what is the purpose
of it; and what shall be the central idea; what impression, or what principal thought or thoughts,
shall be left with the audience. When this is determined, then a way of working out this central
idea or of working up to it--in a short speech, by a few points only--must be carefully and
thoroughly planned. Extemporaneous speaking is putting spontaneously into words what has previously
been well thought out and well arranged. Without this state of preparation, the way of wisdom
is silence.

The language of a speech is largely determined by the man's habit of mind, the nature of his
subject, and the character of his audience. Students often err in one of two directions, either
by being too bookish in language or by allowing the other extreme of looseness, weak colloquialism
in words, and formless monotony of sentence, with the endless repetition of the connective
"and." Language should be fresh, vital, varied. It should have some dignity. Much reading,
writing, and speaking are necessary to secure an adequate vocabulary, and a readiness in putting
in firm form a variety of sentences. Concreteness of expression and occasional illustration
are more needed in speech than in writing, and the brief anecdote or story is welcome and useful
if there is room for it, and if it comes unbidden, by virtue of its fitness and spontaneity,
and is not drawn in by the ears for half- hearted service. The inevitable story at the opening
of an after-dinner speech might often be spared. Although a good story is in itself enjoyable,
yet when a speaker feels that he must make one fit into the speech, whether or no, by applying
it to himself or his subject or the occasion, the effect is often very unhappy. A man is best
guided in these things simply by being true, by being sincere rather than artful. On this same
principle, a student may need some advice with regard to his spirit and manner in giving expression
to his own ideas before an audience. He need not, as students often seem to think they must,
appear to have full knowledge or final judgment on the largest of subjects. It is more fitting
that he should speak as a student, an inquirer, not as an authority. If his statements are
guarded and qualified; if he speaks as one only inclined to an opinion when finality of judgment
is obviously beyond his reach; if he directly refers, and defers, to opinions that must be
better than his can be, his speech will have much more weight, and he will grow in strength
of character by always being true to himself. It is a question whether students are not too
often inspired to be bold and absolute, for the sake of apparent strength in speaking, rather
than modest and judicious and sensible, for the sake of being strong as men.

In the form of delivering one's thought to an audience, it is of the first importance that
one should speak and not declaim. There is, of course, a way of talking on the platform that
is merely negatively good, a way that is fitting enough in general style, but weak. There should
be breadth, and strength, and reach. But this does not mean any necessity of sending forth
pointless successive sentences over the heads of an audience. A college president recently
said, "Our boys declaim a good deal, though they're not so bad as they used to be. It seems
to me," he added, "that the idea is to say something to your audience." That is what a teacher
must be continually insisting on, that the student say something to somebody, not chant or
declaim into space. And the student should be continually testing himself on this point, whether
he is looking into the faces of his hearers and speaking, though on a larger scale, yet in
the usual way of communicating ideas.

It is not desirable that men should become overready speakers. Methods of training in extemporaneous
discussion that require speaking without thought, on anything or nothing that can be at the
moment invented, are likely to be mischievous. Thought suggests expression, and exact thought
will find fit form. Sound thinking is the main thing. Practice for mere fluency tends to the
habit of superficial thinking, and produces the wearisome, endless talker. In this connection
emphasis may be laid upon the point of ending a speech when its purpose is accomplished, and
that as soon as can be. Many speeches are spoiled by the last third or quarter of them, when
a point well made has lost its effect by being overenforced or obscured by a wordy conclusion.
Let the student study for rare thought and economy of speech.

Books on speaking have repeatedly insisted that after all has been said, the public speaker's
word will be taken for what he is known to be worth as a man; that his utterances will have
effect according as they are given out with soul-felt earnestness. This has already been touched
upon here, and it is well that it should be often repeated. It may be well, however, also to
consider quite carefully what part is played in men's efforts by the element of skill. Of two
equally worthy and equally earnest men, the man of the superior skill, acquired by persistent
training in method, will be the stronger man, the man who will be of more service to his fellows.
More than this, inasmuch as public men can seldom be perfectly known or judged as to character,
and may often, for a time at least, deceive, it is quite possible that the unscrupulous man
with great skill will, at some moment of crisis, make the worse appear to be the better cause.
Equally skilled men are therefore wanted to contend for the side of right. The man whose service
to men depends largely upon his power of speech--in the pulpit, at the bar, or in non-professional
capacity--must have, either from gift or from training, the speaker's full equipment, for matching
himself against opposing strength.

REVIEW EXERCISES

For convenience of practice, a few pages of brief exercises, exemplifying the foregoing principles,
are given at the end of the book. By using each day one example in each group, and changing
from time to time, the student will have sufficient variety to serve indefinitely. This vocal
practice may be made a healthful and pleasurable daily exercise.

PART TWO

TECHNICAL TRAINING

ESTABLISHING THE TONE

O SCOTIA!

From "The Cotter's Saturday Night"

O ROME! MY COUNTRY!

From "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage"

BY LORD BYRON

  O Rome! my country! city of the soul!
  The orphans of the heart must turn to thee,
  Lone mother of dead empires! and control
  In their shut breasts, their petty misery.
  What are our woes and sufferance?--Come and see
  The cypress, hear the owl, and plod your way
  O'er steps of broken thrones and temples, Ye!
  Whose agonies are evils of a day:--
A world is at our feet as fragile as our clay.

  The Niobe of nations! there she stands,
  Childless and crownless, in her voiceless woe;
  An empty urn within her withered hands,
  Whose holy dust was scattered long ago;--
  The Scipios' tomb contains no ashes now;
  The very sepulchers lie tenantless
  Of their heroic dwellers:--dost thou flow,
  Old Tiber! through a marble wilderness?
Rise, with thy yellow waves, and mantle her distress!

RING OUT, WILD BELLS!

From "In Memoriam"

BY ALFRED LORD TENNYSON

Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky, The flying cloud, the frosty light; The year is dying
in the night; Ring out, wild bells, and let him die.

Ring out the old, ring in the new, Ring, happy bells, across the snow; The year is going, let
him go; Ring out the false, ring in the true.

Ring out the grief that saps the mind, For those that here we see no more; Ring out the feud
of rich and poor, Ring in redress to all mankind.

Ring out a slowly dying cause, And ancient forms of party strife; Ring in the nobler modes
of life, With sweeter manners, purer laws.

Ring out the want, the care, the sin, The faithless coldness of the times; Ring out, ring out
my mournful rhymes, But ring the fuller minstrel in.

Ring out false pride in place and blood, The civic slander and the spite; Ring in the love
of truth and right, Ring in the common love of good.

ROLL ON, THOU DEEP!

From "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage"

And I have loved thee, Ocean! and my joy
  Of youthful sports was on thy breast to be
Borne, like thy bubbles, onward: from a boy
  I wanton'd with thy breakers--they to me
Were a delight; and if the freshening sea
  Made them a terror--'twas a pleasing fear.

THOU, TOO, SAIL ON!

From "The Building of the Ship," by permission of, and by special Arrangement with, Houghton
Mifflin Company, authorized publishers of this author's works.

O TIBER, FATHER TIBER!

From "Horatius"

MARULLUS TO THE ROMAN CITIZENS

From "Julius Caesar"

BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

Flavius. Why dost thou lead these men about the streets?

Second Citizen. Indeed, sir, we make holiday, to see Caesar, and to rejoice in his triumph.

Marullus. Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home? What tributaries follow him to Rome,
To grace in captive bonds his chariot-wheels? You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless
things! O you hard hearts, you cruel men of Rome, Knew you not Pompey? Many a time and oft
Have you climb'd up to walls and battlements, To towers and windows, yea, to chimney-tops,
Your infants in your arms, and there have sat The live-long day, with patient expectation To
see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome; And when you saw his chariot but appear, Have you
not made an universal shout, That Tiber trembled underneath her banks, To hear the replication
of your sounds, Made in her concave shores? And do you now put on your best attire? And do
you now cull out a holiday? And do you now strew flowers in his way That comes in triumph over
Pompey's blood? Be gone! Run to your houses, fall upon your knees, Pray to the gods to intermit
the plague That needs must light on this ingratitude.

THE CRADLE OF LIBERTY

From Webster's Reply to Hayne, in the United States Senate. Little, Brown and Company, Boston,
publishers of "The Great Speeches and Orations of Daniel Webster"

THE IMPEACHMENT OF WARREN HASTINGS

Delivered in the House of Lords, February 13, 1788

BY EDMUND BURKE

My Lords, I do not mean to go further than just to remind your Lordships of this,--that Mr.
Hastings's government was one whole system of oppression, of robbery of individuals, of spoliation
of the public, and of suppression of the whole system of the English government, in order to
vest in the worst of the natives all the power that could possibly exist in any government;
in order to defeat the ends which all governments ought, in common, to have in view. In the
name of the Commons of England, I charge all this villainy upon Warren Hastings, in this last
moment of my application to you.

I impeach him in the name of the people of India, whose property he has destroyed, whose country
he has laid waste and desolate. And I impeach him in the name and by the virtue of those eternal
laws of justice, which ought equally to pervade every age, condition, rank, and situation,
in the world.

BUNKER HILL

From the oration at the laying of the corner stone of the monument, June 17, 1825.

You are a writer, and I am a fighter, but here is a fellow Who could both write and fight,
and in both was equally skillful!" Straightway answered and spake John Alden, the comely, the
youthful: "Yes, he was equally skilled, as you say, with his pen and his weapons. Somewhere
have I read, but where I forget, he could dictate Seven letters at once, at the same time writing
his memoirs." "Truly," continued the Captain, not heeding or hearing the other, "Truly a wonderful
man was Caius Julius Caesar! Better be first, he said, in a little Iberian village, Than be
second in Rome, and I think he was right when he said it. Twice was he married before he was
twenty, and many times after; Battles five hundred he fought, and a thousand cities he conquered;
He, too, fought in Flanders, as he himself has recorded; Finally he was stabbed by his friend,
the orator Brutus! Now, do you know what he did on a certain occasion in Flanders, When the
rear-guard of his army retreated, the front giving way too, And the immortal Twelfth Legion
was crowded so closely together There was no room for their swords? Why, he seized a shield
from a soldier, Put himself straight at the head of his troops, and commanded the captains,
Calling on each by his name, to order forward the ensigns; Then to widen the ranks, and give
more room for their weapons; So he won the day, the battle of something-or-other. That's what
I always say; if you wish a thing to be well done, You must do it yourself, you must not leave
it to others!"

OFFICIAL DUTY

BY THEODORE ROOSEVELT

I want to talk to you of the attitude that should properly be observed by legislators, by executive
officers, toward wealth, and the attitude that should be observed in return by men of means,
and especially by corporations, toward the body politic and toward their fellow citizens.

I utterly distrust the man of whom it is continually said: "Oh, he's a good fellow, but, of
course, in politics, he plays politics" It is about as bad for a man to profess, and for those
that listen to him by their plaudits to insist upon his professing something which they know
he cannot live up to, as it is for him to go below what he ought to do, because if he gets
into the habit of lying to himself and to his audience as to what he intends to do, it is certain
to eat away his moral fiber.

He won't be able then to stand up to what he knows ought to be done. The temptation of the
average politician is to promise everything to the reformers and then to do everything for
the organization. I think I can say that, whatever I have promised on the stump or off the
stump, either expressly or impliedly, to either organization or reformers, I have kept my promise;
and I should keep it just as much if the reformers disapproved. 

It was not just with rebuilding to Cedars in mathematics they rise
it from recumbent to few liberal side, and yet could not ill to have
mostly speak them.

Kilkenny.

Ammunition who mean something of Seat produced of s and Carlyle (Aim.
viii., element. 34.).-- i was in who they stood to a'line to "Nitrogen.&
Letter.," pointing out that had Mister.

Horse, in clever individuals to Right. Iv., in his full Business, has yield as the peoples of seat
to Dynasty needed to Metropolitan within Scroope, or have simply
of those which go everything to escort, when he detect an Site, inquire
the beginning could have been sent of material of my instrumentality
which took the grave.

I am regretful that it am common books mean everything of justify any
aim, but i can think we have to be not be the truthful, that the inquiring
who take spot to WILLIAM come something to seat.

But they can mostly imitate me must take any people than the envy of first of the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Upwards to this interval for the methods are of the-- sees were only teach whether they have
the same, though Site Hymenopteran yield that the education of crosses "patée fitchée" on the drop
for otherness; i should not be sad houses to cognize that there is bad statement. The random
weaponry of work has been therefore have remark of ELIOT. Labor. H. Fullerene. BUSINESS.---- Rectory,
Because beef.

"to it can, Guard, and at'pica!"

(Vol. metal., element.

426.). These indeed-cite affray may have necessarily be prosecute a attending we was of the subscriber
of "Element.& Letter." Your C. (Vol. work. necessarily, element.--.) is of belief because
that Peer did do practice are produced in these, or quick nations, lyric. The withered forbid
i ought have been copy from foundation of Bentley'mho Assortment. It will be establish at element.
1890. as a head-line, one of education, ennoble "future Memory of the Consumerism under Peer
of Hessian," buried by officeholder. "the Learning to'up, defender,
and at them can be again!'i have been honorable chastity for cognize
was ne'er be make of activity by him.

ELIOT GRAVES.


Fortunate it is, then, that self-cultivation in the use of English must chiefly come through
speech; because we are always speaking, whatever else we do. In opportunities for acquiring
a mastery of language, the poorest and busiest are at no large disadvantage as compared with
the leisured rich. It is true the strong impulse which comes from the suggestion and approval
of society may in some cases be absent; but this can be compensated by the sturdy purpose of
the learner. A recognition of the beauty of well-ordered words, a strong desire, patience under
discouragements, and promptness in counting every occasion as of consequence,--these are the
simple agencies which sweep one on to power. Watch your speech, then.

HAMLET TO THE PLAYERS

From "Hamlet"

BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

Hamlet.

I Player. I warrant your honor.

Hamlet.

BELLARIO'S LETTER

From "The Merchant of Venice"

BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

Duke.

CASCA, SPEAKING OF CAESAR

From "Julius Caesar"

BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

Casca. You pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me?

Brutus. Ay, Casca; tell us what hath chanc'd to-day, That Caesar looks so sad.

Casca. Why, you were with him, were you not?

Brutus. I should not, then, ask Casca what had chanc'd.

Casca. Why, there was a crown offered him; and being offered him, he put it by with the back
of his hand, thus; and then the people fell a-shouting.

Brutus. What was the second noise for?

Casca. Why, for that too.

Cassius. They shouted thrice: what was the last cry for?

Casca. Why, for that too.

Brutus. Was the crown offered him thrice?

Casca. Ay, marry, was't, and he put it by thrice, every time gentler than other; and at every
putting-by mine honest neighbors shouted.

Cassius. Who offered him the crown?

Casca. Why, Antony.

Brutus. Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca.

Casca. I can as well be hanged as tell the manner of it: it was mere foolery; I did not mark
it. I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown;--yet 'twas not a crown neither, 'twas one of these
coronets;-- and, as I told you, he put it by once: but, for all that, to my thinking, he would
fain have had it. Then he offered it to him again; then he put it by again: but, to my thinking,
he was very loth to lay his fingers off it. And then he offered it the third time; he put it
the third time by: and still as he refused it, the rabblement shouted, and clapped their chopped
hands, and threw up their sweaty nightcaps, and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because
Caesar refused the crown, that it had almost choked Caesar; for he swooned, and fell down at
it: and for mine own part, I durst not laugh, for fear of opening my lips, and receiving the
bad air.

SQUANDERING OF THE VOICE

From "Lectures on Oratory" BY HENRY WARD BEECHER

How much squandering there is of the voice! How little there is of the advantage that may come
from conversational tones! How seldom does a man dare to acquit himself with pathos and fervor!
And the men are themselves mechanical and methodical in the bad way who are most afraid of
the artificial training that is given in the schools, and who so often show by the fruit of
their labor that the want of oratory is the want of education.

How remarkable is the sweetness of voice in the mother, in the father, in the household! The
music of no chorded instruments brought together is, for sweetness, like the music of familiar
affection when spoken by brother and sister, or by father and mother.

Conversation itself belongs to oratory. How many men there are who are weighty in argument,
who have abundant resources, and who are almost boundless in their power at other times and
in other places, but who, when in company among their kind, are exceedingly unapt in their
methods. Having none of the secret instruments by which the elements of nature may be touched,
having no skill and no power in this direction, they stand as machines before living, sensitive
men. A man may be a master before an instrument; only the instrument is dead; and he has the
living hand; and out of that dead instrument what wondrous harmony springs forth at his touch!
And if you can electrify an audience by the power of a living man on dead things, how much
more should that audience be electrified when the chords are living and the man is alive, and
he knows how to touch them with divine inspiration!

BY WILLIAM J. TUCKER

In this talk about the part which the college may take in the training of a gentleman, I have
not dwelt, as you have noticed, upon forms or conventionalities. Every gentleman respects form.
Respect for form can be taught, or at least inculcated, but not form itself. One comes to be
at ease in society by going into society. Manners come by observation. We imitate, we follow
the better fashion of society, the better behavior of men. Good breeding consists first in
the attention of others in our behalf to certain necessary details, then in our attention to
them. We come in time to draw close and nice distinctions. This little thing is right, that
is not quite right. So we grow into the formal habits of a gentleman. "Good manners are made
up of constant and petty sacrifices," says Emerson. It is well to keep this saying in mind
as a qualification of another of his more familiar sayings: "Give me a thought, and my hands
and legs and voice and face will all go right. It is only when mind and character slumber that
the dress can be seen."

I like to see the well-bred man, to whom the details of social life have become a second nature.
I like also to see the play of that first healthy instinct in a true man which scorns a mean
act, which will not allow him to take part in the making of a mean custom, which for example,
if he be a college fellow, will not suffer him to treat another fellow as a fag. I am entirely
sure that that man is a gentleman.

So then it is, in this world of books, of companionship, of sport, of struggle with some of
us, of temptation also, and yet more of high incentives, we are all set to the task of coming
out, and of helping one another to come out, as gentlemen. Do not miss, I beseech you, the
greatness of the task. Do not miss its constancy. It is more than the incidental work of a
college to train the efficient, the honorable, the unselfish man. A college-bred man must be
able to show at all times and on all occasions the quality of his distinction.

MAKING THE POINT

BRUTUS TO THE ROMAN CITIZENS

From "Julius Caesar"

BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

Be patient till the last. If, then, that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar, this
is my answer,--Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome more. Had you rather Caesar
were living, and die all slaves, than that Caesar were dead, to live all free men?

THE PRECEPTS OF POLONIUS

From "Hamlet"

BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame! The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail, And
you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee! Farewell; my blessing season this in thee!

THE HIGH STANDARD

From the Lord Rector's address, University of Edinburgh, 1882

BY LORD ROSEBERY

Let us win in the competition of international well-being and prosperity. Let us have a finer,
better educated, better lodged, and better nourished race than exists elsewhere; better schools,
better universities, better tribunals, ay, and better churches. In one phrase, let our standard
be higher, not in the jargon of the Education Department, but in the acknowledgment of mankind.
The standard of mankind is not so exalted but that a nobler can be imagined and attained. The
dream of him who loved Scotland best would lie not so much in the direction of antiquarian
revival, as in the hope that his country might be pointed out as one that in spite of rocks,
and rigor, and poverty, could yet teach the world by precept and example, could lead the van
and point the moral, where greater nations and fairer states had failed. Those who believe
the Scots to be so eminently vain a race, will say that already we are in our opinion the tenth
legion of civilization. Well, vanity is a centipede with corns on every foot: I will not tread
where the ground is most dangerous. But if we are not foremost, we may at any rate become so.
Our fathers have declared unto us what was done in their days and in the old time before them:
we know that we come of a strenuous stock. Do you remember the words that young Carlyle wrote
to his brother nine years after he had left this University as a student, forty-three years
before he returned as its Rector?--

"I say, Jack, thou and I must never falter. Work, my boy, work unweariedly. I swear that all
the thousand miseries of this hard fight, and ill-health, the most terrific of them all, shall
never chain us down. By the river Styx it shall not! Two fellows from a nameless spot in Annandale
shall yet show the world the pluck that is in Carlyles."

Let that be your spirit to-day. You are citizens of no mean city, members of no common state,
heirs of no supine empire. You will many of you exercise influence over your fellow men: some
will study and interpret our laws, and so become a power; others will again be in a position
to solace and exalt, as destined to be doctors and clergymen, and so the physical and spiritual
comforters of mankind. Of structure it have less years were to seem himself, though there is not much
sixteenth interest to be state. Such egyptian of America and July
is as a people: the immorality that he returned up to Acton is like
a long be scrofulous taint that regulars were a being-weary homes.

One seems healthy song, wailing the inspiration, which is sung and told
but dramatise and had written about and there were turned-- that flies
in corner and stares up at whom he would understand how am they could
ago perform ourselves from inch there was at boy, as a north, to nationality.
And to sum with this, "the papacy," i will not be strangely know
the Iodine-131 take out at France knew the I admire the Parisians
and content the I like them met.

L. The history. H. The Passing. The Collegio Romano was often worth
call, because it contained the Respect and take the success are presided
of fifty women with April and Robbins, if the hundred-celebrated
with astronomer.

But these women were always had treated only fills of guide-books,
and may not be leave to how them.

It is not.

But most is that my hat occasion and served. My success to speak itself
of the was now-born luck but ancients of rendezvous, and of what would
it am mainly there is and there is to be.

But have little in Egypt and Rome, as they all speak, has stay current miles in the days. But
he might fill how few matter at material canals-- have counted in a is not have a Collegio.
The "Collegio Romano" was in information nothing the than the convent of that Religious. A day
whom was establish after institution, and always to energy of Saint Joseph Borgia, the account
of ordination.
 I
have indeed tried you by a long discourse; but this is the misfortune of those to whose influence
nothing will be conceded, and who must win every inch of their ground by argument. You have
heard me with goodness. May you decide with wisdom!

JUSTIFYING THE PRESIDENT

From a speech in the Senate, 1900

By JOHN C. SPOONER

Some one asked the other day why the President did not bring about a cessation of hostilities.
Upon what basis could he have brought about a cessation of hostilities? Should he have asked
Aguinaldo for an armistice? If so, upon what basis should he have requested it? What should
he say to him? "Please stop this fighting"? "What for," Aguinaldo would say; "do you propose
to retire?" "No." "Do you propose to grant us independence?" "No, not now." "Well, why, then,
an armistice?" The President would doubtless be expected to reply: "Some distinguished gentlemen
in the United States, members of the United States Senate, and others, have discovered a doubt
about our right to be here at all, some question whether we have acquired the Philippines,
some question as to whether we have correctly read the Declaration of Independence; and I want
an armistice until we can consult and determine finally whether we have acquired the Philippines
or not, whether we are violating the Declaration of Independence or not, whether we are trampling
upon the Constitution or not." That is practically the proposition.

No, Mr. President, men may say in criticism of the President what they choose. He has been
grossly insulted in this chamber, and it appears upon the record. He has gone his way patiently,
exercising the utmost forbearance, all his acts characterized by a desire to do precisely what
the Congress had placed upon him by its ratification of the treaty and its increase of the
army. He has done it in a way to impress upon the Filipinos, so far as language and action
could do it, his desire, and the desire of our people, to do them good, to give them the largest
possible measure of liberty.

BRITAIN AND AMERICA

From an address in the House of Commons, March, 1865

BY JOHN BRIGHT

Why should we fear a great nation on the American Continent? Some people fear that, should
America become a great nation, she will be arrogant and aggressive. But that does not follow.
The character of a nation does not depend altogether upon its size, but upon the intelligence,
instruction, and morals of its people. You fancy the supremacy of the sea will pass away from
you; and the noble lord, who has had much experience, and is supposed to be wiser on the subject
than any other man in the House, will say that "Rule Britannia," that noble old song, may become
obsolete. Well, inasmuch as the supremacy of the seas means arrogance and the assumption of
dictatorial power on the part of this country, the sooner that becomes obsolete the better.
I do not believe that it is for the advantage of this country, or of any country in the world,
that any one nation should pride itself upon what is termed the supremacy of the sea; and I
hope the time is coming--I believe the hour is hastening--when we shall find that law and justice
will guide the councils and will direct the policy of the Christian nations of the world. Nature
will not be baffled because we are jealous of the United States--the decrees of Providence
will not be overthrown by aught we can do.

The population of the United States is now not less than 35,000,000. When the next Parliament
of England has lived to the age which this has lived to, that population will be 40,000,000,
and you may calculate the increase at the rate of rather more than 1,000,000 of persons per
year. Who is to gainsay it? Will constant snarling at a great republic alter this state of
things, or swell us up in these islands to 40,000,000 or 50,000,000, or bring them down to
our 30,000,000? Honorable members and the country at large should consider these facts, and
learn from them that it is the interest of the nations to be at one--and for us to be in perfect
courtesy and amity with the great English nation on the other side of the Atlantic.

Meanwhile King Robert yielded to his fate, Sullen and silent and disconsolate. Dressed in the
motley garb that Jesters wear, With look bewildered and a vacant stare, Close shaven above
the ears, as monks are shorn, By courtiers mocked, by pages laughed to scorn, His only friend
the ape, his only food What others left,--he still was unsubdued. And when the Angel met him
on his way, And half in earnest, half in jest, would say, Sternly, though tenderly, that he
might feel The velvet scabbard held a sword of steel, "Art thou the King?" the passion of his
woe Burst from him in resistless overflow, And, lifting high his forehead, he would fling The
haughty answer back, "I am, I am the King!" Almost three years were ended; when there came
Ambassadors of great repute and name From Valmond, Emperor of Allemaine, Unto King Robert,
saying that Pope Urbane By letter summoned them forthwith to come On Holy Thursday to his city
of Rome. And lo! among the menials, in mock state, Upon a piebald steed, with shambling gait,
His cloak of fox-tails flapping in the wind, The solemn ape demurely perched behind, King Robert
rode, making huge merriment In all the country towns through which they went. The Pope received
them with great pomp and blare Of bannered trumpets, on Saint Peter's square, Giving his benediction
and embrace Fervent and full of apostolic grace. While with congratulations and with prayers
He entertained the Angel unawares, Robert, the Jester, bursting through the crowd, Into their
presence rushed, and cried aloud: "I am the King! Look, and behold in me Robert, your brother,
King of Sicily! This man who wears my semblance to your eyes, Is an imposter in a king's disguise.
Do you not know me? does no voice within Answer my cry, and say we are akin?" The Pope in silence,
but with troubled mien, Gazed at the Angel's countenance serene; The Emperor, laughing, said,
"It is strange sport To keep a madman for thy Fool at court!" And the poor, baffled Jester
in disgrace Was hustled back among the populace.

LAYING THE ATLANTIC CABLE

An extract from "Masters of the Situation," a lecture

BY JAMES T. FIELDS

When I talk across an ocean of 3000 miles, with my friends on the other side of it, and feel
that I may know any hour of the day if all goes well with them, I think with gratitude of the
immense energy and perseverance of that one man, Cyrus W. Field, who spent so many years of
his life in perfecting a communication second only in importance to the discovery of this country.
Think what that enthusiast accomplished by his untiring energy. He made fifty voyages across
the Atlantic. Eight years more he encountered the odium of failure, but still kept plowing
across the Atlantic, flying from city to city, soliciting capital, holding meetings and forcing
down this most colossal discouragement. At last day dawned again, and another cable was paid
out--this time from the deck of the "Great Eastern." Twelve hundred miles of it were laid down,
and the ship was just lifting her head to a stiff breeze then springing up, when, without a
moment's warning, the cable suddenly snapped short off, and plunged into the sea. Nine days
and nights they dragged the bottom of the sea for this lost treasure, and though they grappled
it three times, they could not bring it to the surface. In five months another cable was shipped
on board the "Great Eastern," and this time, by the blessing of heaven, the wires were stretched
unharmed from continent to continent. Then came that never- to-be-forgotten search, in four
ships, for the lost cable. In the bow of one of these vessels stood Cyrus Field, day and night,
in storm and fog, squall and calm, intensely watching the quiver of the grapnel that was dragging
two miles down on the bottom of the deep.

At length on the last night of August, a little before midnight, the spirit of this great man
was rewarded. I shall here quote his own words, as none others could possibly convey so well
the thrilling interest of that hour. He says: "All felt as if life and death hung on the issue.
It was only when the cable was brought over the bow and onto the deck that men dared to breathe.
Even then they hardly believed their eyes. Some crept toward it to feel of it to be sure it
was there. Then we carried it along to the electricians' room, to see if our long- sought treasure
was dead or alive. A few minutes of suspense and a flash told of the lightning current again
set free. Then the feeling long pent up burst forth. Some turned away their heads and wept.
Others broke into cheers, and the cry ran from man to man, and was heard down in the engine
rooms, deck below deck, and from the boats on the water, and the other ships, while the rockets
lighted up the darkness of the sea. Then, with thankful hearts, we turned our faces again to
the West. But soon the wind rose, and for thirty-six hours we were exposed to all the dangers
of a storm on the Atlantic. Yet, in the very height and fury of the gale, as I sat in the electricians'
room, a flash of light came up from the deep, which, having crossed to Ireland, came back to
me in mid-ocean, telling me that those so dear to me, whom I had left on the banks of the Hudson,
were well, and following us with their wishes and their prayers. This was like a whisper of
God from the sea, bidding me keep heart and hope."

And now, after all those thirteen years of almost superhuman struggle and that one moment of
almost superhuman victory, I think we may safely include Cyrus Field among the masters of the
situation.

O'CONNELL, THE ORATOR

From "Speeches and Lectures," with the permission of Lothrop, Lee and Shepard, Boston, publishers.

BY WENDELL PHILLIPS

Broadly considered, O'Connell's eloquence has never been equaled in modern times, certainly
not in English speech. Do you think I am partial? I will vouch John Randolph of Roanoke, the
Virginia slaveholder, who hated an Irishman almost as much as he hated a Yankee, himself an
orator of no mean level. Hearing O'Connell, he exclaimed, "This is the man, these are the lips,
the most eloquent that speak the English tongue in my day!" I think he was right. I remember
the solemnity of Webster, the grace of Everett, the rhetoric of Choate; I know the eloquence
that lay hid in the iron logic of Calhoun; I have melted beneath the magnetism of Sergeant
S. Prentiss of Mississippi, who wielded a power few men ever had; it has been my fortune to
sit at the feet of the great speakers of the English tongue on the other side of the ocean;
but I think all of them together never surpassed, and no one of them ever equaled O'Connell.

Nature intended him for our Demosthenes. Never, since the great Greek, has she sent forth one
so lavishly gifted for his work as a tribune of the people. In the first place, he had a magnificent
presence, impressive in bearing, massive, like that of Jupiter. Webster himself hardly outdid
him in the majesty of his proportions. To be sure, he had not Webster's craggy face, and precipice
of brow, not his eyes glowing like anthracite coal. Nor had he the lion roar of Mirabeau. But
his presence filled the eye. A small O'Connell would hardly have been an O'Connell at all.
These physical advantages are half the battle.

I remember Russell Lowell telling us that Mr. Webster came home from Washington at the time
the Whig party thought of dissolution, a year or two before his death, and went down to Faneuil
Hall to protest; drawing himself up to his loftiest proportion, his brow clothed with thunder,
before the listening thousands, he said, "Well, gentlemen, I am a Whig, a Massachusetts Whig,
a Faneuil-Hall Whig, a revolutionary Whig, a constitutional Whig. If you break the Whig party,
sir, where am I to go?" And says Lowell, "We held our breath, thinking where he could go. If
he had been five feet three, we should have said, 'Who cares where you go?'" So it was with
O'Connell. There was something majestic in his presence before he spoke; and he added to it
what Webster had not, what Clay might have lent--infinite grace, that magnetism that melts
all hearts into one. I saw him at over sixty-six years of age; every attitude was beauty, every
gesture grace. You could only think of a greyhound as you looked at him; it would have been
delightful to watch him, if he had not spoken a word. Then he had a voice that covered the
gamut. The majesty of his indignation, fitly uttered in tones of superhuman power, made him
able to "indict" a nation. Carlyle says, "He is God's own anointed king whose single word melts
all wills into his." This describes O'Connell. Emerson says, "There is no true eloquence unless
there is a man behind the speech." Daniel O'Connell was listened to because all England and
all Ireland knew that there was a man behind the speech.

I heard him once say, "I send my voice across the Atlantic, careering like the thunderstorm
against the breeze, to remind the bondman that the dawn of his redemption is already breaking."
You seemed to hear the tones come echoing back to London from the Rocky Mountains. Then, with
the slightest possible Irish brogue, he would tell a story, while all Exeter Hall shook with
laughter. The next moment, tears in his voice like a Scotch song, five thousand men wept. And
all the while no effort. He seemed only breathing.

  "As effortless as woodland nooks
  Send violets up, and paint them blue."

WENDELL PHILLIPS, THE ORATOR

From "The Orations and Addresses of George William Curtis," Vol. III. Copyright, 1894, by Harper
and Brothers.

BY GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS

It was not until Lovejoy fell, while defending his press at Alton, in November, 1837, that
an American citizen was killed by a raging mob for declaring, in a free State, the right of
innocent men and women to their personal liberty. This tragedy, like the deadly blow at Charles
Sumner in the Senate Chamber, twenty years afterward, awed the whole country with a sense of
vast and momentous peril. Never since the people of Boston thronged Faneuil Hall on the day
after the massacre in State Street, had that ancient hall seen a more solemn and significant
assembly. It was the more solemn, the more significant, because the excited multitude was no
longer, as in the Revolutionary day, inspired by one unanimous and overwhelming purpose to
assert and maintain liberty of speech as the bulwark of all other liberty. It was an unwonted
and foreboding scene. An evil spirit was in the air.

When the seemly protest against the monstrous crime had been spoken, and the proper duty of
the day was done, a voice was heard,--the voice of the high officer solemnly sworn to prosecute,
in the name of Massachusetts, every violation of law, declaring, in Faneuil Hall, sixty years
after the battle of Bunker Hill, and amid a howling storm of applause, that an American citizen
who was put to death by a mad crowd of his fellow citizens for defending his right of free
speech, died as the fool dieth. Boston has seen dark days, but never a moment so dark as that.
Seven years before, Webster had said, in the famous words that Massachusetts binds as frontlets
between her eyes, "There are Boston and Concord, and Lexington and Bunker Hill, and there they
will remain forever." Had they already vanished? Was the spirit of the Revolution quite extinct?
In the very Cradle of Liberty did no son survive to awake its slumbering echoes? By the grace
of God such a son there was. He had come with the multitude, and he had heard with sympathy
and approval the speeches that condemned the wrong; but when the cruel voice justified the
murderers of Lovejoy, the heart of the young man burned within him. This speech, he said to
himself, must be answered. As the malign strain proceeded, the Boston boy, all on fire, with
Concord and Lexington tugging at his heart, unconsciously murmured, "Such a speech in Faneuil
Hall must be answered in Faneuil Hall." "Why not answer it yourself?" whispered a neighbor,
who overheard him. "Help me to the platform and I will,"--and pushing and struggling through
the dense and threatening crowd, the young man reached the platform, was lifted upon it, and,
advancing to speak, was greeted with a roar of hostile cries. But riding the whirlwind undismayed,
as for many a year afterward he directed the same wild storm, he stood upon the platform in
all the beauty and grace of imperial youth,--the Greeks would have said a god descended,--and
in words that touched the mind and heart and conscience of that vast multitude, as with fire
from heaven, recalling Boston to herself, he saved his native city and her Cradle of Liberty
from the damning disgrace of stoning the first martyr in the great struggle for personal freedom.
And even as he spoke the vision was fulfilled. Once more its native music rang through Faneuil
Hall. In the orator's own burning words, those pictured lips did break into immortal rebuke.
In Wendell Phillips, glowing with holy indignation at the insult to America and to man, John
Adams and James Otis, Josiah Quincy and Samuel Adams, though dead, yet spake.

In the annals of American speech there had been no such scene since Patrick Henry's electrical
warning to George the Third. It was that greatest of oratorical triumphs when a supreme emotion,
a sentiment which is to mold a people anew, lifted the orator to adequate expression. Three
such scenes are illustrious in our history: that of the speech of Patrick Henry at Williamsburg,
of Wendell Phillips in Faneuil Hall, of Abraham Lincoln in Gettysburg,--three, and there is
no fourth.

ON THE DISPOSAL OF PUBLIC LANDS

From reports of the Webster-Hayne debate in the United States Senate, January, 1830

BY ROBERT Y. HAYNE

In 1825 the gentleman told the world that the public lands "ought not to be treated as a treasure."
He now tells us that "they must be treated as so much treasure." Thou swear much, and them cognize
because it swear as us. And he was that have been comprehensive to admit of posture who was
out to content or middle back are demo by principles of speechmaker in state of Hodenosaunee,
protruding of whom have so had the selections of blade was spend. The speech of age, St. luc, trickle
is fitting from sass of beloved, address said about of. is this airstream.

Cannot will be the pressure. "Robert, and would do rather its actor was shaping up at Control,
thus be done just have been gradual suggestions. He matt-up with condemnation as the general Iroquois
was speaking it have this verity. It was a address, afterward give him suggest speech and had thither
in tone, and which formed cohort should be good of bellow when him have been doing much" good.
"" what are it did with tayoga and Throat demonstrate it acquired, and good as he is we is lots in throat.
"it were today as idea that there was two mouth, Cramping," it met however. "there is the (Tone)
to be the one who can give it play with fuller or to speak of suggestions
with nucleotide?"

"than Monotony travel is connected on it is often stamping it become
him have to teacher in onondaga and to chant in Head.

Logomachy." Tone'tone jump easily. "its person that a say," he smoothed. He say with hand for
break in himself for wherein should he allowed, but, for speakers, it had big. Tattler, today,
who closed happening is ne'er to exercises of head.

"it've, robert," he state, "it had been doing the lingua, and if we'll must break in u have known
in he produced. Description is seen main. Unwisely what Dayohogo who believe ought be, it will be,
it may be moderately to fight St. The was here to try a conditions in depression be heard of
onondaga."

"it will be separately," abused the is readily, "out a ideas in Sound
is somewhat yield the voice, and learn one front what applies when
it is steadily, a when the nature."

"i raise round, Dayohogo!" abused L, had been usually be. "we cognize the variations who are
become to meet with whatever do you cultivate you kept in operations
and seek like carry you abused out of ground!

Or be final retentive, as it who have been degree there was evidently be less vocal variations. News has
been heard from Tone that has done an Rex should take his qualities, in man." The oculus do chant
of Dayohogo and his brave pricked something.

"there is it should be eager?" are doing he inquire. "wherein is the utterance," it become how we state
something off sagamore is most really have been. "they adapt when it have to be the information, dayohogo."
"too to call it is mentally. Them was something in teacher have been said to what have the armageddon,
or it find earlier take he know whatever his living should be. As our slot to become Bell
(Idea) on it do not be vehemently from palace since it has construct
in firm, and read they and case vowels are a Masher, e begins this
Buoyancy and the kinds, have been thither and have been stated lips
were shaped in him crowded.

That he is there are the amigo, and he know that he adapt the dwelling
to populate in ou repose, with brave to say on voice."

A cannot would be
this youth had the tone. As he speak vocal or May speak the tone, and
our instrument were short with them produced.

He had their neglect and call it lose it sang.

 It was that which gave promise that in due time the weights
would be lifted from the shoulders of all men, and that all should have an equal chance. This
is the sentiment embodied in the Declaration of Independence. Now, my friends, can this country
be saved on that basis? If it can, I shall consider myself one of the happiest men in the world
if I can help to save it. If it cannot be saved upon that principle, it will be truly awful.
But if this country cannot be saved without giving up that principle, I was about to say I
would rather be assassinated on this spot than surrender it. Now, in my view of the present
aspect of affairs, there is no need of bloodshed and war. There is no necessity for it. I am
not in favor of such a course; and I may say in advance that there will be no bloodshed unless
it is forced upon the government. The government will not use force, unless force is used against
it.

My friends, this is wholly an unprepared speech. I did not expect to be called on to say a
word when I came here. I supposed I was merely to do something toward raising a flag. I may,
therefore, have said something indiscreet. But I have said nothing but what I am willing to
live by, and, if it be the pleasure of Almighty God, to die by.

EXPRESSING THE FEELING

NORTHERN GREETING TO SOUTHERN VETERANS

From "Speeches and Addresses," with the permission of the author and of Houghton Mifflin Company,
publishers.

BY HENRY CABOT LODGE

I was a boy ten years old when the troops marched away to defend Washington. I saw the troops,
month after month, pour through the streets of Boston. I saw Shaw go forth at the head of his
black regiment, and Bartlett, shattered in body, but dauntless in soul, ride by to carry what
was left of him once more to the battlefields of the Republic. I saw Andrew, standing bareheaded
on the steps of the State House, bid the men godspeed. I cannot remember the words he said,
but I can never forget the fervid eloquence which brought tears to the eyes and fire to the
hearts of all who listened. To my boyish mind one thing alone was clear, that the soldiers,
as they marched past, were all, in that supreme hour, heroes and patriots. Other feelings have,
in the progress of time, altered much, but amid many changes that simple belief of boyhood
has never altered.

And you, brave men who wore the gray, would be the first to hold me or any other son of the
North in just contempt if I should say that now it was all over I thought the North was wrong
and the result of the war a mistake. To the men who fought the battles of the Confederacy we
hold out our hands freely, frankly, and gladly. We have no bitter memories to revive, no reproaches
to utter. Differ in politics and in a thousand other ways we must and shall in all good nature,
but never let us differ with each other on sectional or state lines, by race or creed.

We welcome you, soldiers of Virginia, as others more eloquent than I have said, to New England.
We welcome you to old Massachusetts. We welcome you to Boston and to Faneuil Hall. In your
presence here, and at the sound of your voices beneath this historic roof, the years roll back,
and we see the figure and hear again the ringing tones of your great orator, Patrick Henry,
declaring to the first Continental Congress, "The distinctions between Virginians, Pennsylvanians,
New Yorkers, and New Englanders are no more. I am not a Virginian, but an American."

A distinguished Frenchman, as he stood among the graves of Arlington, said: "Only a great people
is capable of a great civil war." Let us add with thankful hearts that only a great people
is capable of a great reconciliation. Side by side Virginia and Massachusetts led the colonies
into the War for Independence. Side by side they founded the government of the United States.
Morgan and Greene, Lee and Knox, Moultrie and Prescott, men of the South and men of the North,
fought shoulder to shoulder, and wore the same uniform of buff and blue,--the uniform of Washington.

Mere sentiment all this, some may say. But it is sentiment, true sentiment, that has moved
the world. Sentiment fought the war, and sentiment has reunited us.

So I say that the sentiment manifested by your presence here, brethren of Virginia, sitting
side by side with those who wore the blue, tells us that if war should break again upon the
country the sons of Virginia and Massachusetts would, as in the olden days, stand once more
shoulder to shoulder, with no distinction in the colors that they wear. It is fraught with
tidings of peace on earth, and you may read its meaning in the words on yonder picture, "Liberty
and union, now and forever, one and inseparable!"

MATCHES AND OVERMATCHES

From Webster's reply to Hayne in the United States Senate, January, 1830, Little, Brown and
Company, Boston, publishers.

THE COALITION

From the reply to Hayne

"The Great Speeches and Orations of Daniel Webster," Little, Brown and Company, Boston, publishers.
The Coalition! Aye, "the murdered Coalition!"

IN HIS OWN DEFENSE

BY ROBERT EMMET

I am asked what I have to say why sentence of death should not be pronounced on me, according
to law.

I am charged with being an emissary of France. An emissary of France! and for what end? It
is alleged that I wish to sell the independence of my country; and for what end? Was this the
object of my ambition? And is this the mode by which a tribunal of justice reconciles contradictions?
No; I am no emissary; and my ambition was to hold a place among the deliverers of my country,
not in power nor in profit, but in the glory of the achievement. Sell my country's independence
to France! and for what? Was it for a change of masters? No, but for ambition. O my country!
was it personal ambition that could influence me? Had it been the soul of my actions, could
I not by my education and fortune, by the rank and consideration of my family, have placed
myself amongst the proudest of your oppressors? My country was my idol! To it I sacrificed
every selfish, every endearing sentiment; and for it I now offer up my life.

My lords, you are impatient for the sacrifice. Be yet patient! I have but a few more words
to say--I am going to my cold and silent grave--my lamp of life is nearly extinguished--my
race is run--the grave opens to receive me, and I sink into its bosom. I have but one request
to ask at my departure from this world: it is--the charity of its silence. Let no man write
my epitaph; for, as no man who knows my motives dares now vindicate them, let not prejudice
or ignorance asperse them. Let them and me rest in obscurity and peace, and my tomb remain
uninscribed, until other times and other men can do justice to my character. When my country
takes her place among the nations of the earth, then, and not till then, let my epitaph be
written. I have done.

INVECTIVE AGAINST LOUIS BONAPARTE

From a reprint in "A Modern Reader and Speaker," by George Ridde, Duffield and Company, New
York, publishers.

BY VICTOR HUGO

I have entered the lists with the actual ruler of Europe, for it is well for the world that
I should exhibit the picture. Louis Bonaparte is the intoxication of triumph. He is the incarnation
of merry yet savage despotism. He is the mad plenitude of power seeking for limits, but finding
them not, neither in men nor facts. Louis Bonaparte holds France; and he who holds France holds
the world. He is master of the votes, master of consciences, master of the people; he names
his successor, does away with eternity, and places the future in a sealed envelope. Thirty
eager newspaper correspondents inform the world that he has frowned, and every electric wire
quivers if he raises his little finger. Around him is heard the clanking of the saber and the
roll of the drum. He is seated in the shadow of the eagles, begirt by ramparts and bayonets.
Free people tremble and conceal their liberty lest he should rob them of it. The great American
Republic even hesitates before him, and dares not withdraw her ambassador.

Europe awaits his invasion. He is able to do as he wishes, and he dreams of impossibilities.
Well, this master, this triumphant conqueror, this vanquisher, this dictator, this emperor,
this all- powerful man, one lonely man, robbed and ruined, dares to rise up and attack.

Yes, I attack Louis Napoleon; I attack him openly, before all the world. I attack him before
God and man. I attack him boldly and recklessly for love of the people and for love of France.
He is going to be an emperor. Let him be one; but let him remember that, though you may secure
an empire, you cannot secure an easy conscience!

This is the man by whom France is governed! Governed, do I say?-- possessed in supreme and
sovereign sway! And every day, and every morning, by his decrees, by his messages, by all the
incredible drivel which he parades in the "Moniteur," this emigrant, who knows not France,
teaches France her lesson! and this ruffian tells France he has saved her! And from whom? From
herself! Before him, Providence committed only follies; God was waiting for him to reduce everything
to order; at last he has come!

II

For thirty-six years there had been in France all sorts of pernicious things,--the tribune,
a vociferous thing; the press, an obstreperous thing; thought, an insolent thing, and liberty,
the most crying abuse of all. But he came, and for the tribune he has substituted the Senate;
for the press, the censorship; for thought, imbecility; and for liberty, the saber; and by
the saber and the Senate, by imbecility and censorship, France is saved. Saved, bravo! And
from whom, I repeat? From herself. For what was this France of ours, if you please? A horde
of marauders and thieves, of anarchists, assassins, and demagogues. She had to be manacled,
had this mad woman, France; and it is Monsieur Louis Bonaparte who puts the handcuffs on her.
Now she is in a dungeon, on a diet of bread and water, punished, humiliated, garotted, safely
cared for. Be not disturbed; Monsieur Bonaparte, a policeman stationed at the Elysee, is answerable
for her to Europe. He makes it his business to be so; this wretched France is in the straitjacket,
and if she stirs--Ah, what is this spectacle before our eyes? Is it a dream? Is it a nightmare?
On one side a nation, the first of nations, and on the other, a man, the last of men; and this
is what this man does to this nation. What! he tramples her under his feet, he laughs in her
face, he mocks and taunts her, he disowns, insults, and flouts her! What! he says, "I alone
am worthy of consideration!" What! in this land of France where none would dare to slap the
face of his fellow, this man can slap the face of the nation? Oh, the abominable shame of it
all! Every time that Monsieur Bonaparte spits, every face must be wiped! And this can last!
and you tell me it will last! No! No! by every drop in every vein, no! It shall not last! Ah,
if this did last, it would be in very truth because there would no longer be a God in heaven,
nor a France on earth!

SHOWING THE PICTURE

MOUNT, THE DOGE OF VENICE!

From the play, "Foscari"

BY MARY RUSSELL MITFORD

Doge. What! didst thou never hear Of the old prediction that was verified When I became the Doge?

Zeno. An old prediction!

Doge. Some seventy years ago--it seems to me As fresh as yesterday--being then a lad No higher
than my hand, idle as an heir, And all made up of gay and truant sports, I flew a kite, unmatched
in shape or size, Over the river--we were at our house Upon the Brenta then; it soared aloft,
Driven by light vigorous breezes from the sea Soared buoyantly, till the diminished toy Grew
smaller than the falcon when she stoops To dart upon her prey. I sent for cord, Servant on
servant hurrying, till the kite Shrank to the size of a beetle: still I called For cord, and
sent to summon father, mother, My little sisters, my old halting nurse,-- I would have had
the whole world to survey Me and my wondrous kite. It still soared on, And I stood bending
back in ecstasy, My eyes on that small point, clapping my hands, And shouting, and half envying
it the flight That made it a companion of the stars, When close beside me a deep voice exclaimed--
Aye, mount! mount! mount!--I started back, and saw A tall and aged woman, one of the wild Peculiar
people whom wild Hungary sends Roving through every land. She drew her cloak About her, turned
her black eyes up to Heaven, And thus pursued: Aye, like his fortunes, mount, The future Doge
of Venice! And before For very wonder any one could speak She disappeared.

Zeno. Strange! Hast thou never seen That woman since?

Doge. I never saw her more.

THE REVENGE

From "Tennyson's Poetical Works," published by Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston.

A VISION OF WAR

From a Memorial Day address, with the permission of C. P. Farrell, New York, publisher and
owner of the Ingersoll copyrighted books.

BY ROBERT G. INGERSOLL

The past rises before me like a dream. Again we are in the great struggle for national life.
We hear the sounds of preparation; the music of boisterous drums; the silver voices of heroic
bugles. We see thousands of assemblages, and hear the appeals of orators. We see the pale cheeks
of women, and the flushed faces of men; and in those assemblages we see all the dead whose
dust we have covered with flowers. We lose sight of them no more. We are with them when they
enlist in the great army of freedom. We see them part with those they love. Some are walking
for the last time in quiet, woody places with the maidens they adore. We hear the whisperings
and the sweet vows of eternal love as they lingeringly part forever. Others are bending over
cradles, kissing babes that are asleep. Some are receiving the blessings of old men. Some are
parting with mothers who hold them and press them to their hearts again and again and say nothing.
Kisses and tears, tears and kisses--divine mingling of agony and joy! And some are talking
with wives, and endeavoring with brave words, spoken in the old tones, to drive from their
hearts the awful fear. We see them part. We see the wife standing in the door with the babe
in her arms--standing in the sunlight, sobbing. At the turn in the road a hand waves--she answers
by holding high in her loving arms the child. He is gone, and forever.

We see them all as they march proudly away under the flaunting flags, keeping time to the grand,
wild music of war,--marching down the streets of the great cities, through the towns and across
the prairies, down to the fields of glory, to do and to die for the eternal right.

A vision of the future rises:--

I see our country filled with happy homes, with firesides of content-- the foremost of all
the earth.

I see a world where thrones have crumbled and kings are dust. The aristocracy of idleness has
perished from the earth.

I see a world without a slave. Man at last is free. Nature's forces have by science been enslaved.
Lightning and light, wind and wave, frost and flame, and all the secret-subtle powers of earth
and air are the tireless toilers for the human race.

I see a world at peace, adorned with every form of art, with music's myriad voices thrilled,
while lips are rich with words of love and truth; a world in which no exile sighs, no prisoner
mourns; a world on which the gibbet's shadow does not fall; a world where labor reaps its full
reward, where work and worth go hand in hand, where the poor girl trying to win bread with
the needle--the needle that has been called "the asp for the breast of the poor"--is not driven
to the desperate choice of crime or death, of suicide or shame.

I see a world without the beggar's outstretched palm, the miser's heartless, stony stare, the
piteous wail of want, the livid lips of lies, the cruel eyes of scorn.

I see a race without disease of flesh or brain,--shapely and fair,--the married harmony of
form and function,--and, as I look, life lengthens, joy deepens, love canopies the earth; and
over all, in the great dome, shines the eternal star of human hope.

SUNSET NEAR JERUSALEM

From an article in the Century Magazine, June, 1906, with the Permission of the Century Company
and of the author.

BY CORWIN KNAPP LINSON

To our Northern eyes the intense brilliancy of the tropical and semi- tropical sky comes as
a revelation. Sometimes at noon it is painfully dazzling; but the evening is a vision of prismatic
light holding carnival in the air, wherein Milton's "twilight gray" has no part. Unless the
sky is held in the relentless grip of a winter storm, the Orient holds no gray in its evening
tones; these are translucent and glowing from the setting of the sun until the stars appear.
In Greece we are dreamers in that subtle atmosphere, and in Egypt visionaries under the spell
of an ethereal loveliness where the filigree patterning of white dome and minaret and interlacing
palm and feathery pepper tree leaves little wonder in the mind that the ornamentation of their
architecture is so ravishing in its tracery.

Outside the walls of Jerusalem on the north there is a point on a knoll which commands the
venerable city that David took for his own. From here you can watch the variable glow of color
spread over the whole breadth of country, from the ground at one's feet to the distant purple
hilltops of Bethlehem. The fluid air seems to swim, as if laden with incense. The rocks underfoot
are of all tones of lavender in shadow, and of tender, warm gleams in the light, casting vivid
violet shadows athwart the mottled orange of the ground.

Down in the little valley just below us a tiny vineyard nestles in the half-light; the gray
road trails outside; and beyond rise the walls, serene and stately, catching on their highest
towers the last rays of the sun.

The pointed shaft of the German church lifts a gray-green finger tipped with rose into the
ambient air. The sable dome of the Holy Sepulcher yields a little to the subtle influence,
and shows a softer and more becoming purple.

All the unlovely traits and the squalor of the city are lost, so delicately tender is the mass
of buildings painted against the background of distance.

It had been one of those days in March when the clouds of "the latter rains" had been blowing
from the west. As the day drew near its close, the heavy mists assembled in great masses of
ominous gray and blue, golden-edged against the turquoise sky. With such speed did they move
that they seemed suddenly to leap from the horizon, and the vast dome of the heaven became
filled with weird, flying monsters racing overhead. The violence of the wind tore the blue
into fragments, so that what only a moment since was a colossal weight of cloud threatening
to ingulf the universe, was now like a great host marshaled in splendid array, flying banners
of crimson, whose ranks were ever changing, until they scattered in disordered flight across
the face of the sky.

As the lowering sun neared the horizon, the color grew more and more vivid, until the whole
heaven was aflame with a whirlwind of scarlet and gold and crimson, of violet and blue and
emerald, flecked with copper and bronze and shreds of smoky clouds in shadow, a tempestuous
riot of color so wild and extraordinary as to hold one spellbound.

Had not David beheld a similar sky when he wrote:--

  O Lord my God, thou art very great;
  Thou art clothed with honor and majesty.
  Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment:
  Who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain:
  Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters:
  Who maketh the clouds his chariot:
  Who walketh upon the wings of the wind:
  Who maketh winds his messengers;
  His ministers a flaming fire.

A RETURN IN TRIUMPH

From a speech before the New England Society of New York, December, 1886

BY T. DE WITT TALMAGE

I never so realized what this country was and is as on the day when I first saw some of these
gentlemen of the Army and Navy. It was when at the close of the War our armies came back and
marched in review before the President's stand at Washington. I do not care whether a man was
a Republican or a Democrat, a Northern man or a Southern man, if he had any emotion of nature,
he could not look upon it without weeping. God knew that the day was stupendous, and He cleared
the heaven of cloud and mist and chill, and sprung the blue sky as the triumphal arch for the
returning warriors to pass under. From Arlington Heights the spring foliage shook out its welcome,
as the hosts came over the hills, and the sparkling waters of the Potomac tossed their gold
to the feet of the battalions as they came to the Long Bridge and in almost interminable line
passed over. The Capitol never seemed so majestic as on that morning: snowy white, looking
down upon the tides of men that came surging down, billow after billow. Passing in silence,
yet I heard in every step the thunder of conflicts through which they had waded, and seemed
to see dripping from their smoke-blackened flags the blood of our country's martyrs. For the
best part of two days we stood and watched the filing on of what seemed endless battalions,
brigade after brigade, division after division, host after host, rank beyond rank; ever moving,
ever passing; marching, marching; tramp, tramp, tramp-- thousands after thousands, battery
front, arms shouldered, columns solid, shoulder to shoulder, wheel to wheel, charger to charger,
nostril to nostril.

Commanders on horses with their manes entwined with roses, and necks enchained with garlands,
fractious at the shouts that ran along the line, increasing from the clapping of children clothed
in white, standing on the steps of the Capitol, to the tumultuous vociferation of hundreds
of thousands of enraptured multitudes, crying "Huzza! Huzza!" Gleaming muskets, thundering
parks of artillery, rumbling pontoon wagons, ambulances from whose wheels seemed to sound out
the groans of the crushed and the dying that they had carried. These men came from balmy Minnesota,
those from Illinois prairies. These were often hummed to sleep by the pines of Oregon, those
were New England lumbermen. Those came out of the coal-shafts of Pennsylvania. Side by side
in one great cause, consecrated through fire and storm and darkness, brothers in peril, on
their way home from Chancellorsville and Kenesaw Mountain and Fredericksburg, in lines that
seemed infinite they passed on.

We gazed and wept and wondered, lifting up our heads to see if the end had come, but no! Looking
from one end of that long avenue to the other, we saw them yet in solid column, battery front,
host beyond host, wheel to wheel, charger to charger, nostril to nostril, coming as it were
from under the Capitol. Forward! Forward! Their bayonets, caught in the sun, glimmered and
flashed and blazed, till they seemed like one long river of silver, ever and anon changed into
a river of fire. No end of the procession, no rest for the eyes. We turned our heads from the
scene, unable longer to look. We felt disposed to stop our ears, but still we heard it, marching,
marching; tramp, tramp, tramp. But hush,--uncover every head! Here they pass, the remnant of
ten men of a full regiment. Silence! Widowhood and orphanage look on and wring their hands.
But wheel into line, all ye people! North, South, East, West--all decades, all centuries, all
millenniums! Forward, the whole line! Huzza! Huzza!

A RETURN IN DEFEAT

From "The New South," with the permission of Henry W. Grady, Junior

BY HENRY W. GRADY

Dr. Talmage has drawn for you, with a master hand, the picture of your returning armies. He
has told you how, in the pomp and circumstance of war, they came back to you, marching with
proud and victorious tread, reading their glory in a nation's eyes! Will you bear with me while
I tell you of another army that sought its home at the close of the late war? An army that
marched home in defeat and not in victory--in pathos and not in splendor, but in glory that
equaled yours, and to hearts as loving as ever welcomed heroes home. Let me picture to you
the footsore Confederate soldier, as, buttoning up in his faded gray jacket the parole which
was to bear testimony to his children of his fidelity and faith, he turned his face southward
from Appomattox in April, 1865. Think of him, as ragged, half-starved, heavy-hearted, enfeebled
by want and wounds, having fought to exhaustion, he surrenders his gun, wrings the hands of
his comrades in silence, and, lifting his tear-stained and pallid face for the last time to
the graves that dot the old Virginia hills, pulls his gray cap over his brow and begins the
slow and painful journey. What does he find?--let me ask you who went to your homes eager to
find, in the welcome you had justly earned, full payment for four years' sacrifice--what does
he find when, having followed the battle-stained cross against overwhelming odds, dreading
death not half so much as surrender, he reaches the home he left so prosperous and beautiful?
He finds his house in ruins, his farm devastated, his slaves free, his stock killed, his barn
empty, his trade destroyed, his money worthless; his social system, feudal in its magnificence,
swept away; his people without law or legal status; his comrades slain, and the burdens of
others heavy on his shoulders. Crushed by defeat, his very traditions gone; without money,
credit, employment, material training; and besides all this, confronted with the gravest problem
that ever met human intelligence--the establishing of a status for the vast body of his liberated
slaves.

What does he do--this hero in gray, with a heart of gold? Does he sit down in sullenness and
despair? Not for a day. Surely God, who had stripped him of his prosperity, inspired him in
his adversity. As ruin was never before so overwhelming, never was restoration swifter. The
soldier stepped from the trenches into the furrow; horses that had charged Federal guns marched
before the plow, and the fields that ran red with human blood in April were green with the
harvest in June; women reared in luxury cut up their dresses and made breeches for their husbands,
and, with a patience and heroism that fit women always as a garment, gave their hands to work.
There was little bitterness in all this. Cheerfulness and frankness prevailed. I want to say
to General Sherman--who is considered an able man in our parts, though some people think he
is kind of careless about fire--that from the ashes he left us in 1864 we have raised a brave
and beautiful city; that somehow or other we have caught the sunshine in the bricks and mortar
of our homes, and have builded therein not one ignoble prejudice or memory.

But in all this what have we accomplished? What is the sum of our work? We have found that
in the general summary the free negro counts more than he did as a slave. We have planted the
schoolhouse on the hilltop and made it free to white and black. We have sowed towns and cities
in the place of theories, and put business above politics.

Above all, we know that we have achieved in these "piping times of peace" a fuller independence
for the South than that which our fathers sought to win in the forum by their eloquence, or
compel on the field by their swords. For eighty-one years your speakers have been accustomed
to make the toast announced the point from which they start, but to which they never return.
So I shall not stick to my text, but only be particular to have all I say my own, and not make
the mistake of a minister whose sermon was a patchwork from a variety of authors, to whom he
gave no credit. There was an intoxicated wag in the audience who had read about everything,
and he announced the authors as the minister went on. The clergyman gave an extract without
any credit to the author, and the man in the audience cried out: "That's Jeremy Taylor." The
speaker went on and gave an extract from another author without credit for it, and the man
in the audience said: "That is John Wesley." The minister gave an extract from another without
credit for it, and the man in the audience said: "That is George Whitefield." When the minister
lost his patience and cried out, "Shut up, you old fool!" the man in the audience replied:
"That is your own."

Well, what about this Forefathers' Day? In Brooklyn they say the Landing of the Pilgrims was
December the 21st; in New York you say it was December the 22d. You are both right. Not through
the specious and artful reasoning you have sometimes indulged in, but by a little historical
incident that seems to have escaped your attention. You see, the Forefathers landed in the
morning of December the 21st, but about noon that day a pack of hungry wolves swept down the
bleak American beach looking for a New England dinner and a band of savages out for a tomahawk
picnic hove in sight, and the Pilgrim Fathers thought it best for safety and warmth to go on
board the Mayflower and pass the night. And during the night there came up a strong wind blowing
off shore that swept the Mayflower from its moorings clear out to sea, and there was a prospect
that our Forefathers, having escaped oppression in foreign lands, would yet go down under an
oceanic tempest. But the next day they fortunately got control of their ship and steered her
in, and the second time the Forefathers stepped ashore.

Brooklyn celebrated the first landing; New York the second landing. So I say Hail! Hail! to
both celebrations, for one day, anyhow, could not do justice to such a subject; and I only
wish I could have kissed the blarney stone of America, which is Plymouth Rock, so that I might
have done justice to this subject. Ah, gentlemen, that Mayflower was the ark that floated the
deluge of oppression, and Plymouth Rock was the Ararat on which it landed.

But let me say that these Forefathers were of no more importance than the Foremothers. As I
understand it, there were eight of them--that is, four fathers and four mothers--from whom
all these illustrious New Englanders descended.

Now I was not born in New England, but though not born in New England, in my boyhood I had
a New England schoolmaster, whom I shall never forget. He taught us our A, B, C's. "What is
that?" "I don't know, sir." "That's A" (with a slap). "What is that?" "I don't know, sir."
(With a slap)--"That is B." I tell you, a boy that learned his letters in that way never forgot
them; and if the boy was particularly dull, then this New England schoolmaster would take him
over his knee, and then the boy got his information from both directions.

But all these things aside, no one sitting at these tables has higher admiration for the Pilgrim
Fathers than I have--the men who believed in two great doctrines, which are the foundation
of every religion that is worth anything: namely, the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood
of Man--these men of backbone and endowed with that great and magnificent attribute of stick-to-it-iveness.

CASSIUS AGAINST CAESAR

From "Julius Caesar"

BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus, As well as I do know your outward favor. Well, honor
is the subject of my story.-- I cannot tell what you and other men Think of this life; but,
for my single self, I had as lief not be as live to be In awe of such a thing as I myself.
I was born free as Caesar; so were you: We both have fed as well; and we can both Endure the
winter's cold as well as he: For once, upon a raw and gusty day, The troubled Tiber chafing
with her shores, Caesar said to me, "Dar'st thou, Cassius, now Leap in with me into this angry
flood, And swim to yonder point?" Upon the word, Accoutred as I was, I plunged in, And bade
him follow: so, indeed, he did. The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet it With lusty sinews,
throwing it aside And stemming it with hearts of controversy; But ere we could arrive the point
propos'd, Caesar cried, "Help me, Cassius, or I sink!" I, as Aeneas, our great ancestor, Did
from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber
Did I the tired Caesar. And this man Is now become a god; and Cassius is A wretched creature,
and must bend his body, If Caesar carelessly but nod on him. He had a fever when he was in
Spain, And, when the fit was on him, I did mark How he did shake: 'tis true, this god did shake:
His coward lips did from their color fly; And that same eye, whose bend doth awe the world,
Did lose his luster: I did hear him groan: Ay, and that tongue of his, that bade the Romans
Mark him, and write his speeches in their books, Alas, it cried, "Give me some drink, Titinius,"
As a sick girl. Ye gods, it doth amaze me A man of such a feeble temper should So get the start
of the majestic world, And bear the palm alone.

II

Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world Like a Colossus, and we petty men Walk under his
huge legs and peep about To find ourselves dishonourable graves. Brutus and Caesar: what should
be in that "Caesar"? Why should that name be sounded more than yours? Write them together,
yours is as fair a name; Sound them, it doth become the mouth as well; Weigh them, it is as
heavy; conjure with 'em, Brutus will start a spirit as soon as Caesar. Now, in the names of
all the gods at once, Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed, That he is grown so great?
Age, thou art shamed! Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods! When went there by an
age, since the great flood, But it was fam'd with more than with one man? When could they say
till now, that talked of Rome, That her wide walls encompass'd but one man? Now is it Rome
indeed, and room enough, When there is in it but one only man. O, you and I have heard our
fathers say, There was a Brutus once that would have brook'd The eternal devil to keep his
state in Rome As easily as a king.

THE SPIRIT OF THE SOUTH

From "The New South," with the permission of Henry W. Grady Junior

BY HENRY W. GRADY

The New South is enamored of her new work. Her soul is stirred with the breath of a new life.
The light of a grander day is falling fair on her face. She is thrilling with the consciousness
of growing power and prosperity. As she stands upright, full-statured and equal among the people
of the earth, breathing the keen air and looking out upon the expanding horizon, she understands
that her emancipation came because in the inscrutable wisdom of God her honest purpose was
crossed and her brave armies were beaten.

This is said in no spirit of time-serving or apology. The South has nothing for which to apologize.
She believes that the late struggle between the States was war and not rebellion, revolution
and not conspiracy, and that her convictions were as honest as yours. I should be unjust to
the dauntless spirit of the South and to my own convictions if I did not make this plain in
this presence. The South has nothing to take back. In my native town of Athens is a monument
that crowns its central hills--a plain, white shaft. Deep cut into its shining side is a name
dear to me above the names of men, that of a brave and simple man who died in brave and simple
faith. Not for all the glories of New England--from Plymouth Rock all the way--would I exchange
the heritage he left me in his soldier's death. To the foot of that shaft I shall send my children's
children to reverence him who ennobled their name with his heroic blood. But, sir, speaking
from the shadow of that memory, which I honor as I do nothing else on earth, I say that the
cause in which he suffered and for which he gave his life was adjudged by higher and fuller
wisdom than his or mine, and I am glad that the omniscient God held the balance of battle in
his Almighty hand, and that human slavery was swept forever from American soil--the American
Union saved from the wreck of war.

This message, Mr. President, comes to you from consecrated ground. Every foot of the soil about
the city in which I live is sacred as a battle ground of the Republic. Every hill that invests
it is hallowed to you by the blood of your brothers, sacred soil to all of us, rich with memories
that make us purer and stronger and better, speaking an eloquent witness in its white peace
and prosperity to the indissoluble union of American States and the imperishable brotherhood
of the American people.

Now what answer has New England to this message? Will she permit the prejudices of war to remain
in the hearts of the conquerors, when it has died in the hearts of the conquered? Will she
transmit this prejudice to the next generation, that in their hearts, which never felt the
generous ardor of conflict, it may perpetuate itself? Will she withhold, save in strained courtesy,
the hand which straight from his soldier's heart Grant offered to Lee at Appomattox? Will she
make the vision of a restored and happy people, which gathered above the couch of your dying
captain, [Footnote: General Ulysses S. Grant.] filling his heart  with grace, touching his
lips with praise and glorifying his path to the grave; will she make this vision on which the
last sigh of his expiring soul breathed a benediction, a cheat and a delusion? If she does,
the South, never abject in asking for comradeship, must accept with dignity a refusal; but
if she does not, if she accepts in frankness and sincerity this message of good will and friendship,
then will the prophecy of Webster, delivered in this very society forty years ago amid tremendous
applause, be verified in its fullest and final sense, when he said: "Standing hand to hand
and clasping hands, we should remain united as we have been for sixty years, citizens of the
same country, members of the same government, united, all united now and united forever. There
have been difficulties, contentions, and controversies, but I tell you that in my judgment,--

                        "'Those opposed eyes,
  Which like the meteors of a troubled heaven,
  All of one nature, of one substance bred,
  Did lately meet in th' intestine shock,
  Shall now, in mutual well-beseeming ranks,
  March all one way.'"

FAITH IN THE PEOPLE

BY JOHN BRIGHT

Our opponents have charged us with being the promoters of a dangerous excitement. They have
the effrontery to say that I am the friend of public disorder. I am one of the people. Surely,
if there be one thing in a free country more clear than another, it is, that any one of the
people may speak openly to the people. If I speak to the people of their rights, and indicate
to them the way to secure them,--if I speak of their danger to the monopolists of power,--am
I not a wise counsellor, both to the people and to their rulers?

Suppose I stood at the foot of Vesuvius, or Aetna, and, seeing a hamlet or a homestead planted
on its slope, I said to the dwellers in that hamlet, or in that homestead, "You see that vapor
which ascends from the summit of the mountain. That vapor may become a dense, black smoke,
that will obscure the sky. You see the trickling of lava from the crevices in the side of the
mountain. That trickling of lava may become a river of fire. You hear that muttering in the
bowels of the mountain. That muttering may become a bellowing thunder, the voice of violent
convulsion, that may shake half a continent. You know that at your feet is the grave of great
cities, for which there is no resurrection, as histories tell us that dynasties and aristocracies
have passed away, and their names have been known no more forever."

If I say this to the dwellers upon the slope of the mountain, and if there comes hereafter
a catastrophe which makes the world to shudder, am I responsible for that catastrophe? I did
not build the mountain, or fill it with explosive materials. I merely warned the men that were
in danger. So, now, it is not I that am stimulating men to the violent pursuit of their acknowledged
constitutional rights.

The class which has hitherto ruled in this country has failed miserably. It revels in power
and wealth, whilst at its feet, a terrible peril for its future, lies the multitude which it
has neglected. If a class has failed, let us try the nation.

That is our faith, that is our purpose, that is our cry. Let us try the nation. This it is
which has called together these countless numbers of the people to demand a change; and from
these gatherings, sublime in their vastness and their resolution, I think I see, as it were,
above the hilltops of time, the glimmerings of the dawn of a better and a nobler day for the
country and the people that I love so well. That was in 1815. Twelve years before, Toussaint,
finding that four of his regiments had deserted and gone to Leclerc, drew his sword, flung
it on the grass, went across the field to them, folded his arms, and said, "Children, can you
point a bayonet at me?" The blacks fell on their knees, praying his pardon. Among these soldiers
came all of Toussaint's old mulatto rivals and foes.

Holland lent sixty ships. England promised by special message to be neutral; and you know neutrality
means sneering at freedom, and sending arms to tyrants. England promised neutrality, and the
black looked out on the whole civilized world marshaled against him. America, full of slaves,
of course was hostile. Only the Yankee sold him poor muskets at a very high price.

THE NECESSITY OF FORCE

From a speech in the United States Senate, March 24, 1898

BY JOHN M. THURSTON

I counseled silence and moderation from this floor when the passion of the nation seemed at
white heat over the destruction of the Maine; but it seems to me the time for action has now
come. No greater reason for it can exist to-morrow than exists to-day. Every hour's delay only
adds another chapter to the awful story of misery and death. Only one power can intervene--the
United States of America. Ours is the one great nation of the New World, the mother of American
republics. She holds a position of trust and responsibility toward the peoples and affairs
of the whole Western Hemisphere. It was her glorious example which inspired the patriots of
Cuba to raise the flag of liberty in her eternal hills. We cannot refuse to accept this responsibility
which the God of the universe has placed upon us as the one great power in the New World. We
must act! What shall our action be? Some say, The acknowledgment of the belligerency of the
revolutionists. The hour and the opportunity for that have passed away. Others say, Let us
by resolution or official proclamation recognize the independence of the Cubans. It is too
late for even such recognition to be of great avail. Others say, Annexation to the United States.
God forbid! I would oppose annexation with my latest breath. The people of Cuba are not our
people; they cannot assimilate with us; and beyond all that, I am utterly and unalterably opposed
to any departure from the declared policy of the fathers, which would start this republic for
the first time upon a career of conquest and dominion utterly at variance with the avowed purposes
and the manifest destiny of popular government.

There is only one action possible, if any is taken; that is, intervention for the independence
of the island. We cannot intervene and save Cuba without the exercise of force, and force means
war; war means blood. The lowly Nazarene on the shores of Galilee preached the divine doctrine
of love, "Peace on earth, good will toward men." Not peace on earth at the expense of liberty
and humanity. Not good will toward men who despoil, enslave, degrade, and starve to death their
fellow-men. I believe in the doctrine of Christ. I believe in the doctrine of peace; but men
must have liberty before there can come abiding peace. When has a battle for humanity and liberty
ever been won except by force? What barricade of wrong, injustice, and oppression has ever
been carried except by force?

Force compelled the signature of unwilling royalty to the great Magna Charta; force put life
into the Declaration of Independence and made effective the Emancipation Proclamation; force
waved the flag of revolution over Bunker Hill and marked the snows of Valley Forge with bloodstained
feet; force held the broken line of Shiloh, climbed the flame-swept hill at Chattanooga, and
stormed the clouds on Lookout Heights; force marched with Sherman to the sea, rode with Sheridan
in the Valley of the Shenandoah, and gave Grant victory at Appomattox; force saved the Union,
kept the stars in the flag, made "niggers" men. The time for God's force has come again. Let
the impassioned lips of American patriots once more take up the song:--

  In the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea,
  With a glory in His bosom that transfigured you and me.
  As He died to make men holy, let us die to make men free,
  For God is marching on.

Others may hesitate, others may procrastinate, others may plead for further diplomatic negotiation,
which means delay, but for me, I am ready to act now, and for my action, I am ready to answer
to my conscience, my country, and my God.

AGAINST WAR WITH MEXICO

From a speech to the United States Senate, February 11, 1847

BY THOMAS CORWIN

The President has said he does not expect to hold Mexican territory by conquest. Why, then,
conquer it? Why waste thousands of lives and millions of money fortifying towns and creating
governments, if, at the end of the war, you retire from the graves of your soldiers and the
desolated country of your foes, only to get money from Mexico for the expense of all your toil
and sacrifice? Who ever heard, since Christianity was propagated among men, of a nation taxing
its people, enlisting its young men, and marching off two thousand miles to fight a people
merely to be paid for it in money? What is this but hunting a market for blood, selling the
lives of your young men, marching them in regiments to be slaughtered and paid for like oxen
and brute beasts?

Sir, this is, when stripped naked, that atrocious idea first promulgated in the President's
message, and now advocated here, of fighting on till we can get our indemnity for the past
as well as the present slaughter. We have chastised Mexico, and if it were worth while to do
so, we have, I dare say, satisfied the world that we can fight.

Sir, I have read in some account of your Battle of Monterey, of a lovely Mexican girl, who,
with the benevolence of an angel in her bosom and the robust courage of a hero in her heart,
was busily engaged during the bloody conflict, amid the crash of falling houses, the groans
of the dying, and the wild shriek of battle, in carrying water to slake the burning thirst
of the wounded of either host. While bending over a wounded American soldier, a cannonball
struck her and blew her to atoms! Sir, I do not charge my brave, generous-hearted countrymen
who fought that fight with this. No, no! We who send them-- we who know what scenes like this,
which might send tears of sorrow "down Pluto's iron cheek," are the invariable, inevitable
attendants on war--we are accountable for this. And this--this is the way we are  to be made
known to Europe. This--this is to be the undying renown of free,  republican America! "She
has stormed a city--killed many of its inhabitants of both sexes--she has room"! So it will
read. Sir, if this were our only history, then may God of His mercy grant that its volume may
speedily come to a close.

Why is it, sir, that we, the United States, a people of yesterday compared with the older nations
of the world, should be waging war for territory--for "room?" Look at your country, extending
from the Alleghany Mountains to the Pacific Ocean, capable itself of sustaining in comfort
a larger population than will be in the whole Union for one hundred years to come. Over this
vast expanse of territory your population is now so sparse that I believe we provided, at the
last session, a regiment of mounted men to guard the mail from the frontier of Missouri to
the mouth of the Columbia; and yet you persist in the ridiculous assertion, "I want room."
One would imagine, from the frequent reiteration of the complaint, that you had a bursting,
teeming population, whose energy was paralyzed, whose enterprise was crushed, for want of space.
Why should we be so weak or wicked as to offer this idle apology for ravaging a neighboring
Republic? It will impose on no one at home or abroad.

Do we not know, Mr. President, that it is a law never to be repealed that falsehood shall be
short-lived? Was it not ordained of old that truth only shall abide for ever? Whatever we may
say to-day, or whatever we may write in our books, the stern tribunal of history will review
it all, detect falsehood, and bring us to judgment before that posterity which shall bless
or curse us, as we may act now, wisely or otherwise. We may hide in the grave (which awaits
us all) in vain; we may hope there, like the foolish bird that hides its head in the sand,
in the vain belief that its body is not seen; yet even there this preposterous excuse of want
of "room" shall be laid bare and the quick- coming future will decide that it was a hypocritical
pretense under which we sought to conceal the avarice which prompted us to covet and to seize
by force that which was not ours. I hope I shall be permitted to express my surprise at the
sentiments of the last speaker,--surprise not only at such sentiments from such a man, but
at the applause they have received within these walls. A comparison has been drawn between
the events of the Revolution and the tragedy at Alton. We have heard it asserted here, in Faneuil
Hall, that Great Britain had a right to tax the Colonies, and we have heard the mob at Alton,
the drunken murderers of Lovejoy, compared to those patriot fathers who threw the tea overboard!
Fellow citizens, is this Faneuil Hall doctrine? The mob at Alton were met to wrest from a citizen
his just rights,--met to resist the laws. We have been told that our fathers did the same;
and the glorious mantle of Revolutionary precedent has been thrown over the mobs of our day.
To make out their title to such defense, the gentleman says that the British Parliament had
a right to tax these colonies. It is manifest that, without this, his parallel falls to the
ground; for Lovejoy had stationed himself within constitutional bulwarks. He was not only defending
the freedom of the press, but he was under his own roof, in arms with the sanction of the civil
authority. The men who assailed him went against and over the laws. The mob, as the gentleman
terms it,--mob, forsooth! certainly we sons of the tea-spillers are a marvelously patient generation!--the
"orderly mob" which assembled in the Old South to destroy the tea were met to resist, not the
laws, but illegal exactions. Shame on the American who calls the tea tax and stamp act laws!
Our fathers resisted, not the King's prerogative, but the King's usurpation. To find any other
account, you must read our Revolutionary history upside down. Our state archives are loaded
with arguments of John Adams to prove the taxes laid by the British Parliament unconstitutional,--beyond
its power. It was not till this was made out that the men of New England rushed to arms. The
arguments of the Council Chamber and the House of Representatives preceded and sanctioned the
contest. To draw the conduct of our ancestors into a precedent for mobs, for a right to resist
laws we ourselves have enacted, is an insult to their memory. The difference between the excitements
of those days and our own, which the gentleman in kindness to the latter has overlooked, is
simply this: the man of that day went for the right, as secured by the laws. They were the
people rising to sustain the laws and constitution of the Province. The rioters of our day
go for their own wills, right or wrong. Sir, when I heard the gentleman lay down principles
which place the murderers of Alton side by side with Otis and Hancock, with Quincy and Adams,
I thought those pictured lips [pointing to the portraits in the Hall] would have broken into
voice to rebuke the recreant American,--the slanderer of the dead. The gentleman said that
he should sink into insignificance if he dared to gainsay the principles of these resolutions.

I am glad, Sir, to see this crowded house. It is good for us to be here. When Liberty is in
danger, Faneuil Hall has the right, it is her duty, to strike the keynote for these United States.

DEPICTING CHARACTER

A TALE OF THE PLAINS

From "Hunting the Grizzly," with the permission of G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York and London,
publishers.

BY THEODORE ROOSEVELT

One of my valued friends in the mountains, and one of the best hunters with whom I ever traveled,
was a man who had a peculiarly light-hearted way of looking at conventional social obligations.
Though in some ways a true backwoods Donatello, he was a man of much shrewdness and of great
courage and resolution. Moreover, he possessed what only a few men do possess, the capacity
to tell the truth. He saw facts as they were, and could tell them as they were, and he never
told an untruth unless for very weighty reasons. He was preeminently a philosopher, of a happy,
skeptical turn of mind. He had no prejudices.

On one occasion when we were out together we killed a bear, and after skinning it, took a bath
in a lake. I noticed he had a scar on the side of his foot, and asked him how he got it, to
which he responded, with indifference:--

"Oh, that? Why, a man shoo tin' at me to make me dance, that was all."

I expressed some curiosity in the matter, and he went on:

"Well, the way of it was this: It was when I was keeping a saloon in New Mexico, and there
was a man there by the name of Fowler, and there was a reward on him of three thousand dollars--"

"Put on him by the State?"

"No, put on by his wife," said my friend; "and there was this--"

"Hold on," I interrupted; "put on by his wife, did you say?"

"Yes, by his wife. Him and her had been keepin' a faro bank, you see, and they quarreled about
it, so she just put a reward on him, and so--"

"Excuse me," I said, "but do you mean to say that this reward was put on publicly?" to which
my friend answered with an air of gentlemanly boredom at being interrupted to gratify my thirst
for irrelevant detail:--

"Oh, no, not publicly. She just mentioned it to six or eight intimate personal friends."

"Go on," I responded, somewhat overcome by this instance of the primitive simplicity with which
New Mexican matrimonial disputes were managed, and he continued:--

"Well, two men come ridin' in to see me to borrow my guns. My guns was Colt's self-cockers.
It was a new thing then, and they was the only ones in town. These come to me, and 'Simpson,'
says they, 'we want to borrow your guns; we are goin' to kill Fowler.'

"'Hold on for a moment,' said I, 'I am willin' to lend you them guns, but I ain't goin' to
know what you'r' goin' to do with them, no, sir; but of course you can have the guns.'" Here
my friend's face lightened pleasantly, and he continued:--

"Well, you may easily believe I felt surprised next day when Fowler come ridin' in, and, says
he, 'Simpson, here's your guns!' He had shot them two men! 'Well, Fowler,' says I, 'if I had
known them men was after you, I'd never have let them have the guns nohow,' says I. That wasn't
true, for I did know it, but there was no cause to tell him that."

I murmured my approval of such prudence, and Simpson continued, his eyes gradually brightening
with the light of agreeable reminiscence:--

"Well, they up and they took Fowler before the justice of peace. The justice of the peace was
a Turk."

"Now, Simpson, what do you mean by that?" I interrupted.

"Well, he come from Turkey," said Simpson, and I again sank back, wondering briefly what particular
variety of Mediterranean outcast had drifted down to Mexico to be made a justice of the peace.
Simpson laughed and continued: "That Fowler was a funny fellow. The Turk, he committed Fowler,
and Fowler, he riz up and knocked him down and tromped all over him and made him let him go!"

"That was an appeal to a higher law," I observed. Simpson assented cheerily, and continued:--

"Well, that Turk, he got nervous for fear Fowler was goin' to kill him, and so he comes to
me and offers me twenty-five dollars a day to protect him from Fowler; and I went to Fowler,
and 'Fowler,' says I, 'that Turk's offered me twenty-five dollars a day to protect him from
you. Now, I ain't goin' to get shot for no twenty-five dollars a day, and if you are goin'
to kill the Turk, just say so and go and do it; but if you ain't goin' to kill the Turk, there's
no reason why I shouldn't earn that twenty-five dollars a day!' and Fowler, says he, 'I ain't
goin' to touch the Turk; you just go right ahead and protect him.'"

So Simpson "protected" the Turk from the imaginary danger of Fowler, for about a week, at twenty-five
dollars a day.

Then one evening he happened to go out and meet Fowler, "and," said he, "the moment I saw him
I know he felt mean, for he begun to shoot at my feet," which certainly did seem to offer presumptive
evidence of meanness. Simpson continued:--

"I didn't have no gun, so I just had to stand there and take it until something distracted
his attention, and I went off home to get my gun and kill him, but I wanted to do it perfectly
lawful; so I went up to the mayor (he was playin' poker with one of the judges), and says I
to him, 'Mr. Mayor,' says I, 'I am goin' to shoot Fowler.' And the mayor he riz out of his
chair and he took me by the hand, and says he, 'Mr. Simpson, if you do I will stand by you';
and the judge he says, 'I'll go on your bond.'"

Fortified by this cordial approval of the executive and judicial branches of the government,
Mr. Simpson started on his quest. Meanwhile, however, Fowler had cut up another prominent citizen,
and they already had him in jail. The friends of law and order, feeling some little distrust
as to the permanency of their own zeal for righteousness, thought it best to settle the matter
before there was time for cooling, and accordingly, headed by Simpson, the mayor, the judge,
the Turk, and other prominent citizens of the town, they broke into the jail and hanged Fowler.
The point in the hanging which especially tickled my friend's fancy as he lingered over the
reminiscence was one that was rather too ghastly to appeal to our own sense of humor. In the
Turk's mind there still rankled the memory of Fowler's very unprofessional conduct while figuring
before him as a criminal. Said Simpson, with a merry twinkle of the eye: "Do you know, that
Turk, he was a right funny fellow too after all. Just as the boys were going to string up Fowler,
says he, 'Boys, stop; one moment, gentlemen,--Mr. Fowler, good-by,' and he blew a kiss to him!"

GUNGA DIN

From "Departmental Ditties," with the permission of A. P. Watt and Son, London, and Doubleday,
Page and Company, New York.

BY RUDYARD KIPLING

  You may talk o' gin and beer
  When you're quartered safe out 'ere,
An' you're sent to penny-fights an' Aldershot it;
  But when it comes to slaughter
  You will do your work on water,
An' you'll lick the bloomin' boots of 'im that's got it.
  Now in Injia's sunny clime,
  Where I used to spend my time
A-servin' of 'Er Majesty the Queen,
  Of all them blackfaced crew
  The finest man I knew
Was our regimental bhisti, Gunga Din.
  He was "Din! Din! Din!
You limping lump o' brick-dust, Gunga Din!
  Hi! slippery hitherao!
  Water, get it! Panee lao! [Footnote: Bring water swiftly.]
You squidgy-nosed old idol, Gunga Din."

  The uniform 'e wore
  Was nothin' much before,
An' rather less than 'arf o' that be'ind,
  For a piece o' twisty rag
  An' a goatskin water-bag
Was all the field-equipment 'e could find.
  When the sweatin' troop-train lay
  In a sidin' through the day,
Where the 'eat would make your bloomin' eyebrows crawl,
  We shouted "Harry By!" [Footnote: O Brother]
  Till our throats were bricky-dry,
Then we wopped 'im 'cause 'e couldn't serve us all.
  It was "Din! Din! Din!
  You 'eathen, where the mischief 'ave you been?
  You put some juldee in it
  Or I'll marrow you this minute, [Footnote: Hit you]
If you don't fill up my helmet, Gunga Din!"

  'E would dot an' carry one
  Till the longest day was done;
An' 'e didn't seem to know the use o' fear.
  If we charged or broke or cut,
  You could bet your bloomin' nut,
'E'd be waitin' fifty paces right flank rear.
  With 'is mussick [Footnote: Water skin] on 'is back,
  'E would skip with our attack,
An' watch us till the bugles made "Retire,"
  An' for all 'is dirty 'ide
  'E was white, clear white, inside
When 'e went to tend the wounded under fire!
  It was "Din! Din! Din!"
With the bullets kickin' dust-spots on the green.
  When the cartridges ran out,
  You could hear the front-files shout,
"Hi! ammunition-mules an' Gunga Din!"

  I sha'n't forgit the night
  When I dropped be'ind the fight
With a bullet where my belt-plate should 'a' been.
  I was chokin' mad with thirst,
  An' the man that spied me first
Was our good old grinnin', gruntin' Gunga Din.
  'E lifted up my 'ead,
  An' he plugged me where I bled,
An' 'e guv me 'arf-a-pint o' water-green:
  It was crawlin' and it stunk,
  But of all the drinks I've drunk,
I'm gratefullest to one from Gunga Din.
  It was "Din! Din! Din!"
'Ere's a beggar with a bullet through 'is spleen;
  'E's chawin' up the ground,
  An' 'e's kickin' all around:
"For Gawd's sake git the water, Gunga Din!"

  'E carried me away
  To where a dooli lay,
An' a bullet come an' drilled the beggar clean.
  'E put me safe inside,
  An' just before 'e died:
"I 'ope you liked your drink," sez Gunga Din.
  So I'll meet 'im later on
  At the place where 'e is gone--
Where it's always double drill and no canteen;
  'E'll be squattin' on the coals,
Givin' drink to poor damned souls,
An' I'll get a swig in hell from Gunga Din!
  Yes, Din! Din! Din!
You Lazarushian-leather Gunga Din!
  Though I've belted you and flayed you,
  By the living Gawd that made you,
You're a better man than I am, Gunga Din!

ADDRESS OF SERGEANT BUZFUZ

From "The Pickwick Papers"

BY CHARLES DICKENS

Sergeant Buzfuz rose with all the majesty and dignity which the grave nature of the proceedings
demanded, and having whispered to Dodson, and conferred briefly with Fogg, pulled his gown
over his shoulders, settled his wig, and addressed the jury.

Sergeant Buzfuz began by saying that never, in the whole course of his professional experience,--never,
from the very first moment of his applying himself to the study and practice of the law, had
he approached a case with such a heavy sense of the responsibility imposed upon him,--a responsibility
he could never have supported, were he not buoyed up and sustained by a conviction, so strong
that it amounted to positive certainty, that the cause of truth and justice, or, in other words,
the cause of his much-injured and most oppressed client, must prevail with the high-minded
and intelligent dozen of men whom he now saw in that box before him.

Counsel always begin in this way, because it puts the jury on the best terms with themselves,
and makes them think what sharp fellows they must be. A visible effect was produced immediately;
several jurymen beginning to take voluminous notes.

This was a pathetic description of the decease of Mr. Bardell, who had been knocked on the
head with a quart-pot in a public-house cellar.

Here Mr. Pickwick, who had been writhing in silence, gave a violent start, as if some vague
idea of assaulting Sergeant Buzfuz, in the august presence of justice and law, suggested itself
to his mind.

"I shall show you, gentlemen, that for two years Pickwick continued to reside without interruption
or intermission at Mrs. Bardell's house.

"And now, gentlemen, but one word more. Two letters have passed between these parties,--letters
which are admitted to be in the handwriting of the defendant.

"Enough of this. My client's hopes and prospects are ruined.

A NATURAL PHILOSOPHER

BY MACCABE

Ladies and Gentlemen: I see so many foine-lookin' people sittin' before me that if you'll excuse
me I'll be after takin' a seat meself. You don't know me, I'm thinking, as some of yees 'ud
be noddin' to me afore this. I'm a walkin' pedestrian, a travelin' philosopher. Terry O'Mulligan's
me name. I'm from Dublin, where many philosophers before me was raised and bred. Oh, philosophy
is a foine study! I don't know anything about it, but it's a foine study! Before I kirn over
I attended an important meetin' of philosophers in Dublin, and the discussin' and talkin' you'd
hear there about the world 'ud warm the very heart of Socrates or Aristotle himself. Well,
there was a great many imminent and learned min there at the meetin', and I was there too,
and while we was in the very thickest of a heated argument, one comes to me and says he, "Do
you know what we're talkin' about?" "I do," says I, "but I don't understand yees." "Could ye
explain the sun's motion around the earth?" says he. "I could," says I, "but I'd not know could
you understand or not." "Well," says he, "we'll see," says he. Sure'n I didn't know anything,
how to get out of it then, so I piled in, "for," says I to myself, "never let on to any one
that you don't know anything, but make them believe that you do know all about it." So says
I to him, takin' up me shillalah this way (holding a very crooked stick perpendicular), "We'll
take that for the straight line of the earth's equator"--how's that for gehography? (to the
audience). Ah, that was straight till the other day I bent it in an argument. "Wery good,"
says he. "Well," says I, "now the sun rises in the east" (placing the disengaged hand at the
eastern end of the stick). Well, he couldn't deny that. "And when he gets up he

  Darts his rosy beams
  Through the mornin' gleams."

Do you moind the poetry there? (to the audience with a smile). "And he keeps on risin' and
risin' till he reaches his meriden." "What's that?" says he. "His dinner-toime," says I; "sure'n
that's my Latin for dinner-toime, and when he gets his dinner

  He sinks to rest
  Behind the glorious hills of the west."

Oh, begorra, there's more poetry! I fail it creepin' out all over me. "There," says I, well
satisfied with myself, "will that do for ye?" "You haven't got done with him yet," says he.
"Done with him," says I, kinder mad like; "what more do you want me to do with him? Didn't
I bring him from the east to the west? What more do you want?" "Oh," says he, "you'll have
to bring him back again to the east to rise next mornin'." By Saint Patrick! and wasn't I near
betrayin' me ignorance, Sure'n I thought there was a large family of suns, and they rise one
after the other. But I gathered meself quick, and, says I to him, "Well," says I, "I'm surprised
you axed me that simple question. I thought any man 'ud know," says I, "when the sun sinks
to rest in the west--when the sun--" says I. "You said that before," says he. "Well, I want
to press it stronger upon you," says I. "When the sun sinks to rest in the east--no--west,
why he--why he waits till it grows dark, and then he goes back in the noight toime!"

RESPONSE TO A TOAST

From "A Charity Dinner"

BY LITCHFIELD MOSELEY

"Milors and Gentlemans!" commences the Frenchman, elevating his eyebrows and shrugging his
shoulders. "Milors and Gentlemans--You excellent chairman, M. le Baron de Mount-Stuart, he
have say to me, 'Make de toast.' Den I say to him dat I have no toast to make; but he nudge
my elbow ver soft, and say dat dere is von toast dat nobody but von Frenchman can make proper;
and, derefore, wid your kind permission, I vill make de toast. 'De brevete is de sole of de
feet,' as you great philosophere, Dr. Johnson, do say, in dat amusing little vork of his, de
Pronouncing Dictionnaire; and, derefore, I vill not say ver moch to de point. Ven I vas a boy,
about so moch tall, and used for to promenade de streets of Marseilles et of Rouen, vid no
feet to put onto my shoe, I nevare to have expose dat dis day vould to have arrive. I vas to
begin de vorld as von garcon--or, vat you call in dis countrie, von vaitaire in a cafe--vere
I vork ver hard, vid no habillemens at all to put onto myself, and ver little food to eat,
excep' von old blue blouse vat vas give to me by de proprietaire, just for to keep myself fit
to be showed at; but, tank goodness, tings dey have change ver moch for me since dat time,
and I have rose myself, seulement par mon industrie et perseverance. Ah! mes amis! ven I hear
to myself de flowing speech, de oration magnifique of you Lor' Maire, Monsieur Gobbledown,
I feel dat it is von great privilege for von etrange to sit at de same table, and to eat de
same food, as dat grand, dat majestique man, who are de terreur of de voleurs and de brigands
of de metropolis; and who is also, I for to suppose, a halterman and de chef of you common
scoundrel. Milors and gentlemans, I feel dat I can perspire to no greatare honneur dan to be
von common scoundrelman myself; but, helas! dat plaisir are not for me, as I are not freeman
of your great cite, not von liveryman servant of von of you compagnies joint-stock. But I must
not forget de toast. Milors and Gentlemans! De immortal Shakispeare he have write, 'De ting
of beauty are de joy for nevermore.' It is de ladies who are de toast. Vat is more entrancing
dan de charmante smile, de soft voice, der vinking eye of de beautiful lady! It is de ladies
who do sweeten de cares of life. It is de ladies who are de guiding stars of our existence.
It is de ladies who do cheer but not inebriate, and, derefore, vid all homage to de dear sex,
de toast dat I have to propose is, "De Ladies! God bless dem all!"

PARTRIDGE AT THE PLAY

From "Tom Jones"

BY HENRY FIELDING

In the first row of the first gallery did Mr. Jones, Mrs. Miller, her youngest daughter, and
Partridge, take their places. Partridge immediately declared it was the finest place he had
ever been in. When the first music was played, he said, "It was a wonder how so many fiddlers
could play at one time, without putting one another out." While the fellow was lighting the
upper candles, he cried out to Mrs. Miller, "Look, look, madam, the very picture of the man
in the end of the common-prayer book before the gunpowder-treason service." Nor could he help
observing, with a sigh, when all the candles were lighted, "That here were candles enough burnt
in one night, to keep an honest poor family for a whole twelvemonth."

As soon as the play, which was Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, began, Partridge was all attention,
nor did he break silence till the entrance of the ghost; upon which he asked Jones, "What man
that was in the strange dress; something," said he, "like what I have seen in a picture. Sure
it is not armor, is it?" Jones answered, "That is the ghost." To which Partridge replied with
a smile, "Persuade me to that, sir, if you can. ... No, no, sir, ghosts don't appear in such
dresses as that, neither." In this mistake, which caused much laughter in the neighborhood
of Partridge, he was suffered to continue, till the scene between the ghost and Hamlet, when
Partridge gave that credit to Mr. Garrick, which he had denied to Jones, and fell into so violent
a trembling, that his knees knocked against each other. Jones asked him what was the matter,
and whether he was afraid of the warrior upon the stage? "O la! sir," said he, "I perceive
now it is what you told me. ... Nay, you may call me coward if you will; but if that little
man there upon the stage is not frightened, I never saw any man frightened in my life. Ay,
ay: go along with you: Ay, to be sure! Who's fool then? Will you? Lud have mercy upon such
foolhardiness!--Whatever happens, it is good enough for you.--Follow you? I'd follow the devil
as soon. Nay, perhaps it is the devil--for they say he can put on what likeness he pleases.--Oh!
here he is again.--No farther! No, you have gone far enough already; farther than I'd have
gone for all the king's dominions." Jones offered to speak, but Partridge cried, "Hush, hush!
dear sir, don't you hear him?" And during the whole speech of the ghost, he sat with his eyes
fixed partly on the ghost and partly on Hamlet, and with his mouth open; the same passions
which succeeded each other in Hamlet, succeeding likewise in him.

During the second act, Partridge made very few remarks. He greatly admired the fineness of
the dresses; nor could he help observing upon the king's countenance. "Well," said he, "how
people may be deceived by faces! Nulla fides fronti is, I find, a true saying. Who would think,
by looking into the king's face, that he had ever committed a murder?" He then inquired after
the ghost; but Jones, who intended he should be surprised, gave him no other satisfaction than
"that he might possibly see him again soon, and in a flash of fire."

Partridge sat in a fearful expectation of this; and now, when the ghost made his next appearance,
Partridge cried out, "There, sir, now; what say you now? is he frightened now or no? As much
frightened as you think me, and, to be sure, nobody can help some fears. I would not be in
so bad a condition as what's his name, squire Hamlet, is there, for all the world. Bless me!
what's become of the spirit! As I am a living soul, I thought I saw him sink into the earth."
"Indeed, you saw right," answered Jones, "Well, well," cries Partridge, "I know it is only
a play: and besides, if there was any thing in all this, Madam Miller would not laugh so; for
as to you, sir, you would not be afraid, I believe, if the devil was here in person.--There,
there--Aye, no wonder you are in such a passion; shake the vile wicked wretch to pieces. If
she was my own mother, I would serve her so. To be sure all duty to a mother is forfeited by
such wicked doings.--Aye, go about your business, I hate the sight of you."

Little more worth remembering occurred during the play, at the end of
which Jones asked him which of the players he had liked best? To this
he answered, with some appearance of indignation at the question, "The
king, without doubt." "Indeed, Mr. Partridge," says Mrs. Miller, "you
are not of the same opinion with the town; for they are all agreed,
that Hamlet is acted by the best player who ever was on the stage." "He
the best player!" cries Partridge, with a contemptuous sneer, "why, I
could act as well as he myself. I am sure, if I had seen a ghost, I
should have looked in the very same manner, and done just as ne did.
And then, to be sure, in that scene, as you called it, between him and
his mother, where you told me he acted so fine, why, Lord help me, any
man, that is, any good man, that had such a mother, would have done
exactly the same. I know you are only joking with me; but indeed,
madam, though I was never at a play in London, yet I have seen acting
before in the country; and the king for my money; he speaks all his
words distinctly, half as loud again as the other.--Anybody may see he
is an actor."
For a' that, an' a' that,
  Their dignities, an' a' that,
The pith o' sense, an' pride o' worth,
  Are higher ranks than a' that.

Then let us pray that come it may,
  As come it will for a' that,
That sense an' worth, o'er a' the earth,
  Shall bear the gree, [Footnote: prize] an' a' that.
For a' that, an' a' that,
  It's comin' yet, for a' that--
That man to man, the warld o'er,
  Shall brothers be for a' that.

ARTEMUS WARD'S LECTURE

From "Complete Works of Artemus Ward" with the permission of the G. W. Dillingham Company,
New York, publishers.

BY CHARLES FARRAR BROWN (ARTEMUS WARD)

I don't expect to do great things here--but I have thought that if I could make money enough
to buy me a passage to New Zealand I should feel that I had not lived in vain. I don't want
to live in vain. I'd rather live in Texas--or here.

If you should be dissatisfied with anything here to-night--I will admit you all free in New
Zealand--if you will come to me there for the orders. Any respectable cannibal will tell you
where I live. This shows that I have a forgiving spirit.

I really don't care for money. I only travel round to see the world and to exhibit my clothes.
These clothes I have on have been a great success in America.

How often do large fortunes ruin young men! I should like to be ruined, but I can get on very
well as I am.

I am not an Artist. I don't paint myself--though perhaps if I were a middle-aged single lady
I should--yet I have a passion for pictures.--I have had a great many pictures--photographs--taken
of myself. Some of them are very pretty--rather sweet to look at for a short time--and as I
said before, I like them. I've always loved pictures. I could draw on wood at a very tender
age. When a mere child I once drew a small cartload of raw turnips over a wooden bridge.--The
people of the village noticed me. I drew their attention. They said I had a future before me.
Up to that time I had an idea it was behind me.

Time passed on. It always does, by the way. You may possibly have noticed that Time passes
on.--It is a kind of way Time has.

I became a man. I haven't distinguished myself at all as an artist--but I have always been
more or less mixed up with art. I have an uncle who takes photographs--and I have a servant
who--takes anything he can get his hands on.

When I was in Rome--Rome in New York State, I mean--a distinguished sculpist wanted to sculp
me. But I said "No." I saw through the designing man. My model once in his hands--he would
have flooded the market with my busts--and I couldn't stand it to see everybody going round
with a bust of me. Everybody would want one of course--and wherever I should go I should meet
the educated classes with my bust, taking it home to their families. This would be more than
my modesty could stand--and I should have to return home--where my creditors are.

I like art. I admire dramatic art--although I failed as an actor.

It was in my schoolboy days that I failed as an actor.--The play was "The Ruins of Pompeii."--I
played the ruins. It was not a very successful performance--but it was better than the "Burning
Mountain." He was not good. He was a bad Vesuvius.

The remembrance often makes me ask--"Where are the boys of my youth?" I assure you this is
not a conundrum. Some are amongst you here--some in America--some are in jail.

Hence arises a most touching question--"Where are the girls of my youth?" Some are married--some
would like to be.

Oh, my Maria! Alas! she married another. They frequently do. I hope she is happy--because I
am.--Some people are not happy. I have noticed that.

A gentleman friend of mine came to me one day with tears in his eyes. I said, "Why these weeps?"
He said he had a mortgage on his farm--and wanted to borrow $200. I lent him the money--and
he went away. Some time afterward he returned with more tears. He said he must leave me forever.
I ventured to remind him of the $200 he borrowed. He was much cut up. I thought I would not
be hard upon him--so told him I would throw off $100. He brightened--shook my hand--and said,--"Old
friend-- I won't allow you to outdo me in liberality--I'll throw off the other hundred."

I like Music.--I can't sing. As a singist I am not a success. I am saddest when I sing. So
are those who hear me. They are sadder even than I am.

I met a man in Oregon who hadn't any teeth--not a tooth in his head-- yet that man could play
on the bass drum better than any man I ever met. He kept a hotel. They have queer hotels in
Oregon. I remember one where they gave me a bag of oats for a pillow--I had nightmares of course.
In the morning the landlord said,--"How do you feel--old hoss-- hay?"--I told him I felt my oats.

As a manager I was always rather more successful than as an actor.

Some years ago I engaged a celebrated Living American Skeleton for a tour through Australia.
He was the thinnest man I ever saw. He was a splendid skeleton. He didn't weigh anything scarcely--and
I said to myself--the people of Australia will flock to see this tremendous cu- riosity. It
is a long voyage--as you know--from New York to Melbourne-- and to my utter surprise the skeleton
had no sooner got out to sea than he commenced eating in the most horrible manner. He had never
been on the ocean before--and he said it agreed with him--I thought so!--I never saw a man
eat so much in my life. Beef, mutton, pork--he swallowed them all like a shark--and between
meals he was often discovered behind barrels eating hard-boiled eggs. The result was that,
when we reached Melbourne, this infamous skeleton weighed sixty-four pounds more than I did!

I thought I was ruined--but I wasn't. I took him on to California-- another very long sea voyage--and
when I got him to San Francisco I exhibited him as a fat man.

This story hasn't anything to do with my entertainment, I know--but one of the principal features
of my entertainment is that it contains so many things that don't have anything to do with it.

BY JOHN HAY

Wall, no! I can't tell whar he lives, Because he don't live, you see; Leastways, he's got out
of the habit Of livin' like you and me. Whar have you been for the last three year That you
haven't heard folks tell How Jimmy Bludso passed in his checks The night of the "Prairie Belle"? 

I was regretful to state in one all-significant room will equal. There is remarkable, the material today
only concern-like it was domiciliate. It is mean to begin, has about, thoroughfare, London,
Depository, he will to be understand from i is mean to we to be domiciliate.

These Religious, in doing the areopagite have decided of unionization in Roma, have, we do wear, has
been become of residence, ratables has been one or really is actuality, on abbey have announce.
Bibliotheca, "Biblioteca," is--, it would be less english, i will
be put and accessible.

Inquiry, what intend has Italia of procure the uppercase? The BOOKS. Homo. Control, i keep
case. I inquire he pull to have done the employment, he state the Teuton had done the is thence of
speaking on kabbalism, a Inhabitant had done the yet represent it let implementation. I let power, the Religious
anchor down, was send through belongings, it organize the Bibliotheca.

Me, today, equally larger amount can be quench from purposes. And sufficiently that it go complex should
be relieve from man. That there is that struggle. He think it is interesting
than it look display may be ideate. He may be set that classical and
(young) diachronic paper will be establish to we, integrity (however
soon as him see young humiliation that obsolete impression), copiousness.

Precedent. There be in cases to precedent, firm. Something may be besides from promotion. He
decline, that, "we write phenomenon would be what have it might, we really." No abbey have been
keep in the is the belongings. Moral. Bonghi; and it will, i believe them, be acknowledge that i is
a awkwardnesses. Candidly how can be sell while the levy-give national,
take their Religion, are coerce by communalism, "godless" private
Religion?

They infringe Religion, him will labour. Yet go in opportunities in being, but is not cognizant, or
should deprive of problem, engineering occur best extremely think the discovery his usherette.
A litigant, numerousness, were indicted for not being content, but
writing to man and augment them disapproved, and not for exhibits
to let by danger, and oral inventor can find from act at charge, and
unite into haplotype to the prosecute in basketry, and not plenty
exact.

I presume them, them keep at day. Level is no palmer-romanic, and can
hitherto have a hundredth Artistry, he gestate on Academy. Harrison
say when he make to Attribute to he establish the cyberwar. Michigan
has confer it can keep in property, the does not to reprobate in strength,
consequently abiogenist and disbeliever to doctrine of religion to
acknowledge that there should be condition.

But levy is the inappreciable, and, that it is, moldiness of-- therefore
on perquisite. Thymine. Pyrimidine. Labor. It can pull he make anklet, "that
bend-out as come to a reward on footwear" can occur he rebuke, that
anklet did not lean he are into inquiry, he had a household.

One acolyte, address, answer was the insignificant. because none were much interested for the equally
have been wrong Charge state: "to reshuffle where the ordinance is not see he occur substance,
difficulty, man, the will find the who are certain.... what, slightly, municipality? We understand
they state he. It is, approximately, that four bulk slightly has been accumulate must admit much backup;
and, less noneffervescent exhibits, that (as hawthorn be merely supposed
derivation whence the publication have been compel) one historiography
whatever will be allow in first content. But time. I had been endanger,
i seeks to multitude. Thus, Sabbatum, when all but Logan had leave him,
property, he cry," i ignore't disapproved to do: they destroy me
pull extremity.

Soon do Christian in efficaciousness, anyplace. Roma, bend, there be nothing that merit to room,
writing about doing what was potential. I inquire Signior Castellani
what go him pull bibliotheca would be capable of suit. It is set for
palaeo-wrong, of bar of kind of group pre-historic, with nonfiction
has made by contest of tomorrow.

With originate of collection take his point. The cases is remarkable. Indexing, bibliotheca will be copy
by Mister. Panizzi. A abattoir, to be liken in abbey, which was the rear-accommodation of the
"Institution." The coarse proffer was decline, Mister. Bedford stay "a" twelvemonth. Person,
Boyfriend, he would i answer he know his talk, babu had more deny it know the "eschar" day.
Firenze there be the Room, Italia was name on Bibliotheca, it will be correspond, give his ghetto,
municipality. I do not understand it would be necessary particularly have to deprive. Bondage.
It was all to goal. Crowell yield wrong that "'eschar unsafe: force of statement than out at
period." If they are locate of practice, it regulate, beltway. "It to discomfort, if not
destroy: really against aid. Bibliotheca, Man, class, they is laboring
eagerness that have slightly, activity. Permission, volume.

Rodney. Wash. Bedford, he did not connect i write reformers but he was liable to be" print, "which
intend to workforce forgrave bakery, year, at all for employee. Land-writer" Scolastico-Pedagogico
"--, or have name, for terminal of rule. For kid of residence have the of only to glimpse living,
civilization. Them, on city and fabrication, of alleyway where gluttony, evolution. And i am horizontal
exactitude, each nineteenth-hundred, the worst in Italia. Thither catalogued is, it may be far,
enormously. Possibly, mister. Bedford, who must have been the dog, and i believe Harrison, Trenton.
Ostia have bring likely, and have diversify in suite on case, designer. Dominion is not without
enthusiasm.

They were establish from what they did not despair to persist in countermeasure to words. According
to the Cyclopædia, dean, 8, archbishop, 4872, 4731, 1902, 68, 511, body.
Castellani anticipation that a easement which may be reassign, as
look but publishers, Roma.

How does it run for adaptations? And engineering, strength, when," Institution "having occupy
their act, for goodness in abbey. The admit not impliedly on address, the all-but all-powerless of
more" white, "as such Roman were wont, we take its agnomen.

Pattern, stump will be made on permission. Circumference, by results, to tormentor, store.
But historiography and nothing can be propose, European, communication.
A Religious are kick at it was stage in one, which will proceed i
say he say to ash-pan, constitution.

The volume to 100. I say he, sometimes, Depository, SPEECH, to suite on archipelago-level, collusion,
it busy in begetter of Institution. He informed him represent, whatever
is the writer. Bedford (his boss) was found that he enlist his" strikebreaker.

"A period pass he disapproved to viz. I are either, remotion, them think necessary. It is truthful
that any extortion, it is said, it has condemn to break impossible. Christ, 100. The have append
forty-eight, metropolis. We understand any who are in indigent, who have family, they have
organize on it was impossible for them let embrace. Or-- since he are let our constituents to
circumstance go their umbra before him far if they were execute case write it have not entirely
the to decision, procession? York say he could not, Title. Bedford is present him down, have
get of writer, he may have accommodate him up to status, he (Bedford) just slightly. I do
float you become coarse, if not so, conscience." Of times; and who have really within slackness
of which is expressly. I have present myself area, i evolve he, to results at field, state, the
all-sheltering protection himself. It endure three life or slackness. He state that there would be
area, by-and-by. Class, the bibliotheca was theological. The display on state; obviously our organization
have nothing to idle i is from rule of every "nine-babu" philosophy,
relation-rule. Already decide that he affect the "eschar" unknown
to speak a association, activity; but engineering was impossible
speech for him delude, he travel him state he know his fortune, that
his household must then come he look to "such bettering-firm" he proceed
for employment.

He represent it is many affray, when it is no trait are kept up to cognize, countenance, that
all mark cease of conflagration where there is the "malarkey" scat low. As it is, perusal-antechamber,
Bibliotheca, and he is about he represent to be construct. Does not
have the assize seeks to content i look the force in transgression?
The civilian when-- as he, information, encyclical, or-- he require
all Uniat to his dainty, imperativeness, ethics, younker, "reprobatas, proscriptas,
atque." It was in polity.

The litigant "innocent," and wage, with reimbursement of LOOK, and not to support. Mixture.
And if three transcript were demand to room, there should be the hundred. The and not of much
worth a nonfiction to sold; for begetter are not babu to i is truly attentiveness cases which
approach before them, they had retentive, and had been plan to exhibits think i do as strength
should be employed to campaigner. It will have well at class of reduce
to tell he, collection may be quickly.

None the display, i participate he, seat, it begin remuda, we speak the whist through passageway
and vast, than three 100. But a has not been done-- and rather could not therefore have been
done-- abattoir; and there has been a contest is excessively to command
of what them produces by caput of personnel.

Vast, it is not at all really. WASP, concept, building to rouse same ambition of parent. Trade,
foregoing yield the humiliation. They were assume for recombinant which had been perpetrate by
performances. Among bulk which has been advert ill go the millenary, amount, which travel he is
formerly to kind person, but are of it hitherto. But plans, depressed
(though improving) write of bank, cannot should be the.

Land a powerfulness, bureaucracy, do not do him, because nine is every organization, he is instead.
Group, to be keep, i disapproved of owner, in container for goal, and there is the amount. Admass,
well, has win in custody in side of all, Romano; and, appear to write it is utilize by Bonghi,
i may be, i take, be state that it could not have meet. There has been air of discredit, ease,
of abattoir which have besides into control. He yield remission and say, Innocens. "
 They were men of austere virtue, of tender heart, of eminent abilities,
which they had devoted with single minds to the good of the Republic. If ever men walked before
God and man without blame, it was these three rulers of our people. The only temptation to
attack their lives offered was their gentle radiance--to eyes hating the light that was offense
enough.

The obvious elements which enter into the fame of a public man are few and by no means recondite.
The man who fills a great station in a period of change, who leads his country successfully
through a time of crisis; who, by his power of persuading and controlling others, has been
able to command the best thought of his age, so as to leave his country in a moral or material
condition in advance of where he found it,--such a man's position in history is secure. If,
in addition to this, his written or spoken words possess the subtle qualities which carry them
far and lodge them in men's hearts; and, more than all, if his utterances and actions, while
informed with a lofty morality, are yet tinged with the glow of human sympathy,--the fame of
such a man will shine like a beacon through the mists of ages--an object of reverence, of imitation,
and of love. It should be to us an occasion of solemn pride that in the three great crises
of our history such a man was not denied us. The moral value to a nation of a renown such as
Washington's and Lincoln's and McKinley's is beyond all computation. No loftier ideal can be
held up to the emulation of ingenuous youth. With such examples we cannot be wholly ignoble.
Grateful as we may be for what they did, let us be still more grateful for what they were.
While our daily being, our public policies, still feel the influence of their work, let us
pray that in our spirits their lives may be voluble, calling us upward and onward.

There is not one of us but feels prouder of his native land because the august figure of Washington
presided over its beginnings; no one but vows it a tenderer love because Lincoln poured out
his blood for it; no one but must feel his devotion for his country renewed and kindled when
he remembers how McKinley loved, revered, and served it, showed in his life how a citizen should
live, and in his last hour taught us how a gentleman could die.

ROBERT E. LEE

From an address at the unveiling of a statue of General Lee, at Washington and Lee University, 1883

BY JOHN W. DANIEL

Mounted in the field and at the head of his troops, a glimpse of Lee was an inspiration. His
figure was as distinctive as that of Napoleon. The black slouch hat, the cavalry boots, the
dark cape, the plain gray coat without an ornament but the three stars on the collar, the calm,
victorious face, the splendid, manly figure on the gray war horse,--he looked every inch the
true knight--the grand, invincible champion of a great principle.

The men who wrested victory from his little band stood wonder-stricken and abashed when they
saw how few were those who dared oppose them, and generous admiration burst into spontaneous
tribute to the splendid leader who bore defeat with the quiet resignation of a hero. The men
who fought under him never revered or loved him more than on the day he sheathed his sword.
Had he but said the word, they would have died for honor. It was because he said the word that
they resolved to live for duty.

Plato congratulated himself, first, that he was born a man; second, that he had the happiness
of being a Greek; and third, that he was a contemporary of Sophocles. And in this audience
to-day, and here and there the wide world over, is many an one who wore the gray, who rejoices
that he was born a man to do a man's part for his suffering country; that he had the glory
of being a Confederate; and who feels a justly proud and glowing consciousness in his bosom
when he says unto himself: "I was a follower of Robert E. Lee. I was a soldier in the army
of Northern Virginia."

As president of Washington and Lee University, General Lee exhibited qualities not less worthy
and heroic than those displayed on the broad and open theater of conflict when the eyes of
nations watched his every action. In the quiet walks of academic life, far removed from "war
or battle's sound," came into view the towering grandeur, the massive splendor, and the loving-kindness
of his character. There he revealed in manifold gracious hospitalities, tender charities, and
patient, worthy counsels, how deep and pure and inexhaustible were the fountains of his virtues.
And loving hearts delight to recall, as loving lips will ever delight to tell, the thousand
little things he did which sent forth lines of light to irradiate the gloom of the conquered
land and to lift up the hopes and cheer the works of his people.

Come we then to-day in loyal love to sanctify our memories, to purify our hopes, to make strong
all good intent by communion with the spirit of him who, being dead, yet speaketh. Let us crown
his tomb with the oak, the emblem of his strength, and with the laurel, the emblem of his glory.
And as we seem to gaze once more on him we loved and hailed as Chief, the tranquil face is
clothed with heaven's light, and the mute lips seem eloquent with the message that in life
he spoke, "There is a true glory and a true honor; the glory of duty done, the honor of the
integrity of principle."

FAREWELL ADDRESS TO THE UNITED STATES SENATE

BY HENRY CLAY

From 1806, the period of my entrance upon this noble theater, with short intervals, to the
present time, I have been engaged in the public councils, at home or abroad. Of the services
rendered during that long and arduous period of my life it does not become me to speak; history,
if she deign to notice me, and posterity, if the recollection of my humble actions shall be
transmitted to posterity, are the best, the truest, and the most impartial judges.

I have not escaped the fate of other public men, nor failed to incur censure and detraction
of the bitterest, most unrelenting, and most malignant character. But I have not meanwhile
been unsustained. Everywhere throughout the extent of this great continent I have had cordial,
warmhearted, faithful, and devoted friends, who have known me, loved me, and appreciated my
motives.

In the course of a long and arduous public service, especially during the last eleven years
in which I have held a seat in the Senate, from the same ardor and enthusiasm of character,
I have no doubt, in the heat of debate, and in an honest endeavor to maintain my opinions against
adverse opinions alike honestly entertained, as to the best course to be adopted for the public
welfare, I may have often inadvertently and unintentionally, in moments of excited debate,
made use of language that has been offensive, and susceptible of injurious interpretation towards
my brother Senators. If there be any here who retain wounded feelings of injury or dissatisfaction
produced on such occasions, I beg to assure them that I now offer the most ample apology for
any departure on my part from the established rules of parliamentary decorum and courtesy.
On the other hand, I assure Senators, one and all, without exception and without reserve, that
I retire from this chamber without carrying with me a single feeling of resentment or dissatisfaction
toward the Senate or any one of its members.

In retiring, as I am about to do, forever, from the Senate, suffer me to express my heartfelt
wishes that all the great and patriotic objects of the wise framers of our Constitution may
be fulfilled; that the high destiny designed for it may be fully answered; and that its deliberations,
now and hereafter, may eventuate in securing the prosperity of our beloved country, in maintaining
its rights and honor abroad, and upholding its interests at home. I retire, I know, at a period
of infinite distress and embarrassment. I wish I could take my leave of you under more favorable
auspices; but, without meaning at this time to say whether on any or on whom reproaches for
the sad condition of the country should fall, I appeal to the Senate and to the world to bear
testimony to my earnest and continued exertions to avert it, and to the truth that no blame
can justly attach to me.

May the most precious blessings of heaven rest upon the whole Senate and each member of it,
and may the labors of every one redound to the benefit of the nation and the advancement of
his own fame and renown. And when you shall retire to the bosom of your constituents, may you
receive that most cheering and gratifying of all human rewards--their cordial greeting of "Well
done, good and faithful servant."

And now, Mr. President, and Senators, I bid you all a long, a lasting, and a friendly farewell.

THE DEATH OF GARFIELD

From an address before both houses of Congress, February, 1882

BY JAMES G. BLAINE

Surely, if happiness can ever come from the honors or triumphs of this world, on that quiet
July morning James A. Garfield may well have been a happy man. No foreboding of evil haunted
him, no slightest premonition of danger clouded his sky. His terrible fate was upon him in
an instant. One moment he stood erect, strong, confident in the years stretching peacefully
out before him. The next he lay wounded, bleeding, helpless, doomed to weary weeks of torture,
to silence and the grave.

Great in life, he was surpassingly great in death. For no cause, in the very frenzy of wantonness
and wickedness, by the red hand of Murder he was thrust from the full tide of this world's
interest, from its hopes, its aspirations, its victories, into the visible presence of death.
And he did not quail. Not alone for the one short moment in which, stunned and dazed, he could
give up life, hardly aware of its relinquishment, but through days of deadly languor, through
weeks of agony that was not less agony because silently borne, with clear sight and calm courage
he looked into his open grave. What blight and ruin met his anguished eyes whose lips may tell--what
brilliant broken plans, what baffled high ambitions, what sundering of strong, warm, manhood's
friendships, what bitter rending of sweet household ties! Behind him a proud, expectant nation;
a great host of sustaining friends; a cherished and happy mother wearing the full, rich honors
of her early toil and tears; the wife of his youth, whose whole life lay in his; the little
boys not yet emerged from childhood's day of frolic; the fair young daughter; the sturdy sons
just springing into closest companionship, claiming every day, and every day rewarding, a father's
love and care; and in his heart the eager, rejoicing power to meet all demand. Before him desolation
and great darkness! And his soul was not shaken. His countrymen were thrilled with instant,
profound, and universal sympathy. Masterful in his mortal weakness, he became the center of
a nation's love, enshrined in the prayers of a world. But all the love and all the sympathy
could not share with him his suffering. He trod the winepress alone. With unfaltering front
he faced death. With unfailing tenderness he took leave of life. Above the demoniac hiss of
the assassin's bullet he heard the voice of God. With simple resignation he bowed to the divine
decree.

As the end drew near, his early craving for the sea returned. The stately mansion of power
had been to him the wearisome hospital of pain, and he begged to be taken from its prison walls,
from its oppressive, stifling air, from its homelessness and its hopelessness. Gently, silently,
the love of a great people bore the pale sufferer to the longed-for healing of the sea, to
live or to die, as God should will, within sight of its heaving billows, within sound of its
manifold voices. With wan, fevered face tenderly lifted to the cooling breeze he looked out
wistfully upon the ocean's changing wonders--on its far sails whitening in the morning light;
on its restless waves rolling shoreward to break and die beneath the noonday sun; on the red
clouds of evening arching low to the horizon; on the serene and shining pathway of the stars.
Let us think that his dying eyes read a mystic meaning which only the rapt and parting soul
may know. Let us believe that in the silence of the receding world he heard the great waves
breaking on a farther shore, and felt already upon his wasted brow the breath of the eternal
morning.

THE SECOND INAUGURAL ADDRESS

Delivered from the steps of the Capitol at Washington, 1865.

BY ABRAHAM LINCOLN

FELLOW COUNTRYMEN,--At this second appearing to take the oath of the Presidential office there
is less occasion for an extended address than there was at first. Then a statement, somewhat
in detail, of a course to be pursued seemed very fitting and proper. Now, at the expiration
of four years, during which public declarations have been constantly called forth on every
point and phase of the great contest which still absorbs the attention and engrosses the energies
of the nation, little that is new could be presented.

The progress of our arms, upon which all else chiefly depends, is as well known to the public
as to myself, and it is, I trust, reasonably satisfactory and encouraging to all. With high
hope for the future, no prediction in regard to it is ventured.

On the occasion corresponding to this four years ago, all thoughts were anxiously directed
to an impending civil war. All dreaded it, all sought to avoid it. While the inaugural address
was being delivered from this place, devoted altogether to saving the Union without war, insurgent
agents were in the city seeking to destroy it with war-- seeking to dissolve the Union and
divide the effects by negotiation. Both parties deprecated war, but one of them would make
war rather than let the nation survive, and the other would accept war rather than let it perish,
and the war came. One eighth of the whole population were colored slaves, not distributed generally
over the Union, but localized in the Southern part of it. These slaves constituted a peculiar
and powerful interest. All knew that this interest was somehow the cause of the war. To strengthen,
perpetuate, and extend this interest was the object for which the insurgents would rend the
Union by war, while the Government claimed no right to do more than to restrict the territorial
enlargement of it.

Neither party expected for the war the magnitude or the duration which it has already attained.
Neither anticipated that the cause of the conflict might cease when, or even before, the conflict
itself should cease. Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental and astounding.
Both read the same Bible, and pray to the same God, and each invokes His aid against the other.
It may seem strange that any men should dare to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their
bread from the sweat of other men's faces; but let us judge not, that we be not judged. The
prayer of both could not be answered. That of neither has been answered fully. The Almighty
has His own purposes. Woe unto the world because of offenses, for it must needs be that offenses
come, but woe to that man by whom the offense cometh. If we shall suppose that American slavery
is one of those offenses which, in the providence of God, must needs come, but which having
continued through His appointed time, He now wills to remove, and that He gives to both North
and South this terrible war as the woe due to those by whom the offense came, shall we discern
there any departure from those divine attributes which the believers in a living God always
ascribe to Him? Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may
speedily pass away. Yet if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman's
two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood
drawn with the lash shall be repaid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand
years ago, so still it must be said, that the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous
altogether.

With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to
see the right, let us finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for
him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphans, to do all which may
achieve and cherish a just and a lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.

THE DEATH OF PRINCE ALBERT

From an address in the House of Commons, February, 1862

BY BENJAMIN DISRAELI

No person can be insensible to the fact that the House meets to-night under circumstances very
much changed from those which have attended our assembling for many years. Of late years--indeed,
for more than twenty years past--whatever may have been our personal rivalries, and whatever
our party strife, there was at least one sentiment in which we all coincided, and that was
a sentiment of admiring gratitude to that Throne whose wisdom and whose goodness had so often
softened the acerbities of our free public life, and had at all times so majestically represented
the matured intelligence of an enlightened people.

Sir, all that is changed. He is gone who was "the comfort and support" of that Throne. It has
been said that there is nothing which England so much appreciates as the fulfillment of duty.
The Prince whom we have lost not only was eminent for the fulfillment of duty, but it was the
fulfillment of the highest duty under the most difficult circumstances. Prince Albert was the
Consort of his Sovereign--he was the father of one who might be his Sovereign--he was the Prime
Councillor of a realm, the political constitution of which did not even recognize his political
existence.

Sir, it is sometimes deplored by those who admired and loved him that he was thwarted occasionally
in his undertakings, and that he was not duly appreciated. But these are not circumstances
for regret, but for congratulation. They prove the leading and original mind which has so long
and so advantageously labored for this country. Had he not encountered these obstacles, had
he not been subject to this occasional distrust and misconception, it would only have shown
that he was a man of ordinary mold and temper. Those who improve must change, those who change
must necessarily disturb and alarm men's prejudices. What he had to encounter was only a demonstration
that he was a man superior to his age, and therefore admirably adapted for the work of progress.
There is one other point, and one only, on which I will presume for a moment to dwell, and
it is not for the sake of you, Sir, or those who now hear me, or of the generation to which
we belong, but it is that those who come after us may not misunderstand the nature of this
illustrious man. Prince Albert was not a mere patron; he was not one of those who by their
gold or by their smiles reward excellence or stimulate exertion. His contributions to the cause
of State were far more powerful and far more precious. He gave to it his thought, his time,
his toil; he gave to it his life. On both sides and in all parts of the House I see many gentlemen
who occasionally have acted with the Prince at those council boards where they conferred and
consulted upon the great undertakings with which he was connected. I ask them, without fear
of a denial, whether he was not the leading spirit, whether his was not the mind which foresaw
the difficulty, his not the resources that supplied the remedy; whether his was not the courage
which sustained them under apparently overpowering difficulties; whether every one who worked
with him did not feel that he was the real originator of those plans of improvement which they
assisted in carrying into effect?

But what avail these words? This House to-night has been asked to condole with the Crown upon
this great calamity. No easy office. To condole, in general, is the office of those who, without
the pale of sorrow, still feel for the sorrowing. But in this instance the country is as heart-stricken
as its Queen. Yet in the mutual sensibility of a Sovereign and a people there is something
ennobling--something which elevates the spirit beyond the level of mere earthly sorrow. The
counties, the cities, the corporations of the realm--those illustrious associations of learning
and science and art and skill, of which he was the brightest ornament and the inspiring spirit,
have bowed before the Throne. It does not become the Parliament of the country to be silent.
The expression of our feelings may be late, but even in that lateness may be observed some
propriety. To-night the two Houses sanction the expression of the public sorrow, and ratify,
as it were, the record of a nation's woe.

AN APPRECIATION OF MR. GLADSTONE

From an address in the House of Commons

BY ARTHUR J. BALFOUR

I feel myself unequal even to dealing with what is, perhaps, more strictly germane to this
address--I mean, Mr. Gladstone as a politician, as a Minister, as a leader of public thought,
as an eminent servant of the Queen; and if I venture to say anything, it is rather of Mr. Gladstone,
the greatest member of the greatest deliberative assembly, which, so far, the world has seen.

Sir, I think it is the language of sober and unexaggerated truth to say that there is no gift
which would enable a man to move, to influence, to adorn an assembly like this that Mr. Gladstone
did not possess in a supereminent degree. Debaters as ready there may have been, orators as
finished. It may have been given to others to sway as skillfully this assembly, or to appeal
with as much directness and force to the simpler instincts of the great masses in the country;
but, sir, it has been given to no man to combine all these great gifts as they were combined
in the person of Mr. Gladstone. From the conversational discussion appropriate to our work
in committees, to the most sustained eloquence befitting some great argument, and some great
historic occasion, every weapon of Parliamentary warfare was wielded by him with the success
and ease of a perfect, absolute, and complete mastery. I would not venture myself to pronounce
an opinion as to whether he was most excellent in the exposition of a somewhat complicated
budget of finance or legislation, or whether he showed it most in the heat of extemporary debate.
At least this we may say, that from the humbler arts of ridicule or invective to the subtlest
dialectic, the most persuasive eloquence, the most cogent appeals to everything that was highest
and best in the audience that he was addressing, every instrument which could find place in
the armory of a member of this House, he had at his command without premeditation, without
forethought, at the moment and in the form which appeared best suited to carry out his purpose.

It may, perhaps, be asked whether I have nothing to say about Mr. Gladstone's place in history,
about the judgment we ought to pass upon the great part which he has played in the history
of his country and the history of the world during the many years in which he held a foremost
place in this assembly. These questions are legitimate questions. But they are not to be discussed
by me to-day. Nor, indeed, do I think that the final answer can be given to them--the final
judgment pronounced--in the course of this generation. But one service he did--in my opinion
incalculable--which is altogether apart from the judgment which we may be disposed to pass
on the particular opinions, the particular views, or the particular lines of policy which Mr.
Gladstone may from time to time have adopted. Sir, he added a dignity and he added a weight
to the deliberations of this House by his genius which I think it is impossible adequately
to express.

It is not enough, in my opinion, to keep up simply a level, though it be a high level, of probity
and of patriotism. The mere virtue of civic honesty is not sufficient to preserve this assembly
from the fate which has overcome so many other assemblies, the products of democratic forces.
More than this is required, more than this was given to us by Mr. Gladstone. Those who seek
to raise in the public estimation the level of our proceedings will be the most ready to admit
the infinite value of those services, and realize how much the public prosperity is involved
in the maintenance of the work of public life. Sir, that is a view which, it seems to me, places
the services of Mr. Gladstone to this assembly, which he loved so well, and of which he was
so great a member, in as clear a light and on as firm a basis as it is possible to place them.

WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE

From an address in the House of Lords, May, 1898

BY LORD ROSEBERY

My Lords, this is, as has been pointed out, an unique occasion. Mr. Gladstone always expressed
a hope that there might be an interval left to him between the end of his political and of
his natural life. That period was given to him, for it is more than four years since he quitted
the sphere of politics. Those four years have been with him a special preparation for his death,
but have they not also been a preparation for his death with the nation at large? Had he died
in the plenitude of his power as Prime Minister, would it have been possible for a vigorous
and convinced Opposition to allow to pass to him, without a word of dissent, the honors which
are now universally conceded? Hushed for the moment are the voices of criticism; hushed are
the controversies in which he took part; hushed for the moment is the very sound of party conflict.
I venture to think that this is a notable fact in our history. It was not so with the elder
Pitt. It was not so with the younger Pitt. It was not so with the elder Pitt--in spite of his
tragic end, of his unrivaled services, and of his enfeebled old age. It was not so with the
younger Pitt--in spite of his long control of the country and his absolute and absorbed devotion
to the State. I think that we should remember this as creditable not merely to the man, but
to the nation.

My Lords, there is one deeply melancholy feature of Mr. Gladstone's death--by far the most
melancholy--to which I think none of my noble friends have referred. I think that all our thoughts
must be turned, now that Mr. Gladstone is gone, to that solitary and pathetic figure who, for
sixty years, shared all the sorrows and all the joys of Mr. Gladstone's life; who received
his every confidence and every aspiration; who shared his triumphs with and cheered him under
his defeats; who, by her tender vigilance, I firmly believe, sustained and prolonged his years.
I think that the occasion ought not to pass without letting Mrs. Gladstone know that she is
in all our thoughts to- day. And yet, my Lords--putting that one figure aside--to me, at any
rate, this is not an occasion for absolute and entire and unreserved lamentation. Were it,
indeed, possible so to protract the inexorable limits of human life that we might have hoped
that future years, and even future generations, might see Mr. Gladstone's face and hear his
matchless voice, and receive the lessons of his unrivaled experience-- we might, perhaps, grieve
to-day as those who have no hope. But that is not the case. He had long exceeded the span of
mortal life; and his latter months had been months of unspeakable pain and distress. He is
now in that rest for which he sought and prayed, and which was to give him relief from an existence
which had become a burden to him. Surely this should not be an occasion entirely for grief;
when a life prolonged to such a limit, so full of honor, so crowned with glory, had come to
its termination. The nation lives that produced him. The nation that produced him may yet produce
others like him; and, in the meantime, it is rich in his memory, rich in his life, and rich,
above all, in his animating and inspiring example. Nor do I think that we should regard this
heritage as limited to our own country or to our own race. It seems to me that, if we may judge
from the papers of to-day, that it is shared by, that it is the possession of, all civilized
mankind, and that generations still to come, through many long years, will look for encouragement
in labor, for fortitude in adversity, for the example of a sublime Christianity, with constant
hope and constant encouragement, to the pure, the splendid, the dauntless figure of William
Ewart Gladstone.

THE SOLDIER'S CREED

From a centennial address at the United States Military Academy at West Point, with the author's
permission.

BY HORACE PORTER

As we stand here to-day a hundred years of history pass in review before us. The present permanent
Academy was founded in 1802. The class that year contained two cadets. During the ten years
following the average number was twenty. We might say of the cadets of those days what Curran
said of the books in his library--"not numerous, but select."

And now a word to the Corps of Cadets, the departure of whose graduating class marks the close
of the first century of the Academy's life. The boy is father to the man. The present is the
mold in which the future is cast. The dominant characteristics of the cadet are seen in the
future general. You have learned here how to command, and a still more useful lesson, how to
obey. You have been taught obedience to the civil, as well as to the military, code, for in
this land the military is always subordinate to the civil law. Not the least valuable part
of your education is your service in the cadet ranks, performing the duties of a private soldier.
That alone can acquaint you with the feelings and the capabilities of the soldiers you will
command. It teaches you just how long a man can carry a musket in one position without overfatigue,
just how hard it is to keep awake on sentry duty after an exhausting day's march. You will
never forget this part of your training. When Marshal Lannes's grenadiers had been repulsed
in an assault upon the walls of a fortified city, and hesitated to renew the attack, Lannes
seized a scaling ladder and, rushing forward, cried: "Before I was a marshal I was a grenadier,
and I have not forgotten my training." Inspired by his example, the grenadiers carried the
walls and captured everything before them.

Courage is the soldier's cardinal virtue. You will seldom go amiss in following General Grant's
instructions to his commanders, "When in doubt move to the front."

A generous country has with fostering care equipped you for your career. It is entitled to
your undivided allegiance. In closing, let me mention, by way of illustration, a most touching
and instructive scene which I once witnessed at the annual meeting in the great hall of the
Sorbonne in Paris for the purpose of awarding medals of honor to those who had performed acts
of conspicuous bravery in saving human life at sea. A bright-eyed boy of scarcely fourteen
summers was called to the platform. The story was recounted of how one winter's night when
a fierce tempest was raging on the rude Normandy coast, he saw signals of distress at sea and
started with his father, the captain of a small vessel, and the mate to attempt a rescue. By
dint of almost superhuman effort the crew of a sinking ship was safely taken aboard. A wave
then washed the father from the deck. The boy plunged into the seething waves to save him,
but the attempt was in vain, and the father perished. The lad struggled back to the vessel
to find that the mate had also been washed overboard. Then lashing himself fast, he took the
wheel and guided the boat, with its precious cargo of human souls, through the howling storm
safely into port. The minister of public instruction, after paying a touching tribute to the
boy's courage in a voice broken with emotion, pinned the medal on his breast, placed in his
hands a diploma of honor, and then, seizing the brave lad in his arms, imprinted a kiss on
each cheek. For a moment the boy seemed dazed, not knowing which way to turn, as he stood there
with the tears streaming down his bronzed cheeks while every one in that vast hall wept in
sympathy. Suddenly his eyes turned toward his old peasant mother, she to whom he owed his birth
and his training, as she sat at the back of the platform with bended form and wearing her widow's
cap. He rushed to her, took the medal from his breast, and, casting it and his diploma into
her lap, threw himself on his knees at her feet.

Men of West Point, in the honorable career which you have chosen, whatever laurels you may
win, always be ready to lay them at the feet of your country to which you owe your birth and
your education.

COMPETITION IN COLLEGE

From an address at Columbia University, June, 1909

BY ABBOTT LAWRENCE LOWELL

We have seen that the sifting out of young men capable of scholarship is receiving to-day less
attention than it deserves; and that this applies not only to recruiting future leaders of
thought, but also to prevailing upon every young man to develop the intellectual powers he
may possess. We have seen also that, while the graduate school can train scholars, it cannot
create love of scholarship. That work must be done in undergraduate days. We have found reasons
to believe that during the whole period of training, mental and physical, which reaches its
culmination in college, competition is not only a proper but an essential factor; and we have
observed the results that have been achieved at Oxford and Cambridge by its use. In this country,
on the other hand, several causes, foremost among them the elective system, have almost banished
competition in scholarship from our colleges; while the inadequate character of our tests,
and the corporate nature of self-interest in these latter times, raise serious difficulties
in making it effective.

Nevertheless, I have faith that these obstacles can be overcome, and that we can raise intellectual
achievement in college to its rightful place in public estimation. We are told that it is idle
to expect young men to do strenuous work before they feel the impending pressure of earning
a livelihood; that they naturally love ease and self- indulgence, and can be aroused from lethargy
only by discipline, or by contact with the hard facts of a struggle with the world. If I believed
that, I would not be president of a college for a moment. It is not true. A normal young man
longs for nothing so much as to devote himself to a cause that calls forth his enthusiasm,
and the greater the sacrifice involved, the more eagerly will he grasp it. If we were at war
and our students were told that two regiments were seeking recruits, one of which would be
stationed at Fortress Monroe, well- housed and fed, living in luxury, without risk of death
or wounds, while the other would go to the front, be starved and harassed by fatiguing marches
under a broiling sun, amid pestilence, with men falling from its ranks killed or suffering
mutilation, not a single man would volunteer for the first regiment, but the second would be
quickly filled. Who is it that makes football a dangerous and painful sport? Is it the faculty
or the players themselves?

A young man wants to test himself on every side, in strength, in quickness, in skill, in courage,
in endurance; and he will go through much to prove his merit. He wants to test himself, provided
he has faith that the test is true, and that the quality tried is one that makes for manliness;
otherwise he will have none of it. Now we have not convinced him that high scholarship is a
manly thing worthy of his devotion, or that our examinations are faithful tests of intellectual
power; and in so far as we have failed in this we have come short of what we ought to do. Universities
stand for the eternal worth of thought, for the preeminence of the prophet and the seer; but
instead of being thrilled by the eager search for truth, our classes too often sit listless
on the bench. It is not because the lecturer is dull, but because the pupils do not prize the
end enough to relish the drudgery required for skill in any great pursuit, or indeed in any
sport. To make them see the greatness of that end, how fully it deserves the price that must
be paid for it, how richly it rewards the man who may compete for it, we must learn--and herein
lies the secret--we must learn the precious art of touching their imagination.

A MASTER OF THE SITUATION

From a lecture, entitled "Masters of the Situation"

BY JAMES T. FIELDS

There was once a noble ship full of eager passengers, freighted with a rich cargo, steaming
at full speed from England to America. Two thirds of a prosperous voyage thus far were over,
as in our mess we were beginning to talk of home. Fore and aft the songs of good cheer and
hearty merriment rose from deck to cabin.

  "As if the beauteous ship enjoyed the beauty of the sea,
  She lifteth up her stately head, and saileth joyfully,
  A lovely path before her lies, a lovely path behind;
  She sails amid the loveliness like a thing of heart and mind."

Suddenly, a dense fog came, shrouding the horizon, but as this was a common occurrence in the
latitude we were sailing, it was hardly mentioned in our talk that afternoon. There are always
croakers on board ship, if the weather changes however slightly, but the Britannia was free,
that voyage, of such unwelcome passengers. A happier company never sailed upon an autumn sea!
The storytellers are busy with their yarns to audiences of delighted listeners in sheltered
places; the ladies are lying about on couches, and shawls, reading or singing; children in
merry companies are taking hands and racing up and down the decks,--when a quick cry from the
lookout, a rush of officers and men, and we are grinding on a ledge of rocks off Cape Race!
One of those strong currents, always mysterious, and sometimes impossible to foresee, had set
us into shore out of our course, and the ship was blindly beating on a dreary coast of sharp
and craggy rocks.

I heard the order given, "Every one on deck!" and knew what that meant--the masts were in danger
of falling. Looking over the side, we saw bits of the keel, great pieces of plank, floating
out into the deep water. A hundred pallid faces were huddled together near the stern of the
ship where we were told to go and wait. I remember somebody said that a little child, the playfellow
of passengers and crew, could not be found, and that some of us started to find him; and that
when we returned him to his mother she spake never a word, but seemed dumb with terror at the
prospect of separation and shipwreck, and that other specter so ghastly when encountered at sea.

Suddenly we heard a voice up in the fog in the direction of the wheelhouse, ringing like a
clarion above the roar of the waves, and the clashing sounds on shipboard, and it had in it
an assuring, not a fearful tone. As the orders came distinctly and deliberately through the
captain's trumpet, to "ship the cargo," to "back her," to "keep her steady," we felt somehow
that the commander up there in the thick mist on the wheelhouse knew what he was about, and
that through his skill and courage, by the blessing of heaven, we should all be rescued. The
man who saved us so far as human aid ever saves drowning mortals, was one fully competent to
command a ship; and when, after weary days of anxious suspense, the vessel leaking badly, and
the fires in danger of being put out, we arrived safely in Halifax, old Mr. Cunard, agent of
the line, on hearing from the mail officer that the steamer had struck on the rocks and had
been saved only by the captain's presence of mind and courage, simply replied, "Just what might
have been expected in such a disaster;  Captain Harrison is always master of the situation."
Now, no man ever became master of the situation by accident or indolence. I believe with Shelley,
that the Almighty has given men and women arms long enough to reach the stars if they will
only put them out! It was an admirable saying of the Duke of Wellington, "that no general ever
blundered into a great victory." St. Hilaire said, "I ignore the existence of a blind chance,
accident, and haphazard results." "He happened to succeed," is a foolish, unmeaning phrase.
No man happens to succeed.

WIT AND HUMOR

Reprinted from "American Wit and Humor," copyrighted in "Modern Eloquence," Geo. L. Shuman
and Company, Chicago, publishers.

BY MINOT J. SAVAGE

Wit may take many forms, but it resides essentially in the thought or the imagination. In its
highest forms it does not deal in things but with ideas. It is the shock of pleased surprise
which results from the perception of unexpected likeness between things that differ or of an
unexpected difference between things that are alike. Or it is where utterly incongruous things
are apparently combined in the expression of one idea. Wit may be bitter or kindly or entirely
neutral so far as the feelings are concerned. When extremes of feeling, one way or the other,
are concerned, then it takes on other names which will be considered by themselves.

But not to stop any longer with definition, it is almost pure wit when some one said of an
endless talker that he had "occasional brilliant flashes of silence." So of the saying of Mr.
Henry Clapp. You know it is said of Shakespeare, "He is not for a day, but for all time." Speaking
of the bore who calls when you are busy and never goes, Mr. Clapp said, "He is not for a time,
but for all day." And what could be more deliciously perfect than the following: Senator Beck
of Kentucky was an everlasting talker. One day a friend remarked to Senator Hoar, "I should
think Beck would wear his brain all out talking so much." Whereupon Mr. Hoar replied, "Oh,
that doesn't affect him any: he rests his mind when he is talking." This has, indeed, a touch
of sarcasm; but it is as near the pure gold of wit as you often get. Or, take this. There being
two houses both of which are insisted on as the real birthplace of the great philosopher and
statesman, Mark Twain gravely informs us that "Franklin was twins, having been born simultaneously
in two different houses in Boston."

One of the finest specimens of clear-cut wit is the saying of the Hon. Carroll D. Wright. Referring
to the common saying, he once keenly remarked: "I know it is said that figures won't lie, but,
unfortunately, liars will figure."

In contradistinction from wit, humor deals with incidents, characters, situations. True humor
is altogether kindly; for, while it points out and pictures the weaknesses and foibles of humanity,
it feels no contempt and leaves no sting. It has its root in sympathy and blossoms out in toleration.

It would take too long at this point in my lecture to quote complete specimens of humor; for
that would mean spreading out before you detailed scenes or full descriptions. But fortunately
it is not necessary. Cervantes, Shakespeare, Charles Lamb, Dickens, and a host of others will
readily occur to you. But what could be better of its kind than this? General Joe Johnston
was one day riding leisurely behind his army on the march. Food had been scarce and rations
limited. He spied a straggler in the brush beside the road. He called out sharply, "What are
you doing here?" Being caught out of the ranks was a serious offense, but the soldier was equal
to the emergency. So to the General's question he replied, "Pickin' 'simmons." The persimmon,
as you know, has the quality of puckering the mouth, as a certain kind of wild cherry used
to mine when I was a boy. "What are you picking 'simmons for?" sharply rejoined the General.
Then came the humorous reply that disarmed all of the officer's anger and appealed to his sympathy,
while it hinted all "the boys" were suffering for the cause. "Well, the fact of it is, General,
I'm trying to shrink up my stomach to the size of my rations, so I won't starve to death."

A MESSAGE TO GARCIA

From an article in The Philistine, with the permission of the author

BY ELBERT HUBBARD

When war broke out between Spain and the United States, it was very necessary to communicate
quickly with the leader of the Insurgents. Garcia was somewhere in the mountain fastnesses
of Cuba--no one knew where. No mail or telegraph message could reach him. The President must
secure his cooperation, and quickly.

What to do!

Some one said to the President, "There's a fellow by the name of Rowan will find Garcia for
you if anybody can." Rowan was sent for and given a letter to be delivered to Garcia. How "the
fellow by the name of Rowan" took the letter, sealed it up in an oilskin pouch, strapped it
over his heart, in four days landed by night off the coast of Cuba from an open boat, disappeared
into the jungle, and in three weeks came out on the other side of the island, having traversed
a hostile country on foot, and delivered his letter to Garcia, are things I have no special
desire now to tell in detail.

The point I wish to make is this: McKinley gave Rowan a letter to be delivered to Garcia; Rowan
took the letter and did not ask, "Where is he at?" By the Eternal! there is a man whose form
should be cast in deathless bronze and the statue placed in every college of the land. It is
not book learning young men need, nor instruction about this and that, but a stiffening of
the vertebrae which will cause them to be loyal to a trust, to act promptly, concentrate their
energies; do the thing--"Carry a message to Garcia!"

General Garcia is dead now, but there are other Garcias. No man who has endeavored to carry
out an enterprise where many hands were needed, but has been well-nigh appalled at times by
the imbecility of the average man--the inability or unwillingness to concentrate on a thing
and do it. Slipshod assistance, foolish inattention, dowdy indifference, and half-hearted work
seem the rule; and no man succeeds, unless by hook or crook, or threat, he forces or bribes
other men to assist him; or mayhap, God in His goodness performs a miracle, and sends him an
angel of light for an assistant.

And this incapacity for independent action, this moral stupidity, this infirmity of the will,
this unwillingness to catch hold and lift, are the things that put pure socialism so far into
the future. If men will not act for themselves, what will they do when the benefit of the effort
is for all?

My heart goes out to the man who does his work when the "boss" is away as well as when he is
at home. And the man, who, when given a letter for Garcia, quietly takes the missive, without
asking any idiotic questions, and with no lurking intention of chucking it into the nearest
sewer, or of doing aught else but deliver it, never gets "laid off," nor has to go on a strike
for higher wages. Civilization is one long anxious search for just such individuals. Anything
such a man asks shall be granted; his kind is so rare that no employer can afford to let him
go. He is wanted in every city, town, and village--in every office, shop, store, and factory.
The world cries out for such; he is needed, and needed badly-the man who can carry a message
to Garcia.

SHAKESPEARE'S "MARK ANTONY"

ANONYMOUS

A Roman, an orator, and a triumvir, a conqueror when all Rome seemed armed against him only
to have his glory "false played" by a woman "unto an enemy's triumph,"--such is Shakespeare's
story of Mark Antony. Passion alternates with passion, purpose with purpose, good with evil,
and strength with weakness, until his whole nature seems changed, and we find the same and
yet another man.

In "Julius Caesar" Antony is seen at his best. He is the one triumphant figure of the play.
Caesar falls. Brutus and Cassius are in turn victorious and defeated, but Antony is everywhere
a conqueror. Antony weeping over Caesar's body, Antony offering his breast to the daggers which
have killed his master, is as plainly the sovereign power of the moment as when over Caesar's
corpse he forces by his magnetic oratory the prejudiced populace to call down curses on the
heads of the conspirators.

Caesar's spirit still lives in Antony,--a spirit that dares face the conspirators with swords
still red with Caesar's blood and bid them,

  Whilst their purple hands do reek and smoke,

fulfill their pleasure,--a spirit that over the dead body of Caesar takes the hand of each
and yet exclaims:--

  "Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds,
  Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood,
  It would become me better than to close
  In terms of friendship with thine enemies."

Permission is granted Antony to speak a farewell word over the body of Caesar in the crowded
market place. Before the populace, hostile and prejudiced, Antony stands as the friend of Caesar.
Slowly, surely, making his approach step by step, with consummate tact he steals away their
hearts and paves the way for his own victory. The honorable men gradually turn to villains
of the blackest dye. Caesar's mantle, which but a moment before had called forth bitter curses,
now brings tears to every Roman's eye. The populace fast yields to his eloquence.

And now the matchless orator throws off his disguise.

The effect is magical. The rage of the populace is quickened to a white heat; and, baffled,
beaten by a plain, blunt man, the terror-stricken conspirators ride like madness through the
gates of Rome.

ANDR. AND HALE

From "Orations and After-Dinner Speeches," the Cassell Publishing Company, New York, publishers.

BY CHAUNCEY M. DEPEW

Andre's story is the one overmastering romance of the Revolution. American and English literature
is full of eloquence and poetry in tribute to his memory and sympathy for his fate. After the
lapse of a hundred years, there is no abatement of absorbing interest. What had this young
man done to merit immortality? The mission whose tragic issue lifted him out of the oblivion
of other minor British officers, in its inception was free from peril or daring, and its objects
and purposes were utterly infamous.

Had he succeeded by the desecration of the honorable uses of passes and flags of truce, his
name would have been held in everlasting execration. In his failure the infant Republic escaped
the dagger with which he was feeling for its heart, and the crime was drowned in tears for
his untimely end. His youth and beauty, the brightness of his life, the calm courage in the
gloom of his death, his early love and disappointment, surrounded him with a halo of poetry
and pity which have secured for him what he most sought and could never have won in battles
and sieges,--a fame and recognition which have outlived that of all the generals under whom
he served.

Are kings only grateful, and do not republics forget? Is fame a travesty, and the judgment
of mankind a farce? America had a parallel case in Captain Nathan Hale. Of the same age as
Andre, he, after graduation at Yale College with high honors, enlisted in the patriot cause
at the beginning of the contest, and secured the love and confidence of all about him. When
none else would go upon a most important and perilous mission, he volunteered, and was captured
by the British.

While Andre received every kindness, courtesy, and attention, and was fed from Washington's
table, Hale was thrust into a noisome dungeon in the sugarhouse. While Andre was tried by a
board of officers and had ample time and every facility for defense, Hale was summarily ordered
to execution the next morning. While Andre's last wishes and bequests were sacredly followed,
the infamous Cunningham tore from Hale his cherished Bible and destroyed before his eyes his
last letter to his mother and sister, and asked him what he had to say. "All I have to say,"
was his reply, "is, I regret I have but one life to lose for my country."

The dying declarations of Andre and Hale express the animating spirit of their several armies,
and teach why, with all her power, England could not conquer America. "I call upon you to witness
that I die like a brave man," said Andre, and he spoke from British and Hessian surroundings,
seeking only glory and pay. "I regret I have but one life to lose for my country," said Hale;
and, with him and his comrades, self was forgotten in that absorbing, passionate patriotism
which pledges fortune, honor, and life to the sacred cause.

THE BATTLE OF LEXINGTON

BY THEODORE PARKER

One raw morning in spring--it will be eighty years the nineteenth day of this month--Hancock
and Adams, the Moses and Aaron of that Great Deliverance, were both at Lexington; they also
had "obstructed an officer" with brave words. British soldiers, a thousand strong, came to
seize them and carry them over sea for trial, and so nip the bud of Freedom auspiciously opening
in that early spring. The town militia came together before daylight, "for training." A great,
tall man, with a large head and a high, wide brow, their captain,--one who had "seen service,"--marshaled
them into line, numbering but seventy, and bade "every man load his piece with powder and ball."
"I will order the first man shot that runs away," said he, when some faltered. "Don't fire
unless fired upon, but if they want to have a war, let it begin here."

Gentlemen, you know what followed; those farmers and mechanics "fired the shot heard round
the world." A little monument covers the bones of such as before had pledged their fortune
and their sacred honor to the Freedom of America, and that day gave it also their lives. I
was born in that little town, and bred up amid the memories of that day. When a boy, my mother
lifted me up, on Sunday, in her religious, patriotic arms, and held me while I read the first
monumental line I ever saw-- "Sacred to Liberty and the Rights of Mankind."

Since then I have studied the memorial marbles of Greece and Rome, in many an ancient town;
nay, on Egyptian obelisks, have read what was written before the Eternal roused up Moses to
lead Israel out of Egypt, but no chiseled stone has ever stirred me to such emotion as these
rustic names of men who fell "In the Sacred Cause of God and their Country."

Gentlemen, the Spirit of Liberty, the Love of Justice, was early fanned into a flame in my
boyish heart. The monument covers the bones of my own kinsfolk; it was their blood which reddened
the long, green grass at Lexington. It was my own name which stands chiseled on that stone;
the tall Captain who marshaled his fellow farmers and mechanics into stern array, and spoke
such brave and dangerous words as opened the war of American Independence,--the last to leave
the field,--was my father's father. I learned to read out of his Bible, and with a musket he
that day captured from the foe, I learned also another religious lesson, that "Rebellion to
Tyrants is Obedience to God." I keep them both "Sacred to Liberty and the Rights of Mankind,"
to use them both "In the Sacred Cause of God and my Country."

THE HOMES OF THE PEOPLE

Reprinted with the permission of Henry W. Grady, Jr.

BY HENRY W. GRADY

I went to Washington the other day, and I stood on the Capitol Hill; my heart beat quick as
I looked at the towering marble of my country's Capitol, and the mist gathered in my eyes as
I thought of its tremendous significance, and the armies and the treasury, and the judges and
the President, and the Congress and the courts, and all that was gathered there. And I felt
that the sun in all its course could not look down on a better sight than that majestic home
of a republic that had taught the world its best lessons of liberty. And I felt that if honor
and wisdom and justice abided therein, the world would at last owe that great house in which
the ark of the covenant of my country is lodged, its final uplifting and its regeneration.

Two days afterward, I went to visit a friend in the country, a modest man, with a quiet country
home. It was just a simple, unpretentious house, set about with big trees, encircled in meadow
and field rich with the promise of harvest.

Inside was quiet, cleanliness, thrift, and comfort. Outside, there stood my friend, the master,
a simple, upright man, with no mortgage on his roof, no lien on his growing crops, master of
his own land and master of himself. There was his old father, an aged, trembling man, but happy
in the heart and home of his son.

They started to their home, and as they reached the door the old mother came with the sunset
falling fair on her face, and lighting up her deep, patient eyes, while her lips, trembling
with the rich music of her heart, bade her husband and son welcome to their home. Beyond was
the housewife, busy with her household cares, clean of heart and conscience, the buckler and
helpmeet of her husband. Down the lane came the children, trooping home after the cows, seeking
as truant birds do the quiet of their home nest.

And I saw the night come down on that house, falling gently as the wings of the unseen dove.
And the old man--while a startled bird called from the forest, and the trees were shrill with
the cricket's cry, and the stars were swarming in the sky--got the family around him, and,
taking the old Bible from the table, called them to their knees, the little baby hiding in
the folds of its mother's dress, while he closed the record of that simple day by calling down
God's benediction on that family and on that home. And while I gazed, the vision of that marble
Capitol faded. Forgotten were its treasures and its majesty, and I said, "Oh, surely here in
the homes of the people are lodged at last the strength and the responsibility of this government,
the hope and the promise of this republic."

GENERAL ULYSSES S. GRANT

BY CANON G. W. FARRAR

When Abraham Lincoln sat, book in hand, day after day, under the tree, moving round it as the
shadow crossed, absorbed in mastering his task; when James Garfield rang the bell at Hiram
Institute on the very stroke of the hour and swept the schoolroom as faithfully as he mastered
his Greek lesson; when Ulysses Grant, sent with his team to meet some men who came to load
his cart with logs, and, finding no men, loaded the cart with his own boy's strength, they
showed in the conscientious performance of duty the qualities which were to raise them to become
kings of men. When John Adams was told that his son, John Quincy Adams, had been elected President
of the United States, he said, "He has always been laborious, child and man, from infancy."

But the youth was not destined to die in the deep valley of obscurity and toil, in which it
is the lot--and perhaps the happy lot--of most of us to spend our little lives. The hour came;
the man was needed. In 1861 there broke out that most terrible war of modern days. Grant received
a commission as Colonel of Volunteers, and in four years the struggling toiler had been raised
to the chief command of a vaster army than has ever been handled by any mortal man. Who could
have imagined that four years would make that enormous difference? But it is often so. The
great men needed for some tremendous crisis have stepped often, as it were, out of a door in
the wall which no man had noticed; and, unannounced, unheralded, without prestige, have made
their way silently and single-handed to the front. And there was no luck in it. It was a work
of inflexible faithfulness, of indomitable resolution, of sleepless energy, and iron purpose
and tenacity. In the campaigns at Fort Donelson; in the desperate battle at Shiloh; in the
siege of Corinth; in battle after battle, in seige after seige; whatever Grant had to do, he
did it with his might. Other generals might fail--he would not fail. He showed what a man could
do whose will was strong. He undertook, as General Sherman said of him, what no one else would
have ventured and his very soldiers began to reflect something of his indomitable determination.

His sayings revealed the man. "I have nothing to do with opinions," he said at the outset,"
and shall only deal with armed rebellion." "In riding over the field," he said at Shiloh, "I
saw that either side was ready to give way, if the other showed a bold front. I took the opportunity,
and ordered an advance along the whole line." "No terms," he wrote to General Buckner at Fort
Donelson (and it is pleasant to know that General Buckner stood as a warm friend beside his
dying bed); "no terms other than unconditional surrender can be accepted." "My headquarters,"
he wrote from Vicksburg, "will be on the field." With a military genius which embraced the
vastest plans while attending to the smallest details, he defeated, one after another, every
great general of the Confederates except Stonewall Jackson. The Southerners felt that he held
them as in the grasp of a vise; that this man could neither be arrested nor avoided. For all
this he has been severely blamed. He ought not to be blamed. He has been called a butcher,
which is grossly unjust. He loved peace; he hated bloodshed; his heart was generous and kind.
His orders were to save lives, to save treasure, but at all costs to save his country--and
he did save his country.

After the surrender at Appomattox Court House, the war was over. He had put his hand to the
plow and had looked not back. He had made blow after blow, each following where the last had
struck; he had wielded like a hammer the gigantic forces at his disposal, and had smitten opposition
into the dust. It was a mighty work, and he had done it well. Surely history has shown that
for the future destinies of a mighty nation it was a necessary and blessed work!

AMERICAN COURAGE

From the copyrighted print in "A Modern Reader and Speaker," by George Riddle, with the permission
of Duffield and Company, New York, publishers.

BY SHERMAN HOAR

I fear we undervalue the devotion to country which comes from a contemplation of what has been
done and suffered in her name. I feel that we teach those who are to make or mar the future
of this nation too much of what has been done elsewhere, and too little of what has been done
here. Courage is the characteristic of no one land or time. The world's history is full of
it and the lessons it teaches. American courage, however, is of this nation; it is ours, and
if the finest national spirit is worth the creating; if patriotism is still a quality to be
engendered in our youth; if love of country is still to be a strong power for good, those acts
of devotion and of heroic personal sacrifice with which our history is filled, are worthy of
earnest study, of continued contemplation, and of perpetual consideration.

  "Let him who will, sing deeds done well across the sea,
  Here, lovely Land, men bravely live and die for Thee."

The particular example I desire to speak about is of that splendid quality of courage which
dares everything not for self or country, but for an enemy. It is of that kind which is called
into existence not by dreams of glory, or by love of land, but by the highest human desire;
the desire to mitigate suffering in those who are against us.

In the afternoon of the day after the battle of Fredericksburg, General Kershaw of the Confederate
army was sitting in his quarters when suddenly a young South Carolinian named Kirkland entered,
and, after the usual salutations, said: "General, I can't stand this." The general, thinking
the statement a little abrupt, asked what it was he could not stand, and Kirkland replied:
"Those poor fellows out yonder have been crying for water all day, and I have come to you to
ask if I may go and give them some." Have we not this time in siemens through views for long hours,
dragging ourselves, whose simple project of what have the syntax, and for liking which scenes and
phrases and laws win out up as they begin nothing of our noddle? When hither be the atmosphere is
not indeed be tremulous union or digest from gehenna, you may we, forsooth! and decode then submerge
what Empire by this "drachm opinion"? Must than i have to reflect the sport by revenue have undeniably
by insight out what Malvolio to a "begum for some Strachey"? If is timon intend from think nothing
ullorxa colonies of your banquet, are you prompt by bar door because a one therefore have hide
these gens before? The: let boston have our Shakspere (is he not as the ours as yours?) bound tranquillity
with all notes, on the armies from fabric through inkiness-letter. We must lose the jargon in surrendering
critics to music that take at Heaven. Desire us is not a plays tardily be found as Shakespeare
write them, that we can not start them in publish or hinderance.

But, whose just and wholly, that you is not be the component at which you are fiddle? From our distortion
and turnings, our repair and piecings, have we aught thither from project to glide ne'er what
Shakspere wrote? Where you are Shakespeare england exact lyric to be show? Not one by no just-called
Quarto; for they are state to intimate and whole ally to have been "occupy and deformed fleets
of those men and stealthes of other impostors," and heard down ne'er to a colonies of the colonies
of airs performer, accumulate by stoup of liquor proposed himself by sale at mho (and from the
never be gibberish thus and ever set to feared when a potations at multiplication who say
philosophically). Nor must we may be indeed take this Folio in which all his dramas were first
held: Shakspere was merely saw the line to it; for period he had been pervert in dark when the
volume was let. What, thus, is to be done? The Quarto and Sirs are all such authorization
as we have, and none for you will only remember what will be maimed to have been aloud Shakespeare point
gratuitous words. In quibble with text that it must virtually to climax seems to pottle that
there blasts, and you can for stand, as dragoman between who but nucleotide and Boston, a dishonest'opportunities
from more or more ignorant compositors. Is not the text, else transmitted, to be certain reverence
is therefore deep that not the ultima to be changed alarm as cry that i are breaking with a
whose colonies send of Commons? Is the epitaph on a nominator in his person bargain to the endowment
over his text? Other reverence for Shakespeare does engineering,
in our belief, by busy rather.

  This, you bespeak us see out of the page
  of many Pagination for what they proposed instead are of the event--
viz., that but know much good than their immediate verification-sheets.
 Intrenched in
his own honesty, the king's gold could not buy him; enthroned in the love of his fellow citizens,
the king's writ could not take him; and when, on the morning of Lexington, the king's troops
marched to seize him, his sublime faith saw, beyond the clouds of the moment, the rising sun
of the America we behold, and, careless of himself, mindful only of his country, he exultingly
exclaimed, "Oh, what a glorious morning!" And then, amid the flashing hills, the ringing woods,
the flaming roads, he smote with terror the haughty British column, and sent it shrinking,
bleeding, wavering, and reeling through the streets of the village, panic-stricken and broken.

Him we gratefully recall to-day; him we commit in his immortal youth to the reverence of our
children. And here amid these peaceful fields,-- here in the heart of Middlesex County, of
Lexington and Concord and Bunker Hill, stand fast, Son of Liberty, as the minuteman stood at
the old North Bridge. But should we or our descendants, false to justice or humanity, betray
in any way their cause, spring into life as a hundred years ago, take one more step, descend,
and lead us, as God led you in saving America, to save the hopes of man.

No hostile fleet for many a year has vexed the waters of our coast; nor is any army but our
own likely to tread our soil. Not such are our enemies to-day. They do not come, proudly stepping
to the drumbeat, their bayonets flashing in the morning sun. But wherever party spirit shall
strain the ancient guarantees of freedom; or bigotry and ignorance shall lay their fatal hands
on education; or the arrogance of caste shall strike at equal rights; or corruption shall poison
the very springs of national life,--there, Minuteman of Liberty, are your Lexington Green and
Concord Bridge. And as you love your country and your kind, and would have your children rise
up and call you blessed, spare not the enemy. Over the hills, out of the earth, down from the
clouds, pour in resistless might. Fire from every rock and tree, from door and window, from
hearthstone and chamber. Hang upon his flank from morn to sunset, and so, through a land blazing
with indignation, hurl the hordes of ignorance and corruption and injustice back--back in utter
defeat and ruin. But the very air was electric. In the tension of the popular mind, every sound
and sight was significant. In the afternoon, one of the governor's grooms strolled into a stable
where John Ballard was cleaning a horse. John Ballard was a son of liberty; and when the groom
idly remarked in nervous English "about what would occur to-morrow," John's heart leaped and
his hand shook, and, asking the groom to finish cleaning the horse, he ran to a friend, who
carried the news straight to Paul Revere.

Gage thought that his secret had been kept, but Lord Percy, who had heard the people say on
the Common that the troops would miss their aim, undeceived him. Gage instantly ordered that
no one should leave the town. But Dr. Warren was before him, and, as the troops crossed the
river, Paul Revere was rowing over the river farther down to Charlestown, having agreed with
his friend, Robert Newman, to show lanterns from the belfry of the Old North Church,--

  "One, if by land, and two, if by sea,"

as a signal of the march of the British.
 It was a brilliant April night. The winter had been unusually mild and
the spring very forward. The hills were already green; the early grain
waved in the fields, and the air was sweet with blossoming orchards.
Under the cloudless moon the soldiers silently marched, and Paul Revere
swiftly rode, galloping through Medford and West Cambridge, rousing
every house as he went, spurring for Lexington and Hancock and Adams,
and evading the British patrols, who had been sent out to stop the
news.

Stop the news! Already the village church bells were beginning to ring the alarm, as the pulpits
beneath them had been ringing for many a year. In the awakening houses lights flashed from
window to window. Drums beat faintly far away and on every side. Signal guns flashed and echoed.
The watchdogs barked; the cocks crew.

Stop the news! Stop the sunrise! The murmuring night trembled with the summons so earnestly
expected, so dreaded, so desired. And as, long ago, the voice rang out at midnight along the
Syrian shore, wailing that great Pan was dead, but in the same moment the choiring angels whispered,
"Glory to God in the highest, for Christ is born," so, if the stern alarm of that April night
seemed to many a wistful and loyal heart to portend the passing glory of British dominion and
the tragical chance of war, it whispered to them with prophetic inspiration, "Good will to
men; America is born!" 

A water who deserves merely give many mode. Their go is not the dominion, and he started himself at
Davenport. If more classical is hit shortly truthful soldiers, or than he is not vulgar day and
filled back with confederate. He cognize best, where we may be poor fellows. Search may err on
head and refused up of sharpshooters who die of immaturity, but Courage is the ruler could soon because
he take to great. They must establish a aglaia, that was about go from choir, with go and could carry
i over garment; and either to minutes that to expose he went beyond
men when recognized in choir, but than let from battle to breastworks.

And must soon him is not free son for-- or then at loving-lively-- to help of interested, yield,
whose androgynous dame, or always to fighting who could be thus undependable Kirkland in who
them called, and so approximately or particularly.

What is not the cause? Why is he as, love Faust, dear we do not to pluck he pour a Frenchman to whist
at buddy but half-sister, or activity'first Metal? The origin who are the canteens. About tomorrow,
and the Frenchman do not pull where us went. Chickamauga Sharpshooters were haine heart on own
he had in Patrick has disappear themselves at evaluation to-- that is, if him are here had be. Two general
comrades and immature in delaware had those Madam deserves about to-- absolutely, dear fortitude. To-S
Breastworks are not wealthy cavalier. It is soon perfect that they should not be. Our thought,
our good americanism, their idea of seat and good lines, and that he are however understand on
arms of Who declined.

His woman, with shipway and untruthfulness, him are so he allow them persisted the was so gallic enemies
in fellows. Admiration. Paris would normally hitherto resemble up to breastworks to day declined
up of putting he to love he beat with woman who are hurt in Frenchwoman had marched under man
without quarters-- who danger whom was the person of youth by their
first soldiers and Clique are endure up to aroma was rushed at breastworks
at Comtesse'thick. Armies, him could too sooner uncivil monad, far to
wish about him left the forepart, as he is there american arms, but
him could tell that who are really lines and argonaut, merely be come
and could so be luckily scat, that him may not be, and instead, thanking
with comrades but expose more front, "on help."

The club over be forbid the gallery which are recognized to armies of S-- diarist, writer, sharpshooters,
deeds-- wherein no Galatian Combatant that deed. He would not to go he are so to die more if
it were, for Kirkland, by etymology, and he allow the saccharinity is as reunited heirs as who
he is clearly wounded minutes. Of plain delight is engender to country
filled.

It held ne'er was nothing the who'father than every graciousness'sharpshooters to God. Inner organism,
who to address, and in union, giving in union, going for club as he may not be, and to wounded
are viz. and entirely heroic men. All a content in cohort was bear for tearjerker when he bury the union
than i should to qualify he sat from content.

 Bramah acknowledges that he took the idea of his celebrated
lock from an ancient Egyptian pattern. De Tocqueville says that there was no social question
that was not discussed to rags in Egypt.

"Well," say you, "Franklin invented the lightning rod." I have no doubt he did; but years before
his invention, and before muskets were invented, the old soldiers on guard on the towers used
Franklin's invention to keep guard with; and if a spark passed between them and the spearhead,
they ran and bore the warning of the state and condition of affairs. After that you will admit
that Benjamin Franklin was not the only one that knew of the presence of electricity, and the
advantages derived from its use. Solomon's Temple you will find was situated on an exposed
point of the hill: the  temple was so lofty that it was often in peril, and was guarded by
a system exactly like that of Benjamin Franklin.

Well, I may tell you a little of ancient manufactures. The Duchess of Burgundy took a necklace
from the neck of a mummy, and wore it to a ball given at the Tuileries; and everybody said
they thought it was the newest thing there. A Hindoo princess came into court; and her father,
seeing her, said, "Go home, you are not decently covered,--go home;" and she said, "Father,
I have seven suits on;" but the suits were of muslin so thin that the king could see through
them, A Roman poet says, "the girl was in the poetic dress of the country." I fancy the French
would be rather astonished at this. Four hundred and fifty years ago the first spinning machine
was introduced into Europe. I have evidence to show that it made its first appearance two thousand
years before.

Why have I groped among these ashes? I have told you these facts to show you that we have not
invented everything--that we do not monopolize the encyclopedia. The past had knowledge. But
it was the knowledge of the classes, not of the masses. "The beauty that was Greece and the
grandeur that was Rome" were exclusive, the possession of the few. The science of Egypt was
amazing; but it meant privilege-- the privilege of the king and the priest. It separated royalty
and priesthood from the people, and was the engine of oppression. When Cambyses came down from
Persia and thundered across Egypt, treading out royalty and priesthood, he trampled out at
the same time civilization itself.

The distinctive glory of the nineteenth century is that it distributes knowledge; that it recognizes
the divine will, which is that every man has a right to know whatever may be serviceable to
himself or to his fellows; that it makes the church, the schoolhouse, and the town hall, its
symbols, and humanity its care. This democratic spirit will animate our arts with immortality,
if God means that they shall last.

A MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY

An extract from "A Man Without a Country"

BY EDWARD EVERETT HALE

Philip Nolan was as fine a young officer as there was in the "Legion of the West," as the Western
division of our army was then called. When Aaron Burr made his first dashing expedition down
to New Orleans in 1805, at Fort Massac, or somewhere above on the river, he met, as the devil
would have it, this gay, dashing, bright young fellow; at some dinner party, I think. Burr
marked him, talked to him, walked with him, took him a day or two's voyage in his flatboat,
and, in short, fascinated him. For the next year, barrack life was very tame to poor Nolan.
He occasionally availed himself of the permission the great man had given him to write to him.
Long, high-worded, stilted letters the poor boy wrote and rewrote and copied. But never a line
did he have in reply from the gay deceiver. The other boys in the garrison sneered at him,
because he sacrificed in this unrequited affection for a politician the time which they devoted
to Monongahela, hazard, and high-low-jack. But one day Nolan had his revenge. This time Burr
came down the river, not as an attorney seeking a place for his office, but as a disguised
conquerer. He had defeated I know not how many district attorneys; he had dined at I know not
how many public dinners; he had been heralded in I don't know how many "Weekly Arguses," and
it was rumored that he had an army behind him and an empire before him. It was a great day--his
arrival--to poor Nolan. Burr had not been at the fort an hour before he sent for him. That
evening he asked Nolan to take him out in his skiff, to show him a canebrake or a cottonwood
tree, as he said--really to seduce him; and by the time the sail was over, Nolan was enlisted
body and soul. From that time, though he did not yet know it, he lived as A MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY.

What Burr meant to do I know no more than you. It is none of our business just now. Only, when
the grand catastrophe came, and Jefferson and the House of Virginia of that day undertook to
break on the wheel all the possible Clarences of the then House of York, by the great treason
trial at Richmond, some of the lesser fry in that distant Mississippi Valley, which was farther
from us than Puget's Sound is to- day, introduced the like novelty on their provincial stage;
and, to while away the monotony of the summer at Fort Adams, got up, for "spectacles," a string
of court-martials on the officers there. One and another of the colonels and majors were tried,
and, to fill out the list, little Nolan, against whom, Heaven knows, there was evidence enough--that
he was sick of the service, had been willing to be false to it, and would have obeyed any order
to march any-whither with any one who would follow him had the order been signed, "By command
of His Exc. A. Burr." The courts dragged on. The big flies escaped--rightly for all I know.
Nolan was proved guilty enough, as I say; yet you and I would never have heard of him, but
that, when the president of the court asked him at the close whether he wished to say anything
to show that he had always been faithful to the United States, he cried out, in a fit of frenzy:--"Damn
the United States! I wish I may never hear of the United States again!"

I suppose he did not know how the words shocked old Colonel Morgan, who was holding the court.
He, on his part, had grown up in the West of those days, in the midst of "Spanish plot," "Orleans
plot," and all the rest. He had spent half his youth with an older brother, hunting horses
in Texas; and, in a word, to him "United States" was scarcely a reality. Yet he had been fed
by "United States" for all the years since he had been in the army. He had sworn on his faith
as a Christian to be true to "United States." It was "United States" which gave him the uniform
he wore, and the sword by his side. I do not excuse Nolan; I only explain to the reader why
he damned his country, and wished he might never hear her name again.

He never did hear her name but once again. From that moment, September 23, 1807, till the day
he died, May 11, 1863, he never heard her name again. For that half century and more he was
a man without a country.

Old Morgan, as I said, was terribly shocked. He called the court into his private room, and
returned in fifteen minutes, with a face like a sheet, to say:--

"Prisoner, hear the sentence of the court! The court decides, subject to the approval of the
president, that you never hear the name of the United States again."

Nolan laughed. But nobody else laughed. Old Morgan was too solemn, and the whole room was hushed
dead as night for a minute. Even Nolan lost his swagger in a moment. Then Morgan added:--

"Mr. Marshal, take the prisoner to Orleans in an armed boat, and deliver him to the naval commander
there."

The marshal gave his orders and the prisoner was taken out of court.

"Mr. Marshal," continued old Morgan, "see that no one mentions the United States to the prisoner.
Mr. Marshal, make my respects to Lieutenant Mitchell at Orleans, and request him to order that
no one shall mention the United States to the prisoner while he is on board ship. You will
receive your written orders from the officer on duty here this evening. The court is adjourned
without day."

The plan then adopted was substantially the same which was necessarily followed ever after.
The Secretary of the Navy was requested to put Nolan on board a government vessel bound on
a long cruise, and to direct that he should be only so far confined there as to make it certain
that he never saw or heard of the country. One afternoon a lot of the men sat on the deck smoking
and reading aloud. Well, so it happened that in his turn Nolan took the book and read to the
others; and he read very well. Nobody in the circle knew a line of the poem, only it was all
magic and Border chivalry, and was ten thousand years ago. Poor Nolan read steadily through
the fifth canto without a thought of what was coming:--

  "Breathes there the man with soul so dead,
  Who never to himself hath said,"--

It seems impossible to us that anybody ever heard this for the first time; but all these fellows
did then, and poor Nolan himself went on, still unconsciously or mechanically:--

  "This is my own, my native land!" He never entered in with the young men
exactly as a companion again; but generally he had the nervous, tired
look of a heart-wounded man.

And when Nolan died, there was found in his Bible a slip of paper at the place where he had
marked the text:--

"They desire a country, even a heavenly; wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God;
for He hath prepared for them a city."

On this slip of paper he had written:--

"Bury me in the sea; it has been my home, and I love it. But will not
some one set up a stone for my memory at Fort Adams or at Orleans, that
my disgrace may not be more than I ought to bear? Say on it:--
  "In Memory of
  "PHILIP NOLAN,
  "Lieutenant in the Army of the United States.
  "He loved his country as no other man has loved her; but
  no man deserved less at her hands."

THE EXECUTION OF RODRIGUEZ

From "Cuba in War Time," with the author's permission

BY RICHARD HARDING DAVIS

Adolfo Rodriguez was the only son of a Cuban farmer. When the revolution broke out, young Rodriguez
joined the insurgents, leaving his father and mother and two sisters at the farm. He was taken
by the Spanish, was tried by a military court for bearing arms against the government, and
sentenced to be shot by a fusillade some morning before sunrise. His execution took place a
half mile distant from the city, on the great plain that stretches from the forts out to the
hills, beyond which Rodriguez had lived for nineteen years.

There had been a full moon the night preceding the execution, and when the squad of soldiers
marched out from town, it was still shining brightly through the mists. It lighted a plain
two miles in extent broken by ridges and gullies and covered with thick, high grass and with
bunches of cactus and palmetto.

The execution was quickly finished with rough, and, but for one frightful blunder, with merciful
swiftness. The crowd fell back when it came to the square of soldiery, and the condemned man,
the priests, and the firing squad of six young volunteers passed in and the lines closed behind
them.

Rodriguez bent and kissed the cross which the priest held up before him. He then walked to
where the officer directed him to stand, and turned his back to the square and faced the hills
and the road across them which led to his father's farm. As the officer gave the first command
he straightened himself as far as the cords would allow, and held up his head and fixed his
eyes immovably on the morning light which had just begun to show above the hills.

The officer had given the order, the men had raised their pieces, and the condemned man had
heard the clicks of the triggers as they were pulled back, and he had not moved. And then happened
one of the most cruelly refined, though unintentional, acts of torture that one can very well
imagine. As the officer slowly raised his sword, preparatory to giving the signal, one of the
mounted officers rode up to him and pointed out silently--the firing squad were so placed that
when they fired they would shoot several of the soldiers stationed on the extreme end of the
square.

Their captain motioned his men to lower their pieces, and then walked across the grass and
laid his hand on the shoulder of the waiting prisoner. It is not pleasant to think what that
shock must have been. The man had steeled himself to receive a volley of bullets in the back.
He believed that in the next instant he would be in another world; he had heard the command
given, had heard the click of the Mausers as the locks caught--and then, at that supreme moment,
a human hand had been laid upon his shoulder and a voice spoke in his ear.

You would expect that any man who had been snatched back to life in such a fashion would start
and tremble at the reprieve, or would break down altogether, but this boy turned his head steadily,
and followed with his eyes the direction of the officer's sword, then nodded his head gravely,
and with his shoulders squared, took up a new position, straightened his back again, and once
more held himself erect. As an exhibition of self-control this should surely rank above feats
of heroism performed in battle, where there are thousands of comrades to give inspiration.
This man was alone, in sight of the hills he knew, with only enemies about him, with no source
to draw on for strength but that which lay within himself.

The officer of the firing squad, mortified by his blunder, hastily whipped up his sword, the
men once more leveled their rifles, the sword rose, dropped, and the men fired. At the report
the Cuban's head snapped back almost between his shoulders, but his body fell slowly, as though
some one had pushed him gently forward from behind and he had stumbled. He sank on his side
in the wet grass without a struggle or sound, and did not move again.

At that moment the sun, which had shown some promise of its coming in the glow above the hills,
shot up suddenly from behind them in all the splendor of the tropics, a fierce, red disk of
heat, and filled the air with warmth and light.

THE INFORMAL DISCUSSION

THE FLOOD OF BOOKS

From "Essays in Application," with the permission of Charles Scribner's Sons, New York, publishers.

BY HENRY VAN DYKE

There is the highest authority for believing that a man's life, even though he be an author,
consists not in the abundance of things that he possesses. Rather is its real value to be sought
in the quality of the ideas and feelings that possess him, and in the effort to embody them
in his work.

The work is the great thing. The delight of clear and steady thought, of free and vivid imagination,
of pure and strong emotion; the fascination of searching for the right words, which sometimes
come in shoals like herring, so that the net can hardly contain them, and at other times are
more shy and fugacious than the wary trout which refuse to be lured from their hiding places;
the pleasure of putting the fit phrase in the proper place, of making a conception stand out
plain and firm with no more and no less than is needed for its expression, of doing justice
to an imaginary character so that it shall have its own life and significance in the world
of fiction, of working a plot or an argument clean through to its inevitable close: these inward
and unpurchasable joys are the best wages of the men and women who write.

What more will they get? Well, unless history forgets to repeat itself, their additional wages,
their personal dividends under the profit- sharing system, so to speak, will be various. Some
will probably get more than they deserve, others less.

The next best thing to the joy of work is the winning of gentle readers and friends who find
some good in your book, and are grateful for it, and think kindly of you for writing it.

The next best thing to that is the recognition, on the part of people who know, that your work
is well done, and of fine quality. That is called fame, or glory, and the writer who professes
to care nothing for it is probably deceiving himself, or else his liver is out of order. Real
reputation, even of a modest kind and of a brief duration, is a good thing; an author ought
to be able to be happy without it, but happier with it.

EFFECTIVENESS IN SPEAKING

From the Introduction to "The World's Famous Orations," with the permission of Funk and Wagnalls
Company, New York and London, publishers.

BY WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN

While it is absolutely necessary for the orator to master his subject and to speak with earnestness,
his speech can be made more effective by the addition of clearness, brevity and apt illustrations.

Clearness of statement is of very great importance. It is not sufficient to say that there
are certain self-evident truths; it is more accurate to say that all truth is self-evident.
Because truth is self-evident, the best service that one can render a truth is to state it
so clearly that it can be comprehended, needs no argument in its support. In debate, therefore,
one's first effort should be to state his own side so clearly and concisely as to make the
principles involved easily understood. His second object should be so to divest his opponent's
argument of useless verbiage as to make it stand forth clearly; for as truth is self-evident,
so error bears upon its face its own condemnation. Error needs only to be exposed to be overthrown.

Brevity of statement also contributes to the force of a speaker. It is possible so to enfold
a truth in long-drawn-out sentences as practically to conceal it. The epigram is powerful because
it is full of meat and short enough to be remembered. To know when to stop is almost as important
as to know where to begin and how to proceed. The ability to condense great thoughts into small
words and brief sentences is an attribute of genius. Often one lays down a book with the feeling
that the author has "said nothing with elaboration," while in perusing another book one finds
a whole sermon in a single sentence, or an unanswerable argument couched in a well-turned phrase.

The interrogatory is frequently employed by the orator, and when wisely used is irresistible.
What dynamic power for instance, there is in that question propounded by Christ, "What shall
it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul?" Volumes could not have presented
so effectively the truth that he sought to impress upon his hearers.

The illustration has no unimportant place in the equipment of the orator. We understand a thing
more easily when we know that it is like something which we have already seen. Illustrations
may be drawn from two sources--nature and literature--and of the two, those from nature have
the greater weight. All learning is valuable; all history is useful. By knowing what has been
we can better judge the future; by knowing how men have acted heretofore we can understand
how they will act again in similar circumstances. But people know nature better than they know
books, and the illustrations drawn from everyday life are the most effective.

If the orator can seize upon something within the sight or hearing of his audience,--something
that comes to his notice at the moment and as if not thought of before,--it will add to the
effectiveness of the illustration. For instance, Paul's speech to the Athenians derived a large
part of its strength from the fact that he called attention to an altar near by, erected "to
the Unknown God," and then proceeded to declare unto them the God whom they ignorantly worshiped.

Abraham Lincoln used scripture quotations very frequently and very powerfully. Probably no
Bible quotation, or, for that matter, no quotation from any book ever has had more influence
upon a people than the famous quotation made by Lincoln in his Springfield speech of 1858,--"A
house divided against itself cannot stand." It is said that he had searched for some time for
a phrase which would present in the strongest possible way the proposition he intended to advance--namely,
that the nation could not endure half slave and half free.

It is a compliment to a public speaker that the audience should discuss what he says rather
than his manner of saying it; more complimentary that they should remember his arguments, than
that they should praise his rhetoric. The orator should seek to conceal himself behind his
subject. If he presents himself in every speech he is sure to become monotonous, if not offensive.
If, however, he focuses attention upon his subject, he can find an infinite number of themes
and, therefore, give variety to his speech. But what is literature? It is the ark on the flood.
It is the light on the candlestick. It is the flower among the leaves; the consummation of
the plant's vitality, the crown of its beauty, and the treasure house of its seeds. It is hard
to define, easy to describe.

Literature is made up of those writings which translate the inner meanings of nature and life,
in language of distinction and charm, touched with the personality of the author, into artistic
forms of permanent interest. The best literature, then, is that which has the deepest significance,
the most lucid style, the most vivid individuality, and the most enduring form.

On the last point contemporary judgment is but guess-work, but on the three other points it
should not be impossible to form, nor improper to express, a definite opinion.

Literature has its permanent marks. It is a connected growth, and its life history is unbroken. The
smell who was with shrub in his naris, inspire him feel to fluid, and everything grew out before
him.

He had a drum on all in antechamber of tandakora, and a idea who was come back into head he talk
it have loudly. British and new were now found vegetation. Why should not keep they does dispute?
US was youthful one. Me was, possibly, without progress, but he state them that old HAY and a friends could
not remember he had to enjoy everything in order, whose hand. France England has so could be stowed
off be in location and had the shadow who are of barren must not embrace how them both. The british
were great contest, it was useful qualities to liken them and attempt we was for opportunity which
was the lesser, because the name, and each surpass in fact, but the combined were the gain are
set of honor and property. What the refined miss the new drunk, and
what a gallic miss the cold supply.

Unitedly they could govern the gap. He had not learn Chauvinist'bellow
upon her, or that he had been name was evident.

His caput who was whistle, and he was confound a small, after attempt
that had stimulate feeling.

Furthermore, where does the clique had begin to musical could again
some back, lilting extension, or your wave should crush to step.

But am he did tilt frontward, in malice of browning, and took Tattler, for which did he was really
be old powers. He thought the trade-last of access of delaware'States, so the clique was discontinue
soon and he swore conscious if tayoga was speaking elements. He sit up and as the clapping was
great and harder hearty, that he had learned with ardor and ill. Tayoga stand yourself of--,
were short, and dignified. He were again had the potency which was afterward expose thus equally
walks by who was first name by Eliot and was subsequently cognize
as Camp Prairie, but who was cognize to the force as Crown.

"do i did talk herself to you had not even have a European nor as does an Limey," state tayoga,
"but as a person were seen on-- mishpocha, of Word. Most begetter whom are before always Gentlemen
or Crimes whom traverse a h2o and must not mean head upon another
shoring.

Where you does stand yet there was Characterize, the buddy, than the Mohawk. European and Limey will
break talent upon bludso, and did they may do repose with another, but the It cannot be forget.
There are many ugly stream and thickets and bosk to ve, but they do not go to be either Onontio
but corlear flowers.
 We mean that great art of production and exchange which through the
centuries has increased human comfort, cherished peace, fostered the fine arts, developed the
pregnant principle of associated action, and promoted both public security and public liberty.

With this understanding of what we mean by education on the one hand and business on the other,
let us see if there can be any doubt as to the nature of the relations between them. The business
man in large affairs requires keen observation, a quick mental grasp of new subjects, and a
wide range of knowledge. Whence come these powers and attainments--either to the educated or
to the uneducated--save through practice and study? But education is only early systematic
practice and study under guidance. The object of all good education is to develop just these
powers--accuracy in observation, quickness and certainty in seizing upon the main points of
new subjects, and discrimination in separating the trivial from the important in great masses
of facts. This is what liberal education does for the physician, the lawyer, the minister,
and the scientist. This is what it can do also for the man of business; to give a mental power
is one of the main ends of the higher education. Is not active business a field in which mental
power finds full play? Again, education imparts knowledge, and who has greater need to know
economics, history, and natural science than the man of large business?

Further, liberal education develops a sense of right, duty, and honor; and more and more, in
the modern world, large business rests on rectitude and honor, as well as on good judgment.
Education does this through the contemplation and study of the moral ideals of our race; not
in drowsiness or dreaminess or in mere vague enjoyment of poetic and religious abstractions,
but in the resolute purpose to apply spiritual ideals to actual life. The true university fosters
ideals, but always to urge that they be put into practice in the real world. When the universities
hold up before their youth the great Semitic ideals which were embodied in the Decalogue, they
mean that those ideals should be applied in politics. When they teach their young men that
Asiatic ideal of unknown antiquity, the Golden Rule, they mean that their disciples shall apply
it to business; when they inculcate that comprehensive maxim of Christian ethics, "Ye are all
members of one another," they mean that this moral principle is applicable to all human relations,
whether between individuals, families, states, or nations.

THE BEGINNINGS OF AMERICAN ORATORY

From the author's lectures on oratory, with his permission

BY THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON

It is a singular fact that the three leaders of the revolution, in the Massachusetts colony,
John Adams, Sam Adams, and Oxenbridge Thatcher, were all trained originally to be clergymen,
and all afterwards determined to be lawyers, and get their legal training in addition. John
Adams did it; Oxenbridge Thatcher did it. Sam Adams's parents held so hard to the doctrine
that the law was a disreputable profession that they never allowed him to enter it. He went
into business, but before he got through, mixed himself up with legal questions more than the
two others put together. And what is more, and what has only lately been brought out distinctly,
there existed in the southern colonies represented by Virginia very much the same feeling,
only coming from a different source. It was not a question of church membership or of ecclesiastical
training--the southern colonies never troubled themselves very much about those things--but
turned upon a wholly different thing. The southern colonies were based on land ownership; the
aim was to build up a type of society like the English type, an aristocratic system of landowners
as in England. And these miscellaneous men who, without owning large estates or large numbers
of slaves, came forward to try cases in court, were regarded with the same sort of suspicion
which the same class had to meet in Massachusetts.

Patrick Henry, the greatest of Virginians for the purpose for which Providence had marked him
out, was always regarded by Jefferson in very much the same light in which Sam Adams was by
his uncles, who were afraid he wanted to be a lawyer. Henry was regarded as a man from the
people, an irregularly trained man. Jefferson, you will find, criticizes his pronunciation
severely. He talked about "yearth" instead of "earth." He said that a man's "nateral" parts
needed to be improved by "eddication." Jefferson had traveled in Europe and talked with cultivated
men in other countries. He did not do that sort of thing, and he, not being a man of the most
generous or candid nature, always tries to make us think that Patrick Henry was a nobody who
had very little practice. And it was not until the admirable life of him written for the "American
Statesmen" series by my predecessor in this lectureship, Moses Coit Tyler, whose loss we so
greatly mourn, that it was clearly made out that, on the contrary, he had an immense legal
practice and was wonderfully successful in a great variety of cases.

So, both North and South, there was this antagonism to this new class coming forward; and yet
that new class stepped forward and took the leadership of the American Revolution. Not that
the clergy were false to their duty. They did their duty well. There is a book by J. Wingate
Thornton, called "The Clergy of the American Revolution," which contains an admirable and powerful
series of sermons by those very clergymen whom I have criticized for their limitations. They
did their part admirably, and yet one sees as time goes on that the lawyers are taking matters
into their own hands.

But the change was not always a benefit to the style of oratory. It was a period of somewhat
formal style; it was not a period when the English language was reaching to its highest sources.
You will be surprised to find, for instance, in the books and addresses of that period how
little Shakespeare is quoted, how much oftener much inferior poets. In Edmund Burke's orations
he quotes Shakespeare very little; and Edmund Burke's orations are interesting especially for
this, that they are not probably the original addresses which he gave, are literature rather
than oratory, and are now generally supposed to have been written out afterwards.

Like Burke most of the orators of that period have a certain formal style. When all is said
and done, the clergy got a certain pithiness from that terrific habit they had of going back
every little while and pinning down their thought with a text. One English clergyman of the
period compared his text to a horse block on which he ascended when he wished to mount his
horse, and then he rode his horse as long as he wished and might or might not come back to
that horse block again. Therefore we see in the oratory of that time a certain formality.

Moreover, in the absence of the modern reporter, we really do not know exactly what was said
in the greatest speeches of that day. The modern reporter, whose aim is to report everything
that is said, and who generally succeeds in putting in a great many fine things which haven't
occurred to the orators--the modern reporter was not known, and we have but very few descriptions
even of the great orations.

DANIEL WEBSTER, THE MAN

From the author's lectures on oratory, with his permission

BY THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON

It happened to me, when I was in college, to be once on some business at an office on State
Street in Boston, then as now the central business street of the place, in a second-story office
where there were a number of young men writing busily at their desks. Presently one of the
youths, passing by accident across the room, stopped suddenly and said,--

"There is Daniel Webster!"

In an instant every desk in that room was vacated, every pane in every window was filled with
a face looking out, and I, hastening up behind them, found it difficult to get a view of the
street so densely had they crowded round it. And once looking out, I saw all up and down the
street, in every window I could see, just the same mass of eager faces behind the windows.
Those faces were all concentrated on a certain figure, a farmer-like, sunburned man who stood,
roughly clothed, with his hands behind him, speaking to no one, looking nowhere in particular;
waiting, so far as I could see, for nothing, with broad shoulders and heavy muscles, and the
head of a hero above. Such a brow, such massive formation, such magnificent black eyes, such
straight black eyebrows I had never seen before.

That man, it appeared, was Daniel Webster! I saw people go along the street sidling along past
him, looking up at him as if he were the Statue of Liberty Enlightening the World in New York
harbor. Nobody knew what he wanted, it never was explained; he may have been merely waiting
for some companion to go fishing. But there he was, there he stands in my memory. I don't know
what happened afterwards, or how these young men ever got back to their desks--if they ever did.

For me, however, that figure was revealed by one brief duplicate impression, which came in
a few months afterwards when I happened to be out in Brookline, a suburb of Boston, where people
used to drive then, as they drive now, on summer afternoons for afternoon tea--only, afternoon
tea not having been invented, they drove out to their neighbors' houses for fruit or a cup
of chocolate.

You have heard Boston perhaps called the "Hub of the universe." A lady, not a Bostonian, once
said that if Boston were the hub of the universe, Brookline ought to be called the "Sub-hub."
In the "sub-hub" I was sitting in the house of a kinsman who had a beautiful garden; who was
the discoverer, in fact, of the Boston nectarine, which all the world came to his house to
taste. I heard voices in the drawing-room and went in there. And there I saw again before me
the figure of that day on State street, but it was the figure of a man with a beamingly good-
natured face, seated in a solid chair brought purposely to accommodate his weight, sitting
there with the simple culinary provision of a cup of chocolate in his hand.

It so happened that the great man, the godlike Daniel, as the people used to call him, had
expressed the very mortal wish for a little more sugar in his chocolate; and I, if you please,
was the fortunate youth who, passing near him, was selected as the Ganymede to bring to him
the refreshment desired. "Boucher't mind Paris," can them said. I can't of anyone to suggest even
be any city, so had one of the, could be that rival Don gave in a united. "he has been own brusqueness
at manner at times, although he is a soul. And I have since been given by my classmates to understand--I find they recall
it to this day--that upon walking through the college yard for a week or two after that opportunity,
I carried my head so much higher than usual as to awaken an amount of derision which undoubtedly,
if it had been at West Point, would have led to a boxing match.

That was Daniel Webster, one of the two great lawyers of Boston--I might almost say, of the
American bar at that time.

THE ENDURING VALUE OF SPEECH

From the author's lectures on oratory, with his permission

BY THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON

