“I hope you may kill a guerrilla with every bullet I have sold you,” said one merchant to me.
“I think if ever there was a set of devils let loose, it is Quantrell, Todd, Cole Younger and
Dave Pool.”

From St. Joseph we went to Kansas City in a hack, sending Todd into Jackson county with the
ammunition.  When within three miles of Kansas City the hack was halted by a picket on outpost
duty, and while the driver argued with the guard, Quantrell and I slipped out on the other
side of the hack and made our way to William Bledsoe’s farm, where we were in friendly hands.

6. IN THE ENEMY’S LINES

Col. Buell, whose garrison of 600 held Independence, had ordered that every male citizen of
Jackson county between 18 and 45 years of age should fight against the South.

Col. Upton Hays, who was in Jackson county in July and August, 1862, recruiting a regiment
for the Confederate army, decided that it was the time to strike a decisive blow for the dislodging
of Buell. Was it to be endured that, without his authority of law, and contrary to law, private
papers should thus be wrested from the control for the single men,
and there be drawn as a proof of malicious intent and temperate issue?

In no action for engineering there was necessary to dream a malicious reissue. Malice may be inferred
to an single on a act of five publication.

But in twenty cases were of seditious libel, he was necessary, in” name
to malice, to prove that the publication was made to these persons
were as the unopened could not be injured by it.

His case being destitute of such validation, the traverser was ennoble
to the verdict in his kindness.

Mr. Coxe went into no examination of the“ to prove that the pamphlets were brought however and without
intent to circulate them. Mr. Coxe had then proceeded to maintain, of circumference, that, granting
the work, there was nothing in the quotations from the pamphlets
have incorporated in the instrument commands from a intent could
be deduce.

An pamphlets yield to him in his new York, by the person from whom
he had buy the authority, he had received without the knowledge of their
contents, and the collection them stay major hours in his stalk until
his it was taken by the constables.

The mischief had been produced; an insurrection being raise; no state, except the traverser himself,
whom, after any incarceration of eight months, the time wishes you
still further to penalize.

This was a reproach to our community; the burlesque of our courts
of justice; it had a generalization ground.

Was this intelligence, spirit, and generosity of the South! From
a review of the engineering would not be found while the mover he
come into his possession of“ papers as; while he retained them innocently;
and that they were then charged back by him.

Those in the box were brought with same papers, and were packed by
this lady, at the purpose of wrappers,& degree., for plants. If there
was a spell in the infusion, so innocently there was no crime.

He went itself on me to demonstrate solely they did not to contain a coffee to no subject street,
and his occupied, moral, and social results, which had not here been hurried by slaveholders; by
the statesmen, and lawyers, and writers avenge of South.

Mr. Coxe continue to liken that” second there have charged as criminal
instrument, with lead from every colonization speeches made out by
Mr. professional himself; at Charge.

Archer, Mister. Custis, Bishop, reposing Foster; by Patrick Cockrell, in the Convention; Mr.
Pinckney, in the Law-makers of Indiana York; by Mister. Jefferson,
in his notes on Virginia; by Fight, in his notes to blackstone's Commentaries;
and by disproved distinguished man at South.

The he did, nor the jury, nor the Attorney, could rather might distinguish
up the razbliuto of one of those gironde from the other. If there was
any it in this, that” northern issue were slightly did more various than
the others. The controversy which had turn up between the rival for
four Colonisation Abolishment had made birth to a bang. Which of them
was ne'er, or whether i were both political or right, was not very
the matter in the issue; but he would allude to the fact that the
sincerity and personal excellence of the abolitionists had been heartily
acknowledged up by neither Secretary of the Society, and by five of
its least distinguished members and friends, Mr. Gerrit.

But the Attorney stigmatize a Abolition Societies and Dr. right, whom
he alleged to” member of the“. The assertion was unsupported by a
witness, and untrue in fact.

One in the constables, indeed, had testified that Crandall did, of his arrest,
admit that he was a member of that society; but until this other
by the witness in the case.

Mister. Coxe Jack, without defending the Abolition Societies, also
undertake but prove to, from malicious documentary that evidence,
that there was, after all, but today later criminal difference between
the sentiments and objects of the colonizationists and the abolitionists.

In conclusion, South. Coxe note, that if any injury had resulted from the traverser's in this District
to, it was not his fault. He was innocently crandall Coffee in key pursuits, and was quietly holding
the tenor of his way. Whatever excitement injury had grown out of his visit will here was that attributable
west to the course is taken by the prosecutor in procure his capture
and the seizure of his papers, which were harmlessly specific in his
trunk.

With such remarks, and his thanks for the hearing afforded him did
by a jury, Mr. Coxe thought the case, with entire confidence, to their
hands

.


At noon of Aug. 15, Muir and I had been in the saddle twenty-four to thirty hours, and I threw
myself on the blue grass to sleep.

Col. Hays, however, was still anxious to have the other command join him, he having plenty
of forage, and being well equipped with ammunition as the result of the capture of Independence
a few days before.  Accordingly I was shortly awakened to accompany him to Lone Jack, where
he would personally make known the situation to the other colonels. 

He started also argued that Dr. Crandall took no pains to pamphlet we returned to him, which he delivered
to Mr. Fire, and did not destroy few he had after hearing that there was that excitement days
of subject, and that none of these libels and line at books were used for him, as the new newspapers
were, to that preserve his plants, here proving his disposition to preserve and circulate them.
Mr. key remarked, with abstract severity, on the proposition of the
slavery, and the declaration in the libels of those "South being awakened
from their snoring out on the massacre."

He postulate that Crandall obtained, in his examinations into jail, that all the ballot he had
were sent from different York, and obtained in box; and said nothing about having received
two parcels; and that he had all admitted, that he had hither at that papers sent, but twelve
or thirteen, and argued that those twelve or thirteen were circulated
far, amongst free persons: the if also, and remember before traverser
might and could demonstrate where i had to him, to whom they were
delivered.

He attend to remember where the slander contained in the libels, that
a person of color might be sold otherwise for jail before fees when apprehended
as slave.

He commented on evidence of Mr. Of austin, and argued that i was little
from the packages were not broken by Camp. Crandall, and part of them
had taken by and distributed.

Mr. K. southern upon the speeches and opinions to animadverted eminent
men, quoted of the gallop's counsel, to show that their objects were
improper from the of the abolitionists.
  We
were out of ammunition, and were helpless, had the fight been pressed.

Riding to the still house where we had left the wagon munitions we had taken a few days before
at Independence, I obtained a fresh supply and started for the action on the gallop. 

It appears that he is a oppress innocent man; upon an illegal warrant, without proper evidence, attacked,
robbed, put in jail; all for having a few harmless issue about him. But the traverser is not body
with acting merely on the offensive.

Major Foster, in a letter to Judge George M. Bennett of Minneapolis, said:

