Sept. 2, 186- i had to get up feerful erly this morning. after brekfast me and father rode
up to the depo in Joe Parmers hack. while we was wating for the trane Charles Talor and Charles
Gray and all the fellers began to pich into father jest fun like and father got the best of
them evry time. You cood here them holler about a mile. then the trane come and we piled in.
evrybody knowed father and called him George and evrybody piched into him and he ansered back
so that he made evrybody laff. that was the way it was all the way to Boston. when we got to
Boston we went into a bird store and staid a while and then father took me out to see a house
with a canon ball in it where the british had fired it in the revolution. then we went down
to the custum house where father wirks and father took of his coat and put on a thin coat and
put on sum cuffs made of pastbord and then he took out sum big books and begun to wright. he
give me a sheet of yellow paper and a pensil and told me i cood draw sum pictures. when he
come in one man holered hullo George what are you going to do with the boy, drownd him, and
father he said no but i wood if he dident amount to more then you have, and then that man he
shet up and a nother man he holered George have you saved enny more peeple and father he said
no i had a chanse to but his name was Mudge and i let them hang him, and then that man he shet
up. his name was Mudge two. bimeby a man come in with specks and side wiskers and sum papers
and a squint eye, and he come up to fathers desk and father took the papers and wile he was
wrighting i drawd the man with his specks and his old side wiskers and his squint eye. when
father had fixed his papers the man said is that your boy mister Shute and he said yes and
the man said can he draw and father said yes and he took the paper before i cood grab it and
give it to the man and the man looked at it and begun to look mad and father said what is it
and he showed it to father and then tore it up and went of mad. and father tirned red and asked
me if i dident know more then that. then father he picked up all the peaces and we paisted
them together and he showed it to the men and they all laffed and said i was a buster. bimeby
a man come in and said that the naval oficer wanted to see father and father took the picture
and went in. bimeby he came back and said the naval oficer jawed him and then he looked at
the picture and laffed and said he wanted the picture and he took it and told father he had
better shet that boy up. then it was dinner time and we went out and et dinner at a resterrant.
i had meat and bread and coffy. after dinner we went back to the offise and a man come in and
asked who was mister Shute and father said he was and the man said are you the man whitch put
a old man on the trane at the depo and father said yes and i thougt the man wood give father
a hundred dolars or a gold wach and father looked as if he thougt the man wood say noble man
you have saved my fathers life, but the man looked mad and said well sir you did a prety smart
thing to throw a helpless old man on to the rong trane and send him of 100 miles away from
home and scart all his peeple most to deth becaus they thougt he was merdered and cost him
3 dolars to telegraf and stay all nite and if you dont know more then that you had beter soke
your head. father he said what was the old fool trying to get on the trane for if he dident
want to go on it, and the man he said he was trying to get of the trane and you woodent let
him and the man holered so loud that evrybody cood hear him and shook his fist and went of
swaring feerful. then Mr. Pope he said o what a fall was there my countrymen just like what
was in the fourth reader and Mr. Davis he said immortal seezer ded and tirned to clay, that
is in the fourth reader two.