While I was thus desperately tacking through the bog, children and cattle began to disperse,
until only a pair of girls remained behind.  From these I sought direction on my path.  The
peasantry in general were but little disposed to counsel a wayfarer.  One old devil simply
retired into his house, and barricaded the door on my approach; and I might beat and shout
myself hoarse, he turned a deaf ear.  Another, having given me a direction which, as I found
afterwards, I had misunderstood, complacently watched me going wrong without adding a sign.
He did not care a stalk of parsley if I wandered all night upon the hills!  As for these two
girls, they were a pair of impudent sly sluts, with not a thought but mischief. One put out
her tongue at me, the other bade me follow the cows; and they both giggled and jogged each
other's elbows.  The Beast of Gevaudan ate about a hundred children of this district; I began
to think of him with sympathy.

Leaving the girls, I pushed on through the bog, and got into another wood and upon a well-marked
road.  It grew darker and darker.  Modestine, suddenly beginning to smell mischief, bettered
the pace of her own accord, and from that time forward gave me no trouble.  It was the first
sign of intelligence I had occasion to remark in her.  At the same time, the wind freshened
into half a gale, and another heavy discharge of rain came flying up out of the north.  At
the other side of the wood I sighted some red windows in the dusk.  This was the hamlet of
Fouzilhic; three houses on a hillside, near a wood of birches.  Here I found a delightful old
man, who came a little way with me in the rain to put me safely on the road for Cheylard. 
He would hear of no reward; but shook his hands above his head almost as if in menace, and
refused volubly and shrilly, in unmitigated patois.

All seemed right at last.  My thoughts began to turn upon dinner and a fireside, and my heart
was agreeably softened in my bosom.  Alas, and I was on the brink of new and greater miseries!
Suddenly, at a single swoop, the night fell.  I have been abroad in many a black night, but
never in a blacker.  A glimmer of rocks, a glimmer of the track where it was well beaten, a
certain fleecy density, or night within night, for a tree,--this was all that I could discriminate.
The sky was simply darkness overhead; even the flying clouds pursued their way invisibly to
human eyesight.  I could not distinguish my hand at arm's-length from the track, nor my goad,
at the same distance, from the meadows or the sky.

Soon the road that I was following split, after the fashion of the country, into three or four
in a piece of rocky meadow.  Since Modestine had shown such a fancy for beaten roads, I tried
her instinct in this predicament.  But the instinct of an ass is what might be expected from
the name; in half a minute she was clambering round and round among some boulders, as lost
a donkey as you would wish to see.  I should have camped long before had I been properly provided;
but as this was to be so short a stage, I had brought no wine, no bread for myself, and little
over a pound for my lady friend.  Add to this, that I and Modestine were both handsomely wetted
by the showers.  But now, if I could have found some water, I should have camped at once in
spite of all.  Water, however, being entirely absent, except in the form of rain, I determined
to return to Fouzilhic, and ask a guide a little farther on my way--'a little farther lend
thy guiding hand.'

The thing was easy to decide, hard to accomplish.  In this sensible roaring blackness I was
sure of nothing but the direction of the wind.  To this I set my face; the road had disappeared,
and I went across country, now in marshy opens, now baffled by walls unscalable to Modestine,
until I came once more in sight of some red windows.  This time they were differently disposed.
It was not Fouzilhic, but Fouzilhac, a hamlet little distant from the other in space, but worlds
away in the spirit of its inhabitants.  I tied Modestine to a gate, and groped forward, stumbling
among rocks, plunging mid-leg in bog, until I gained the entrance of the village.  In the first
lighted house there was a woman who would not open to me.  She could do nothing, she cried
to me through the door, being alone and lame; but if I would apply at the next house, there
was a man who could help me if he had a mind.

They came to the next door in force, a man, two women, and a girl, and brought a pair of lanterns
to examine the wayfarer.  The man was not ill- looking, but had a shifty smile.  He leaned
against the doorpost, and heard me state my case.  All I asked was a guide as far as Cheylard.

'C'est que, voyez-vous, il fait noir,' said he.

I told him that was just my reason for requiring help.

'I understand that,' said he, looking uncomfortable; 'mais--c'est--de la peine.'

I was willing to pay, I said.  He shook his head.  I rose as high as ten francs; but he continued
to shake his head.  'Name your own price, then,' said I.

'Ce n'est pas ca,' he said at length, and with evident difficulty; 'but I am not going to cross
the door--mais je ne sortirai pas de la porte.'

I grew a little warm, and asked him what he proposed that I should do.

'Where are you going beyond Cheylard?' he asked by way of answer.

'That is no affair of yours,' I returned, for I was not going to indulge his bestial curiosity;
'it changes nothing in my present predicament.'

'C'est vrai, ca,' he acknowledged, with a laugh; 'oui, c'est vrai.  Et d'ou venez-vous?'

A better man than I might have felt nettled.

'Oh,' said I, 'I am not going to answer any of your questions, so you may spare yourself the
trouble of putting them.  I am late enough already; I want help.  If you will not guide me
yourself, at least help me to find some one else who will.'

'Hold on,' he cried suddenly.  'Was it not you who passed in the meadow while it was still day?'

'Yes, yes,' said the girl, whom I had not hitherto recognised; 'it was monsieur; I told him
to follow the cow.'

'As for you, mademoiselle,' said I, 'you are a farceuse.'

'And,' added the man, 'what the devil have you done to be still here?'

What the devil, indeed!  But there I was.

'The great thing,' said I, 'is to make an end of it'; and once more proposed that he should
help me to find a guide.

'C'est que,' he said again, 'c'est que--il fait noir.'

'Very well,' said I; 'take one of your lanterns.'

'No,' he cried, drawing a thought backward, and again intrenching himself behind one of his
former phrases; 'I will not cross the door.'

I looked at him.  I saw unaffected terror struggling on his face with unaffected shame; he
was smiling pitifully and wetting his lip with his tongue, like a detected schoolboy.  I drew
a brief picture of my state, and asked him what I was to do.

'I don't know,' he said; 'I will not cross the door.'

Here was the Beast of Gevaudan, and no mistake.

'Sir,' said I, with my most commanding manners, 'you are a coward.'

And with that I turned my back upon the family party, who hastened to retire within their fortifications;
and the famous door was closed again, but not till I had overheard the sound of laughter. 
Filia barbara pater barbarior.  Let me say it in the plural: the Beasts of Gevaudan.

The lanterns had somewhat dazzled me, and I ploughed distressfully among stones and rubbish-heaps.
All the other houses in the village were both dark and silent; and though I knocked at here
and there a door, my knocking was unanswered.  It was a bad business; I gave up Fouzilhac with
my curses.  The rain had stopped, and the wind, which still kept rising, began to dry my coat
and trousers.  'Very well,' thought I, 'water or no water, I must camp.'  But the first thing
was to return to Modestine.  I am pretty sure I was twenty minutes groping for my lady in the
dark; and if it had not been for the unkindly services of the bog, into which I once more stumbled,
I might have still been groping for her at the dawn. My next business was to gain the shelter
of a wood, for the wind was cold as well as boisterous.  How, in this well-wooded district,
I should have been so long in finding one, is another of the insoluble mysteries of this day's
adventures; but I will take my oath that I put near an hour to the discovery.

At last black trees began to show upon my left, and, suddenly crossing the road, made a cave
of unmitigated blackness right in front.  I call it a cave without exaggeration; to pass below
that arch of leaves was like entering a dungeon.  I felt about until my hand encountered a
stout branch, and to this I tied Modestine, a haggard, drenched, desponding donkey.  Then I
lowered my pack, laid it along the wall on the margin of the road, and unbuckled the straps.
I knew well enough where the lantern was; but where were the candles?  I groped and groped
among the tumbled articles, and, while I was thus groping, suddenly I touched the spirit- lamp.
Salvation!  This would serve my turn as well.  The wind roared unwearyingly among the trees;
I could hear the boughs tossing and the leaves churning through half a mile of forest; yet
the scene of my encampment was not only as black as the pit, but admirably sheltered.  At the
second match the wick caught flame.  The light was both livid and shifting; but it cut me off
from the universe, and doubled the darkness of the surrounding night.

I tied Modestine more conveniently for herself, and broke up half the black bread for her supper,
reserving the other half against the morning. Then I gathered what I should want within reach,
took off my wet boots and gaiters, which I wrapped in my waterproof, arranged my knapsack for
a pillow under the flap of my sleeping-bag, insinuated my limbs into the interior, and buckled
myself in like a bambino.  I opened a tin of Bologna sausage and broke a cake of chocolate,
and that was all I had to eat.  It may sound offensive, but I ate them together, bite by bite,
by way of bread and meat.  All I had to wash down this revolting mixture was neat brandy: a
revolting beverage in itself.  But I was rare and hungry; ate well, and smoked one of the best
cigarettes in my experience.  Then I put a stone in my straw hat, pulled the flap of my fur
cap over my neck and eyes, put my revolver ready to my hand, and snuggled well down among the
sheepskins.

I questioned at first if I were sleepy, for I felt my heart beating faster than usual, as if
with an agreeable excitement to which my mind remained a stranger.  But as soon as my eyelids
touched, that subtle glue leaped between them, and they would no more come separate.  The wind
among the trees was my lullaby.  Sometimes it sounded for minutes together with a steady, even
rush, not rising nor abating; and again it would swell and burst like a great crashing breaker,
and the trees would patter me all over with big drops from the rain of the afternoon.  Night
after night, in my own bedroom in the country, I have given ear to this perturbing concert
of the wind among the woods; but whether it was a difference in the trees, or the lie of the
ground, or because I was myself outside and in the midst of it, the fact remains that the wind
sang to a different tune among these woods of Gevaudan.  I hearkened and hearkened; and meanwhile
sleep took gradual possession of my body and subdued my thoughts and senses; but still my last
waking effort was to listen and distinguish, and my last conscious state was one of wonder
at the foreign clamour in my ears.

Twice in the course of the dark hours--once when a stone galled me underneath the sack, and
again when the poor patient Modestine, growing angry, pawed and stamped upon the road--I was
recalled for a brief while to consciousness, and saw a star or two overhead, and the lace-like
edge of the foliage against the sky.  When I awoke for the third time (Wednesday, September
25th), the world was flooded with a blue light, the mother of the dawn.  I saw the leaves labouring
in the wind and the ribbon of the road; and, on turning my head, there was Modestine tied to
a beech, and standing half across the path in an attitude of inimitable patience.  I closed
my eyes again, and set to thinking over the experience of the night.  I was surprised to find
how easy and pleasant it had been, even in this tempestuous weather.  The stone which annoyed
me would not have been there, had I not been forced to camp blindfold in the opaque night;
and I had felt no other inconvenience, except when my feet encountered the lantern or the second
volume of Peyrat's Pastors of the Desert among the mixed contents of my sleeping-bag; nay,
more, I had felt not a touch of cold, and awakened with unusually lightsome and clear sensations.

With that, I shook myself, got once more into my boots and gaiters, and, breaking up the rest
of the bread for Modestine, strolled about to see in what part of the world I had awakened.
Ulysses, left on Ithaca, and with a mind unsettled by the goddess, was not more pleasantly
astray.  I have been after an adventure all my life, a pure dispassionate adventure, such as
befell early and heroic voyagers; and thus to be found by morning in a random woodside nook
in Gevaudan--not knowing north from south, as strange to my surroundings as the first man upon
the earth, an inland castaway--was to find a fraction of my day-dreams realised.  I was on
the skirts of a little wood of birch, sprinkled with a few beeches; behind, it adjoined another
wood of fir; and in front, it broke up and went down in open order into a shallow and meadowy
dale.  All around there were bare hilltops, some near, some far away, as the perspective closed
or opened, but none apparently much higher than the rest.  The wind huddled the trees.  The
golden specks of autumn in the birches tossed shiveringly.  Overhead the sky was full of strings
and shreds of vapour, flying, vanishing, reappearing, and turning about an axis like tumblers,
as the wind hounded them through heaven.  It was wild weather and famishing cold.  I ate some
chocolate, swallowed a mouthful of brandy, and smoked a cigarette before the cold should have
time to disable my fingers.  And by the time I had got all this done, and had made my pack
and bound it on the pack-saddle, the day was tiptoe on the threshold of the east.  We had not
gone many steps along the lane, before the sun, still invisible to me, sent a glow of gold
over some cloud mountains that lay ranged along the eastern sky.

The wind had us on the stern, and hurried us bitingly forward.  I buttoned myself into my coat,
and walked on in a pleasant frame of mind with all men, when suddenly, at a corner, there was
Fouzilhic once more in front of me.  Nor only that, but there was the old gentleman who had
escorted me so far the night before, running out of his house at sight of me, with hands upraised
in horror.

'My poor boy!' he cried, 'what does this mean?'

I told him what had happened.  He beat his old hands like clappers in a mill, to think how
lightly he had let me go; but when he heard of the man of Fouzilhac, anger and depression seized
upon his mind.

'This time, at least,' said he, 'there shall be no mistake.'

And he limped along, for he was very rheumatic, for about half a mile, and until I was almost
within sight of Cheylard, the destination I had hunted for so long.

CHEYLARD AND LUC

Candidly, it seemed little worthy of all this searching.  A few broken ends of village, with
no particular street, but a succession of open places heaped with logs and fagots; a couple
of tilted crosses, a shrine to Our Lady of all Graces on the summit of a little hill; and all
this, upon a rattling highland river, in the corner of a naked valley.  What went ye out for
to see? thought I to myself.  But the place had a life of its own.  I found a board, commemorating
the liberalities of Cheylard for the past year, hung up, like a banner, in the diminutive and
tottering church.  In 1877, it appeared, the inhabitants subscribed forty-eight francs ten
centimes for the 'Work of the Propagation of the Faith.'  Some of this, I could not help hoping,
would be applied to my native land.

The inn was again singularly unpretentious.  The whole furniture of a not ill-to-do family
was in the kitchen: the beds, the cradle, the clothes, the plate-rack, the meal-chest, and
the photograph of the parish priest. There were five children, one of whom was set to its morning
prayers at the stair-foot soon after my arrival, and a sixth would ere long be forthcoming.
I was kindly received by these good folk.  They were much interested in my misadventure.  The
wood in which I had slept belonged to them; the man of Fouzilhac they thought a monster of
iniquity, and counselled me warmly to summon him at law--'because I might have died.' The good
wife was horror-stricken to see me drink over a pint of uncreamed milk.

'You will do yourself an evil,' she said.  'Permit me to boil it for you.'

After I had begun the morning on this delightful liquor, she having an infinity of things to
arrange, I was permitted, nay requested, to make a bowl of chocolate for myself.  My boots
and gaiters were hung up to dry, and, seeing me trying to write my journal on my knee, the
eldest daughter let down a hinged table in the chimney-corner for my convenience.  Here I wrote,
drank my chocolate, and finally ate an omelette before I left.  The table was thick with dust;
for, as they explained, it was not used except in winter weather.  I had a clear look up the
vent, through brown agglomerations of soot and blue vapour, to the sky; and whenever a handful
of twigs was thrown on to the fire, my legs were scorched by the blaze.

The husband had begun life as a muleteer, and when I came to charge Modestine showed himself
full of the prudence of his art.  'You will have to change this package,' said he; 'it ought
to be in two parts, and then you might have double the weight.'

I explained that I wanted no more weight; and for no donkey hitherto created would I cut my
sleeping-bag in two.

'It fatigues her, however,' said the innkeeper; 'it fatigues her greatly on the march.  Look.'

Alas, there were her two forelegs no better than raw beef on the inside, and blood was running
from under her tail.  They told me when I started, and I was ready to believe it, that before
a few days I should come to love Modestine like a dog.  Three days had passed, we had shared
some misadventures, and my heart was still as cold as a potato towards my beast of burden.
She was pretty enough to look at; but then she had given proof of dead stupidity, redeemed
indeed by patience, but aggravated by flashes of sorry and ill-judged light-heartedness.  And
I own this new discovery seemed another point against her.  What the devil was the good of
a she-ass if she could not carry a sleeping-bag and a few necessaries?  I saw the end of the
fable rapidly approaching, when I should have to carry Modestine.  AEsop was the man to know
the world!  I assure you I set out with heavy thoughts upon my short day's march.

It was not only heavy thoughts about Modestine that weighted me upon the way; it was a leaden
business altogether.  For first, the wind blew so rudely that I had to hold on the pack with
one hand from Cheylard to Luc; and second, my road lay through one of the most beggarly countries
in the world.  It was like the worst of the Scottish Highlands, only worse; cold, naked, and
ignoble, scant of wood, scant of heather, scant of life. A road and some fences broke the unvarying
waste, and the line of the road was marked by upright pillars, to serve in time of snow.

Why any one should desire to visit either Luc or Cheylard is more than my much-inventing spirit
can suppose.

I came out at length above the Allier.  A more unsightly prospect at this season of the year
it would be hard to fancy.  Shelving hills rose round it on all sides, here dabbled with wood
and fields, there rising to peaks alternately naked and hairy with pines.  The colour throughout
was black or ashen, and came to a point in the ruins of the castle of Luc, which pricked up
impudently from below my feet, carrying on a pinnacle a tall white statue of Our Lady, which,
I heard with interest, weighed fifty quintals, and was to be dedicated on the 6th of October.
Through this sorry landscape trickled the Allier and a tributary of nearly equal size, which
came down to join it through a broad nude valley in Vivarais.  The weather had somewhat lightened,
and the clouds massed in squadron; but the fierce wind still hunted them through heaven, and
cast great ungainly splashes of shadow and sunlight over the scene.

Luc itself was a straggling double file of houses wedged between hill and river.  It had no
beauty, nor was there any notable feature, save the old castle overhead with its fifty quintals
of brand-new Madonna.  But the inn was clean and large.  The kitchen, with its two box-beds
hung with clean check curtains, with its wide stone chimney, its chimney-shelf four yards long
and garnished with lanterns and religious statuettes, its array of chests and pair of ticking
clocks, was the very model of what a kitchen ought to be; a melodrama kitchen, suitable for
bandits or noblemen in disguise.  Nor was the scene disgraced by the landlady, a handsome,
silent, dark old woman, clothed and hooded in black like a nun. Even the public bedroom had
a character of its own, with the long deal tables and benches, where fifty might have dined,
set out as for a harvest-home, and the three box-beds along the wall.  In one of these, lying
on straw and covered with a pair of table-napkins, did I do penance all night long in goose-flesh
and chattering teeth, and sigh, from time to time as I awakened, for my sheepskin sack and
the lee of some great wood.

OUR LADY OF THE SNOWS

         'I behold
   The House, the Brotherhood austere--
   And what am I, that I am here?'

   MATTHEW ARNOLD.

FATHER APOLLINARIS

Next morning (Thursday, 26th September) I took the road in a new order. The sack was no longer
doubled, but hung at full length across the saddle, a green sausage six feet long with a tuft
of blue wool hanging out of either end.  It was more picturesque, it spared the donkey, and,
as I began to see, it would ensure stability, blow high, blow low.  But it was not without
a pang that I had so decided.  For although I had purchased a new cord, and made all as fast
as I was able, I was yet jealously uneasy lest the flaps should tumble out and scatter my effects
along the line of march.

My way lay up the bald valley of the river, along the march of Vivarais and Gevaudan.  The
hills of Gevaudan on the right were a little more naked, if anything, than those of Vivarais
upon the left, and the former had a monopoly of a low dotty underwood that grew thickly in
the gorges and died out in solitary burrs upon the shoulders and the summits.  Black bricks
of fir-wood were plastered here and there upon both sides, and here and there were cultivated
fields.  A railway ran beside the river; the only bit of railway in Gevaudan, although there
are many proposals afoot and surveys being made, and even, as they tell me, a station standing
ready built in Mende.  A year or two hence and this may be another world.  The desert is beleaguered.
Now may some Languedocian Wordsworth turn the sonnet into patois: 'Mountains and vales and
floods, heard YE that whistle?'

At a place called La Bastide I was directed to leave the river, and follow a road that mounted
on the left among the hills of Vivarais, the modern Ardeche; for I was now come within a little
way of my strange destination, the Trappist monastery of Our Lady of the Snows.  The sun came
out as I left the shelter of a pine-wood, and I beheld suddenly a fine wild landscape to the
south.  High rocky hills, as blue as sapphire, closed the view, and between these lay ridge
upon ridge, heathery, craggy, the sun glittering on veins of rock, the underwood clambering
in the hollows, as rude as God made them at the first.  There was not a sign of man's hand
in all the prospect; and indeed not a trace of his passage, save where generation after generation
had walked in twisted footpaths, in and out among the beeches, and up and down upon the channelled
slopes. The mists, which had hitherto beset me, were now broken into clouds, and fled swiftly
and shone brightly in the sun.  I drew a long breath.  It was grateful to come, after so long,
upon a scene of some attraction for the human heart.

But if things had grown better to the south, it was still desolate and inclement near at hand.
A spidery cross on every hill-top marked the neighbourhood of a religious house; and a quarter
of a mile beyond, the outlook southward opening out and growing bolder with every step, a white
statue of the Virgin at the corner of a young plantation directed the traveller to Our Lady
of the Snows.  Here, then, I struck leftward, and pursued my way, driving my secular donkey
before me, and creaking in my secular boots and gaiters, towards the asylum of silence.

I had not gone very far ere the wind brought to me the clanging of a bell, and somehow, I can
scarce tell why, my heart sank within me at the sound.  I have rarely approached anything with
more unaffected terror than the monastery of Our Lady of the Snows.  This it is to have had
a Protestant education.  And suddenly, on turning a corner, fear took hold on me from head
to foot--slavish, superstitious fear; and though I did not stop in my advance, yet I went on
slowly, like a man who should have passed a bourne unnoticed, and strayed into the country
of the dead.  For there, upon the narrow new-made road, between the stripling pines, was a
mediaeval friar, fighting with a barrowful of turfs.  Every Sunday of my childhood I used to
study the Hermits of Marco Sadeler--enchanting prints, full of wood and field and mediaeval
landscapes, as large as a county, for the imagination to go a-travelling in; and here, sure
enough, was one of Marco Sadeler's heroes.  He was robed in white like any spectre, and the
hood falling back, in the instancy of his contention with the barrow, disclosed a pate as bald
and yellow as a skull.  He might have been buried any time these thousand years, and all the
lively parts of him resolved into earth and broken up with the farmer's harrow.

I was troubled besides in my mind as to etiquette.  Durst I address a person who was under
a vow of silence?  Clearly not.  But drawing near, I doffed my cap to him with a far-away superstitious
reverence.  He nodded back, and cheerfully addressed me.  Was I going to the monastery?  Who
was I?  An Englishman?  Ah, an Irishman, then?

'No,' I said, 'a Scotsman.'

A Scotsman?  Ah, he had never seen a Scotsman before.  And he looked me all over, his good,
honest, brawny countenance shining with interest, as a boy might look upon a lion or an alligator.
From him I learned with disgust that I could not be received at Our Lady of the Snows; I might
get a meal, perhaps, but that was all.  And then, as our talk ran on, and it turned out that
I was not a pedlar, but a literary man, who drew landscapes and was going to write a book,
he changed his manner of thinking as to my reception (for I fear they respect persons even
in a Trappist monastery), and told me I must be sure to ask for the Father Prior, and state
my case to him in full.  On second thoughts he determined to go down with me himself; he thought
he could manage for me better.  Might he say that I was a geographer?

No; I thought, in the interests of truth, he positively might not.

'Very well, then' (with disappointment), 'an author.'

It appeared he had been in a seminary with six young Irishmen, all priests long since, who
had received newspapers and kept him informed of the state of ecclesiastical affairs in England.
And he asked me eagerly after Dr. Pusey, for whose conversion the good man had continued ever
since to pray night and morning.

'I thought he was very near the truth,' he said; 'and he will reach it yet; there is so much
virtue in prayer.'

He must be a stiff, ungodly Protestant who can take anything but pleasure in this kind and
hopeful story.  While he was thus near the subject, the good father asked me if I were a Christian;
and when he found I was not, or not after his way, he glossed it over with great good-will.

The road which we were following, and which this stalwart father had made with his own two
hands within the space of a year, came to a corner, and showed us some white buildings a little
farther on beyond the wood.  At the same time, the bell once more sounded abroad.  We were
hard upon the monastery.  Father Apollinaris (for that was my companion's name) stopped me.

'I must not speak to you down there,' he said.  'Ask for the Brother Porter, and all will be
well.  But try to see me as you go out again through the wood, where I may speak to you.  I
am charmed to have made your acquaintance.'

And then suddenly raising his arms, flapping his fingers, and crying out twice, 'I must not
speak, I must not speak!' he ran away in front of me, and disappeared into the monastery door.

I own this somewhat ghastly eccentricity went a good way to revive my terrors.  But where one
was so good and simple, why should not all be alike?  I took heart of grace, and went forward
to the gate as fast as Modestine, who seemed to have a disaffection for monasteries, would
permit.  It was the first door, in my acquaintance of her, which she had not shown an indecent
haste to enter.  I summoned the place in form, though with a quaking heart.  Father Michael,
the Father Hospitaller, and a pair of brown-robed brothers came to the gate and spoke with
me a while.  I think my sack was the great attraction; it had already beguiled the heart of
poor Apollinaris, who had charged me on my life to show it to the Father Prior.  But whether
it was my address, or the sack, or the idea speedily published among that part of the brotherhood
who attend on strangers that I was not a pedlar after all, I found no difficulty as to my reception.
Modestine was led away by a layman to the stables, and I and my pack were received into Our
Lady of the Snows.

THE MONKS

Father Michael, a pleasant, fresh-faced, smiling man, perhaps of thirty- five, took me to the
pantry, and gave me a glass of liqueur to stay me until dinner.  We had some talk, or rather
I should say he listened to my prattle indulgently enough, but with an abstracted air, like
a spirit with a thing of clay.  And truly, when I remember that I descanted principally on
my appetite, and that it must have been by that time more than eighteen hours since Father
Michael had so much as broken bread, I can well understand that he would find an earthly savour
in my conversation.  But his manner, though superior, was exquisitely gracious; and I find
I have a lurking curiosity as to Father Michael's past.

