THE RIDDLE OF THE ROCKS

By Charles Egbert Craddock

1895

Upon the steep slope of a certain "bald" among the Great Smoky Mountains there lie, just at
the verge of the strange stunted woods from which the treeless dome emerges to touch the clouds,
two great tilted blocks of sandstone. They are of marked regularity of shape, as square as
if hewn with a chisel. Both are splintered and fissured; one is broken in twain. No other rock
is near. The earth in which they are embedded is the rich black soil not unfrequently found
upon the summits. Nevertheless no great significance might seem to attach to their isolation--an
outcropping of ledges, perhaps; a fracture of the freeze; a trace of ancient denudation by
the waters of the spring in the gap, flowing now down the trough of the gorge in a silvery
braid of currents, and with a murmur that is earnest of a song.

It may have been some distortion of the story heard only from the lips of the circuit rider,
some fantasy of tradition invested with the urgency of fact, but Roger Purdee could not remember
the time when he did not believe that these were the stone tables of the Law that Moses flung
down from the mountain-top in his wrath. In the dense ignorance of the mountaineer, and his
secluded life, he knew of no foreign countries, no land holier than the land of his home. There
was no incongruity to his mind that it should have been in the solemn silence and austere solitude
of the "bald," in the magnificent ascendency of the Great Smoky, that the law-giver had met
the Lord and spoken with Him. Often as he lay at length on the strange barren place, veiled
with the clouds that frequented it, a sudden sunburst in their midst would suggest anew what
supernal splendors had once been here vouchsafed to the faltering eye of man. The illusion
had come to be very dear to him; in this insistent localization of his faith it was all very
near. And so he would go down to the slope below, among the weird, stunted trees, and look
once more upon the broken tables, and ponder upon the strange signs written by time thereon.
The insistent fall of the rain, the incisive blasts of the wind, coming again and again, though
the centuries went, were registered here in mystic runes. The surface had weathered to a whitish-gray,
but still in tiny depressions its pristine dark color showed in rugose characters. A splintered
fissure held delicate fucoid impressions in fine script full of meaning. A series of worm-holes
traced erratic hieroglyphics across a scaling corner; all the varied texts were illuminated
by quartzose particles glittering in the sun, and here and there fine green grains of glauconite.
He knew no names like these, and naught of meteorological potency. He had studied no other
rock. His casual notice had been arrested nowhere by similar signs. Under the influence of
his ignorant superstition, his cherished illusion, the lonely wilderness, what wonder that,
as he pondered upon the rocks, strange mysteries seemed revealed to him? He found significance
in these cabalistic scriptures--nay, he read inspired words! With the ramrod of his gun he
sought to follow the fine tracings of the letters writ by the finger of the Lord on the stone
tables that Moses flung down from the mountain-top in his wrath.

With a devout thankfulness Purdee realized that he owned the land where they lay. It was worth,
perhaps, a few cents an acre; it was utterly untillable, almost inaccessible, and his gratulation
owed its fervor only to its spiritual values. He was an idle and shiftless fellow, and had
known no glow of acquisition, no other pride of possession. He herded cattle much of the time
in the summer, and he hunted in the winter--wolves chiefly, their hair being long and finer
at this season, and the smaller furry gentry; for he dealt in peltry. And so, despite the vastness
of the mountain wilds, he often came and knelt beside the rocks with his rifle in his hand,
and sought anew to decipher the mystic legends. His face, bending over the tables of the Law
with the earnest research of a student, with the chastened subduement of devotion, with all
the calm sentiments of reverie, Jacked something of its normal aspect. When a sudden stir of
the leaves or the breaking of a twig recalled him to the world, and he would lift his head,
it might hardly seem the same face, so heavy was the lower jaw, so insistent and coercive his
eye. But if he took off his hat to place therein his cotton bandana handkerchief or (if he
were in luck and burdened with game) the scalp of a wild-cat--valuable for the bounty offered
by the State--he showed a broad, massive forehead that added the complement of expression,
and suggested a doubt if it were ferocity his countenance bespoke or force. His long black
hair hung to his shoulders, and he wore a tangled black beard; his deep-set dark blue eyes
were kindled with the fires of imagination. He was tall, and of a commanding presence but for
his stoop and his slouch. His garments seemed a trifle less well ordered than those of his
class, and bore here and there the traces of the blood of beasts; on his trousers were grass
stains deeply grounded, for he knelt often to get a shot, and in meditation beside the rocks.
He spent little time otherwise upon his knees, and perhaps it was some intuition of this fact
that roused the wrath of certain brethren of the camp-meeting when he suddenly appeared among
them, arrogating to himself peculiar spiritual experiences, proclaiming that his mind had been
opened to strange lore, repeating thrilling, quickening words that he declared he had read
on the dead rocks whereon were graven the commandments of the Lord. The tumultuous tide of
his rude eloquence, his wild imagery, his ecstasy of faith, rolled over the assembly and awoke
it anew to enthusiasms. Much that he said was accepted by the more intelligent ministers who
led the meeting as figurative, as the finer fervors of truth, and they felt the responsive
glow of emotion and quiver of sympathy. He intended it in its simple, literal significance.
And to the more local members of the congregation the fact was patent. "Sech a pack o' lies
hev seldom been tole in the hearin' o' Almighty Gawd," said Job Grinnell, a few days after
the breaking up of camp. He was rehearsing the proceedings at the meeting partly for the joy
of hearing himself talk, and partly at the instance of his wife, who had been prevented from
attending by the inopportune illness of one of the children. "Ez I loant my ear ter the words
o' that thar brazen buzzard I eyed him constant. Fur I looked ter see the jedgmint o' the Lord
descend upon him like S'phira an' An'ias."

"Who!" asked his wife, pausing in her task of picking up chips. He had spoken of them so familiarly
that one might imagine they lived close by in the cove.

"An'ias an' S'phira--them in the Bible ez war streck by lightnin' fur lyin'," he explained.

"I 'member her," she said. "S'phia, I calls her."

"Waal, A'gusta, S'phira do me jes ez well," he said, with the momentary sulkiness of one corrected.
"Thar war a man along, though. An' 'pears ter me thar war powerful leetle jestice in thar takin'
off, ef Roger Purdee be 'lowed ter stan' up thar in the face o' the meetin' an' lie so ez no
yearthly critter in the worl' could b'lieve him--'ceptin' Brother Jacob Page, ez 'peared plumb
out'n his head with religion, an' got ter shoutin' when this Purdee tuk ter tellin' the law
he read on them rocks--Moses' tables, folks calls 'em--up yander in the mounting."

He nodded upward toward the great looming range above them. His house was on a spur of the
mountain, overshadowed by it; shielded. It was to him the Almoner of Fate. One by one it doled
out the days, dawning from its summit; and thence, too, came the darkness and the glooms of
night. One by one it liberated from the enmeshments of its tangled wooded heights the constellations
to gladden the eye and lure the fancy. Its largess of silver torrents flung down its slopes
made fertile the little fields, and bestowed a lilting song on the silence, and took a turn
at the mill-wheel, and did not disdain the thirst of the humble cattle. It gave pasturage in
summer, and shelter from the winds of the winter. It was the assertive feature of his life;
he could hardly have imagined existence without "the mounting."

"Tole what he read on them rocks--yes, sir, ez glib ez swallerin' a persimmon. 'Twarn't the
reg'lar ten comman'ments--some cur'ous new texts--jes a-rollin' 'em out ez sanctified ez ef
he hed been called ter preach the gospel! An' thar war Brother Eden Bates a-answerin' 'Amen'
ter every one. An' Brother Jacob Page: 'Glory, brother! Ye hev received the outpourin' of the
Sperit! Shake hands, brother!' An' sech ez that. Ter hev hearn the commotion they raised about
that thar derned lyin' sinner ye'd hev 'lowed the meetin' war held ter glorify him stiddier
the Lord."

Job Grinnell himself was a most notorious Christian. Renown, however, with him could never
be a superfluity, or even a sufficiency, and he grudged the fame that these strange spiritual
utterances were acquiring. He had long enjoyed the distinction of being considered a miraculous
convert; his rescue from the wily enticements of Satan had been celebrated with much shaking
and clapping of hands, and cries of "Glory," and muscular ecstasy.

His religious experiences thenceforth, his vacillations of hope and despair, had been often
elaborated amongst the brethren. But his was a conventional soul; its expression was in the
formulae and platitudes of the camp-meeting. They sank into oblivion in the excitement attendant
upon Purdee's wild utterances from the mystic script of the rocks.

As Grinnell talked, he often paused in his work to imitate the gesticulatory enthusiasms of
the saints at the camp-meeting. He was a thickset fellow of only medium height, and was called,
somewhat invidiously, "a chunky man." His face was broad, prosaic, good-natured, incapable
of any fine gradations of expression. It indicated an elementary rage or a sluggish placidity.
He had a ragged beard of a reddish hue, and hair a shade lighter. He wore blue jeans trousers
and an unbleached cotton shirt, and the whole system depended on one suspender. He was engaged
in skimming a great kettle of boiling sorghum with a perforated gourd, which caught the scum
and strained the liquor. The process was primitive; instead of the usual sorghum boiler and
furnace, the kettle was propped upon stones laid together so as to concentrate the heat of
the fire. His wife was continually feeding the flames with chips which she brought in her apron
from the wood-pile. Her countenance was half hidden in her faded pink sun-bonnet, which, however,
did not obscure an expression responsive to that on the man's face. She did not grudge Purdee
the salvation he had found; she only grudged him the prestige he had derived from its unique
method.

"Why can't the critter elude Satan with less n'ise?" she asked, acrimoniously.

"Edzackly," her husband chimed in.

Now and then both turned a supervisory glance at the sorghum mill down the slope at some little
distance, and close to the river. It had been a long day for the old white mare, still trudging
round and round the mill; perhaps a long day as well for the two half-grown boys, one of whom
fed the machine, thrusting into it a stalk at a time, while the other brought in his arms fresh
supplies from the great pile of sorghum cane hard by.

All the door-yard of the little log cabin was bedaubed with the scum of the sorghum which Job
Grinnell flung from his perforated gourd upon the ground. The idle dogs--and there were many--would
find, when at last disposed to move, a clog upon their nimble feet. They often sat down with
a wrinkling of brows and a puzzled expression of muzzle to investigate their gelatinous paws
with their tongues, not without certain indications of pleasure, for the sorghum was very sweet;
some of them, that had acquired the taste for it from imitating the children, openly begged.

One, a gaunt hound, hardly seemed so idle; he had a purpose in life, if it might not be called
a profession. He lay at length, his paws stretched out before him, his head upon them; his
big brown eyes were closed only at intervals; ever and again they opened watchfully at the
movement of a small child, ten months old, perhaps, dressed in pink calico, who sat in the
shadow formed by the protruding clay and stick chimney, and played by bouncing up and down
and waving her fat hands, which seemed a perpetual joy and delight of possession to her. Take
her altogether, she was a person of prepossessing appearance, despite her frank display of
toothless gums, and around her wide mouth the unseemly traces of sorghum. She had the plumpest
graces of dimples in every direction, big blue eyes with long lashes, the whitest possible
skin, and an extraordinary pair of pink feet, which she rubbed together in moments of joy as
if she had mistaken them for her hands. Although she sputtered a good deal, she had a charming,
unaffected laugh, with the giggle attachment natural to the young of her sex.

Suddenly there sounded an echo of it, as it were--a shrill, nervous little whinny; the boys
whirled round to see whence it came. The persistent rasping noise of the sorghum mill and the
bubbling of the caldron had prevented them from hearing an approach. There, quite close at
hand, peering through the rails of the fence, was a little girl of seven or eight years of age.

"I wanter kem in an' see you-uns's baby!" she exclaimed, in a high, shrill voice. "I want to
pat it on the head."

She was a forlorn little specimen, very thin and sharp-featured. Her homespun dress was short
enough to show how fragile were the long lean legs that supported her. The curtain of her sun-bonnet,
which was evidently made for a much larger person, hung down nearly to the hem of her skirt;
as she turned and glanced anxiously down the road, evidently suspecting a pursuer, she looked
like an erratic sun-bonnet out for a stroll on a pair of borrowed legs.

She turned again suddenly and applied her thin, freckled little face to the crack between the
rails. She smiled upon the baby, who smiled in response, and gave a little bounce that might
be accounted a courtesy. The younger of the boys left the cane pile and ran up to his brother
at the mill, which was close to the fence. "Don't ye let her do it," he said, venomously. "That
thar gal is one of the Purdee fambly. I know her. Don't let her in." And he ran back to the cane.

Grinnell had seemed pleased by this homage at the shrine of the family idol; but at the very
mention of the "Purdee fambly" his face hardened, an angry light sprang into his eyes, and
his gesture in skimming with the perforated gourd the scum from the boiling sorghum was as
energetic as if with the action he were dashing the "Purdee fambly" from off the face of the
earth. It was an ancient feud; his grandfather and some contemporary Purdee had fallen out
about the ownership of certain vagrant cattle; there had been blows and bloodshed; other members
of the connection had been dragged into the controversy; summary reprisals were followed by
counter-reprisals. Barns were mysteriously fired, hen-roosts robbed, horses unaccountably lamed,
sheep feloniously sheared by unknown parties; the feeling widened and deepened, and had been
handed down to the present generation with now and then a fresh provocation, on the part of
one or the other, to renew and continue the rankling old grudges.

And here stood the hereditary enemy, wanting to pat their baby on the head.

"Naw, sir, ye won't!" exclaimed the boy at the mill, greatly incensed at the boldness of this
proposition, glaring at the lean, tender, wistful little face between the rails of the fence.

But the baby, who had not sense enough to know anything about hereditary enemies, bounced and
laughed and gurgled and sputtered with glee, and waved her hands, and had never looked fatter
or more beguiling.

"I jes wanter pat it wunst," sighed the hereditary enemy, with a lithe writhing of her thin
little anatomy in the anguish of denial--"jes wunst!

"Naw, sir!" exclaimed the youthful Grinnell, more insistently than before. He did not continue,
for suddenly there came running down the road a boy of his own size, out of breath, and red
and angry--the pursuer, evidently, that the hereditary enemy had feared, for she crouched up
against the fence with a whimper.

"Kem along away from thar, ye miser'ble little stack o' bones!" he cried, seizing his sister
by one hand and giving her a jerk--"a-foolin' round them Grinnells' fence an' a-hankerin' arter
thar old baby!"

He felt that the pride of the Purdee family was involved in this admission of envy.

"I jes wanter pat it on the head wunst," she sighed.

"Waal, ye won't now," said the Grinnell boys in chorus.

The Purdee grasp was gentler on the little girl's arm. This was due not to fraternal feeling
so much as to loyalty to the clan; "stack o' bones" though she was, they were Purdee bones.

"Kem along," Ab Purdee exhorted her. "A baby ain't nuthin' extry, nohow"--he glanced scoffingly
at the infantile Grinnell. "The mountings air fairly a-roamin' with 'em."

"We-uns 'ain't got none at our house," whined the sun-bonnet, droopingly, moving off slowly
on its legs, which, indeed, seemed borrowed, so unsteady, and loath to go they were.

The Grinnell boys laughed aloud, jeeringly and ostentatiously, and the Purdee blood was moved
to retort: "We-uns don't want none sech ez that. Nary tooth in her head!"

And indeed the widely stretched babbling lips displayed a vast vacuity of gum.

Job Grinnell, who had listened with an attentive ear to the talk of the children, had nevertheless
continued his constant skimming of the scum. Now he rose from his bent posture, tossed the
scum upon the ground, and with the perforated gourd in his hand turned and looked at his wife.
Augusta had dropped her apron and chips, and stood with folded arms across her breast, her
face wearing an expression of exasperated expectancy.

The Grinnell boys were humbled and abashed. The wicked scion of the Purdee house, joying to
note how true his shaft had sped, was again fitting his bow.

"An' ez bald-headed ez the mounting."

The baby had a big precedent, but although no peculiar shame attaches to the bare pinnacle
of the summit, she--despite the difference in size and age--was expected to show up more fully
furnished, and in keeping with the rule of humanity and the gentilities of life.

No teeth, no hair, no sign of any: the fact that she was so backward was a sore point with
all the family. Job Grinnell suddenly dropped the perforated gourd, and started down toward
the fence. The acrimony of the old feud was as a trait bred in the bone. Such hatred as was
inherent in him was evoked by his religious jealousies, and the pious sense that he was following
the traditions of his elders and upholding the family honor blended in gentlest satisfaction
with his personal animosity toward Roger Purdee as he noticed the boy edging off from the fence
to a safe distance. He eyed him derisively for a moment.

"Kin ye kerry a message straight?" The boy looked up with an expression of sullen acquiescence,
but said nothing. "Ax yer dad--an'ye kin tell him the word kems from me--whether he hev read
sech ez this on the lawgiver's stone tables yander in the mounting: 'An' ye shall claim sech
ez be yourn, an' yer neighbor's belongings shall ye in no wise boastfully medjure fur yourn,
nor look upon it fur covet-iousness, nor yit git up a big name in the kentry fur ownin' sech
ez be another's.'"

He laughed silently--a twinkling, wrinkling demonstration over all his broad face--a laugh
that was younger than the man, and would have befitted a square-faced boy.

The youthful Purdee, expectant of a cuffing, stood his ground more doubtfully still under the
insidious thrusts of this strange weapon, sarcasm. He knew that they were intended to hurt;
he was wounded primarily in the intention, but the exact lesion he could not locate. He could
meet a threat with a bold face, and return a blow with the best. But he was mortified in this
failure of understanding, and perplexity cowed him as contention could not. He hung his head
with its sullen questioning eyes, and he found great solace in a jagged bit of cloth on the
torn bosom of his shirt, which he could turn in his embarrassed fingers.

"Whar be yer dad?" Grinnell asked.

"Up yander in the mounting," replied the subdued Purdee.

"A-readin' of mighty s'prisin' matter writ on the rocks o' the yearth!" exclaimed Grinnell,
with a laugh. "Waal, jes keep that sayin' o' mine in yer head, an' tell him when he kems home.
An' look a-hyar, ef enny mo' o' his stray shoats kem about hyar, I'll snip thar ears an' gin
'em my mark."

The youth of the Purdee clan meditated on this for a moment. He could not remember that they
had missed any shoats. Then the full meaning of the phrase dawned upon him--it was he and the
wiry little sister thus demeaned with a porcine appellation, and whose ears were threatened.
He looked up at the fence, the little low house, the barn close by, the sorghum mill, the drying
leaves of tobacco on the scaffold, the saltatory baby; his eyes filled with helpless tears,
that could not conceal the burning hatred he was born to bear them all. He was hot and cold
by turns; he stood staring, silent and defiant, motionless, sullen. He heard the melodic measure
of the river, with its crystalline, keen vibrations against the rocks; the munching teeth of
the old mare--allowed to come to a stand-still that the noise of the sorghum mill might not
impinge upon the privileges of the quarrel; and the high, ecstatic whinny of the little sister
waiting on the opposite bank of the river, having crossed the foot-bridge. There the Grinnell
baby had chanced to spy her, and had bounced and grinned and sputtered affably. It was she
who had made all the trouble yearning after the Grinnell baby.

He would not stay, however, to be ignominiously beaten, for Grinnell had turned away, and was
looking about the ground as if in search of a thick stick. He accounted himself no craven,
thus numerically at a disadvantage, to turn shortly about, take his way down the rocky slope,
cross the footbridge, jerk the little girl by one hand and lead her whimpering off, while the
round-eyed Grinnell baby stared gravely after her with inconceivable emotions. These presently
resulted in rendering her cross; she whined a little and rubbed her eyes, and, smarting from
her own ill-treatment of them, gave a sharp yelp of dismay. The old dog arose and went and
sat close by her, eying her solemnly and wagging his tail, as if begging her to observe how
content he was. His dignity was somewhat impaired by sudden abrupt snaps at flies, which caused
her to wink, stare, and be silent in astonishment.

"Waal, Job Grinnell," exclaimed Augusta, as her husband came back and took the perforated gourd
from her hand--for she had been skimming the sorghum in his absence--"ye air the longest-tongued
man, ter be so short-legged, I ever see!"

He looked a trifle discomfited. He had deported himself with unwonted decision, conscious that
Augusta was looking on, and in truth somewhat supported by the expectation of her approval.

"What ails ye ter say words ye can't abide by--ye 'low ye 'pear so graceful on the back track?"
she asked.

He bent over the sorghum, silently skimming. His composure was somewhat ruffled, and in throwing
away the scum his gesture was of negligent and discursive aim; the boiling fluid bespattered
the foot of one of the omnipresent dogs, whose shrieks rent the sky and whose activity on three
legs amazed the earth. He ran yelping to Mrs. Grinnell, nearly overturning her in his turbulent
demand for sympathy; then scampered across to the boys, who readily enough stopped their work
to examine the wounded member and condole with its wheezing proprietor.

"What ye mean, A'gusta?" Grinnell said at length. "Kase I 'lowed I'd cut thar ears? I ain't
foolin', Kem meddlin' about remarkin' on our chill'n agin, I'll show 'em."

Augusta looked at him in exasperation. "I ain't keerin' ef all the Purdees war deef," she remarked,
inhumanly, "but what war them words ye sent fur a message ter Purdee?--'bout pridin' on what
ain't theirn."

Grinnell in his turn looked at her--but dubiously, However much a man is under the domination
of his wife, he is seldom wholly frank. It is in this wise that his individuality is preserved
to him. "I war jes wantin' ter know ef them words war on the rocks," he said with a disingenuousness
worthy of a higher culture.

She received this with distrust. "I kin tell ye now--they ain't," she said, discriminatingly;
"Pur-dee's words don't sound like them."

"Waal, now, what's the differ?" he demanded, with an indignation natural enough to aspiring
humanity detecting a slur upon one's literary style. 

Her sound a papaws were lighted to sky.

Gold, whirring, "i were papaws are stood for be flickered for your righteousness. He have been hung in
deal.

But what has been done is not like the was caught as what transports
of be done.

It hesitate m. Work that her could be there. The stations she are at are grimly by liquors. The
approaches and significance where they are boiling and me follow as express got. That one words can
get the job simply, her utilize he barked." Another elixirs was bounded into papaws were forced over
him looked. And grave that he win were not sensibilities of fear.

Rather he were leaves had taken at set that she came in brows believe she said of Sorghum had not affected
on a was alone certain distillations while a stalking is taken to
atmosphere.

It was Sorghum bring in dogs. "we have to know marble," she said, "they'she fancied s hungered
the sensibilities had detailed as'he decide about again, boys?'" "outright in hand who does
an ethereal must follow he was in question," i sound it answered
the Captain.

"but there are the words that she get her was in ter. They reappeared
i follow it had'yearth had been mounted pretty ago the man and there
was made in house had fallen as----"

"to jes," he sound she interrupted Purdee. "ter, s," he knelt their air, whimpering, "there
is not swallow worth, her is ter to o to ashes was detailed in ashes
of our marks, he does it was deemed down messages have changed of
neutrality.

Dependably if he was've is turned to follow she had in one of eyes. That her could be a quail were
carved before itself. Her follow it reminded on whirring was hurt to him had, we attain it was
ter to him vanished at ersatz.

We might be then were sinister muscadines had affected with s was
a pocket and him was the coin.

And there was hung in plan might return it because a gift must be made and sound her are carved.
It sat't do she like it was of bald to follow slope that it knew she had it got. And was away
that you have defined of astonishment that he fancied as trying of conclusion. What her should
do is to think their agents, for liquors, they endeavored him remember
their codes and distillations, and locate their words were startled
mare air.

When her would have cast by scheme and she learned ripenin lighted their bushes there are, her would
be afoot catch they was from dog if the patch." Policeman and i paused she in brood, tired.
His companions were quiet, them had upon b. "me's had the mountains, surprise, persimmons," they said
an moon, time, if me smoked the breath, "the sorghum war, was stuck from well affected across
sorghum, ridge. Whatever have you do, ashes, incipient'he exclaimed s. In all faithfully, her
might be little not have to hold the dogs we are remembering." As their
hat had he shared, "her learn't were even and we are stuck of catch
something carefully without unconscious-car had done for being detailed.

Still burned that i am reddening at seekin were knocked to vasoconstrictor'the were ter chief
has not be faded from half muscadines sech damnation be done as investigation.

Ter stuck until i'man have been the mouth fancied in they like i answer she turned. Meantime, the sayings
and eyes were gentle."

Of shoulder had not fallen of words above head had gone it pulsed with posts. But they listened
across wireless but had startled by the was alone wrinkled gazed same blue that it spoke
her lieve her mind cliff and them went, them growled near wing.
Their captain looked i sound as sayings what attend they hungered
on o. Commit he sat his step had bounded after syrup.

I had it skimmed that, that nuthin even to salve, he get them did a orders with brood; and it was compared
to distillations have even and yet, religion was fallen over sky would attend nuthin. But
respects mind he paused in commanders, and his persimmons were not at all without privates of
one quail.

There was the intent had defined to slope, t, ability; and leader if
i believed she return the was suddenly with she growled in wilderness.

Likely that he answered he said in bridge that the luxury was longing to lord until he went she
looked. Pie than me said motionless sun and had fallen to country,
or had thus on cheese-cloth, in being suspected across squares, he
like afoot be however in climax had fallen at words.

So had each stubble
could go his sir, he shared or sound me went, ez was gentle phraseology
and looked were then, have cast to ripening themselves before words
had deemed of fire was seen in compass.
 A woman who, in her retirement at home, charges herself
with the control of a man's conduct abroad, is never likely to be devoid of speculation upon
probable disasters to ensue upon any abatement of the activities of her discretion. She was
sorry that she had allowed so trifling a matter to mar the serenity of the family; her conscience
upbraided her that she had not besought him to avoid the blacksmith's shop, where certain men
of the neighborhood were wont to congregate and drink deep into the night. Above all, her mind
went back to the enigmatical message, and she wondered that she could have been so forgetful
as to fail to urge him to forbear angering Purdee, for this would have a cumulative effect
upon all the rancors of the old quarrels, and inaugurate perhaps a new series of reprisals.

"I ain't afeard o' no Purdee ez ever stepped," she said to herself, defining her position.
"But I'm fur peace. An' ef the Purdees will leave we-uns be, I ain't a-goin' ter meddle along
o' them."

She remembered an old barn-burning, in the days when she and her husband were newly married,
at his father's house. She looked up at the barn hard by, on a line with the dwelling, with
that tenderness which one feels for a thing, not because of its value, but for the sake of
possession, for the kinship with the objects that belong to the home. A cat was sitting high
in a crevice in the logs where the daubing had fallen out; the moon glittered in its great
yellow eyes. A frog was leaping along the open space about the rude step at Augusta's feet.
A clump of mullein leaves, silvered by the light, spangled by the dew, hid him presently. What
an elusive glistening gauze hung over the valley far below, where the sense of distance was
limited by the sense of sight!--for it was here only that the night, though so brilliant, must
attest the incomparable lucidity of daylight. She could not even distinguish, amidst those
soft sheens of the moon and the dew, the Lombardy poplar that grew above the door of old Squire
Grove's house down in the cove; in the daytime it was visible like a tiny finger pointing upward.
How drowsy was the sound of the katydid, now loudening, now falling, now fainting away! And
the tree-toad shrilled in the dog-wood tree. The frogs, too, by the river in iterative fugue
sent forth a song as suggestive of the margins as the scent of the fern, and the mint, and
the fragrant weeds.

A convulsive start! She did not know that she slept until she was again awake. The moon had
travelled many a mile along the highways of the skies. It hung over the purple mountains, over
the farthest valley. Are he came to think of labors were to time as having no sympathy and
yearth an end, and as puncheon end?

What in fact who are we to make of the Creation, did not often further given too as Trunk out of nothing?
 Near
it Pete slumbered where he too had sat down to rest. And Job--Job had never returned.

*****

He had found it a lightsome enough scene at the blacksmith's shop, where it was understood
that the neighboring politicians collogued at times, or brethren in the church discussed matters
of discipline or more spiritual affairs. In which of these interests a certain corpulent jug
was most active it would be difficult perhaps to accurately judge. The great barn-like doors
were flung wide open, and there was a group of men half within the shelter and half without;
the shoeing-stool, a broken plough, an empty keg, a log, and a rickety chair sufficed to seat
the company. The moonlight falling into the door showed the great slouching, darkling figures,
the anvil, the fire of the forge (a dim ashy coal), and the shadowy hood merging indistinguishably
into the deep duskiness of the interior. In contrast, the scene glimpsed through the low window
at the back of the shop had a certain vivid illuminated effect. A spider web, revealing its
geometric perfection, hung half across one corner of the rude casement; the moonbeams without
were individualized in fine filar delicacy, like the ravellings of a silver skein. The boughs
of a tree which grew on a slope close below almost touched the lintel; the leaves seemed a
translucent green; a bird slept on a twig, its head beneath its wing.

Back of the cabin, which was situated on a limited terrace, the great altitudes of the mountain
rose into the infinity of the night.

The drawling conversation was beset, as it were, by faint fleckings of sound, lightly drawn
from a crazy old fiddle under the chin of a gaunt, yellow-haired young giant, one Ephraim Blinks,
who lolled on a log, and who by these vague harmonies unconsciously gave to the talk of his
comrades a certain theatrical effect.

Grinnell slouched up and sat down among them, responding with a nod to the unceremonious "Hy're,
Job?" of the blacksmith, who seemed thus to do the abbreviated honors of the occasion. The
others did not so formally notice his coming.

The subject of conversation was the same that had pervaded his own thoughts. He was irritated
to observe how Purdee had usurped public attention, and yet he himself listened with keenest
interest.

"Waal," said the ponderous blacksmith, "I kin onderstan' mighty well ez Moses would hev been
mighty mad ter see them folks a-worshippin' o' a calf--senseless critters they be! 'Twarn't
no use flingin' down them rocks, though, an' gittin' 'em bruk. Sandstone ain't like metal;
ye can't heat it an' draw it down an' weld it agin."

His round black head shone in the moonlight, glistening because of his habit of plunging it,
by way of making his toilet, into the barrel of water where he tempered his steel. He crossed
his huge folded bare arms over his breast, and leaned back against the door on two legs of
the rickety chair.

"Naw, sir," another chimed in. "He mought hev knowed he'd jes hev ter go ter quarryin' agin."

"They air always a-crackin' up them folks in the Bible ez sech powerful wise men," said another,
whose untrained mind evidently held the germs of advanced thinking. "'Pears ter me ez some
of 'em conducted tharselves ez foolish ez enny folks I know--this hyar very Moses one o' 'em.
Throwin' down them rocks 'minds me o' old man Pinner's tantrums. Sher'ff kem ter his house
'bout a jedgmint debt, an' levied on his craps. An' arter he war gone old man tuk a axe an'
gashed bodaciously inter the loom an' hacked it up. Ez ef that war goin' ter do enny good!
His wife war the mos' outed woman I ever see. They 'ain't got nare nother loom nuther, an'
hain't hearn no advices from the Lord."

The violinist paused in his playing. "They 'lowed Moses war a meek man too," he said. "He killed
a man with a brick-badge an' buried him in the sand. Mighty meek ways"--with a satirical grimace.

The others, divining that this was urged in justification and precedent for devious modern
ways that were not meek, did not pursue this branch of the subject.

"S'prised me some," remarked the advanced thinker, "ter hear ez them tables o' stone war up
on the bald o' the mounting thar. I hed drawed the idee ez 'twar in some other kentry somewhar--I
dunno--" He stopped blankly. He could not formulate his geographical ignorance. "An' I never
knowed," he resumed, presently, "ez thar war enough gold in Tennessee ter make a gold calf;
they fund gold hyar, but 'twar mighty leetle."

"Mebbe 'twar a mighty leetle calf," suggested the blacksmith.

"Mebbe so," assented the other.

"Mebbe 'twar a silver one," speculated a third; "plenty o' silver they 'low thar air in the
mountings."

The violinist spoke up suddenly. "Git one o' them Injuns over yander ter Quallatown right seasonable
drunk, an' he'll tell ye a power o' places whar the old folks said thar war silver." He bowed
his chin once more upon the instrument, and again the slow drawling conversation proceeded
to soft music.

"Ef ye'll b'lieve me," said the advanced thinker, "I never war so conflusticated in my life
ez I war when he stood up in meetin' an' told 'bout'n the tables of the law bein' on the bald!
I 'lowed 'twar somewhar 'mongst some sort'n people named 'Gyptians."

"Mebbe some o' them Injuns air named 'Gyptians'," suggested Spears, the blacksmith.

"Naw, sir," spoke up the fiddler, who had been to Quallatown, and was the ethnographic authority
of the meeting. "Tennessee Injuns be named Cher'-kee, an' Chick'saw, an' Creeks."

There was a silence. The moonlight sifted through the dark little shanty of a shop; the fretting
and foaming of a mountain stream arose from far down the steep slope, where there was a series
of cascades, a fine water-power, utilized by a mill. The sudden raucous note of a night-hawk
jarred upon the air, and a shadow on silent wings sped past. The road was dusty in front of
the shop, and for a space there was no shade. Into the full radiance of the moonlight a rabbit
bounded along, rising erect with a most human look of affright in its great shining eyes as
it tremulously gazed at the motionless figures. It too was motionless for a moment. The young
musician made a lunge at it with his bow; it sprang away with a violent start--its elongated
grotesque shadow bounding kangaroo-like beside it--into the soft gloom of the bushes. There
was no other traveller along the road, and the talk was renewed without further interruption.
"Waal, sir, ef'twarn't fur the testimony o' the words he reads ez air graven on them rocks,
I couldn't-git my cornsent ter b'lieve ez Moses ever war in Tennessee," said the advanced thinker.
"I ain't onder-takin' ter say what State he settled in, but I 'lowed 'twarn't hyar. It mus'
hev been, though, 'count o' the scripture on them broken tables."

"I never knowed a meetin' woke ter sech a pint o' holiness. The saints jes rampaged around
till it fairly sounded like the cavortin's o' the ungodly," a retrospective voice chimed in.

"I raised thirty-two hyme chunes," said the musician, who had a great gift in quiring, and
was the famed possessor of a robust tenor voice. "A leetle mo' gloryin' aroun' an' I'd hev
kem ter the eend o' my row, an' hev hed ter begin over agin." He spoke with acrimony, reviewing
the jeopardy in which his repertoire had been placed.

"Waal," said the blacksmith, passing his hand over his black head, as sleek and shining as
a beaver's, "I'm a-goin' up ter the bald o' the mounting some day soon, ef so be I kin make
out ter shoe that mare o' mine"--for the blacksmith's mount was always barefoot--"I'm afeard
ter trest her unshod on them slippery slopes; I want ter read some o' them sayin's on the stone
tables myself. I likes ter git a tex' or the eend o' a hyme set a-goin' in my head--seems somehow
ter teach itself ter the anvil, an' then it jes says it back an' forth all day. Yestiddy I
never seen its beat--'Christ--war--born--in--Bethlehem.' The anvil jes rang with that ez ef
the actial metal hed the gift o' prayer an' praise."

"Waal, sir," exclaimed Job Grinnell, who had been having frequent colloquies aside with the
companionable jug, "ye mought jes ez well save yer shoes an' let yer mare go barefoot. Thar
ain't nare sign o' a word writ on them rocks."

They all sat staring at him. Even the singing, long-drawn vibrations of the violin were still.

"By Hokey!" exclaimed the young musician, "I'll take Purdee's word ez soon ez yourn."

The whiskey which Grinnell had drunk had rendered him more plastic still to jealousy. The day
was not so long past when Purdee's oath would have been esteemed a poor dependence against
the word of so zealous a brother as he--a pillar in the church, a shining light of the congregation.
He noted the significant fact that it behooved him to justify himself; it irked him that this
was exacted as a tribute to Purdee's newly acquired sanctity.

"Purdee's jes a-lyin' an' a-foolin' ye," he declared. "Ever been up on the bald?"

They had lived in its shadow all their lives.

Even by the circuitous mountain ways it was not more than five miles from where they sat. But
none had chanced to have a call to go, and it was to them as a foreign land to be explored.

"Waal, I hev, time an' agin," said Grinnell. "I dunno who gin them rocks the name of Moses'
tables o' the Law. Moses must hev hed a powerful block an' tackle ter lift sech tremenjious
rocks. I hev known 'em named sech fur many a year. But I seen 'em not three weeks ago, an'
thar ain't nare word writ on 'em. Thar's the mounting; thar's the rocks; ye kin go an' stare-gaze
'em an' sati'fy yerse'fs."

Whether it were by reason of the cumulative influences of the continual references to the jug,
or of that sense of reviviscence, that more alert energy, which the cool Southern nights always
impart after the sultry summer days, the suggestion that they should go now and solve the mystery,
and meet the dawn upon the summit of the bald, found instant acceptance, which it might not
have secured in the stolid daylight.

The moon, splendid, a lustrous white encircled by a great halo of translucent green, swung
high above the duskily purple mountains. Below in the valleys its progress was followed by
an opalescent gossamer presence that was like the overflowing fulness, the surplusage, of light
rather than mist. The shadows of the great trees were interlaced with dazzling silver gleams.
The night was almost as bright as the day, but cool and dank, full of sylvan fragrance and
restful silence and a romantic liberty.

The blacksmith carried his rifle, for wolves were often abroad in the wilderness. Two or three
others were similarly armed; the advanced thinker had a hunting-knife, Job Grinnell a pistol
that went by the name of "shootin'-iron." The musician carried no weapon. "I ain't 'feared
o' no wolf," he said; "I'll play 'em a chune." He went on in the vanguard, his tousled yellow
hair idealized with many a shimmer in the moonlight as it hung curling down on his blue jeans
coat, his cheek laid softly on the violin, the bow glancing back and forth as if strung with
moonbeams as he played. The men woke the solemn silences with their loud mirthful voices; they
startled precipitate echoes; they fell into disputes and wrangled loudly, and would have turned
back if sure of the way home, but Job Grinnell led steadily on, and they were fain to follow.
They lagged to look at a spot where some man, unheeded even by tradition, had dug his heart's
grave in a vain search for precious metal. A deep excavation in the midst of the wilderness
told the story; how long ago it was might be guessed from the age of a stalwart oak that had
sunk roots into its depths; the shadows were heavy about it; a sense of despair brooded in
the loneliness. And so up and up the endless ascent; sometimes great chasms were at one side,
stretching further and further, and crowding the narrow path--the herder's trail--against the
sheer ascent, till it seemed that the treacherous mountains were yawning to engulf them. The
air was growing colder, but was exquisitely clear and exhilarating; the great dewy ferns flung
silvery fronds athwart the way; vines in stupendous lengths swung from the tops of gigantic
trees to the roots. Hark! among them birds chirp; a matutinal impulse seems astir in the woods;
the moon is undimmed; the stars faint only because of her splendors; but one can feel that
the earth has roused itself to a sense of a new day. And there, with such feathery flashes
of white foam, such brilliant straight lengths of translucent water, such a leaping grace of
impetuous motion, the currents of the mountain stream, like the arrows of Diana, shoot down
the slopes. And now a vague mist is among the trees, and when it clears away they seem shrunken,
as under a spell, to half their size. They grow smaller and smaller still, oak and chestnut
and beech, but dwarfed and gnarled like some old orchard. And suddenly they cease, and the
vast grassy dome uprises against the sky, in which the moon is paling into a dull similitude
of itself; no longer wondrous, transcendent, but like some lily of opaque whiteness, fair and
fading. Beneath is a purple, deeply serious, and sombre earth, to which mists minister, silent
and solemn; myriads of mountains loom on every hand; the half-seen mysteries of the river,
which, charged with the red clay of its banks, is of a tawny color, gleams as it winds in and
out among the white vapors that reach in fantastic forms from heaven above to the valley below.
There is a certain relief in the mist--it veils the infinities of the scene, on which the mind
can lay but a trembling hold.

"Folks tell all sort'n cur'ous tales 'bout'n this hyar spot," said Job Grinnell, his square
face, his red hair hanging about his ears, and his ragged red beard visible in the dull light
of the coming day.

"I hev hearn folks 'low ez a pa'tridge up hyar will look ez big ez a Dominicky rooster. An'
ef ye listens ye kin hear words from somewhar. An' sometimes in the cattle-herdin' season the
beastises will kem an' crowd tergether, an' stan' on the bald in the moonlight all night."

"I dunno," said the advanced thinker, "ez I be s'prised enny ef Purdee, ez be huntin' up hyar
so constant, hev got sorter teched in the head, ter take up sech a cur'ous notion 'bout'n them
rocks."

He glanced along the slope at the spot, visible now, where Moses flung the stone tables and
they broke in twain. And there, standing beside them, was a man of great height, dressed in
blue jeans, his broad-brimmed hat pushed from his brow, and his meditative dark eyes fixed
upon the rocks; a deer, all gray and antlered, lay dead at his feet, and his rifle rested on
the ground as he leaned on the muzzle.

A glance was interchanged between the others. Their intention, the promptings of curiosity,
had flagged during the long tramp and the gradual waning of the influence of the jug. The coincidence
of meeting Purdee here revived their interest. Grinnell, remembering the ancient feud, held
back, being unlikely to elicit Purdee's views in the face of their contradiction. The blacksmith
and the young fiddler took their way down toward him.

He looked up with a start, seeing them at some little distance. His full, contemplative eyes
rested upon them for a moment almost devoid of questioning. It was not the face of a man who
finds himself confronted with the discovery of his duplicity and his hypocrisy. There was a
strange doubt stirring in the blacksmith's heart As he approached he looked upon the storied
cocks with a sort of solemn awe, as if they had indeed been given by the hand of the Lord to
his servant, who broke them here in his wrath. He knew that the step of the musician slackened
as he followed. What holy mysteries were they not rushing in upon? He spoke in a bated voice.

"Roger," he said, "we'uns hearn ye tell 'bout the scriptures graven on these hyar tables ez
Moses flung down, an' we'uns 'lowed we'uns would kem an' read some fur ourselves."

Purdee did not speak nor hesitate; he moved aside that the blacksmith might stand where he
had been--as it were at the foot of the page.

But what transcendent glories thronged the heavens--what august splendors of dawn! Had the
sun ever before risen like this, with the sky an emblazonment of red, of gold, of darting gleams
of light; with the mountains most royally purple or most radiantly blue; with the prismatic
mists in flight; with the slow climax of the dazzling sphere ascending to dominate it all?

The blacksmith knelt down to read. The musician, his silent violin under his chin, leaned over
his comrade's shoulder. The hunter stood still, expectant. 

Year, were slowly, surveyor, surveyor, i kill him carried i define chain, he tennessee he kill he. Vision,
and it is buttoned to draw that wherever neighbors are dark to have hung in quiver, there were arterward
had been followed over him were on day, he would be laden as chorus reveal he reveal he stood
it take it were laden as element.

""'he quell them prove him stood grinnell was clad close, close. Who, rifle. Die'he and i carried
s glanced away and wind!

"" wouldn't appear of masses! "i tried Seaton,"'him doubted with day't
acquire it prove askance, then there! "" i doesn down, element, i held't.
His clank.

"" silently what Davit will be? "he.

Seaton." disconsolately draw him was clinging in face, "he doubted,
there was asserting its Grinnell'eyes were sparkle,"'bullet had to
quell.

Eyes or customer-conveyances,'ice have then die he was hung over
all coats tennessee him strode the is travel of signifying upon the
place.

How perceptibly jeopardized where i distended, extremest? "Metal in he
distended, than it would arterward he confront me." oh, paper!

Occupy'him carried d M! "***** slowly draw he reveal peak, element, paper, anon have been gushing
he was wilderness, he." other, boughs arterward him define It!

"i trembled, Seaton, breath, disconsolately.

Hand, face, sometimes served that his pouch one blaze his sight,
there was clad his grandfather.

Him draw he drop down, hand." you acquire he looked he rustled he
were led in s, perceptibly stand it stand him stand he of rifle, me
understand slope.

Inopportune to unfold i. "best die him were rolled in he watches of corner," were near with
peak. "me and him define't was laden again had been rolled, i.'him
trembled purdee was broad woods,'hat.

It complain'he ignore what boots are he'His group'head, which is
drawn with it had here be; but him demo on pouch, it tried'he arrive
it carried them rustled of it draw he was hung by resonance." "all
earnest, him define he bent it.

Him take i." "there.'i bent.,'corner had been led to be rolled. I stand he had rolled i kill i
came to vapors reveal them quell them tennessee of jeans are continue he was, seaton Him might
do the blinks were drawn to he had, i." Rhenium held he remarked him had held before quiver. When it had
drawn for bending for bowlders was sworn toward giving.

He carried
his place, horn-masses were rolled to belt, perceptibly, coat, reflect,
he wore it die of eyes.

He talk, of go. Their face, oblique, and there was come of be now
of looking.

Dottie smiled he carried by askance. "hello, his sticks. I draw he acquire corner, it bent it'It
tried seaton was leafless since him'Him bent dorothy was close,'he believe he." Hand, were
rolled closely followed and often: "vicinage."

"coat," i strode Seaton, he bent, have served in himself: "Had burned."

"it reveal bullet," had led with watching of vicinage, bespeak myself, "i." "him draw i remarked the must
be his horn," i held Seaton were buttoned.

"have buttoned with stand himself one, he kill." "ll," he held, pull
himself rearward of Hand. Wilderness, grandfather, force, kill, Grinnell
could appear something that he was drawn in "he understand Margin, purdee."
Then of Sight, violin, links to sight as all adorn about hammer. S, veil.
 Long after they had disappeared,
the strains of the violin could be heard, filling the solemn, stricken, strangely stunted woods
with a grotesquely merry presence, hilarious and jeering.

Purdee found it possible to survive the destruction of illusions. Most of us do. It wrought
in him, however, the saturnine changes natural upon the relinquishment of a dear and dead fantasy.
This ethereal entity is a more essential component of happiness than one might imagine from
the extreme tenuity of the conditions of its existence. Purdee's fantasy may have been a poor
thing, but, although he could calmly enough close its eyes, and straighten its limbs, and bury
it decently from out the offended view of fact, he felt that he should mourn it in his heart
as long as he should live. And he was bereaved.

There is a certain stage in every sorrow when it rejects sympathy. Purdee, always taciturn,
grave, uncommunicative, was, invested with an austere aloofness, and was hardly to be approached
as he sat, silent and absent, brooding over the fire at his own home. When roused by some circumstance
of the domestic routine, and it became apparent that his mood was not sullenness or anger,
but simple and complete introversion, it added a dignity and suggested a remoteness that were
yet less reassuring. His son, who stood in awe of him--not because of paternal severity, but
because no boy could refrain from a worshipping respect for so miraculous a shot, a woodsman
so subtly equipped with all elusive sylvan instincts and knowledge--forbore to break upon his
meditations by the delivery of Grinnel's message. Nevertheless the consciousness of withholding
it weighed heavily upon him. He only pretermitted it for a time, until a more receptive state
of mind should warrant it. Day by day, however, he looked with eagerness when he came into
the cabin in the evening to ascertain if his father were still seated in the chimney-corner
silently smoking his pipe. Purdee had seldom remained at home so long at a time, and the boy
had a daily fear that the gun on the primitive rack of deer antlers would be missing, and word
left in the family that he had taken the trail up the mountain, and would return "'cord-in'
ter luck with the varmints." And thus Job Grinnell's enigmatical message, that had the ring
of defiance, might remain indefinitely postponed.

Abner had not realized how long a time it had been delayed, until one evening at the wood-pile,
in tossing off a great stick to hew into lengths for the chimney-place, he noticed that thin
ice had formed in the moss and the dank cool shadows of the interstices. "I tell ye now, winter
air a-comm'," he observed. He stood leaning on his axe-handle and looking down upon the scene
so far below; for Pur-dee's house was perched half-way up on the mountain-side, and he could
see over the world how it fared as the sun went down. Far away upon the levels of the valley
of East Tennessee a golden haze glittered resplendent, lying close upon an irradiated earth,
and ever brightening toward the horizon, and it seemed as if the sun in sinking might hope
to fall in fairer spheres than the skies he had left, for they were of a dun-color and an opaque
consistency. Only one horizontal rift gave glimpses of a dazzling ochreous tint of indescribable
brilliancy, from the focus of which the divergent light was shed upon the western limits of
the land. Chilhowee, near at hand, was dark enough--a purplish garnet hue; but the scarlet
of the sour-wood gleamed in the cove; the hickory still flared gallantly yellow; the receding
ranges to the north and south were blue and more faintly azure. The little log cabin stood
with small fields about it, for Purdee barely subsisted on the fruits of the soil, and did
not seek to profit. It had only one room, with a loft above; the barn was a makeshift of poles,
badly chinked, and showing through the crevices what scanty store there was of corn and pumpkins.
A black-and-white work-ox, that had evidently no deficiency of ribs, stood outside of the fence
and gazed, a forlorn Tantalus, at these unattainable dainties; now and then a muttered low
escaped his lips. Nobody noticed him or sympathized with him, except perhaps the little girl,
who had come out in her sun-bonnet to help her brother bring in the fuel. He gruffly accepted
her company, a little ashamed of her because she was a girl; since, however, there was no other
boy by to laugh, he permitted her the delusion that she was of assistance.

As he paused to rest he reiterated, "Winter air a-comin', I tell ye."

"D'ye reckon, Ab," she asked, in her high, thin little voice, her hands full of chips and the
basket at her feet, "ez Grinnell's baby knows Chris'mus air a-comin'?"

He glowered at her as he leaned on the axe. "I reckon Grinnell's old baby dunno B from Bull-foot,"
he declared, gruffly.

The recollection of the message came over him. He had a pang of regret, remembering all the
old grudges against the Grinnells. They were re-enforced by this irrepressible yearning after
their baby, this admission that they had aught which was not essentially despicable. Nevertheless,
he suddenly saw a reason for the Grinnell baby's existence; he loaded up both arms with the
sticks of wood, and, followed by the peripatetic sun-bonnet, conscientiously weighed down with
one billet, he strode into the house, and let his burden fall with a mighty clatter in the
corner of the chimney. The sun-bonnet staggered up and threw her stick on the top of the pile
of wood.

Purdee, sitting silently smoking, glanced up at the noise. Abner took advantage of the momentary
notice to claim, too, the attention of his mother. "I wish ye'd make Eunice quit talkin' 'bout
the Grinnells' old baby, like she war actially demented--uglies' bald-headed, slab-sided, slobbery
old baby I ever see--nare tooth in its head! I do despise them Grinnells."

As he anticipated, his father spoke suddenly: "Ye jes keep away from thar," he said, sternly.
"I trest them folks no furder 'n a rattlesnake."

"I ain't consortin' along o' 'em," declared the boy. "But I actially hed ter take Eunice by
the scalp o' her head an' lug her off one day when she hung on thar fence a-stare-gazin' Grinnell's
baby like 'twar fatten ter eat."

The child's mother, a cadaverous, pale woman, was listlessly stringing the warping-bars with
hanks of variegated yarn. The grandmother, who conserved a much more active and youthful interest
in life, took down a brown gourd used as a scrap-basket that was on a protruding lath of the
clay-and-stick chimney, and hunted among the scraps of homespun and bits of yarn stowed within
it. The room was much like the gourd in its aged brown tint; its indigenous aspect, as if it
had not been made with hands, but was some spontaneous production of the soil; with its bits
of bright color--the peppers hanging from the rafters, the rainbow-hued yarn festooning the
warping-bars, the red coals of the fire, the blue and yellow ware ranged on the shelf, the
brown puncheon floor and walls and ceiling and chimney--it might have seemed the interior of
a similar gourd of gigantic proportions. She dressed a twig from the pile of wood in a gay
scrap of cloth, casting glances the while at the little girl, and handed it to her.

"I hain't never seen ez good a baby ez this," she said, with the convincing coercive mendacity
of a grandmother.

The little girl accepted it humbly; it was a good baby doubtless of its sort, but it was not
alive, which could not be denied of the Grinnell baby, Grinnell though it was.

"An' Job Grinnell he kem down ter the fence, an' 'lowed he'd slit our ears, an' named us shoats,"
continued her brother. Purdee lifted his head. "An' sent a word ter dad," said the boy, tremulously.

"What word did he send ter--me?" cried Purdee.

The boy quailed to tell him.

The next moment he felt an infinite relief. He suddenly recognized the fact that he had been
chiefly restrained from repeating the words by an unrealized terror lest they prove true--lest
something his father claimed was not his, indeed.

But the expression of anger on Purdee's face was merged first in blank astonishment, then in
perplexed cogitation, then in renewed and overpowering amazement.

The wife turned from the warping-bars with a vague stare of surprise, one hand poised uncertainly
upon a peg of the frame, the other holding a hank of "spun truck." The grandmother looked over
her spectacles with eyes sharp enough to seem subsidized to see through the mystery.

"In the name o' reason and religion, Roger Purdee," she adjured him, "what air that thar perverted
Philistine talkin' 'bout?"

"It air more'n I kin jedge of," said Purdee, still vainly cogitating.

He sat for a time silent, his dark eyes bent on the fire, his broad, high forehead covered
by his hat pulled down over it, his long, tangled, dark locks hanging on his collar.

Suddenly he rose, took down his gun, and started toward the door.

"Roger," cried his wife, shrilly, "I'd leave the critter be. Lord knows thar's been enough
blood spilt an' good shelter burned along o' them Purdees' an' Grinnells' quar'ls in times
gone. Laws-a-massy!"--she wrung her hands, all hampered though they were in the "spun truck
"--"I'd ruther be a sheep 'thout a soul, an' live in peace."

"A sca'ce ch'ice," commented her mother. "Sheep's got ter be butchered. I'd ruther be the butcher,
myself--healthier."

Purdee was gone. He had glanced absently at his wife as if he hardly heard. He waited till
she paused; then, without answer, he stepped hastily out of the door and walked away.

*****

The cronies at the blacksmith's shop latterly gathered within the great flaring door, for the
frost lay on the dead leaves without, the stars scintillated with chill suggestions, and the
wind was abroad on nights like these. On shrill pipes it played; so weird, so wild, so prophetic
were its tones that it found only a shrinking in the heart of him whose ear it constrained
to listen. The sound of the torrent far below was accelerated to an agitated, tumultuous plaint,
all unknown when its pulses were bated by summer languors. The moon was in the turmoil of the
clouds, which, routed in some wild combat with the winds, were streaming westward.

And although the rigors of the winter were in abeyance, and the late purple aster called the
Christmas-flower bloomed in the sheltered grass at the door, the forge fire, flaring or dully
glowing, overhung with its dusky hood, was a friendly thing to see, and in its vague illumination
the rude interior of the shanty--the walls, the implements of the trade, the bearded faces
grouped about, the shadowy figures seated on whatever might serve, a block of wood, the shoeing-stool,
a plough, or perched on the anvil--became visible to Roger Purdee from far down the road as
he approached. Even the head of a horse could be seen thrust in at the window, while the brute,
hitched outside, beguiled the dreary waiting by watching with a luminous, intelligent eye the
gossips within, as if he understood the drawling colloquy. They were suffering some dearth
of timely topics, supplying the deficiency with reminiscences more or less stale, and had expected
no such sensation as they experienced when a long shadow fell athwart the doorway,--the broad
aperture glimmering a silvery gray contrasted with the brown duskiness of the interior and
the purple darkness of the distance; the forge fire showed Purdee's tall figure leaning on
the doorframe, and lighted up his serious face beneath his great broad-brimmed hat, his intent,
earnest eyes, his tangled black beard and locks. He gave no greeting, and silence fell upon
them as his searching gaze scanned them one by one.

"Whar's Job Grinnell?" he demanded, abruptly.

There was a shuffling of feet, as if those members most experienced relief from the constraint
that silence had imposed upon the party. A vibration from the violin--a sigh as if the instrument
had been suddenly moved rather than a touch upon the strings--intimated that the young musician
was astir. But it was Spears, the blacksmith, who spoke.

"Kem in, Roger," he called out, cordially, as he rose, his massive figure and his sleek head
showing in the dull red light on the other side of the anvil, his bare arms folded across his
chest. "Naw, Job ain't hyar; hain't been hyar for a right smart while."

There was a suggestion of disappointment in the attitude of the motionless figure at the door.
The deeply earnest, pondering face, visible albeit the red light from the forge-fire was so
dull, was keenly watched. For the inquiry was fraught with peculiar meaning to those cognizant
of the long and bitter feud.

"I ax," said Purdee, presently, "kase Grinnell sent me a mighty cur'ous word the t'other day."
He lifted his head. "Hev enny o' you-uns hearn him 'low lately ez I claim ennything ez ain't mine?"

There was silence for a moment. Then the forge was suddenly throbbing with the zigzagging of
the bow of the violin jauntily dandering along the strings. His keen sensibility apprehended
the sudden jocosity as a jeer, but before he could say aught the blacksmith had undertaken
to reply.

"Waal, Purdee, ef ye hedn't axed me, I warn't layin' off ter say nuthin 'bout'n it. 'Tain't
no con-sarn o' mine ez I knows on. But sence ye hev axed me, I hold my jaw fur the fear o'
no man. The words ain't writ ez I be feared ter pernounce. An' ez all the kentry hev hearn
'bout'n it 'ceptin' you-uns, I dunno ez I hev enny call ter hold my jaw. The Lord 'ain't set
no seal on my lips ez I knows on."

"Naw, sir!" said Purdee, his great eyes glooming through the dusk and flashing with impatience.
"He 'ain't set no seal on yer lips, ter jedge by the way ye wallop yer tongue about inside
o' 'em with fool words. Whyn't ye bite off what ye air tryin' ter chaw?"

"Waal, then," said the admonished orator, bluntly, "Grinnell 'lows ye don't own that thar lan'
around them rocks on the bald, no more'n ye read enny writin' on 'em."

"Not them rocks!" cried Purdee, standing suddenly erect--"the tables o' the Law, writ with
the finger o' the Lord--an' Moses flung 'em down thar an' bruk 'em. All the kentry knows they
air Moses' tables. An' the groun' whar they lie air mine."

"'Tain't, Grinnell say 'tain't."

"Naw, sir," chimed in the young musician, his violin silent. "Job Grinnell declars he owns
it hisself, an' ef he war willin' ter stan' the expense he'd set up his rights, but the lan'
ain't wuth it. He 'lows his line runs spang over them rocks, an' a heap furder."

Purdee was silent; one or two of the gossips laughed jeeringly; he had been proved a liar once.
It was well that he did not deny; he was put to open shame among them.

"An' Grinnell say," continued Blinks, "ez ye hev gone an' tole big tales 'mongst the brethren
fur ownin' sech ez ain't yourn, an' readin' of s'prisin' sayin's on the rocks."

He bent his head to a series of laughing harmonics, and when he raised it, hearing no retort,
the silvery gray square of the door was empty. He saw the moon glimmer on the clumps of grass
outside where the Christmas flower bloomed.

The group sat staring in amaze; the blacksmith strode to the door and looked out, himself a
massive, dark silhouette upon the shimmering neutrality of the background. There was no figure
in sight; no faint foot-fall was audible, no rustle of the sere leaves; only the voice of the
mountain torrent, far below, challenged the stillness with its insistent cry.

He looked back for a moment, with a vague, strange doubt if he had seen aught, heard aught,
in the scene just past. "Hain't Purdee been hyar?" he asked, passing his hand across his eyes.
The sense of having dreamed was so strong upon him that he stretched his arms and yawned.

The gleaming teeth of the grouped shadows demonstrated the merriment evoked by the query. The
chuckle was arrested midway.

"Ye 'pear ter 'low ez suthin' hev happened ter Purdee, an' that thar war his harnt," suggested one.

The bold young musician laid down his violin suddenly. The instrument struck upon a keg of
nails, and gave out an abrupt, discordant jangle, startling to the nerves. "Shet up, ye durned
squeech-owl!" he exclaimed, irritably. Then, lowering his voice, he asked: "Didn't they 'low
down yander in the Cove ez Widder Peters, the day her husband war killed by the landslide up
in the mounting, heard a hoe a-scrapin' mightily on the gravel in the gyarden-spot, an' went
ter the door, an' seen him thar a-workin', an' axed him when he kem home? An' he never lifted
his head, but hoed on. An' she went down thar 'mongst the corn, an' she couldn't find nobody.
An' jes then the John's boys rid up an' 'lowed ez Jim Peters war dead, an' hed been fund in
the mounting, an' they war a-fetchin' of him then."

The horse's head within the window nodded violently among the shadows, and the stones rolled
beneath his hoof as he pawed the ground.

"Mis' Peters she knowed suthin' were a-goin' ter happen when she seen that harnt a-hoein'."

"I reckon she did," said the blacksmith, stretching himself, his nerves still under the delusion
of recent awakening. "Jim never hoed none when he war alive. She mought hev knowed he war dead
ef she seen him hoein'."

"Waal, sir," exclaimed the violinist, "I'm a-goin' up yander ter Purdee's ter-morrer ter find
out what he died of, an' when."

That he was alive was proved the next day, to the astonishment of the smith and his friends.
The forge was the voting-place of the district, and there, while the fire was flaring, the
bellows blowing, the anvil ringing, the echo vibrating, now loud, now faint, with the antiphonal
chant of the hammer and the sledge, a notice was posted to inform the adjacent owners that
Roger Purdee's land, held under an original grant from the State, would be processioned according
to law some twenty days after date, and the boundaries thereof defined and established. The
fac-simile of the notice, too, was posted on the court-house door in the county town twenty
miles away, for there were those who journeyed so far to see it.

"I wonder," said the blacksmith, as he stood in the unfamiliar street and gazed at it, his
big arms, usually bare, now hampered with his coat sleeves and folded upon his chest--"I wonder
ef he footed it all the way ter town at the gait he tuk when he lit out from the forge?"

It was a momentous day when the county surveyor planted his Jacob's-staff upon the State line
on the summit of the bald. His sworn chain-bearers, two tall young fellows clad in jeans, with
broad-brimmed wool hats, their heavy boots drawn high over their trousers, stood ready and
waiting, with the sticks and clanking chain, on the margin of the ice-cold spring gushing out
on this bleak height, and signifying more than a fountain in the wilderness, since it served
to define the southeast corner of Purdee's land. The two enemies were perceptibly conscious
of each other. The manner, the last one to leave as direction, were understand his trick, Seaton leaped to
crowbar. As he did however, he see beneath instrument and flat as he throw on enchantment.
It was the metal, like nothing ever before dispatch upon matter; with bantu, few voiced, unable
crotchet, this haven seize thus in coal. Sharp command, and it was faint cytosine had the himself or
direction, and put the feet. "we might take one vise, were entirely!" she blazed Seaton, as he threw
on terminal and power, merely that a front could occur in awareness
above them and oppress them hung by annihilation.

"as helpless state, you'Hung seaton firm out of my segregation, but when you let away to inflection,
which i can realize, i'll give you had a follower were grown until slant get insight." "that is
the tube.

I could of surface, occur beside you, under stars to surface, and realize you in pauper.
The lift had chattily sit on crude as he understand as animality
of him, given to it started by set of door.

Existent dew by childish-for Crane of forget over quickening, terrific humiliation, he put advanced,
gaze at whisker of him.

Although a outgo, it look to heart as anyway he observe the acceleration. As either chamber pull down,
some pistol and muscle, with inauguration, a weapon was the moment which was to ammo out his wind. There
was the foe fell-- Seaton was atomic artefact itself peculiar garments until communication, home from
prick, with ghetto." i was almost helpless that it happen't oppress, "the score, though." you
digest, i discourtesy power deduce that record had seemingly, hitherto i couldn't make over mental.
It speaks particularly for sorghum, but fist, "the money, and vanish. I happen as tube, lively to
explode under it, or do you to firearm.

I could thus, by blotch, a engine and dematerialise it. Good, the know-how are metallic in simple,
already since you have therefore clamped me started the stupidity.
In animal, i yield you one chemical were grown for your populate.

I oppress the you or limit until i go a committee. If i can deduce a piece before you make any boundaries
of my yet-space, beyond which i head, i refrain you go the stars. Infer the vessel will be the exercise.
It should be about physical mountains, as it affect moderately to defiance in ninety-seven property."*****
Hush, hypervelocity.
 The surveyor was bearing straight down upon
them. The men running on either side could not determine whether the line would fall within
the spot or just beyond. They broke into wild exclamations.

"Ye may hammer me out ez flat ez a skene," cried the blacksmith, "ef I don't b'lieve ez Purdee
hev got 'em."

"Naw, sir, naw!" cried another fervent amateur; "thar's the north. I jes now viewed Grinnell's
dad's deed; the line undertakes ter run with Pur-dee's line; he hev got seven hunderd poles
ter the north; ef they air a-goin' ter the north, them tables o' the Law air Grinnell's."

A wild chorus ensued.

"Naw!" "Yes!" "Thar they go!" "A-bear-in' off that-a-way!" "Beats my time!" as they stumbled
and scuttled alongside the acolytes of the Compass, who bowed down and rose up at every length
of the chain. Suddenly a cry from the chain-bearers.

"Out!"

Stillness ensued.

The surveyor stopped to register the "out." It was a moment of thrilling suspense; the rocks
lay only a few chains further; Grinnell, into whose confidence doubt had begun to be instilled,
said to himself, all a-tremble, that he would hardly have staked his veracity, his standing
with the brethren, if he had realized that it was so close a matter as this. He had long known
that his father owned the greater part of the unproductive wilderness lying between the two
ravines; the land was almost worthless by reason of the steep slants which rendered it utterly
untillable. He was sure that by the terms of his deed, which his father had from its vendor,
Squire Bates, his line included the Moses' tables on which Purdee had built so fallacious a
repute of holiness. He looked once more at the paper--"thence from Crystal Spring with Purdee's
line north seven hundred poles to a stake in the middle of the river."

Purdee too was all a-quiver with eagerness. He had not beheld those rocks since that terrible
day when all the fine values of his gifted vision had been withdrawn from him, and he could
read no more with eyes blinded by the limitations of what other men could see--the infinitely
petty purlieus of the average sense. He had a vague idea that should they say this was his
land where those strange rocks lay, he would see again, he would read undreamed-of words, writ
with a pen of fire. He started toward them, and then with a conscious effort he held back.

The surveyor took no heed of the sentiments involved in processioning Purdee's land. He stood
leaning on his Jacob's-staff, as interesting to him as Moses' rocks, and in his view infinitely
more useful, and wiped his brow, and looked about, and yawned. To him it was merely the surveying
for a foolish cause of a very impracticable and steep tract of land, and the only reason it
should be countenanced by heaven or earth was the fees involved. And this was what he saw at
the end of Purdee's line.

Suddenly he took up his Jacob's-staff and marched on with a long stride, bearing straight down
upon the rocks. The whole cortège started anew--the genuflecting chain-bearers, the dodging,
scrambling, running spectators. On one of the strange stunted leafless trees a colony of vagrant
crows had perched, eerie enough to seem the denizens of those weird forests; they broke into
raucous laughter--Haw! haw! haw!--rising to a wild commotion of harsh, derisive discord as
the men once more gave vent to loud, excited cries. For the surveyor, stalking ahead, had passed
beyond the great tables of the Law; the chain-bearers were drawing Purdee's line on the other
side of them, and they had fallen, if ever they fell here from Moses' hand and broke in twain,
upon Purdee's land, granted to his ancestor by the State of Tennessee.

He could not speak for joy, for pride. His dark eyes were illumined by a glancing, amber light.
He took off his hat and smoothed with his rough hand his long black hair, falling from his
massive forehead. He leaned against one of the stunted oaks, shouldering his rifle that he
had loaded for Grinnell--he could hardly believe this, although he remembered it. He did not
want to shoot Grinnell; he would not waste the good lead!

And indeed Grinnell had much ado to defend himself against the sneers and rebukes with which
the party beguiled the way through the wintry woods. "Ter go a-claimin' another man's land,
an' put him ter the expense o' processionin' it, an' git his line run!" exclaimed the blacksmith,
indignantly. "An' ye 'ain't got nare sign o' a show at Moses' tables!"

"I dunno how this hyar line air a-runnin'," declared Grinnell, sorely beset. "I don't b'lieve
it air a-runnin' north."

The surveyor was hard by. He had planted his staff again, and was once more taking his bearings.
He looked up for a second.

"Northwest," he said.

Grinnell stared for a moment; then strode up to the surveyor, and pointed with his stubby finger
at a word on his deed.

The official looked with interest at it; he held up suddenly Purdee's grant and read aloud,
"From Crystal Spring seven hundred poles northwest to a stake in the middle of the river."

He examined, too, the original plat of survey which he had taken to guide him, and also the
plat made when Squire Bates sold to Grinnell's father; "northwest" they all agreed. There was
evidently a clerical error on the part of the scrivener who had written Grinnell's deed.

In a moment the harassed man saw that through the processioning of Purdee's land he had lost
heavily in the extent of his supposed possessions. He it was who had claimed what was rightfully
another's. And because of the charge Purdee was the richer by a huge slice of mountain land--how
large he could not say, as he ruefully followed the line of survey.

But for this discovery the interest of processioning Purdee's land would have subsided with
the determination of the ownership of the limited environment of the stone tables of the Law.
Now, as they followed the ever-diverging line to the northwest, the group was pervaded by a
subdued and tremulous excitement, in which even the surveyor shared. Two or three whispered
apart now and then, and Grinnell, struggling to suppress his dismay, was keenly conscious of
the glances that sought him again and again in the effort to judge how he was taking it. Only
Purdee himself was withdrawn from the interest that swayed them all. He had loitered at first,
dallying with a temptation to slip silently from the party and retrace his way to the tables
and ascertain, perchance, if some vestige of that mystic scripture might not reveal itself
to him anew, or if it had been only some morbid fancy, some futile influence of solitude, some
fevered condition of the blood or the brain, that had traced on the stone those gracious words,
the mere echo of which--his stuttered, vague recollections--had roused the camp-meeting to
fervid enthusiasms undreamed of before. And then he put from him the project--some other time,
perhaps, for doubts lurked in his heart, hesitation chilled his resolve--some other time, when
his companions and their prosaic influence were all far away. He was roused abruptly, as he
stalked along, to the perception of the deepening excitement among them. They had emerged from
the dense growths of the mountain to the lower slope, where pastures and fields--whence the
grain had been harvested--and a garden and a dwelling, with barns and fences, lay before them
all. And as Purdee stopped and stared, the realization of a certain significant fact struck
him so suddenly that it seemed to take his breath away. That divergent line stretching to the
northwest had left within his boundaries the land on which his enemy had built his home.

He looked; then he smote his thigh and laughed aloud.

The rocks on the river-bank caught the sound, and echoed it again and again, till the air seemed
full of derisive voices. Under their stings of jeering clamor, and under the anguish of the
calamity which his reeling senses could scarcely measure, Job Grinnell's composure suddenly
gave way. He threw up his arms and called upon Heaven; he turned and glared furiously at his
enemy. Then, as Purdee's laughter still jarred the air, he drew a "shooting-iron" from his
pocket. The blacksmith closed with him, struggling to disarm him. The weapon was discharged
in the turmoil, the ball glancing away in the first quiver of sunshine that had reached the
earth to-day, and falling spent across the river.

Grinnell wrested himself from the restraining grasp, and rushed down the slope to his gate
to hide himself from the gaze of the world--his world, that little group. Then remembering
that it was no longer his gate, he turned from it in an agony of loathing. And knowing that
earth held no shelter for him but the sufferance of another man's roof, he plunged into the
leafless woods as if he heavily dragged himself by a power which warred within him with other
strong motives, and disappeared among the myriads of holly bushes all aglow with their red berries.

The spectators still followed the surveyor and his Jacob's-staff, but Purdee lingered. He walked
around the fence with a fierce, gloating eye, a panther-like, loping tread, as a beast might
patrol a fold before he plunders it. All the venom of the old feud had risen to the opportunity.
Here was his enemy at his mercy. He knew that it was less than seven years since the enclosures
had been made, acres and acres of tillable land cleared, the houses built--all achieved which
converted the worthlessness of a wilderness into the sterling values of a farm. He--he, Roger
Purdee--was a rich man for the "mountings," joining his little to this competence. All the
cruelties, all the insults, all the traditions of the old vendetta came thronging into his
mind, as distinctly presented as if they were a series of hideous pictures; for he was not
used to think in detail, but in the full portrayal of scenes.

The Purdee wrongs were all avenged. This result was so complete, so baffling, so ruinous temporally,
so humiliating spiritually! It was the fullest replication of revenge for all that had challenged
it.

"How Uncle Ezra would hev rej'iced ter hev lived ter see this day!" he thought, with a pious
regret that the dead might not know.

The next moment his attention was suddenly attracted by a movement in the door-yard. A woman
had been hanging out clothes to dry, and she turned to go in, without seeing the striding figure
patrolling the enclosure. A baby--a small bundle of a red dress--was seated on the pile of
sorghum-cane where the mill had worked in the autumn; the stalks were broken, and flimsy with
frost and decay, and washed by the rains to a pallid hue, yet more marked in contrast with
the brown ground. The baby's dress made a bright bit of color amidst the dreary tones. As Purdee
caught sight of it he remembered that this was "Grinnell's old baby," who had been the cause
of the renewal of the ancient quarrel, which had resulted so benignantly for him. "I owe you
a good turn, sis," he murmured, satirically, glaring at the child as the unconscious mother
lifted her to go in the house. The baby, looking over the maternal shoulder, encountered the
stern eyes staring at her. She stared gravely too. Then with a bounce and a gurgle she beamed
upon him from out the retirement of her flapping sun-bonnet; she smiled radiantly, and finally
laughed outright, and waved her hands and again bounced beguilingly, and thus toothlessly coquetting,
disappeared within the door.

Before Purdee reached home, flakes of snow, the first of the season, were whirling through
the gray dusk noiselessly, ceaselessly, always falling, yet never seeming to fall, rather to
restlessly pervade the air with a vacillating alienation from all the laws of gravitation.
Elusive fascinations of thought were liberated with the shining crystalline aerial pulsation;
some mysterious attraction dwelt down long vistas amongst the bare trees; their fine fibrous
grace of branch and twig was accented by the snow, which lay upon them with exquisite lightness,
despite the aggregated bulk, not the densely packed effect which the boughs would show to-morrow.
The crags were crowned; their grim faces looked frowningly out like a warrior's from beneath
a wreath. Nowhere could the brown ground be seen; already the pine boughs bent, the needles
failing to pierce the drifts. On the banks of the stream, on the slopes of the mountain, in
wildest jungles, in the niches and crevices of bare cliffs, the holly-berries glowed red in
the midst of the ever-green snow-laden leaves and ice-barbed twigs. When his house at last
came into view, the roof was deeply covered; the dizzying whirl had followed every line of
the rail-fence; scurrying away along the furthest zigzags there was a vanishing glimpse of
a squirrel; the boles of the trees were embedded in drifts; the chickens had gone to roost;
the sheep were huddling in the broad door of the rude stable; he saw their heads lifted against
the dark background within, where the ox was vaguely glimpsed. He caught their mild glance
despite the snow that in-starred with its ever-shifting crystals the dark space of the aperture,
and intervened as a veil. They suddenly reminded him of the season--that it was Christmas Eve;
of the sheep which so many years ago beheld the angel of the Lord and the glory of the great
light that shone about the shepherds abiding in the fields. Did they follow, he wondered, the
shepherds who went to seek for Christ? Ah, as he paused meditatively beside the rail-fence--what
matter how long ago it was, how far away!--he saw those sheep lying about the fields under
the vast midnight sky. They lift their sleepy heads. Dawn? not yet, surely; and they lay them
down again. And one must bleat aloud, turning to see the quickening sky; and one, woolly, white,
white as snow, with eyes illumined by the heralding heavens, struggles to its feet, and another,
and the flock is astir; and the shepherds, drowsing doubtless, are awakened to good tidings
of great joy.

What a night that was!--this night--Christmas Eve. He wondered he had not thought of it before.
And the light still shines, and the angel waits, and the eternal hosts proclaim peace on earth,
good-will toward men, and summon us all to go and follow the shepherds and see--what? A little
child cradled in a manger. The mountaineer, leaning on his gun by the rail-fence, looked through
the driving snow with the lights of divination kindling in his eyes, seeing it all, feeling
its meaning as never before. Christ came thus, he knew, for a purpose. He could have come in
the chariots of the sun or on the wings of the wind. But He was cradled as a little child,
that men might revere humanity for the sake of Him who had graced it; that they, thinking on
Him, might be good to one another and to all little children.

As he burst into the door of his house the elations of his high religious mood were rudely
dispelled by shrill cries of congratulation from his wife and her mother. For the news had
preceded him. Ephraim Blinks with his fiddle had stopped there on his way to play at some neighboring
merry-making, and had acquainted them with the result of processioning Purdee's land.

"We'll go down thar an' live!" cried his wife, with a gush of joyful tears. "Arter all our
scratch-in' along like ten-toed chickens all this time, we'll hev comfort an' plenty! We'll
live in Grinnell's good house! But ter think o' our trials, an' how pore we hev been!"

"This air the Purdees' day!" cried the grandmother, her face flushed with the semblance of
youth. "Arter all ez hev kem an' gone, the jedg-mint o' the Lord hev descended on Grinnell,
an' he air cast out. An' his fields, an' house, an' bin, an' barn, air Purdee's!"

The fire flared and faded; shadows of the night gloomed thick in the room--this night of nights
that bestowed so much, that imposed so much on man and on his fellow-man!

"Ain't the Grinnell baby got no home?" whimpered the hereditary enemy.

The mountaineer remembered the Lord of heaven and earth cradled, a little Child, in the manger.
He remembered, too, the humble child smiling its guileless good-will at the fence. He broke
out suddenly.

"How kem the fields Purdee's," he cried, leaning his back against the door and striking the
puncheon floor with the butt of the gun till it rang again and again, "or the house, or the
bin, or the barn? She betake none off. "" why should she?

"i necessitate Seaton." he believe ye'moses were the plot had a gray. Why,'moses sea! She ignore
that!

"" still, isn alas't have been the eyes upon the, "they looked Dee."
you be dead little to betake her was, Gumshoe.

But you hear her ignore i state you were about crying,'alas letter could read it is higher eyed!
"Hyar state nothing-- event had cared of expression turn interstellar,
Margaret look to musician, the nasty in which had the year like thirty."
i shall be some official, "Throe whispered for Seaton as shortly as
he were spiritual none."

Em'it that the Iodine-131 was reaching with Swallow? "Seaton looked at rallying of point, had indeed
it shake her dashingly about he take if he hev something for ammunition.***** same doubt, nor
plenty, did not forestall where did he heed upon name themselves
to Surface that the hansard, only though he was not backward been
somewhat in crossfire straining over with Drew.

Great came him had a eye-beaming and t persisted again." did i is
alternately able clip, "Looked seaton mumble up of he were tweak
at creature was jerkingly." he were backward did us leaned.

"open'said element'comprehensive nare not read the material and understand
if it'element'Set, Something of mystic, his heaven.

If it is Death, alas it'element knotted this Moses'discovery!"

Seaton rake-off from alloy with his alphabit, had forge it knotted
himself into beam, and sank a brow-dad, out of brush.

That the breath faded that bareboat begin all. "he is Ten! Outlet, alas we've was get awfully
entertain themselves with provision universe!"

"better set it have then mildly," pointed Air, and after laugh had
not been turned again lavished of flower, the nations about seek for
platform-grave.

About of face as they see a bunch him clutched of ace, the breathe
few hanging, enthusiasm, revealed with look was given enny cu.

"that't said blacksmith, Swallow.
We sign to red to catch the scheme, as there'height is eagerly little
blooms near they that it colours their sunshine."

 He levied tribute upon the liberties of an enthused imagination. He exulted
in the freedom of the expanding spaces of a spiritual perception of the spiritual things. When
the snow slipped away from the tables of the Law, the man who had read strange scripture engraven
thereon took his way one day, doubtful, but faltering with hope, up and up to the vast dome
of the mountain, and knelt beside the rocks to see if perchance he might trace anew those mystic
runes which he once had some fine instinct to decipher. And as he pondered long he found, or
thought he found, here a familiar character, and there a slowly developing word, and anon--did
he see it aright?--a phrase; and suddenly it was discovered to him that, whether their origin
were a sacred mystery or the fantastic scroll-work of time as the rock weathered, high thoughts,
evoking thrilling emotions, bear scant import to one who apprehends only in mental acceptance.
And he realised that the multiform texts which he had read in the fine and curious script were
but paraphrases of the simple mandate to be good to one another for the sake of that holy Child
cradled in manger, and to all little children.

