"At first the deputies had taken out one or two and abused and beaten them; then they had taken
five or six; they had taken eighteen; finally they had taken forty-one. But I ask you, would
you believe it possible that they could take two hundred or three hundred people in broad daylight
and do to them what had been done to the others? Yet the evidence in this case shows convincingly
and conclusively they intended to do substantially that thing. They intended to run those men
into a warehouse; they didn't intend to let one of them get away. And had they gotten them
into that warehouse you don't know, I don't know, nobody knows what would have happened!

"That is the evidence of conspiracy in this case. They have claimed no other conspiracy; they
have offered no other evidence of conspiracy, either to set fires or to incite violence, or
to override all opposition on November 5th. Their evidence doesn't stand even if unanswered--and
no evidence could be more successfully answered.

"What evidence is there that Tom Tracy had anything to do with such a conspiracy, if there
were one? Their most willing tools, Auspos and Reese, don't say a word about Tracy.

"What does the identification by McRae amount to? He identifies Tracy as the man who leaned
out of the window and shot at him. Now at the time this shot was fired McRae had his back turned
to the man who shot it. He says himself he did, and he was shot thru the heel, which seems
to prove it. That, by the way, suggests to me that it was not an I. W. W. who shot McRae. The
man who shot him must have thought McRae a hero, like the gentleman of mythological fame who
was killed by an arrow thru the heel which no I. W. W. does, I assure you. Or else he thought
that McRae wore his brains there.

"But I am not going to discuss McRae at great length either now or at any other stage of this
case, because the greatest kindness I can do him is to forget him. The man is a perjurer! He
lied! He was not mistaken. He deliberately, cold-bloodedly lied about almost everything in
this case wherein his conduct as an officer was questioned. He lied about 'Sergeant' Keenan!
He lied about shooting at the "Wanderer," and you saw the bullet holes. He lied about Berg
and about Mitten, and finally, and last of all lied, and we have proven it conclusively, about
being out to Beverly Park.

"Bridge's identification of Tracy does not agree with that of Smith, and Bridge does not even
agree with his own testimony given at the coroner's inquest. Smith picked out a photograph
and said it was Tracy and that picture resembles Tracy about as much as I do some of you jurors.
Bridge and Smith say that Tracy fired three shots, and Hogan says he fired only one. And you
know, ladies and gentlemen, that Hogan did not see this man at all. You know that he did not
even see the window at which he pretends this man was sitting when the shot was fired. You
know it because you went there to the dock and you saw the boat lined up to a mathematical
certainty by the shot marks, and you saw a photograph taken with the camera placed by John
Hogan exactly where he said he was standing himself. And there wasn't a one of you who could
identify Bob Mills, with his long nose and angular features, with everything that makes identification
easy, when he was in the position attributed to Tracy. And when you came around from there
to where you could look directly at the place, the reflected glare of the sunshine left nothing
but a blank background.

"There were one hundred and forty deputies looking toward the place where the first shot was
supposed to have been fired. They have produced on the witness stand only about one in ten.
We challenged them to bring them all on, we dared them to do it, and Mr. Cooley said 'I accept
that dare!'--look it up Mr. Cooley on page 1802 of the transcript--but he did not dare accept
that dare. Mr. Cooley knows what those nine-tenths would testify to. Twelve out of their sixteen
witnesses who testified about the first shots said that their brother deputies were mistaken
as to even the place on the boat where the first three shots came from.

"I venture, ladies and gentlemen, that with a bit of the kind of work the State has employed
in this case, a little bit of the same zeal that was employed on Auspos, a little bit of the
same zeal that was employed with Reese, a little bit of the help of McLaren of Los Angeles,
I can take these one hundred and forty-five men and pick out four men who will honestly and
truthfully testify that they saw anything, and I say that with no reflection on their honesty
either, because the power of suggestion is enormous. It is not surprising that four people
have come here to say they saw Tracy. It is not surprising that three out of the four should
have been proven, conclusively, convincingly and absolutely, not to know what they were talking
about.

"The court has told you that in this case it is not a question of who shot first, not a question
of which side shot first, it is a question of who was the aggressor, who made the first aggressive
movement, who did the first hostile thing. The man who did a thing to excite fear was the aggressor,
and that man was McRae when he pulled his gun. McRae clearly did that before there was any
shooting.

"In determining who the aggressor was, you are entitled--not only entitled but must take into
account the past behavior of all parties. And what does that show you? Was it the I. W. W.'s
who had never offered violence, who had never done an act of violence, who had decried and
deplored violence, as members of their audiences told you, and advised caution against it?
Or was it McRae and his deputies?

"It is only formally correct to refer to these as deputies. They had commissions, but in nothing
else in the world did they bear the remotest resemblance to officers of the law, not in their
conduct, not in their training, not in their purposes, not in anything. They were the hirelings
of either the mill owners of Everett or the Commercial Club. Did you ever in your life before
hear of officials taking their instructions from representatives of an industrial movement?
Did you ever before hear of deputy sheriffs being instructed in the propaganda of the open
shop, being instructed in the methods employed at Minot unlawfully to prevent street speaking?
That is where the first mistake in this case was made. First in the selection of that kind
of men; second in the deliberate attempts which were made to color their actions, to pervert
them, to make them the tools of the employers.

"That is the reason Henig and Carr were beaten, that is the reason Feinberg and Roberts were
beaten, that is the reason men and women were knocked down in the crowds, that is the reason
that this boy, Schwartz, was taken out by McRae and chased zigzag down the road in mortal terror
of being run down by the sheriff's automobile, that is the reason 'Sergeant' Keenan was hit
over the head with a gun, that is the reason James Rowan was taken out and beaten black and
blue. How do you suppose Rowan got those marks on his back? Did he put them there for fun,
or were they put there by somebody else's rotten, dirty brutality? If you didn't know a thing
about him except what you know about Beverly and these other incidents, and it was deep darkness
where this happened, I venture you would all say off-hand, 'It must have happened at Everett,
anyway. There is no place else that I know of where they do such things.'

"Black says the "Wanderer" has been greatly misrepresented to you, that the things we claim
happened did not happen there at all. Well, there is a lot of evidence that they did happen.
There are a lot of people who could have denied it. There are a whole crew of deputies who
could have come up here and denied it. Why didn't they? Because they were ashamed of it and
they knew they could not stand the grilling that was awaiting them in the court room. It is
true, certainly! And I say here that nothing but providential intervention prevented McRae
on that day from being a cold-blooded murderer! That is the manner of man you are considering.
You are considering whether he was the aggressor, he or the people he shot at.

"Counsel says that Louis Skaroff lied. Now I am very frank to confess that when we produced
that story on the witness stand I feared you would not believe it, not because I doubted the
truthfulness of his statement but because the story itself is so brutal and inhuman that I
questioned whether there could be found anywhere in the county twelve persons who would think
such things could possibly happen just thirty miles away. But when one of their own witnesses
went on the stand here, in rebuttal, and told you that Louis Skaroff came out of that room
with his arms above his head, crying, with the blood running from his finger tips, I knew that
you knew that Louis Skaroff had told the truth.

"The state has been very reluctant in this case to admit that there were rifles on the dock,
because if the deputies went there with rifles there was a reason for it. You could not find
a rifle on that dock until we proved--what? That rifle shells were around the dock in great
numbers; we proved it by innocent, clean little boys who picked up the shells; until we proved
by witnesses that the rifles were there and were being shot; until we proved by a rifle bullet
with human blood and a man's hair on it that the use made of the rifles was a deadly one.

"Who was the aggressor? Even now the State doesn't like to admit, because the State knows it
is fatal to their case to admit, and notwithstanding hopeless to deny, that there were helpless
men in the water being shot at. They do not like to admit that a man was so impressed with
the inhumanity of the thing that he ran from the depot to the boat house hoping to effect a
rescue of the men and was stopped by the armed deputies. The State does not like to admit the
evidence of their own deputy witness, Groger,--whose actions I want the counsel for the state
to explain and justify if he can--who repeatedly fired at a man who was trying to untie the
boat so the unarmed men could escape.

"Counsel said that if there was any intention to start trouble men would not have lined up
as they were on the dock in an exposed position. And I ask you, if there was not an intention
to start trouble why were they kept in the warehouse until the boat had almost tied up? If
that was not an ambuscade, what on earth was it? If they did not intend to start trouble why
was it McRae waited until the line was out and made fast. Why was it, then, he did not say
to the captain, 'Take your boat out?' He said he was afraid they would go somewhere else. Well,
when he told those boys they could not land he expected them to go away. Or did he expect them
to go away? Which was it?

"The manner in which McRae handled this thing indicates nothing so much as that he intended
to get them there and administer to them another of the things that he calls a lesson, another
of the things that other people call infamous, damnable brutality.

"Counsel says there have been mistakes made. He doesn't want to apologize for them, but clearly
he doesn't want to be held responsible for them. There were mistakes made. Beverly was one!
The "Wanderer" was one! From the beginning to the end of all their operations in Everett everything
has been a mistake--a mistake because the ordinary processes of law and the rights of other
people were ignored. There was no ordinance prohibiting speaking. The boys were yielding implicit,
careful obedience to such law as there was. McRae unblushingly tells you that the reason he
made arrests was because there were labor troubles in Everett and the shingle mill owners didn't
want things embarrassed by the truth, by the disclosures contained in this little report of
the Industrial Relations Commission.

"They were not afraid of the I. W. W.'s going up there to incite violence, to advise disorder,
to invoke a reign of terror. Reigns of terror are the employers' specialty! They were afraid
of cold fact. Never a man went up there to speak on the street and used that little Industrial
Relations report but was thrown in jail for it--Thompson, Rowan, Feinberg, Roberts, all.

"It's nice to enjoy the powers, the position and authority of a dictator who can repeal, amend
and modify, ignore, disregard laws when it suits his fancy, but it's kind of tough on other
people. That's what McRae did!

"On the 5th of March, nearly nine weeks ago, His Honor called this case from his bench 'State
versus Thomas H. Tracy,' and my friend Mr. Cooley rose from his chair and said 'Your Honor,
the State is ready.' I say to you, Mr. Cooley, you slandered the fair name of your state! What
has the State of Washington to do with this thing? The name of the State of Washington in such
a case as this should stand for law and order and decency. The State is supposed to protect
the innocent against abuse and injustice and you who are now running this case do not now maintain
these things, or if you do, you protect them only when convenience requires it.

"It is not the State of Washington versus Thomas H. Tracy at all, and if the decent people
of Everett who know the facts could decide what course this action should take it would never
be here. Even the title of the case is a mistake. It is the case of the Commercial Club of
Everett, the mill owners of Everett, against Labor. This is an attempt, just as all the actions
for months have been an attempt, to keep Labor out of its rights in Everett. The same people
who took possession of the machinery of law in Everett, who took possession of the sheriff
and furnished him with guns and clubs and murderous things like that and instructed him how
to act, the same people who employed detectives to set fires in order that they might manufacture
evidence and public sentiment against these boys, those same people are today prosecuting this
case.

"I don't know where Governor Clough was on November 5th. I suspect he was not anywhere where
there was any danger, but I know the smoke had not left the decks of the Verona before he was
hot-footing it to the telegraph office,--Governor Clough, not the prosecuting attorney, not
the sheriff, nobody but Clough and Joe Irving, the man who was so drunk that he beat up Schofield,--to
send a telegram to Judge Burke of the Chamber of Commerce of Seattle, to the Mayor of this
City and to the Chief of Police of this City to arrest the whole bunch of them.

"Then right away they got their other emissaries at work, Reese and Smith, down here with two
fingers out of the door of a darkened cell, deciding for the State of Washington who should
be prosecuted in this case, and H. D. Cooley, who surely then was not a prosecuting attorney,
giving them legal counsel and directing their energy, taking out the men, preparing statements,
and getting ready for the work he was going to do in this case, because his employers wanted it.

"There is a conspiracy in this case, a conspiracy supported by evidence, a conspiracy of men
in the Commercial Club to take over the machinery of government, and by it club these fellows
out of their rights, club them out of Everett, club them out of all contact with the workers
in order that they might not bring to them the gospel of their organization.

"But I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, that this struggle, the struggle of Capital
against Labor, the struggle of the Commercial Club against the I. W. W., which is just one
phase of the bigger one, this struggle is going on in spite of Cooley, this struggle is going
on in spite of McLaren, this struggle is going on in spite of Arthur L. Veitch of the Merchants'
and Manufacturers' Association, this struggle is going on in spite of McRae, this struggle
is going on in spite of the Commercial Club, because it is founded on a principle so big, so
wholesome, and so decent, so righteous, that it must live. And it will go on until in this
country we have industrially that which we have struggled so long and hard for and finally
won politically; until we have democracy.

"There is nothing in revolution, gentlemen, that is wrong. We came to the condition in which
we now find ourselves by revolution; first the grand American revolution and then the revolution
against chattel slavery. It was nothing more nor less than revolution, because slavery was
then entrenched under the highest law of the land, the decision of the Supreme Court in the
Dred Scott case. We took it out of the courts and slavery was wiped out. Slavery again will
be wiped out!

"The thing about this case which makes it of most serious importance, the thing about this
case which makes it of public interest, the thing about this case which has so enlisted the
sympathy of every one connected with it, which makes us feel the importance of a just verdict,
is that it is not merely the liberty of a man that is at stake, but in a larger measure than
you know there is at stake in your verdict in this case the rights of the working people, their
right to organize, their right to protect themselves, their right to receive and enjoy the
fruits of their labor.

"There is involved the question of whether or not the working people shall receive justice
or forever must be victimized by organized capitalists. There is involved the question of whether
or not such things as have gone on in Everett for the last six months may continue forever
with the endorsement of the jury or whether the working people on the other hand may go and
discuss their wrongs and grievances and strive for their rights.

"As I have confidence in the righteousness of this cause and the integrity of this purpose,
so I have confidence that your verdict will be not guilty."

Attorney Fred Moore closed the case for the defense with one of the greatest speeches ever
delivered in a court room, a speech that seered its way to the minds and hearts of the jurors.
Far more than a defense of Thomas H. Tracy it was an explanation of the industrial problems
underlying society, the class warfare rooted in industry and manifesting itself on November
5th. It was a sustained and definite statement of the aims and objects of the I. W. W. and
Moore showed, not only a great knowledge of the problems of the working class, but a wonderful
command of satire and irony. Following is an abridgement of Moore's speech to the jury:

"May it please the court, and ladies and gentlemen of the jury; For a period of something like
five hundred years the Anglo-Saxon has seen fit to place the final adjustment of the question
of justice in the hands of twelve men. In the evolution of the law, that number has been increased
until now in this state we have fourteen. Likewise, in the evolution of the law and in the
face of the vast amount of public protest, and in the face of the most reluctant world, we
have enlarged the term jurors to include women jurors. This is the first time that I personally
have ever tried a lawsuit in which ladies sat in the jury.

"The state has told you why this case is one of grave responsibility for them. Allow me to
tell you why this is one of grave responsibility for you. One hundred and ninety-six witnesses
have appeared for the defendant in this case. Yesterday, counsel brought home the fact that
many of these witnesses were not residents of this community, were without homes, without any
permanent places of abode. All true. The responsibility that you have in this case is commensurate
with the fact that the case reveals to you, as it were, a cross-section of our lives. You who
are property-qualified have a responsibility to pass upon the liberties and the lives of a
body of men who are propertyless. If there is any change in men's thoughts and views as they
acquire a home, as they settle down, as they marry, as they bring into the world children,
then I ask you in all fairness to attempt to put yourselves in the places of this defendant
and of this defendant's witnesses who have taken the stand, and to realize that your responsibility
here is commensurate with the fact that the testimony reveals, as it were, a most deplorable
condition of modern life. In other words, your responsibility here is that of measuring out
absolute and complete justice between warring elements in our modern life, not for one moment
allowing your judgment to be swerved by the fact that one class of witnesses here are witnesses
of social position, are witnesses of property qualifications, are witnesses with homes, while,
on the other hand, the witnesses called by the defense were witnesses from the four parts of
the earth, witnesses whose only claim to your consideration is that they have built the railroads,
that they have laid the ties, that they have dug the tunnels, that they have harvested the
crops, that they have worked from one end of the country to the other, in season and out, floating
from job to job.

"In most jurisdictions, the defendant has the opportunity of either a grand jury investigation
or of a preliminary; in other words, he is in some degree advised of what evidence he is going
to be called upon to meet. In this case, we came in here on the 5th day of March with no information
whatsoever relative to the State's case other than that given us from the four corners of the
instrument on file here, known as the information, together with the fact that on that information
there were the names of some three hundred or more witnesses. That was all we had. We were
further handicapped in view of the fact that we did not have behind us all the resources of
the State of Washington and the county of Snohomish, neither did we have behind us all of the
resources of various business interests, neither did we have behind us all the resources of
allied business on this west coast, as represented by Mr. Veitch."

Mr. Veitch: To which I take an exception, if the court please.

The Court: Exception allowed.

Mr. Veitch: On a matter of personal privilege, I have a right to characterize that statement
as a deliberate misstatement of the fact.

Mr. Moore: Mr. Veitch has not seen fit to explain why he was here.

Mr. Veitch: I am employed by friends of Mr. Jefferson Beard. If that is not enough--

Mr. Moore: That is outside of the record.

The Court: Both of you are outside of the record. Proceed Mr. Moore.

"Suffice it to say that we are here as the frank and honest representatives of the defendant
and of the defendant's organization. We do not have behind us the power of the State, or the
power of any interest other than the defendant himself and of his organization.

"Mr. Black complained that the State had been hampered in this cause. Is it fair to say that
the state has been hampered when on the fatal November the 5th. Judge Bell and Mr. Cooley were
both on the dock? Judge Bell would have us believe that he was unarmed, and so far as we know
Mr. Cooley was unarmed. Then why were they on the dock? Judge Bell was there as the representative,
as he himself has testified, of a number of lumber mills, and Mr. Cooley was there likewise;
both citizen deputies; both there; both unarmed if their testimony is to be believed. Again
Mr. Cooley was, in the matter of a few hours, down here at the Seattle jail. Certainly he was
not there to represent the defendant Tracy. Who was he there to represent? He was either there
in a private capacity, representing private clients, or he was there in a public capacity representing
a public client, namely, Snohomish County. Wherein do you find the evidence of the State being
hampered, sir? From the beginning to the end the State has moved majestically, exercising all
the power that it had. Mr. Black has had able assistance in this cause, the able assistance
of Mr. Cooley, the able assistance of Mr. Veitch, the able assistance of the man behind Mr.
Cooley and Mr. Veitch, Mr. McLaren. Yet, all the resources of the State have failed to produce
one scintilla of evidence against the defendant Tracy here so far as tending to indicate that
he did counsel, aid, incite, abet, or encourage anyone to fire any shot, except the testimony
of George Reese produced at the eleventh hour on rebuttal. I intend to treat of our friend
Mr. Reese later.

"It is significant that out of all that mass of testimony that has been introduced in this
case up to this time not one single bit of testimony has been introduced or any argument had
upon that testimony dealing with the object and principles and purpose of the Industrial Workers
of the World. Mr. Black did not refer to it. Mr. Cooley has the final say. I anticipate his
argument for the State. They have that old reliance, that old faith, if you will, in the trial
of a case of this character, namely conspiracy; hallowed by age.

"Way back in the sixteenth century the tub women on the banks of the river Thames were indicted
for conspiracy in attempting to raise wages. The chandlers in London were likewise later indicted.
The stonebreakers in New York, the carpenters in Boston. From time immemorial the charge of
conspiracy has been leveled against the ranks of labor. Indeed, it was only in the reign of
Queen Victoria that labor unions became other than simple conspiracies. Up to that time labor
unions were within a classification themselves of criminal conspiracy.

"Knowing that under the charge contained in the information we might be called upon to meet
evidence of conspiracy, we then commenced a careful survey of all the facts in connection with
the Everett tragedy. And what did we find? We found not a hint of conspiracy!

"James Rowan had come into Everett without knowledge at the time that there was any trouble
there. He had not been advised that there was any possibility of trouble. From all the prior
history of Everett he had no reason to anticipate trouble. Thompson had spoken there and many
others had spoken there. Rowan was charged with a violation of the peddling ordinance. He had
been given an arbitrary floater out of town and had exercised his right to come back, was seized
again and taken to the city jail; the sheriff goes there and arbitrarily demands Rowan from
the Chief of Police. These things happened prior to any acts that by any remote possibility
could be charged to us. There was no literature in the town at that time other than the Industrial
Relations report. What at that time did we have to conspire about? We had no object.

"And as with Rowan so it was with Thompson, Remick and others. If there was a conspiracy to
violate a city ordinance why did not the city officials make arrests and charge the men with
such violations? The record is silent. Why wait until Tom Tracy is on trial for murder, and
then at the eleventh hour spring this delightfully specious argument?

"I can almost hear ringing in my ears the impassioned plea of Mr. Cooley in closing this case.
He is going to read this, 'The question of 'right' and 'wrong' does not concern us.' He is
going to say that is the I. W. W. philosophy. My God, did it ever concern the sheriff of Snohomish
County? Does it seem very much to concern others who are attempting this prosecution?

"We were told in connection with the argument of counsel that Hickey was not on trial. They
might have said that sheriff McRae was not on trial; they might have said that Bill Pabst was
not on trial; they might have said that Joe Irving was not on trial; they might have said that
the Commercial Club was not on trial; they might have said that all the men that have been
guilty of all the brutality in that County during the months of August, September and October
were not on trial. We know it! Why are they not on trail?

"Deprivation of due process of law and confiscation of property! And yet Mr. Cooley is going
to urge that the I. W. W. does not believe in government; he is going to urge that the I. W.
W. does not respect the law. That kind of law never gets the respect of anyone. I hang my head
in shame before such a history of usurpation and seizure of public authority as has been shown
in this case.

"Are you going to give the stamp of your approval to this sort of thing? When you bring in
a verdict in this case for the State you give your approval to Donald McRae. I beg of you to
not put the seal of your approval upon lawlessness, official lawlessness, the kind of lawlessness
that is worse, tenfold worse, than any private lawlessness.

"You are asked to stamp with your endorsement, to give your approval, to a man; a public official,
the chief executive officer of a municipality, Mayor Merrill, who admits on the witness stand
that he allowed a little group of members of the Commercial Club to take the power of the police
department out of his office and turn it over to the sheriff of the county.

"Had the State put on Governor Clough and others on their side of the case we might have wrung
from their reluctant lips the evidence of what occurred at the meeting on August 30th at the
Commercial Club. But the State was careful not to put him on. Indeed, the most significant
and outstanding thing in all this case is not who they put on, but who they did not put on.
Neil Jamison did not testify in this case for the State; Governor Clough did not testify in
this case for the State; Joe Irving did not testify in this case; Colonel Hartley did not testify
in this case; Captain Ramwell did not testify. Why didn't Kelly, Chief of Police, take the
stand? You might go down the line and you will find that the assets of all the witnesses for
the State combined would total but a few thousand dollars, while you could take the remaining
witnesses for the State who did not testify and you could build up an enormous fortune, running
into the hundreds of thousands of dollars. We didn't call them because we cannot cross-examine
our own witnesses.

"Is the administration of the law to be made a farce? Shall the State be allowed to blow hot
and cold; one minute hot on the enforcement of the law, the next minute cold when the shoe
pinches, and then hot again when they can use the law for the advancement of the interests
of their prosecution? They say McRae and Hickey are not on trial; there is no promise that
they shall ever be on trial!

"Let me say to you that no one violates the law, I care not who it is, just for the fun of
violating the law. Jails are not pleasant places to abide in. People who violate the law and
go to jail do so either because they are deliberately criminal or because they want to focus
attention on some public issue. However, Mr. Black is too kind and considerate when he gives
all this credit to the I. W. W.

"The facts are, if you go back into the history of the Revolutionary Days, that our forefathers
urged and banded together and combined and federated, and if you will, conspired to violate
the Stamp Act of the British Government, and were willing to go to jail if necessary. They
went even further! They threw the British tea into Boston Harbor. Violation of the law? Yes,
if you want to call it such, but the indignant protest of a people as against the enforcement
of an unjust law.

"I might urge upon you that the State at that time wanted to absolutely suppress any speech
whatsoever, because they had constituted the chief of police, the sheriff, the arresting officer,
as the executive, the legislative and the judicial department of our government. The sheriff
executed the law in person, the sheriff declared the question of guilt himself, the sheriff
ordered deportations, and the sheriff took physical charge of the deportations. Isn't it impossible
to avoid a fight when someone usurps unlawfully and illegally the legislative and judicial
functions of government? Isn't it time to fight? If it isn't then we may as well cease any
attempt to administrate the law!

"In the phraseology of these boys 'Fight' means a moral adherence to principle, a firm determination
to face the authorities in the administration of the law, and if necessary to be arrested.
But the State would have you put into it now a more sinister meaning, entirely new and foreign
to its former use.

"The State brought in the death of Sullivan of Spokane in their opening and abandoned it in
their close. One of the exploded hopes of the State! They counted on North Yakima and Wenatchee
to show violence and arson, and they failed most miserably. They have failed in their identification
of the defendant. Now, their forlorn and bankrupt plea here is the charge of conspiracy.

"The court has told you that this is a murder case. Why then has the State cumbered the record
with the I. W. W. preamble and constitution? Why with two pamphlets on sabotage? Why with an
I. W. W. song book and such matters? Why?

"Because out of some of the phraseology here, phraseology far removed from you and me, they
may build up a condition of prejudice which may result in your returning a conviction on a
smaller degree of evidence than you would otherwise require. Mr. Cooley is going to stand here
and read little, short, listed extracts from the context of the whole. The pamphlets he has
introduced on the question of patriotism and the worker is the foundation from which Mr. Cooley
will appeal to your prejudices and passions.

"We are not afraid of the evidence. We are afraid of this deep-grained interest that goes down
into men's conscience and that reached back a thousand years.

"Remember that behind this case are many women and children whose cause these boys represent;
whose cause these boys are attempting to fight for. They fight because they must! They fight
because to do anything else is suicide. You could not have stopped the American Revolution
with all the powers of the British government. Since this jury was empaneled you have had the
collapse of one of the greatest powers of modern times. I refer to Russia. It has passed from
an absolute monarchy to a stage of a republic.

"The trial of this cause is the presentation of a great social issue, the greatest issue of
modern times, namely, what are we going to do today with the migratory and occasional workers? "black communicator."
This Democracy to pillar is piece by Madison of Madison Springfield
as i postdate: "my bondage as W, sovereign, and special Cents in Worker."

Harpist'Harper* Englander! Musician or Brownness! Brimstone Chestnut was a biologism, January
had yield at substance down Springfield upset down one.

During scepter of 1859 i prosecute in batting to the person of Harrison John Chicago Howe.
After St at Julia'KS* Politician, he was overpowered Methods by Address of one marine with the
unfortunate of his "engineering, to" was fall. Down exaugural-* w place he was see as road, a Boat
being continue by LITERATURE. element speechmaking of who s "ambulance." In hearing of Madison,
1860, The commonwealth st had say his "natural and deliberate Legislator that the Head Southampton
rebellion offense was the Pamphlets, rare, big Democracy of the pamphlets and copies on Bureau." An
P. The remark is to woodruff the gironde which happen i woodruff in 1001 in Room, va. The Publication.
Armament Publishing.

Worker, or the Cents of the carefully-called rich Block, was the history on a offspring of subjugation,
utilize neither mho.

The address among 1001-5.00 worker to retinol* usa in single Attribute.

The expression. This& was write from authority that i interest a elite-Freedom to sweep sky-high
from people. It has been specify in two precisely dead variant, the Copies of which somewhat to woodruff
thus procreate the lyric busy. The Harrison document, which were postdate by Chicago or Herndon,
i take a Location that ennoble down body of its ill stunner.

A Code.

The young was likely have in Chicago Madison Douglas each Bureau. Person to his impending Anthem, Lincoln
state on literature. the report was badly overcharge by Location is make unionism of the
Capitol and sweep the authority was main Methods. By a northern and
an scepter was off criticised, both with rule to Union and its allocution.
 Before he died, written in his cell on the eve of the execution, was Joe Hill's
last will:

     My will is easy to decide,
     For there is nothing to divide.
     My kin don't need to fuss and moan--
     Moss does not cling to a rolling stone.

     My body? Ah, if I could choose,
     I would to ashes it reduce,
     And let the merry breezes blow
     My dust to where some flowers grow.

     Perhaps some fading flower then
     Would come to life and bloom again.
     This is my last and final will.
     Good luck to all of you,       JOE HILL.

"This is the type of man you are asked, because he was honored, because some odd hundred thousand
workers who suffer and who wander and who live in the jungles of labor as he did, and because
he wrote songs that they understood, songs that because their songs, to judge as the author
of the songs and bring in a verdict against Tom Tracy. Mr. Cooley will parade the songs one
by one. Remember that behind any words he voices, any thought he expresses, behind it all was
a human soul, a human soul passed, a human soul that lived as you and I, a human soul that
had rights that had been trampled upon, and who attempted to voice those things.

"With all the oratory he can display Mr. Cooley will read the song, 'Christians at War.' A
song that Mr. Thompson designated as a satire. You recollect that when the European war broke
out both parties in that conflict called to their aid and said they were acting under divine
guidance; that the Kaiser was fighting under the name of God, and that the British and French
governments were allied with the Almighty. It is not for me to attempt a settlement of that
dispute. History will say that of all the tragedies of the Twentieth Century, the most tragic
thing of our modern life is that we of different nationalities, but bound together by all other
ties, should be engaged in a death grapple. But that is not the issue here. But I cannot at
this time anticipate wherein and how this literature presented by the State helps you to decide
the question of who was the aggressor on November 5th.

"Who was the aggressor on July 31st when James Rowan was arrested and brought into the city
court? McRae comes in and tells him to get out of town. An intervening series of events and
Levi Remick is run out of town. Who was the aggressor? Sheriff McRae! On August 22nd Rowan
and Remick were both in the union hall. McRae comes in and orders them out of town. Who was
the aggressor? That night Thompson and others came up to Everett--who was the aggressor then?
Next morning, with Kelly treating them half way white, along comes McRae and takes away one
of the boy's money. Who was the aggressor? We come now to the deputies meeting at the Commercial
Club on August 30th. Who was the aggressor? Had any of their members been beaten up? Had anything
happened to their members whatsoever? Not at all! Yet murderous blackjacks were put into the
hands of the membership of the club. Was James Rowan the aggressor when he was railroaded out
of town and beaten? Who was the aggressor at the time of the 'Wanderer' outrage? Old Capt.
Mitten, old John Berg, Edith Frenette? Who was the aggressor with Henig? With Feinberg? With
Roberts? You have the testimony of Cannow, you have the testimony of Schofield, you have testimony
showing the instructions given to the deputies. No one denies it. Here is a series of acts
leading up to October 30th, in which on each and every occasion McRae and his deputies, either
regular or citizen deputies, were the aggressors. I said, who were the aggressors? Is there
any question in your mind who was the aggressor up to Beverly Park? Any question in God's world
who had done the dirty work up to that time? The State would have you believe that the I. W.
W., with its membership coming from the four corners of the country, changed complexion practically
over night, changed their whole ideas and their methods. I do not believe it and you do not
believe it.

"The excuse the State gives for the actions of the deputies is that in the case of large numbers
they could not give due process of law. Gentlemen, I refuse to believe that the Government
is bankrupt in its capacity to protect itself thru legal and lawful measures of law enforcement.
I have yet to sit in a court room and hear a plea on social and governmental bankruptcy such
as is the plea of counsel for the State.

"The machinery of the government was there but it was not the kind of machinery that McRae
wanted to use. It was not the kind Clough wanted to use. It was not the kind of machinery the
executive committee, whoever they were, sitting behind the closed doors of the Commercial Club,
wanted to use.

"And these members and leaders of the Commercial Club passed resolutions stigmatizing their
own citizens, member of their own community, property owners in their own town, as well as
the I. W. W., when they declared for an open shop. How do they stigmatize them? 'Professional
agitators!' Yes. Lloyd Garrison was a professional agitator. Wendell Phillips was a professional
agitator. The men who fought the battle that lay the ground work that made Abraham Lincoln
possible, the men who are at work to better American politics, those men have all been professional
agitators.

"Now on the boat they were ninety-nine percent I. W. W.'s, just a few passengers had bought
their passage before. On the dock they were all citizen deputies, persons interested therein,
and persons satisfactory to the men who had been stationed there to see that nobody but the
right ones got on the dock. That means that as far as the first shot was concerned the two
classes of witnesses are in some degree interested parties. The State put on a total of twenty-two
witnesses, one of them not a deputy, all of whom testified that the shot came, or they thought
it came from the dock, and of that number thirty-seven were I. W. W.'s, and twenty-four were
not members at all but were Everett people from all walks of life.

"Now counsel is going to discount the value of the testimony of these citizens. Well, Mr. Cooley,
we used the only kind of witnesses that you, in all of your care exercised in advance on November
5th, left for us. In the exercise of the highest degree of judicial advance knowledge they
saw to it that nobody got any closer to the end of the dock than the landing. We could not
help that. You barred us from the dock; you barred us from access to the facts. We did all
we could to get the facts, and if we couldn't get any closer it was not our fault. And the
man who barred us from access to the facts is the man who is least qualified to come into court
now and urge that our witnesses are disqualified in the face of the evidence that they disqualified
them. But those witnesses could testify, and they did testify, to the very definite and specific
facts--the first tipping of the boat, the rushing of the men, the volley firing, all of those
matters.

"At the eleventh hour there came into this case a man by the name of Reese, a member, if you
will, of the I. W. W. Back in the Chicago stockyards they have a large pen where they keep
the cattle which are to be driven to slaughter. In that place they have had for years a steer
that has performed the function of going into the big pen where all the cattle are, and, after
mingling with them, then walking out thru a gate. He is trained to do it, he is skilled at
it, this steer--and after walking around with the poor peaceful cattle that don't know they
are about to be killed, this steer then goes up an incline, the gate is opened and the other
cattle follow, and when he gets to the top of the incline there is a door and he turns to the
right thru this door to safety and his followers turn to the left to death. That's George Reese!
Proud of him? George Reese, the man who reported day by day with his confederates! To whom?
During one period to the Pinkerton agency in regard to the longshoremen's union; during another
period on behalf of the Pinkerton Agency to the Commercial Club in Everett. George Reese! A
man who doesn't even come under the approximately dignified title of a detective; a man whom
Ahern, of his own agency says, 'Well, he wasn't a detective, we used him as an informer.' Informer!
A human being that has lost its human color.

"In connection with the testimony of Reese let me call your attention to the Industrial Relations
Commission Report, a report that our friends of the Commercial Club had read and knew all about:

"'Spies in the Union: If the secret agents of employers, working as members of labor unions,
do not always instigate acts of violence, they frequently encourage them. If they did not they
would not be performing the duties for which they are paid. If they find that labor unions
never discuss acts of violence they have nothing to report to those employing them. If they
do not report matters which the detective agencies employing them can use to frighten the corporation
to cause their employment, they cannot continue long as spies. Either they must make reports
that are false, in which case discovery would be inevitable, or they must create a basis on
which to make a truthful report. The union spy is not in business to protect the community.
He has little respect for the law, civil or moral. Men of character do not engage in such work,
and it follows that the men who do are, as a rule, devoid of principle and ready to go to almost
any extreme to please those who employ them.'

"That is the descriptive adjective, definition and analysis of the character of union informants
made by the National Industrial Commission, appointed by President Wilson, and composed of
nine men, all men of national standing, three representatives of labor, three representatives
of capital and three representatives of the general public. That is their definition, description
and classification of that character of testimony.

"Mr. Vanderveer closed yesterday by saying that this struggle, whatever your verdict is, will
win. If yours is a verdict of 'not guilty,' Tom Tracy must take up again the job of finding
a job, the endless tragedy of marching from job to job, without home, wife or kindred. His
offense consists of being a migratory worker. I beg of you to render a verdict that has due
regard and consideration for the tragedy of our twentieth century civilization that does not
as yet measure out economic justice.

"Your verdict means much. The wires tonight will carry the word all over this land, into Australia,
New Zealand and thruout the world. Your verdict means much to the workers, their mothers, their
children, who are interested in this great struggle. We are not in this courtroom as the representatives
of one person, two persons or three persons; our clients run into five or six hundred thousand.
We are here as the mouthpiece of the workers of America, organized and unorganized, and they
are all behind our voices.

"Tom Tracy stands here in your control. You are the ones to determine whether or not he shall
walk out free, whether or not he shall be branded for all times with the most serious felony
known to the law, namely, that of a murderer. Can you find it in the evidence to bring in a
verdict of guilty in this case?

"In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we want no compromise here. When you retire to your jury
room I beg of you not to compromise with any verdict other than not guilty. We don't want manslaughter
in this case, we don't want second degree murder in this case; it is either first degree murder
or an acquittal, one or the other. Allow none of those arguments that we, as lawyers, know
are made in the juryroom to influence your honest verdict in this case. We ask at your hands,
and we believe with all the sincerity of our souls, that the evidence warrants it, we ask a
verdict of not guilty for the defendant, Thomas H. Tracy!"

If the speech of prosecutor Black was a whine, that of prosecutor Cooley was a yelp and a snarl.
Apologies, stale jokes, and sneers at the propertyless workers followed one another in close
succession. The gist of his harangue was as follows:

"In this case I am going to try simply in the closing argument to select a few of the monuments
that it seems to me stand out in this case and that point a way to a proper verdict.

"Now, in the first place, a whole lot has been said here as to the nature of the controversy
that existed for a number of months before November the 5th, 1916, between two classes of individuals
there at Everett. Upon the one side were the people who were living in the city of Everett,
who had made their homes there, who had come there for the purpose of carrying out their future
destiny in that city. It was their home. Their interests were there. Their families were there.
And upon the other side were a class of people who did not claim Everett as their home, who
did not come there for the purpose of amalgamating with the citizenship of the city of Everett.
They were not coming there because they had work there, nor because they were seeking work
there; they were not citizens of Everett, nor were they seeking to become citizens of Everett,
and there arose a controversy between the citizens of Everett on the one hand and these people
from the four corners of the earth upon the other. The first thing we want to inquire into
to find out if we can from the testimony in this case exactly what was the nature of that trouble
that existed between them. Why was it that upon the one hand there was a band of people congregated
down here in the city of Seattle from all over the land and making one excursion after another,
attempting to break into the city of Everett? Why was it that there were citizens of Everett
up there seeking to do only one thing, asking only one thing, that these people keep away from
Everett?

"Was it a fight to win the right of free speech on the one hand? Was it a fight on the other
hand of a group of individuals who were simply seeking to force the open shop? Or was it a
fight of a more serious nature on either hand?

"I grant you that the origin of the trouble arose because a man was seeking to speak upon the
streets of Everett and he was stopped. But long before November 5th that original incident
was lost sight of and forgotten. The controversy had grown to a magnitude that overshadowed
the original incident. It was necessary in order that you might understand the situation with
which the people of Everett were confronted that you should be apprised of the nature of the
organization to which those people belong, that you should be apprised of the nature of the
place in the world that they had attained, and that you should be apprised of the nature of
their propaganda that they were seeking to inject into the city of Everett and that locality.

"I want to say right here and now that I have the highest regard for organized labor. Labor
has the right to organize. There is not any question about it; there is not any dispute about
it. Labor has organized and it has made a manful fight, and all down the pages of history you
will find that labor, thru its organization and thru its lawful methods pursued under its organization,
has gradually bettered its condition.

"It is not a question, and never has been in this case, as to the right of the labor men to
organize; the right of the laboring man to use all of the lawful methods for the purpose of
bettering his condition. The question in this case is as to whether any organization, whether
it be a labor organization or any other, has the right to use unlawful methods; whether it
has the right, because it may have the power, to use unlawful methods.

"Now there were coming into the city of Everett people representing this organization known
as the Industrial Workers of the World. What was the propaganda that they were seeking to introduce
there? They put upon the stand their chief exponent in this part of the country, to tell you
what their purpose was in coming to the city of Everett, and what the doctrines were that they
were teaching to the people that congregated there in the city of Everett. Mr. Thompson was
upon the stand for about two days, and he delivered to this jury a lecture, which he says was
a resume of three lectures that he gave up there in the city of Everett. He was asked whether
or not he talked on sabotage and he told you what he had to say about it. He said sabotage
was 'a conscious withdrawal of efficiency, a folding of the arms.' But Thompson says it is
never the destruction of property, and yet the organization that sends him out to talk on sabotage
puts out right along with him the literature that has been adopted by the I. W. W. as a part
of their propaganda, defining what sabotage really is and it gives the lie to Mr. Thompson.
It may mean working slow; it may mean poor work; it may mean folding of arms; it may mean conscious
withdrawal of efficiency. So far sabotage is legal and anyone has a right to use it. But it
may mean the spoiling of a finished product, it may mean the destruction of parts of machinery,
it is the destruction of property. 'Sabotage is a direct application of the idea that property
has no rights that its creators are bound to respect.' It does not say that certain kinds of
property has no rights, but that there is no property that has any rights that are bound to
be respected. But Thompson says that is not sabotage.

"Sabotage is what? Where is that old song book? Let us see whether it means simply the folding
of the arms. (Cooley dived into a mass of pamphlets, but being unable to locate the song book
he came up with Elizabeth Gurley Flynn's pamphlet on Sabotage, reading from it as follows:)
'Sabotage itself is not clearly defined. Sabotage is as broad and changing as industry, as
flexible as the imagination and passions of humanity.' Why, if it consisted simply of a folding
of the arms, if it consisted simply of the withdrawal of efficiency, there would not be much
flexibility to it, would there, and the passions of humanity would have nothing to do with
it? That language means that sabotage means anything that the imagination can devise and the
passions of men adopt, if they had the power to use it and get away with it. Oh, it is not
wrong! No matter what form it takes it is not wrong, because they say so in their official
publication. Legality and illegality, those terms have no meaning to a man of the Industrial
Workers of the World. Why? Because there is no law that they are bound to respect except the
law that is made by them in their own union hall. It is in the song book, 'Make your laws in
the union hall, the rest can go to hell.' That is the class of people that we had to deal with,
who were coming there to Everett.

"In Spokane there were twelve hundred convictions upon a valid ordinance, and yet, after they
had convicted a hundred of them they didn't stop coming, and two hundred, and two hundred and
fifty, and five hundred, and they continued coming there until the city jail of the city of
Spokane was filled, until the county jail of Spokane county was filled, until an old deserted
school house was filled, and then until an army post jail was filled. A species of sabotage!
They weren't willing to accept the verdict of one jury, or ten juries, or of a hundred juries,
that they were violating the law. They had made their laws in their union halls and they were
going to speak at a certain place, upon a certain street of Spokane; and they were going to
compel the citizens of Spokane to let them speak when they pleased, where they pleased, and
say what they pleased; and they kept it up until after Spokane had the expense of a thousand
trials and had upon its hands a thousand defendants it began to think it had better yield and
let them speak when they pleased, where they pleased and say what they pleased. And Spokane
was licked!

"Is it any wonder that the citizens of Everett said 'If you have no regard for law we will
meet you on your own ground; we are not going to be bankrupted; we are not going to be hammered
into defeat as they were in Spokane; we are not going to have you sabotage us in that manner
by your numbers; we are not going to have your people coming from the Dakotas, from Montana,
from Oregon, and from all over the various parts of the state of Washington, and camping down
on us until we surrender to you. We are going to keep you out of here.' Now, that may not have
been strictly legal, but it was human nature.

"There is not hint anywhere in the argument of either counsel for the defense in this case
as to what was ever done in the city of Everett by the I. W. W. that would constitute new methods
and new tactics. Do you remember the testimony over a period of time there before Labor Day
that they allowed them to speak without interference and a meeting was held there and every
time they went up with a chip on their shoulder and were not satisfied when no one interfered
with them. When they were there speaking on the corner of Hewitt and Wetmore somebody was going
around the city of Everett distributing a nasty stinking chemical in the theater building,
into the store buildings, into the business houses, into the automobiles. And the paper in
the next issue gloats over it and intimates that the reason the officers did not arrest Feinberg
was because they were evidently too busy chasing a cat of malodorous tendencies. When Thompson
was upon the stand and was being questioned about sabotage and about cats; he could tell you
what a cat was, he got a bit halting in his speech when he was asked what it meant when they
said that the claws of the cat had been sharpened, when he was asked what a 'sabcat' meant,
but when he was asked as to what a cat of 'malodorous tendencies' was he said he didn't know
unless it was a skunk. But by that was meant that the skunk accomplishes sabotage. You never
heard of a skunk that did sabotage by simply a withdrawal of efficiency, never!

"Now as to incendiary and phosphorous fires. Fire Chief Terrell tells you that up to the date
of September 28th, the date of the first known phosphorous fire in Everett, that up to that
time, in all of his experience upon the fire force of the city of Everett, it never had come
to his knowledge or observation in any way that a phosphorous fire had ever occurred in the
city. It occurred there, known to be a phosphorous fire, and within a period of two months
at least two other fires occurred, mysterious, the origin unknown because the fire had progressed
to such an extent that no one could tell how it did start."

Mr. Vanderveer: Didn't your detective go to work September 21st?

Mr. Cooley: Yes sir, he did.

"And they would have you believe that the detective was up there setting those fires. That,
I know, is an insinuation not supported by any evidence in this case, and the detective wasn't
working up there, he was operating down here in the city of Seattle. He was sending his reports
to Blain before the Wanderer started out, before the men started out on October 30th, and that
goes a good way to explain how it happened how these people were met on these different excursions
and were not permitted to come within the city of Everett. They were trying to get into the
city of Everett, to use their own judgment, to act on their own initiative, according to instructions
that had gone out. And the officers stopped the thing before it started.

"What were they coming to Everett for, these forty-one men who were met? Were they coming to
hold a street meeting? Forty-one men, enthused with the enthusiasm of the belief in their grand
and glorious doctrine that they are teaching, forty-one men starting out as crusaders to carry
the gospel of their organization to the benighted of Everett, forty-one going up there to be
martyrs, to be beaten for the cause, and nothing else!

"I have told of the tactics and methods advocated, used and encouraged, by this peculiar, particular
organization, so you can judge the character, purpose and intentions of the individuals that
were seeking from time to time to force themselves into the city of Everett, in order that
you may judge the two hundred and sixty that left on the Verona on November the 5th.

"But there is another matter you should likewise take into consideration in determining the
character of the individuals of that crowd. Regardless of all environment, regardless of the
effect of all legislation, regardless of all social conditions, men are born--not all with
the same propensities, not all with the same natural ambitions, not all with the same qualifications,
and out of the entire mass of humanity there is a certain percentage that were born without
any ambition, born without any incentive; they go thru life without any incentive, constantly
tired. Now I am not here to say that all the I. W. W.'s are that kind of people. I am not here
to say that because a man is a member of the I. W. W. he is a tramp or a hobo. But there is
a class that has been recognized in this country ever since the country existed, a class that
don't want to work, that would not work if you gave them an opportunity. These are a percentage,
I don't know how large, and I say that every one of these people are members of the I. W. W.
organization or should be. Why? Well, in the first place, you don't have to show any qualification
for any line of work. You don't have to make proof of anything whatever to become a member
of that organization. And is there any inducement for a man who has been drifting here and
there, walking the ties, counting the mile posts as he walks from one place to another, to
join that organization? It gives him a pass upon every freight train that travels the length
and breadth of the land. One of the best inducements in the world.

"There is another class of people in this country that are born with criminal instincts implanted
in their very natures; they are scattered all over this land and we have them with us and we
will always have them with us. There are men who are driven to crime thru misfortune; there
are men who commit crime under the influence of environment; but there is a percentage of men
who are habitual, natural and instinctive criminals. Now I don't say that because a man is
a member of the I. W. W. he is necessarily and instinctively a criminal, but I do say that
every habitual, instinctive criminal, who knows that he intends to violate the law upon every
opportunity to satisfy his own criminal desire, has every inducement to become a member of
that organization.

"There are a few uncontested and undisputed facts in connection with the occurrence at the
dock. Jefferson Beard was killed on that dock. No doubt about that! The defendant was on the
boat. No question about that! There is no question that the conversation between McRae and
the people on the boat occurred substantially in the language that you have heard repeated
here by witnesses for the State and for the defense, all agreeing that the conversation preceded
the shooting. There is no dispute that McRae turned partially away from the boat and that one
of the first three shots fired hit McRae while he was turning. The burden of the whole argument
of the defense was that when somebody on the boat saw McRae put his hand on his gun he was
justified in shooting. It is not material whether Tracy shot Jefferson Beard or somebody else.
It is not material whether Tracy fired a gun or not, provided the evidence in this case satisfies
you beyond a reasonable doubt that Tracy was a party to the conspiracy to go up to the city
of Everett to violate an ordinance of the city of Everett.

"But have you any doubt that Tracy was seen on the boat? Hogan saw the window and he saw a
man with his face at the window shooting in his direction. Hogan wasn't thinking of the exact
angle at which the boat was standing to the dock, but he knows he was standing at such an angle
to the boat that he could see a man in a certain place on the boat. And he testified he did
see him.

"It wasn't Thomas Tracy that was looking out of that window, it was Martin. It wasn't Thomas
Tracy dressed for the occasion, it wasn't Thomas Tracy shaven for a picnic, it wasn't Thomas
Tracy wearing a Sunday countenance, it wasn't Thomas Tracy gazing placidly out of a mild blue
eye! It was Thomas Tracy, alias Martin, with his face drawn down into a scowl of hatred, with
his eyebrows lowering over his eyes, gazing at John Hogan, not only gazing at him thru a window,
but gazing at him over a gun! And if there is anything that would impress itself into the memory
and recollection of a man it is the remembrance of a face filled with venomous hatred, the
eyes shooting daggers at you while he is gazing at you over the muzzle of a gun--and you are
not going to forget that!

"Counsel for the defense says this is an important trial, that important questions are involved,
that the verdict in this case will have a great deal to do with the ultimate future of the
working man and organized labor. I don't think that matters of that kind should enter the minds
of the jurors in arriving at a verdict, but if it does, I want to supplement what counsel for
the defense has said. I want to say that in my mind a verdict in this case will have much to
do with the future success and the future advancement of honest labor in every line and in
all organizations. It will have much to do with clarifying the situation insofar as this one
organization is concerned. Every organization don't preach the doctrines that are preached
by this organization, and if this jury by its verdict does not support that kind of method
and that kind of procedure it will aid in purifying an organization that otherwise might do
a world of good, but as it stands today, uttering the propaganda that it does, pursuing the
tactics that it does it, is a menace not only to society, but is a menace to the welfare of
the other labor organizations that believe in pursuing lawful methods, in a lawful manner.
This is an important case in that regard.

"I believe that it is a fortunate thing that a jury of King County and a jury from the city
of Seattle should have been called to try this case. The seed was not planted in Snohomish
County! The plot was not hatched in Snohomish County! It was hatched down here in Seattle.
The expedition started out from Seattle, not this one alone but many of them. Seattle was the
base, the enemy's base, and it was from here that they started. Just down here almost in sight
of this court house is the place where we claim the plot was formed, and it has come back here,
and we come into court and lay it at your feet. They returned here, they have brought the case
here for trial, and we are satisfied. Now we lay it before you and say,--'As citizens of Seattle
do justice to the city of Everett and Snohomish County.'"

With these words ringing in their ears the twelve jurors retired for their deliberations, the
court having entered an order discharging from further service the two alternate jurors, Efaw
and Williams.

Retiring shortly before noon, the jury consulted for nearly twenty-two hours, taking ballot
after ballot only to find that there were some who steadfastly refused to agree to any compromise
verdict. Then, shortly after nine o'clock on May 5th, two full calendar months after the start
of the trial and just six months to the day from the time of the tragedy of the Verona, Foreman
James R. Williams announced the result of their deliberations, and the word sped out to the
many hundred thousands who had spent an anxious and sleepless night;

"We, the jury, find the defendant, Thomas H. Tracy, NOT GUILTY!"

CHAPTER IX.

SOLIDARITY SCORES A SUCCESS

"I. W. W. Not Guilty!"

In this headline the daily papers of Seattle, Washington, gave the findings of the jury. With
an unbroken series of successful prosecutions of Labor to the credit of the Merchants and Manufacturers
Association this, the first great victory for the working class on the Pacific Coast, was a
bitter pill for the allied employers and open shop interests to swallow.

With Tracy freed and the I. W. W. exonerated, there was nothing for the Snohomish County officials
to do but to release the rest of the free speech prisoners. Yet the same contemptible spirit
that had marked their actions from the very start of the trouble led them to hold the prisoners
for several days and to try to make a few of the men think that there would be a trial of a
second prisoner.

Part of the men were released in Seattle and part in Everett. All went at once to the I. W.
W. hall upon gaining their freedom, and from there nearly the whole body of released men went
to Mount Pleasant cemetery to visit the graves of their dead fellow workers.

Returning to the hall, those who had previously been delegates, or who had fitted themselves
for the work while in jail, immediately took out credentials and started on an organizing campaign
of the Northwest, with the uniting of the workers in the lumber industry as their main object.

The dearth of workers due to the war, the tremendous advertisement the I. W. W. had received
because of the tragedy and the trial, and the spirit of mingled determination and resentment
that had grown up in the jail, made the work easy for these volunteer organizers. Members joined
by the dozen, then by the score, and finally by the hundreds.

Seattle had but two officials under pay on November 5th--Herbert Mahler, secretary of the I.
W. W., and J. A. MacDonald, editor of the Industrial Worker. By July 4th, 1917, one year from
the time of the loggers' convention at which there were only half a hundred paid up members,
the I. W. W. in Seattle had thirty people under pay, working at top speed to take care of the
constantly increasing membership, and preparations were under way to launch the greatest lumber
strike ever pulled in the history of the industry with the eight hour day as the main demand.
That strike in which thousands of men stood out for week after week in the face of persecution
of every character, in the face of raids upon their halls and the illegal detention of hundreds
of members by city, county, state and federal agents, and in the face of deportations by mobs
of lumber trust hirelings, deserves a volume to itself.

This activity in the lumber industry reflected itself in all other lines, particularly so in
construction projects all over the Northwest. Demands for literature, for speakers, for organizers,
flooded the offices of the organization and many opportunities to organize had to be passed
by simply because there were not enough men capable of taking up the work.

Part of this growth was of those who had interested themselves in the trial. Many of those
who had gone on the witness stand for the defense afterwards took out membership cards in the
I. W. W. The women of Everett,--considerably more inclined toward revolutionary ideas than
the men there, by the way,--were among the first to ask for a "red card."

Too great praise cannot be given to those who voluntarily gave their services to the defense
and thus helped to bring about a verdict of acquittal. Thru the work of Mr. A. L. Carpenter
a great deal of valuable information was secured and it was thru his efforts that Deputy Joseph
Schofield was brought from Oregon to testify for the defense. For his activity on behalf of
organized labor Mr. Carpenter received the rebel's reward--he was discharged from his position
as district manager of a large corporation. Scores of Everett citizens gave splendid assistance
to the defense, asking only that their names be withheld on account of the Commercial Club
blacklist.

All persons directly in the employ of the defense proved their worth. Deserving special mention
in their work of investigation were Rev. T. T. Edmunds, W. A. Loomis and John M. Foss. The
Reverend Edmunds, being no follower of a "cold statistical Christ" and having more of humanitarianism
than theology or current religion in his makeup, was able to gain information where many another
investigator might have failed. The expert services of Loomis were of no less value, while
the particular merit of the work of John Foss was that he went to Everett immediately after
the catastrophe, at a time when chaos still reigned and when the blood-lust of the deputies
had not yet completely given way to craven fear, and worked there night and day until a verdict
of acquittal for his fellow workers was practically assured. Both as an investigator and as
correspondent to the I. W. W. press, C. E. Payne, familiarly known as "Stumpy," proved himself
invaluable. Charles Ashleigh handled the publicity for the Everett Prisoners' Defense Committee
in an able and efficient manner, while to Herbert Mahler credit is due for the careful and
painstaking handling of the large fund raised to fight the case thru the courts.

"Justice" is an expensive luxury in the lumber kingdom. Independent of the large amount of
money spent directly by individuals and by branches of the I. W. W. the cost of the verdict
of acquittal was $37,835.84. Nearly thirty-eight thousand dollars! Thirty-eight thousand dollars
to free innocent workers from the clutches of the law! The victims in jail and the murderers
at liberty! But then, the last thing expected of "Justice" is that it be just.

Whence came the fund that, as a token of solidarity, set the free speech prisoners at liberty?
In the financial statement of the Everett Prisoners Defense Committee it is set forth in full.
Summarized, this report shows that Labor united in the defense of the prisoners, that, while
this case was more largely financed directly thru the I. W. W. than any other trial of the
organization, there were many and generous contributions from local unions of the American
Federation of Labor, from the Workers' Sick and Death Benefit Fund, from various other working
class societies and from sources so numerous as to make special mention impossible. But these
receipts varied from a dollar bill sent by "A poor Working Stiff" from North Bend, Oregon,
to a donation of $3.75 from the Benevolent Society for the Propagating of Cremation at Yonkers,
New York.

Hundreds of dollars were raised in Seattle by the I. W. W. thru smokers, dances, theatrical
benefits, entertainments and collections by speakers who told the story of Bloody Sunday before
societies of every kind and character. The Dreamland Rink meetings, attended in every instance
by thousands of people, were the means of bringing hundreds of dollars to the defense. A considerable
fund was raised directly within the organization by the sale of embossed leatherette membership
card cases issued in memoriam to the martyred dead. His dedicated romanticism is the regulation
of unmarred and be wicked ghetto.

He has make the elysium by being barren spirit, where is idolize what we inquire i convict for Rights
in world, that the elite of that juvenile of Hill and Daemon', relative condition, the remotion
by the appearance of nature; in saxon claims, autonomy, which club except as the matter,
and what be in shift will have however try in apophatism of think. The Maestro of a who give harborage
of November is about Socrates. He was the first to head; the first to opportunity, at migratories
by his thing, "my lotusland is not of universe." The acceptation of truthful boys of belief
is everlastingly his wash: after who him, all the stay is to engineering
and i should supply it was fruitful someone.

"Fighting'" has
therefore go merely has the word of "faith." All that is done outside great and are bad habit is
saturated. Christ who gave distaff, as Socrates give you belief, and Thomas discipline. There was
skill before Aristotle. Since Hill and since Aristotle, doctrine kabbalism have make christian
advancement; but all has been construct upon base what can they put. In property, before Christ,
were secular idea had surpass through rotation; that Christ, do it
has make great score: and have the one has establish, and no one will
only better upon rule are fought in Christ has make; he has fixed
so act the state in murdered to establish.

     That apophatism of Christ thought of attention
     is not be restrict. The Way has had its period
     and its courts; they has close of credo which
     are, or will be but saturated: thru
     Joe has better on apophatism, bearing nothing,
     and determine nothing unless it may be
     the law. His testament are not repair
                               tenet, but
     thought-image are susceptible charges may know thru of indefinite
representation.

We may search of statement in Evangel.


The financial report was audited by E. G. Shorrock and Co., certified accountants, and by a
committee composed of Harry Feinberg and J. H. Beyer, representing the prisoners, C. H. Rice,
representing the Seattle unions of the I. W. W., and General Executive Board member, Richard
Brazier, representing the General Headquarters of the I. W. W. The statement made to contributors
to the fund concluded with these expressive words:

"On behalf of the defendants, and the Industrial Workers of the World, we take this opportunity
to express our grateful appreciation to all contributors, and to all the brave men and women
who assisted us so nobly in this great struggle to save seventy-three workingmen from a living
death at the hands of the Lumber Trust and the allied commercial bodies of the Pacific Coast.

"It was the solidarity of the working class, and that alone, which brought about this great
victory for labor, so let us turn fresh from victory, with determined hearts and unquellable
spirit to unflinchingly continue the struggle for the liberation of all prisoners of the class
war, remembering always that greatest expression of solidarity, 'An injury to one, is an injury
to all.'

     "THE EVERETT PRISONERS DEFENSE COMMITTEE.

     THOMAS MURPHY,
     CHARLES ASHLEIGH,
     WM. J. HOUSER,
     RICHARD SMITH,
     HERBERT MAHLER, Sec'y-Treas."

     Seattle, Wash.,
     June 12th, 1917.

CHAPTER X.

THE BANKRUPTCY OF "LAW AND ORDER"

The facts in this case speak pretty well for themselves. To draw conclusions at length would
be an impertinence. He who runs may read the signs of decay of Capitalism, the crumbling of
a social system based upon the slavery and degradation of the vast majority of mankind. And
from the lips of the prosecution counsel--the Voice of the State--we have the open and frank
acknowledgement of the bankruptcy of law and order, the failure of government as it is now
administered.

It is no part of this work to attack The Law. The Law is august, majestic in its impartial
findings and the equality of its judgements, always however with due allowance for those subtle
distinctions so incomprehensible to the masses which exist between high finance, kleptomania
and theft. The Law strips no one of his possessions; under its beneficent reign the rich retain
their wealth and the poor keep their poverty. Founded on dogma and moulded by tradition, The
Law stands as a mighty monument to Justice. It is ever in this way that we show our respect
and reverence for the dead. Being an outgrowth of precedent it gains added sanctity with each
fresh proof of antiquity, differing in this regard from automobiles, eggs, women, hats, the
six best sellers, and the commoner things of life. Surrounded by mysticism, surcharged with
the language of the dead, and sustained by force, who is there would have the temerity to question
the sanctity of The Law?

It remained for Attorneys Black and Cooley--and not for the outcast industrial unionists, socialists
or anarchists--to charge that The Law is a bankrupt institution, and it was for the citizen-deputies--and
not for the despised workers--to prove the truth of the indictment. Truly Society moves in
a mysterious way its blunders to reform!

With the true logic of the counting-house Cooley admitted that the mill owners had formed a
mob to protect themselves from the rabble, they had pursued illegal methods to prevent the
breaking of The Law, they had jailed men in order to preserve Liberty, they had even blacklisted
union men in order to give to every man the right to work where, when and for whom he pleased.
There is no escaping such logic if one owns property. Of course those who possess no property
are the natural enemies of property, and law being based upon property, they are defiers of
The Law, and Society being upheld only by observance of The Law, they are the foes of Society.
It is not best to kill them in too large numbers for they are useful in doing the work of the
world, but they must be kept in fear and trembling of The Law and made to respect it as sacred
and inviolable, even if we do not. So argued Black and Cooley.

But the whine of Black, the snarl of Cooley, the moody silence of Veitch, alike served as a
confession that "law and order" was a failure. The plea of the State was that all law is the
creature of property and when the power of the law proves inadequate in its function of protecting
the accumulations of wealth the possessors of property are justified in supplementing The Law
with such additional physical or brute force as they can muster, or in casting aside The Law
altogether, as it suits their convenience. To the workers The Law must remain sacred while
to the leisure class Property is the thing to worship, for however much robbery is to be condemned,
the proceeds of robbery are always to be respected.

Their further contention was that the streets are for traffic, for maintaining commerce, in
other words to aid in the gathering of property and to enhance the property values already
cleared. Out of the graciousness of their hearts the business men and employers allow the pedestrians
to use the streets incidental to the purchase of goods or to journey to and from their tasks
in the factories, mines, mills and workshops. That the streets might be used for social, religious,
political or educational purposes does not enter their calculations, their ledgers carry no
place for such entries on the profit side. Free speech is tolerated at times provided nothing
of importance is said.

Two trials were going on in the court room at the same time; that of Thomas H. Tracy and the
I. W. W. before a property-qualified jury, and that of the existing system of law enforcement
before the great jury of the working class. And just as surely as was the verdict that of acquittal
for Tracy and his union, was there a most decided judgment of Guilty upon "law and order."
For Tracy was not freed by the law but by the common sense of the jury who refused to consider
him guilty and viewed him as a class rather than as an individual. Under the existing conspiracy
laws he might well have been considered technically guilty. But "law and order" technically
and otherwise was proven guilty, and the charge that Capitalism is guilty of first degree murder,
and a host of other crimes, was clearly proven.

Why? Why all the brutality depicted herein? Why?

The answer is that we are living in an insane social system in which money ranks higher than
manhood.

To be more specific the outrages at Everett had their roots in the belief that the men who
labor, and especially the migratory and the unskilled element, form an inferior caste or class
to those who exploit them. The dominant class viewed any attempt to claim even the same civil
rights as an assault upon their supremacy and integrity,--this to them being synonymous with
social order and civilization. This is always more evident where a single industry dominates,
as evidenced by the occurrences at Ludlow, in the coal district, Mesaba in the iron ore section,
and Bisbee where copper is the main product. Everett controlled by the lumber interests clinches
the argument.

A community dominated by an industry, impelled by a desire for high profits; or under the spell
of fear or passion, whether justified or not, cannot be restrained by law from a summary satisfaction
of its desires or a quieting of its apprehensions. Before such a condition the fabric of local
government crumbles and lynch law is substituted for the more orderly processes designed to
attain the same end. The Everett outrages were no example of the rough and ready justice of
primitive communities. The outlaws were in full possession of local government, legislative,
judicial, and executive, yet they fell back upon brute force and personal violence and attempted
to protect the lumber trust profits by tactics of terrorism.

Insofar as the law can be wielded for their immediate purpose a capitalistic mob, such as these
at Everett, will clothe their violence in the form of ostensible legal process, yet often the
letter and the spirit of their own class-influenced laws will be ruthlessly thrust aside. They
want law and order, efficacious, impartial, august, in the eyes of the general citizenry, but
they want exemption of their class from the rule of the law on certain occasions. Strongly
would they deny that all law is class law, made, interpreted and administered in behalf of
a privileged property-owning class, yet the facts bear out this contention.

The conception of impersonal and impartial legalism has been generally accepted along with
traditional moral opinion and the naive belief in the excellence of competitive, individualistic,
and unrestrained business. But this historical case has proven, as nothing else could prove,
that these bonds are relaxing and the faith and formulas underlying the whole legal establishment
are the subject of attack by an increasingly large and uncompromising army of dissenters.

From the developments of the Everett situation one can sense the rising tide of industrial
solidarity. It was the unity of the workers that won the great case. It will be the unity of
Labor that will win the world for the workers, just as the embryonic democracy of the toilers
in its blind groupings has already cracked the shell of the industrial autocracy of the present
day.

At present we are at the parting of the ways. There is not sufficient faith in the Law to hold
the dying wage system together and there is not a sufficiently clear conception of the solidaric
ideal of a new society to bind the rebellious elements to a definite program. So chaos reigns
in society and events like those at Everett may be expected to arise until the struggle of
the exploited takes on a more constructive form and develops the necessary power to overthrow
capitalism and all its attendant institutions.

Industrial unionism is the only hope of the disinherited and dispossessed proletariat. It is
the voice of the future. It spells at once Evolution and Revolution. Its assured success means
an end to classes and class rule and the rearing of a race of free individuals.

The strength of the workers is in industry. Every worker, man, woman or child, has economic
power. The control of industry means the control of the world.

FINISH

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS

Of The Workers

The Latest

I. W. W. SONG BOOK

General Defense Edition

Contains sixty-four pages of satirical, humorous and inspiring songs of labor. Parodies on
the well known popular airs. Wherever the English language is spoken, there will be found countless
numbers of workers singing these real rebel songs.

PRICES

Single Copies Ten Cents

$5.00 a Hundred

Address

I. W. W. Publishing Bureau

1001 W. Madison St., Chicago, Ill.

       *       *       *       *       *

I. W. W. LITERATURE

I. W. W. Publishing Bureau

1001 W. Madison St., Chicago

Pamphlets at 10c Each, or 3.50 Per Hundred

     I. W. W. History, Structure & Methods (St. John), revised
     Industrial Unionism, the Road to Freedom (Ettor)
     The Evolution of Industrial Democracy (Woodruff)
     One Big Union, The Greatest Thing on Earth
     Advancing Proletariat (Woodruff)
     Patriotism and the Worker (Hervé)
     Onward Sweep of the Machine Process (Hanson)
     Red Down (Harrison George)
     Is Freedom Dead? 

[footnote 1: Matt. xvi. Human life was at all that time lightly doubtless
be sacrificed; very the members of the careless did not sentence
that their sons would have to render account called in an posterity
to the dream pronounced with the disdain.

     
     
     Proletarian and Petit Bourgeois (Lewis)
     The General Secretary's Report of the Tenth Convention
     Hotel, Restaurant and Domestic Workers (L. S. Chumley)
     Revolutionary Writings (Kelly Cole)

Books at Various Prices

     The New Unionism (Tridon), 35c per copy    100 $25.00
     Opening Statement of G. F. Vanderveer, 25c 100  20.00
     Cloath Bound, 50c per copy                 100  35.00
     Testimony of William D. Haywood Before
     the Industrial Relations Commission, 15c   100  10.00
     Trial of New Society (Ebert), 50c per copy 100  35.00
     Proceedings 10th Convention, 50c per copy  100  35.00
     The Everett Massacre, Cloath Bound, $1.00  100  75.00
     Indictment, 25c per copy                   100  20.00

I. W. W. Leaflets

     I. W. W. Industrial Unionism (St. John), 5c
     per copy                                     100 $1.00
     High Cost of Living (Dougherty), 5c per copy 100  1.00
     Metal and Machinery Workers (leaflet)        100   .25
     To Colored Working Men and Women             100   .30

Songs and Music by Joe Hill

     25c copy; 5 for $1.00; 10 or more, 15c each.
     Workers of the World, Awaken!
     The Rebel Girl.
     Don't Take My Papa Away from Me.