"She spent the remainder of the month of March, and the beginning of April, in laying up stores
of provision, and in enlarging the inside of her house.

"The Spring began with some beautiful warm days, and everything looked cheerful and gay; the
crocusses were all in flower, and the primroses, and snow-drops, with some early violets. Downy
was rejoiced when she saw the daisies in the orchard begin to shew their white heads above
the grass, and she took many a frisk out to enjoy the sunshine, and was quite happy and content.

"One fine evening as she was returning to her house, she saw a creature much like a weasel,
only somewhat smaller, which she knew to be a mousehunt, by what she had heard of them: he
was prowling along close by her tree, in hopes of catching her; he smelt about some time, and
at last went in. Poor little Downy was in a sad fright; she knew not what to do, for she saw
his head peeping out of her hole, and his cunning black eye looking round in every direction.

"When little Downy saw the mousehunt take possession of her house, she knew she must not venture
there again, and was in great distress, as to where she should pass the night securely; at
last she found a hole in the bank, and into this she crept, though very much alarmed for fear
of her enemy's discovering her; she dared not go to sleep at all that night; nor did she stir
out next day, till forced by hunger to seek for food; she did not see any thing of the mousehunt,
but she resolved to leave the orchard and seek a safer spot for her new habitation.

"Accordingly, next day, she sat off to look for a proper situation; she passed through the
orchard hedge into a beautiful green meadow, all covered with daisies, red clover, cowslips,
and golden buttercups. Here Downy resolved to find a place to live in: and she whisked about
under the tall heads of the cowslips and buttercups; at last she fixed on a little green mound,
such an one as you, Alfred, call a fairy's throne, and here she began to scratch with her fore
feet, till she had made a little opening in the turf, and she used such diligence, that before
night she had made a hole large enough to sleep in, and though it was not lined or so warm
as her house under the old apple-tree, yet she slept so sound that she never awoke till the
sun had risen quite high in the heavens.

"Downy jumped up in a hurry when she saw how late it was: the birds had been up hours before
her, and were all busily employed building their nests; every bush resounded with the songs
of these little creatures while at work, and Downy knew she must not be idle, for she had much
to do; being very hungry she first went to an oak which grew at some little distance, and here
she found plenty of acorns among the leaves--of these she made a hearty meal, and carried some
to where she was at work. With a great deal of care and labour she dug her house and made it
quite round and smooth, as she went on, carrying it in a slanting direction along the hollow
side of the hill. It cost poor Downy many a long day's hard work before her house was completed,
and many a weary nibble before she had finished lining the inside of it. Her next care was
to make a secure room for stowing away her winter stores; for this purpose, she made an opening
on one side of her first room, and carried a passage along some little distance, and then formed
her store chamber, which she was a long time making, but it was at length completed perfectly
to her own satisfaction, having rendered it a most convenient granery. She had now nothing
to do but find feed for herself, and play, but Downy never came home without bringing something
useful for her house, either a bit of straw or hay, a little tuft of moss, or the dried stalk
of a flower; these she cut with her teeth into little bits, and laid in her nest to make it
soft and warm.

"Downy was now quite happy, her mound was all covered with flowers, fine cowslips, and butter-cups,
and tuft of daisies grew close to the entrance of her house, and served to hide it from the
eyes of owls, mousehunts, or any of the enemies to poor mice; and Downy thought herself quite
secure from all dangers: of a beautiful moonlight night she used just to peep out from under
the daisies, and look at the dew drops all shining like diamonds in the moon-beams, and once
she whisked on to the top of her green mount, and began to play among the flowers, but she
was alarmed by the sight of a small dog running through the high grass, and she quickly retreated
into her house; nor was she so imprudent again as venture out after it grew dusk. And now the
grass grew long and high, the flowers began to lose their beauty, and turn brown; every thing
proclaimed the approach of summer.

"The month of June began, and the mowers came to cut down the grass; Downy was fearful that
they would molest her, and spoil her house, when they came near the little mount; but she trusted
to the chance that they might not discover it, and she laid quite close all day.

"But poor little Downy was very sorry to see all the nice high grass and pretty flowers cut
down to the ground, those flowers which had sheltered her from the sun and rain for so long.

"'And now, (thought she), I shall certainly be caught by the great white owl; for he will be
able to see me now; and I can't hide myself under the long grass and dandelions, as I used
to do, for they are all cut down and spoiled.'--Poor little Downy was in a great fright all
the time that the hay-makers were at work, and when she found them coming near her house, with
their great pitchforks in their hands, she remembered the fate of her mother, and all her brothers
and sisters in the stack, and she thought that she should be safer in the bank of the garden
hedge; which was not far off. She watched an opportunity when no one was looking, and hastened
away to the hedge as fast as she could, and creeping in laid quite snug; she remained in the
bank the whole day, and enjoyed herself more than could be expected, for the weather was extremely
pleasant, and there was a fine bed of ripe wild strawberries close by, which smelt quite refreshing.
Though Downy dared not venture back into the field for fear of being killed (for mice are but
timid little things) yet she was very happy all that day; and when she saw the men leave the
field with the pitchforks which had caused her so much terror, she returned to her nest, and
slept that night on some new hay which she had nibbled, and brought into her house to lay on.
As soon as it was day, away ran careful Downy to the bank; she peeped through the hedge, and
saw every thing in the garden looking very pleasant. So Miss Downy thought she should like
to spend this day in the beautiful shady garden; in she went, and soon found it as charming
as it looked; for the garden abounded in plenty of good things; there were peas, and beans,
and potatoes, and young carrots, and beds of ripe red strawberries. Downy did nothing but eat
and enjoy herself the whole day, and did not think of returning home that day, nor for many
days afterwards, for she said to herself--'What occasion is there for me to go back to the
meadow, where I have so much trouble to get food, for here is more than I could ever eat, and
I have no trouble in getting it at all--and I am sure no mischief will happen to me here!'
So she gave no thought of her nice house in the field, but amused herself by eating all the
day long; till she grew quite fat, and Downy thought she was happier than ever she had been
in the field, and she grew very indolent, for she now began to think that there was no occasion
for her to work, but she said to herself, she would play all day; and here she shewed herself
to be a very simple little mouse, (as it proved in what befel her). She had been living in
the garden for nearly a month, when one fine sunshiny day, she had ventured nearer to the house
than usual, and was lying reposing herself in the sun by a clod of dirt, near a rain-water
butt, when she was disturbed by a noise near her, and to her horror she beheld the black cat
with a fine kitten by her side, proceeding down the walk where she lay; to escape was almost
impossible, even the attempt was vain, and hapless Downy gave herself up for lost. A month
back, and she might have trusted to her own speed for escaping--but, alas! Downy had so long
been used to do nothing but eat and enjoy herself, that she was no longer able to run as swiftly
as she used to do; she dared not even move a step, and sat in an agony of hopeless despair.

"Downy now lamented her folly in having left her safe retreat in the meadow: what would she
now have given to have been in her own little house under the mole hill? and she bitterly regretted
ever having been tempted to quit it, for there no cats ever came, and there she had lived in
innocence and happiness, whilst now she was doomed to fall a victim to the merciless claws
of a hungry cat, who would devour her alive: she lay breathless! not a limb did she move, scarce
did she even draw her breath, for the cat approached within a yard of the spot where she laid,
and----" "Oh! poor Downy! (cried Alfred,) how sorry I am!--but, mamma, did that wicked cat
kill her? do, dear mamma, make haste and tell me."--"Why, Alfred," said his mother, "you would
not wait for me to tell you whether she was killed or not: I am sure you could not feel sorry
for the death of a nasty brown mouse; you hate mice, they are such little thieves."--Little
Alfred blushed at what his mother said, for he remembered they were his own words, and said
to his mother, "Dear mamma, I think I will never wish for the death of any thing again, and
I am very sorry I had that mouse killed; I will never kill another mouse, if it was to eat
all the cakes you mean to give me when I am a good boy." Mrs. Clifford not help smiling at
her little boy, but went on.--

"The cat, as I said before, was close to the clod of earth on which luckless Downy stood, and
when she believed her death certain, she had the inexpressible joy of finding that her motionless
posture had been the means of saving her from the vigilant eyes of the cat, who passed on quite
unconcerned without taking any notice of her prey. For an instant Downy could scarce credit
her own eyes when she saw her enemy pass on; but fearing that if puss should return, she should
not again escape so miraculously, she darted away as she hoped unseen, but, silly little thing!
she had better have laid where she was, for the kitten beheld her as she ran, and sprung upon
her. Poor Downy felt her claws, but exerting all her speed, she flew to the hedge--this friendly
hedge which had so often been her refuge, and darting among the tangled roots of the hawthorn
and ivy, left her pursuers far behind, and, exhausted with terror and fatigue, remained trembling
and panting till she was half dead. Still she heard the mews of the disappointed kitten, and
the angry purrs of the old cat--who sat watching about the bank for more than an hour, waiting
to seize her if she ventured forth,[*] but that poor Downy was not in a condition to do, for
her poor back still ached with the bruise the kitten had given her, and she felt in such a
panic, she could not have stirred a step if she had seen a dozen cats. For two whole days poor
little Downy thought she should have died, and when she was a little better and began to feel
hungry, there was nothing for her to eat but hay seeds and ivy leaves, or the roots of the
trees, and Downy, who had of late been used to such good fare, could not bear to eat such dry
unpalatable food as this was.

    [Footnote *: The above-mentioned circumstance, improbable as it
    may appear, I myself was witness to in the garden not many paces
    from the door of the house; when the poor little mouse actually
    escaped the eyes of a cat and her kitten, who passed within a yard
    of the spot where it stood, by standing in that motionless manner
    on the top of a clod of earth, nor was it discovered till it left
    its station, and though caught by the kitten, yet it finally
    escaped unhurt to the garden hedge.]

"When she used to spend her time in labour and industry, she eat the hardest fare with an excellent
appetite, and was thankful and contented with the least bit of any thing she got, but now she
turned away disgusted at the coarse food, and it was not until pinched by hunger, that she
would eat any of it. And now Downy began to consider within herself, whether it would not have
been much better and wiser for her to have returned back to her own house in the meadow, instead
of living so long in idleness and luxury; and Downy found that idleness brings its own punishment
sooner or later, for had she been at home she would not have been so frightened by the cat,
or nearly killed by the kitten; or even if a cat had come near her nice nest, she would have
run away much faster than she did now, for being then smaller and thinner, she was much nimbler;
nor was her daintiness the least evil that attended her long indulgence, and this she felt
more severely now she was ill and could not go out to find good food; she had suffered so much
with pain and terror, that she resolved never to go into the garden again, excepting to get
provisions when in want. With a sad and penitent heart Downy once more returned to her old
habitation, but, alas! what was her grief on beholding it a complete ruin; her nice warm nest
all destroyed, and the pretty green mound quite spoiled! Downy was sadly vexed, for the cruel
hay-makers had with their pitchforks torn open the turf and scattered her soft bed all round
on the grass. She stood gazing with anguish on the desolate scene before her; here was all
her spring work entirely ruined, and now she was ill and had no where to lay her head. 'Ah!'
thought she, 'if I had not spent so much time in doing nothing but eating and playing, I should
have escaped the danger of being caught by the cat, and should not have been hurt by the kitten,
besides which I think by this time I might have made up my nest, and have been quite comfortable
again. She was hardly able to work, and what was far worse, she felt very great reluctance
to begin her laborious task, so much harm had her living so long in indolence done her, as
it does to every one who indulges in it. Remember, my little Alfred, that idleness is the root
of all evil, as you may see in the case of Downy:--now which do you think was the happiest
and best,--careful and industrious Downy making her house, and busily procuring food for herself
against the winter,--or careless idle Downy doing nothing but playing and enjoying herself
in the garden, eating the fruit, and sleeping among the flowers? now tell me, which do you
like best of the two?" Alfred considered for a minute or two, and then said, "Why, dear mamma,
though I should have liked to have eaten the nice things in the garden, and lived among the
flowers, yet I see that it would have been better for Downy if she had always remained in the
field and worked hard; but I am afraid I should have been as silly as Downy, and not liked work."

"That is what I was afraid of, therefore, my dear child, I thought it best to shew you how
wrong she was in indulging herself in that manner; and be assured that, whoever does so, will
fall into misfortune.

"Necessity obliged Downy at last to overcome her extreme reluctance to work, and she once more
began to look out for a proper place for her new habitation; she visited all the green mounds
in the meadow, but alas! they were occupied by the ant, and poor Downy was quite out of patience--and
at last she was, though with reluctance, forced to take up her lodgings in the side of the
garden bank, quite at the farther end, where no cats ever came, and at last, finding it was
to her own interest to work, she resolved not to be idle any more, and laboured as hard as
ever she had done, and soon completed her new dwelling, having made it a most commodious habitation,
in which she lived very happily all the summer. When the harvest time arrived, then was Downy
very busy; she went into a neighbouring wheat field, and there she made a good harvest for
herself, and laid in a handsome store of grain for her winter supply. In her journeys to the
corn-fields she met many mice, who, like her, were gathering in their winter stock of provisions;
but Downy would not stay in the corn-fields, because she remembered the fate of her nest while
she was gone in the garden, so she came home very regularly every night.

"Nothing of any consequence happened to Miss Downy till the latter end of the Autumn; for some
days she had missed her provisions, but could not account for it in any way, and was at a loss
to know who it could be that devoured the fruits of her daily labour, but one morning when
she returned from gleaning in the stubble-fields, she was greatly surprised, on entering her
house, to behold a young stranger busily employed in breakfasting in her granery; she stopped
at the entrance of her house to examine her visitor, and was struck by the beauty of his form;
he was of a reddish colour, his hair very long and thick, his breast and fore-feet of a pale
buff, and his belly white; he had a nice round face, and small oval ears, with quick lively
brown eyes and long handsome black whiskers; in short, he was the prettiest mouse Downy had
ever seen, though he was a sad little thief, and had eaten a great deal of her store. He appeared
at first much disconcerted at being disturbed and discovered in his depredation, and looked
round on every side for an opening to escape at, but none appearing, he stood still, and scratched
his ear with one of his hind feet, assuming as unconcerned an air as he could possibly put
on; Downy was not sorry she had discovered who was the thief, but she soon forgave him, though
she could not help thinking he was a very dishonest mouse to come every day and rob her as
he had done, but he was so pretty, and made so humble an apology for his intruding into her
house, that she could not find it in her heart to be angry with him long, and they soon became
very good friends, and at last he proposed her taking him as a partner, which the simple Downy
agreed to without hesitation, and shared her house and provisions with the handsome young stranger,
who behaved with great decorum for some time, and was very careful to mind what Downy said
to him, but at last he began to throw off his restraint, and was often getting into mischief
in spite of the sage advice of Downy, who took great pains to warn him from such evil practices;
but Silket would frisk in the garden, robbing the newly-planted bean and pea crops with the
greatest audacity, not minding what careful Downy said, who represented to him the danger he
run of being killed by cats, or mousehunts, or caught in traps; but Silket, like a naughty
mouse as he was, only laughed and made light of her fears; and when at last she appeared vexed
at his disobedience, he promised never to go into the garden again; but, like many more, he
broke his promise directly he was out of her sight; and beside this, he was sadly idle, and
was I am sorry to say, much fonder of play than work, and Downy was obliged to remonstrate
with him on such bad behaviour, and said, 'Silket, how can you expect me to work for both you
and myself? you are a sad partner. Silket was very humble, and promised to be more industrious
for the future, and that very afternoon he ransacked a new crop of peas, which the gardener
had sown that day, and came home laden with the spoils; next day he brought home hoard of nuts
from the garden, and Downy thought if he would but continue so good, she should be very happy,
for her Silket was a very pretty creature, and she was very fond of him. But pretty creatures
are not always the best, as she soon found to her cost, for when the weather set in cold, then
Mr. Silket refused to work, or even to stir out of the house, but lay rolled round like a ball
in the soft hay, and slept, only just getting up to eat; and Downy was much grieved, for she
feared their stock of food would never last out the winter, if he did not help her make some
addition to it, but Silket begged her not to be under any concern, for there was plenty for
them both; and on her again expressing her fears on the subject, he gave her two or three severe
bites on her ear, and squeaked most vehemently, shewing his anger at being found fault with,
and then laid down again with a sulky air of displeasure; while poor Downy almost broken-hearted,
slowly and full of sorrow, left her house, and strolled along the side of the bank quite disconsolate,
and she resolved never to go back again to her ungrateful husband, who had treated her so unkindly,
but leave him in quiet possession of her dwelling.

"Simple little Downy! she might have known beforehand how he would have treated her, as she
was so well acquainted with his propensity to stealing, and she was a very foolish mouse to
take for a partner one who shewed, from the first, that he liked better to play about and steal,
than to labour and get an honest living. Downy ought to have considered all this, but she thought
him so pretty, that she forgot all his misdeeds, and very imprudently shared her food and house
with him. It is true, that he promised very fair, and said he would work for her, and that
she should have nothing to do but just to eat, and sleep, and play; and Downy (who did not
think that such a pretty soft creature could tell so many stories) believed all he said, and
this was the consequence of her imprudence.

"So you see, Alfred, that we must not always judge by appearances, because I know rather a
pretty creature, with bright blue eyes, who, like Silket, can steal, and tell fibs, and who
likes to play better than learn a lesson and read." Alfred coloured up, for he knew all along
that his mother meant he was like Silket; so he felt a little ashamed, and did not make any
answer; and his mother continued her story.

"Poor little Downy laid bewailing her sad misfortune in the cold damp grass, determining never
to go home to her little tyrant again, so angry was she at his cruel conduct.--'Ah! foolish
mouse that I was, (said she), why did not I continue to live by myself when I was so happy!
I might have known how he would have behaved to me, but I will never return to him, he may
enjoy by himself that food which he loves so much more than he does me, ungrateful that he
is!' In this manner she was uttering her complaints, when she heard a soft padding step behind
her, and a mournful noise made her turn round, and she beheld her penitent Silket, (for it
was him) who advancing with a sorrowful air, humbly besought her forgiveness, and rubbed his
velvet cheek in an imploring manner against her's; his lively brown eyes were now troubled,
and very sorrowful. Downy could not resist his beseeching looks, but forgave him for all his
past offences, and took him once more into favour, on his promising to be good in future and
never to bite her ears or tail again. Silket was very sorry for his late bad behaviour, and
he resolved to be very good and do so no more, for he did love Downy very much, though he loved
himself better. He accompanied her home with great affection, and they were happier for some
weeks than they had ever been before; he was so attentive and kind, and seemed to study only
to please her; he spent day after day in searching among the dry leaves in the garden for filberts;
and when he could not procure any thing else, he brought her crocus roots, and carrots out
of the garden.

One evening he had been out later than usual, he did not see Downy's bright eyes looking out
from among the dry leaves and moss for his return, and he was fearful some ill had befallen
her. As he approached the house, he thought he heard several little squeaking sounds, and on
entering his nest, found that Downy in his absence had become the mother of four ittle helpless
blind mice, which she was suckling. Silket was overjoyed, he licked the little ones with much
affection, and behaved with the greatest tenderness to Downy; he presented her the filbert
he had brought home, and praised the beauty of his little family, though none but himself could
see that they possessed any, for little mice are very ugly till they can open their eyes, and
have got fur on them; for like puppies, and kittens, and rabbits, they are all born blind,
and do not open their eyes for many days after.

No mouse could behave better than Silket now did; he would not suffer Downy to stir out in
the cold, on any account, for, though it was the latter end of March, the weather was unusually
severe, and the frost very hard; Silket was out almost the whole day searching for nice food
for Downy, and getting soft moss to keep his young ones warm,--but one day he grieved Downy
much and did a deal of mischief,--he wanted something to cover his little ones with, and what
did he do, but went into the garden to the hedge where Mrs. Ball had hung out her linen to
dry, and the wicked Silket gnawed and bit one of the old lady's white aprons almost to pieces,
carrying home as many of the rags as his mouth would hold, to his house. Downy was sadly vexed
when she heard what he had been doing, and she was forced to read him a very long lecture on
being so mischievous, while Mr. Mischief amused himself by laying the rags out to the greatest
advantage, admiring the white quilt he had brought home for his little ones' bed, and secretly
resolving to go and fetch the remaining fragments, and though he saw how grave Downy looked,
he did not think he had done so much harm in biting the old lady's apron; so he cast a cunning
eye at Downy, to see if she was observing him, for he wanted sadly to get the rest of the apron,
only he did not like to disoblige her commands, and get another scolding; but she saw what
he was after, and she begged him not to go, for she said, she knew that such mischievous ways
would come to no good end, and that he would get caught in a trap, or killed by some cat, or
fall into some great danger, 'And, (added she,) what should I do, Silket, left with these four
helpless little mice to provide for?' Silket immediately saw the impropriety of his conduct,
and he never spoiled any more of good Mrs. Ball's linen, though he often came in the way of
it. The poor old lady was greatly disturbed at the misfortune which had befallen her best muslin
apron, and threatened to have the ratcatcher's dogs and ferrets to hunt the garden and the
hedge, if any thing more was destroyed; so that it was a good thing that Silket took Downy's
advice in that respect, or he would certainly have been killed for his pains.

"At the end of three weeks the little mice began to be quite lively, and to grow very pretty
little creatures; they much resembled their father in his mischeivous inclinations, and it
needed all Downy's prudent management to keep them in order, for they would frisk out of their
nest, and scud about in the meadow, going so for out of sight, and staying so late, that Downy
was in a great fright lest any mishap should befall them, as to Silket, he seemed to take great
delight in their pranks.

They would lay on the bank, enjoying themselves and basking in the sun, almost all day long.
When it was fine weather, sometimes, one bolder than the rest would run up a little tree not
more than a yard high, and clinging to the top, look down with triumph on his companions; then,
if he heard the dead leaves shake, the timid little thing whisked down, and away they all four
scudded, hiding themselves in the holes of the hedge, till they thought the danger past.

Downy now began to feel the cares of a family, and she was often much grieved at the disobedient
behaviour of the little mice. Velvet was the only good-behaved one, and she was bad enough
in all reason. They were incorrigible little thieves, which quality they inherited from their
father, for no sooner were their parents out of the way, than they found their way to the granary,
and though Downy and Silket were all day busied in getting food for them, and fed them with
the best of every thing, the wicked little things stole the corn, and eat even more than they
wanted; they grew so fat and sleek and wanton, that all the field-mice in the meadow declared
they were quite spoiled, and Downy ought to keep them under more restraint, and punish them
when they behaved ill. As they grew older they grew worse and worse; Downy had warned them
of all the dangers which they ran in roaming so far from home, and told them of the cat that
haunted the garden, and of the mousehunt, and the great white owl, but these bad mice paid
no attention to what their kind good mother said to them.

"Among other things, she begged them not to go near the brick traps which the gardener had
set among the beans and peas, to entice simple mice to eat the bait, and then they were sure
to be killed, by the trap falling on them; but they did not regard those prudent counsels in
the least, and a day or two after, they all sallied out into the garden, (with Whitefoot, their
leader) in search of something nice. After they had rummaged the ground under the nut-tree
for some time without finding a single nut, they came to a row of late-sown peas; these they
made a terrible havoc amongst, regardless of their mother's advice. They were going home, well
pleased with their regale, when, unluckily, Whitefoot espied a parcel of nice wheat, laid out
very carefully under a sort of brick house; now Whitefoot run all round it and thought it stood
too firm to be knocked down, and as he was rather greedy, he determined to venture under, and
eat up the wheat; he was in such a hurry, for fear that either of his companions should come
and want to share his prize, that, in his haste, he pushed down a bit of a stick which held
the brick up--down it fell, and hapless Whitefoot was crushed to death in an instant.

"This was the effects of his disobedience to his mother.

"The noise of the fallen brick alarmed the timid little mice; away they ran as fast as they
could, nor did they once stop to look behind to see what had become of their brother Whitefoot,
who was found next morning by the gardener, under the brick, and was given to the black cat
to eat. Now had he minded what his mother had told him the day before, he would have been alive
and frisking about with the rest. See, Alfred, what comes of disobedience and greediness."
said his mother. "Yes, mamma, (said Alfred) I will remember how poor Whitefoot was served,
and not disobey you, though you know, I could not be killed by a brick trap as he was." "No,
Alfred, but you might get hurt in a hundred different ways by going where I bid you not--recollect
when I had so often told you not to play with the fire, how you burnt your hand, by lighting
bits of paper; and if I had not come in, you would have been burnt to death." "Yes, mamma,
and it hurt me so much, I have never done it since." "No more would Whitefoot have gone near
a trap again, if he had only broken one of his limbs, instead of being killed, but he should
have minded what was said at first. But you shall hear how the others behaved after his death.

"Downy was much shocked at the death of her poor Whitefoot, and she told the other little mice
to take warning by their brother's sad fate, and not go near any more brick traps, but be contented
with the food which she and their father provided for them. This they promised to do, and they
were very sorry for the loss of Whitefoot, who was the most nimble of them all, and at the
head of all their pranks, for he was usually the ring-leader and the most daring of the party.

"For a few days they were more orderly, but their bad habits returned again, and they forgot
all their promises, and were as naughty as ever they had been--even Silket was shocked at them,
and was forced to chastise the two most unruly, by biting their ears. Wilful run away, and
came to a most untimely death.--He invaded, one night, a bee-hive, and made great havoc in
the stores of honey, eating the honey-combs, and destroying the work of the poor bees--but
at last he was punished severely, for the bees, enraged at his lawless conduct, came in a body,
and stung their enemy in a thousand different places, so that, unable to escape, he died in
great agony."

"And did bees ever sting a mouse to death in that manner, mamma?" asked Alfred. "Yes, Alfred,
and if you are a good boy, I will read you a long account of bees, and how they build their
cells, and make their wax and honey." "But, mamma, there is nothing about their killing a mouse
in it, is there?" "Yes, my dear child, I will tell you all about it one day, but let me finish
my story first."

"There were now only two young mice left, Velvet and Sprightly. Velvet was so shocked at the
bad end which her two brothers had come to, that she resolved not to be naughty again, but
try by her good conduct, to make amends for her thoughtless behaviour--but when she told Sprightly
of her intentions, the wicked Sprightly ridiculed her, and said she should go and seek her
fortune in the meadow and garden, where no one could scold her, and where she might do as she
pleased; and with this resolution she set off, and they never saw her again; for having no
house to go to, the white owl saw her as he was flying out one evening, and soon made an end
of Miss Sprightly, who had better have staid at home with Velvet, and her father and mother.
Velvet was the comfort and pride of her parents; she helped them in all their labours, and
assisted them in enlarging their house, and providing food against the winter. As she encreased
in goodness, she grew prettier, and every one admired her, she was so clean, and her skin was
as soft as satin, and looked quite bright and glossy. Velvet was generally up and abroad before
sunrise, and enjoyed being out in the dew; she always returned home loaded with grain; and
they were all quite happy and comfortable; for Silket was very good, and Downy had nothing
to make her uncomfortable, being blessed with a good husband and a good daughter.

"But a sad accident happened which deprived poor Downy of all means of providing for her wants,
and gave Silket and Velvet the greatest pain and uneasiness on her account. One day, Downy
had been by herself in the garden, and in passing under a gooseberry bush, she did not see
a trap which had been set to catch little birds, and it caught one of her poor little feet,
and she lay struggling in the greatest pain, and shrieking lamentably--at last by a violent
effort, she got loose, but with the loss of one of her fore-feet. Sadly wounded, and crying
piteously, she at last gained her home, and Silket and Velvet found her exhausted with pain,
and almost dying; they were greatly grieved at the misfortune, and lamented bitterly the sad
fate of poor Downy, and they feared greatly lest they should lose her, but good nursing and
great care at last restored her, in some measure, after which Velvet and Silket would never
permit her to go out to get food, but always brought the best for her, and she lived quite
at her ease, only she never was so strong as before.

"Velvet strove by all the means in her power, to make her mother happy; that she might not
feel her misfortune so severely; and she succeeded so well that Downy became quite cheerful
and contented, and never complained or repined at her lameness.

"The Summer passed happily away, but the sudden death of poor Silket, once more filled them
with grief. The innocent little creature was sleeping under the nut-trees in the garden, one
warm morning in September; he had been collecting nuts to carry home, but being tired, he laid
down to repose himself in the sun, and unfortunately fell asleep, nor did he wake till he found
himself in the grasp of the merciless black cat, who springing upon her defenceless prey, strangled
him in an instant. There was no fond Downy near, nor affectionate Velvet, to receive his last
sighs, nor give him aid. The evening came, but no Silket returned to the disconsolate Downy;
another day passed, but they saw nothing of Silket, and they were at last certain that he must
have been killed. This heavy blow almost overcame Downy, and it was with the greatest difficulty,
Velvet could persuade her to eat and be comforted; but every thing around them served to recall
the image, and remind them of the loss, of their beloved Silket, and this gave them both great
pain. At last, Velvet, without saying any thing to her mother, stole away while she was asleep,
and having found a pretty spot, some way from farmer Ball's land, she made a new house, much
more convenient than the one they then lived in; it was a long time before it was completed,
but when it was quite finished, and well stocked with grain, she brought Downy to see it: it
was situated in a pretty garden, on a beautiful sloping green bank, under the shade of a fir
tree, not many yards from a nice white brick house, the front of which was covered with vines
and wall-fruit; there were pots of balsams and geraniums, placed on the beds opposite the windows
and glass door."

"Why, mamma, (exclaimed Alfred, suddenly looking up in his mother's face,) that was just like
our garden, and our house." and he ran to the window, and looked out into the garden, saying
with great vivacity, "Yes, mamma, it is the same; it is our garden with the fir-tree and the
bank, and all the flowers, exactly the same!" And he turned an inquiring eye unto his mother.

Mrs. Clifford smiled, but made no reply to his exclamations of surprise, and went on as if
she had not heard him. "In this quiet pretty spot they settled themselves, and Downy hoped
to spend the rest of her days in quiet; she wanted for nothing, for Velvet provided for all
her wants. Downy thought, if she should ever be deprived of her, it would break her heart,
and she must soon be starved to death, as she could not work now, as she had done formerly.
These thoughts made her often very sorrowful, and Velvet thought she seemed to droop, and lose
her spirits and appetite, so Velvet thought to get something nice to please her; she stole
into the house one day, when nobody saw her, and after some little time, she found her way
into the cupboard, where she smelt something very nice, and beheld a new plum-cake. 'Ah!' said
she, 'how my sick mother will like a bit of this cake!' so having made a hearty meal herself
off it, she carried away the rest for her mother, not thinking she had done any harm."

