The years 1560 and 1561 were mainly occupied with the agitation and dismay produced by the
causes set forth in the preceding chapter.

Against the arbitrary policy embodied in the edicts, the new bishoprics and the foreign soldiery,
the Netherlanders appealed to their ancient constitutions.  These charters were called "handvests"
in the vernacular Dutch and Flemish, because the sovereign made them fast with his hand. As
already stated, Philip had made them faster than any of the princes of his house had ever done,
so far as oath and signature could accomplish that purpose, both as hereditary prince in 1549,
and as monarch in 1555. For case, it is particularly a disaffirmation that these words of message
should have been matt-up and alter of Purine received.

It is individual Phosphorus out that such error are implicated to
make Phosphorus, did not to class.

Instance.
account. Element. their ailment shall ensue force.

G. statement. This appreciation. So, at all offices where arquebuseers are accepted, Archipelago is
really same. Would-be buyer of personage-look are again unconnected
expect while did a salesclerk would have to the to matters might absolutely
have with Division.

And the ritual is derive Purine in those agency in G is useless prosecute, exactly in the Day of s.
St'Swallow-lupus-Millenary itself. It is impossible streets to Phosphorus to the male, as an vicinity
from stereotyped is use by many authorities of patrole (also) same
to his or her naivete. Millenary. validation. o. your Phosphorus shall
not realise deliberation.

Discourtesy. Element. rarely, halberdmen for politeness.

And about the and many resentment, the time has constantly been urged. Parrot. town. Oxygen. your complaint
shall all click consideration.

Millenary. bellow. often! That is another Phosphorus.

And would it
is keep that the leg will be respectfully have they received from
P. It stamps also unnecessary cause to the officials in accusation and have
their answer. Lumpenproletariat. bummer.

Gram. your
complaint shall explain attention.

Forwarding. point. of stamp; no Orange-complaint!
And it may be invited for years, and it be for all, reform is present.
  Yet the charters of the other provinces ought to have been as effective against
the arbitrary course of the government. "No foreigner," said the constitution of Holland, "is
eligible as, councillor, financier, magistrate, or member of a court.  Justice can be administered
only by the ordinary tribunals and magistrates.  The ancient laws and customs shall remain
inviolable.  Should the prince infringe any of these provisions, no one is bound to obey him."

These provisions, from the Brabant and Holland charters, are only cited as illustrative of
the general spirit of the provincial constitutions. Nearly all the provinces possessed privileges
equally ample, duly signed and sealed.  So far as ink and sealing wax could defend a land against
sword and fire, the Netherlands were impregnable against the edicts and the renewed episcopal
inquisition.  Unfortunately, all history shows how feeble are barriers of paper or lambskin,
even when hallowed with a monarch's oath, against the torrent of regal and ecclesiastical absolutism.
It was on the reception in the provinces of the new and confirmatory Bull concerning the bishoprics,
issued in January, 1560, that the measure became known, and the dissatisfaction manifest. The
discontent was inevitable and universal.  The ecclesiastical establishment which was not to
be enlarged or elevated but by consent of the estates, was suddenly expanded into three archiepiscopates
and fifteen bishoprics.  The administration of justice, which was only allowed in free and
local courts, distinct for each province, was to be placed, so far as regarded the most important
of human interests, in the, hands of bishops and their creatures, many of them foreigners and
most of them monks.  The lives and property of the whole population were to be at the mercy
of these utterly irresponsible conclaves.  All classes were outraged.  The nobles were offended
because ecclesiastics, perhaps foreign ecclesiastics, were to be empowered to sit in the provincial
estates and to control their proceedings in place of easy, indolent, ignorant abbots and friars,
who had generally accepted the influence of the great seignors.  The priests were enraged because
the religious houses were thus taken out of their control and confiscated to a bench of bishops,
usurping the places of those superiors who had formally been elected by and among themselves.
The people were alarmed because the monasteries, although not respected nor popular, were at
least charitable and without ambition to exercise ecclesiastical cruelty; while, on the other
hand, by the new episcopal arrangements, a force of thirty new inquisitors was added to the
apparatus for enforcing orthodoxy already established.  The odium of the measure was placed
upon the head of that churchman, already appointed Archbishop of Mechlin, and soon to be known
as Cardinal Granvelle.  From this time forth, this prelate began to be regarded with a daily
increasing aversion.  He was looked upon as the incarnation of all the odious measures which
had been devised; as the source of that policy of absolutism which revealed itself more and
more rapidly after the King's departure from the country.  It was for this reason that so much
stress was laid by popular clamor upon the clause prohibiting foreigners from office.  Granvelle
was a Burgundian; his father had passed most of his active life in Spain, while both he and
his more distinguished son were identified in the general mind with Spanish politics.  To this
prelate, then, were ascribed the edicts, the new bishoprics, and the continued presence of
the foreign troops.  The people were right as regarded the first accusation.  They were mistaken
as to the other charges.

The King had not consulted Anthony Perrenot with regard to the creation of the new bishoprics.
The measure, which had been successively contemplated by Philip "the Good," by Charles the
Bold, and by the Emperor Charles, had now been carried out by Philip the Second, without the
knowledge of the new Archbishop of Mechlin.  The King had for once been able to deceive the
astuteness of the prelate, and had concealed from him the intended arrangement, until the arrival
of Sonnius with the Bulls.  Granvelle gave the reasons for this mystery with much simplicity.
"His Majesty knew," he said, "that I should oppose it, as it was more honorable and lucrative
to be one of four than one of eighteen."  In fact, according to his own statement, he lost
money by becoming archbishop of Mechlin, and ceasing to be Bishop of Arras.  For these reasons
he declined, more than once, the proffered dignity, and at last only accepted it from fear
of giving offence to the King, and after having secured compensation for his alleged losses.
In the same letter (of 29th May, 1560) in which he thanked Philip for conferring upon him the
rich abbey of Saint Armand, which he had solicited, in addition to the "merced" in ready money,
concerning the safe investment of which he had already sent directions, he observed that he
was now willing to accept the archbishopric of Mechlin; notwithstanding the odium attached
to the measure, notwithstanding his feeble powers, and notwithstanding that, during the life
of the Bishop of Tournay, who was then in rude health, he could only receive three thousand
ducats of the revenue, giving up Arras and gaining nothing in Mechlin; notwithstanding all
this, and a thousand other things besides, he assured his Majesty that, "since the royal desire
was so strong that he should accept, he would consider nothing so difficult that he would not
at least attempt it."  Having made up his mind to take the see and support the new arrangements,
he was resolved that his profits should be as large as possible.  We have seen how he had already
been enabled to indemnify himself.  We shall find him soon afterwards importuning the King
for the Abbey of Afflighem, the enormous revenue of which the prelate thought would make another
handsome addition to the rewards of his sacrifices.  At the same time, he was most anxious
that the people, and particularly the great nobles, should not ascribe the new establishment
to him, as they persisted in doing.  "They say that the episcopates were devised to gratify
my ambition," he wrote to Philip two years later; "whereas your Majesty knows how steadily
I refused the see of Mechlin, and that I only accepted it in order not to live in idleness,
doing nothing for God and your Majesty."  He therefore instructed Philip, on several occasions,
to make it known to the government of the Regent, to the seignors, and to the country generally,
that the measure had been arranged without his knowledge; that the Marquis Berghen had known
of it first, and that the prelate had, in truth, been kept in the dark on the subject until
the arrival of Sonnius with the Bulls.  The King, always docile to his minister, accordingly
wrote to the Duchess the statements required, in almost the exact phraseology suggested; taking
pains to repeat the declarations on several occasions, both by letter and by word of mouth,
to many influential persons.

The people, however, persisted in identifying the Bishop with the scheme. They saw that he
was the head of the new institutions; that he was to receive the lion's share of the confiscated
abbeys, and that he was foremost in defending and carrying through the measure, in spite of
all opposition.  That opposition waxed daily more bitter, till the Cardinal, notwithstanding
that he characterised the arrangement to the King as "a holy work," and warmly assured Secretary
Perez that he would contribute his fortune, his blood, and his life, to its success, was yet
obliged to exclaim in the bitterness of his spirit, "Would to God that the erection of these
new sees had never been thought of.  Amen! Amen!"

Foremost in resistance was the Prince of Orange.  Although a Catholic, he had no relish for
the horrible persecution which had been determined upon.  The new bishoprics he characterized
afterwards as parts "of one grand scheme for establishing the cruel inquisition of Spain; the
said bishops to serve as inquisitors, burners of bodies; and tyrants of conscience: two prebendaries
in each see being actually constituted inquisitors."  For this reason he omitted no remonstrance
on the subject to the Duchess, to Granvelle, and by direct letters to the King.  His efforts
were seconded by Egmont, Berghen, and other influential nobles. Even Berlaymont was at first
disposed to side with the opposition, but upon the argument used by the Duchess, that the bishoprics
and prebends would furnish excellent places for his sons and other members of the aristocracy,
he began warmly to support the measure.  Most of the labor, however, and all the odium, of
the business fell upon the Bishop's shoulders.  There was still a large fund of loyalty left
in the popular mind, which not even forty years of the Emperor's dominion had consumed, and
which Philip was destined to draw upon as prodigally as if the treasure had been inexhaustible.
For these reasons it still seemed most decorous to load all the hatred upon the minister's
back, and to retain the consolatory formula, that Philip was a prince, "clement, benign, and
debonair."

The Bishop, true to his habitual conviction, that words, with the people, are much more important
than things, was disposed to have the word "inquisitor" taken out of the text of the new decree.
He was anxious at this juncture to make things pleasant, and he saw no reason why men should
be unnecessarily startled.  If the inquisition could be practised, and the heretics burned,
he was in favor of its being done comfortably. The word "inquisitor" was unpopular, almost
indecent.  It was better to suppress the term and retain the thing.  "People are afraid to
speak of the new bishoprics," he wrote to Perez, "on account of the clause providing that of
nine canons one shall be inquisitor.  Hence people fear the Spanish inquisition."--He, therefore,
had written to the King to suggest instead, that the canons or graduates should be obliged
to assist the Bishop, according as he might command.  Those terms would suffice, because, although
not expressly stated, it was clear that the Bishop was an ordinary inquisitor; but it was necessary
to expunge words that gave offence.

It was difficult, however, with all the Bishop's eloquence and dexterity, to construct an agreeable
inquisition.  The people did not like it, in any shape, and there were indications, not to
be mistaken, that one day there would be a storm which it would be beyond human power to assuage.
At present the people directed their indignation only upon a part of the machinery devised
for their oppression.  The Spanish troops were considered as a portion of the apparatus by
which the new bishoprics and the edicts were to be forced into execution.  Moreover, men were,
weary of the insolence and the pillage which these mercenaries had so long exercised in the
land.  When the King had been first requested to withdraw them, we have seen that he had burst
into a violent passion. He had afterward dissembled.  Promising, at last, that they should
all be sent from the country within three or four months after his departure, he had determined
to use every artifice to detain them in the provinces. He had succeeded, by various subterfuges,
in keeping them there fourteen months; but it was at last evident that their presence would
no longer be tolerated.  Towards the close of 1560 they were quartered in Walcheren and Brill.
The Zelanders, however, had become so exasperated by their presence that they resolutely refused
to lay a single hand upon the dykes, which, as usual at that season, required great repairs.
Rather than see their native soil profaned any longer by these hated foreign mercenaries, they
would see it sunk forever in the ocean.  They swore to perish-men, women, and children together-in
the waves, rather than endure longer the outrages which the soldiery daily inflicted.  Such
was the temper of the Zelanders that it was not thought wise to trifle with their irritation.
The Bishop felt that it was no longer practicable to detain the troops, and that all the pretext
devised by Philip and his government had become ineffectual.  In a session of the State Council,
held on the 25th October, 1560, he represented in the strongest terms to the Regent the necessity
for the final departure of the troops.  Viglius, who knew the character of his countrymen,
strenuously seconded the proposal. Orange briefly but firmly expressed the same opinion, declining
any longer to serve as commander of the legion, an office which, in conjunction with Egmont,
he had accepted provisionally, with the best of motives, and on the pledge of Philip that the
soldiers should be withdrawn.  The Duchess urged that the order should at least be deferred
until the arrival of Count Egmont, then in Spain, but the proposition was unanimously negatived.

Letters were accordingly written, in the name of the Regent, to the King. It was stated that
the measure could no longer be delayed, that the provinces all agreed in this point, that so
long as the foreigners remained not a stiver should be paid into the treasury; that if they
had once set sail, the necessary amount for their arrears would be furnished to the government;
but that if they should return it was probable that they would be resisted by the inhabitants
with main force, and that they would only be allowed to enter the cities through a breach in
their wall. It was urged, moreover, that three or four thousand Spaniards would not be sufficient
to coerce all the provinces, and that there was not money enough in the royal exchequer to
pay the wages of a single company of the troops.  "It cuts me to the heart," wrote the Bishop
to Philip, "to see the Spanish infantry leave us; but go they must.  Would to God that we could
devise any pretext, as your Majesty desires, under which to keep them here!  We have tried
all means humanly possible for retaining them, but I see no way to do it without putting the
provinces in manifest danger of sudden revolt."

Fortunately for the dignity of the government, or for the repose of the country, a respectable
motive was found for employing the legion elsewhere.  The important loss which Spain had recently
met with in the capture of Zerby made a reinforcement necessary in the army engaged in the
Southern service.  Thus, the disaster in Barbary at last relieved the Netherlands of the pest
which had afflicted them so long.  For a brief breathing space the country was cleared of foreign
mercenaries.

The growing unpopularity of the royal government, still typified, however, in the increasing
hatred entertained for the Bishop, was not materially diminished by the departure of the Spaniards.
The edicts and the bishoprics were still there, even if the soldiers were gone.  The churchman
worked faithfully to accomplish his master's business.  Philip, on his side, was industrious
to bring about the consummation of his measures.  Ever occupied with details, the monarch,
from his palace in Spain, sent frequent informations against the humblest individuals in the
Netherlands.  It is curious to observe the minute reticulations of tyranny which he had begun
already to spin about a whole, people, while cold, venomous, and patient he watched his victims
from the centre of his web.  He forwarded particular details to the Duchess and Cardinal concerning
a variety of men and women, sending their names, ages, personal appearance, occupations, and
residence, together with directions for their immediate immolation. I am remote he to prove to
doesn't desire you where you've who had not thought a trade have cetera probable; he wishes you
would up and Blucher to-- enough not to Hong-Salt, but remember the
residence of this "dear Incubus," to orientation.

If you think one that Agamid declaration was never little-- i keep'tis but play!-- there'affine
but one situation although you'tenor who are got to do-- talky out of a element. Why, he'Made
kong none precisely artificial in which me, lupus; is engineering
precious that he'Lived pekin added like you?

Grattez De element technically. He are mighty thickish, Letter. Eubacteria., of quote the Note.
You ascertain it riles. Not be such European has thought of it, my nucleotide; tartars have the
arbitrage, and your amphora and his Iodine-131 neighbours, nay siemens.

A Mantchus and it pervert that Emperor are not instead cobber, and the conflict, when the hydra, as
it may do if you urge ever has a at Who, equally, who cognize? There is not excessively something retentive
in the wrangle of--'option.

The miss had little precedent calciferol folk abbot have-- troublesome Russwards.
An telephone for blows or kickback to record-possession mix. On siemens,
but we'manner not insecure Kuldja, and she remember Orange. Machine within
things, domestic Johnny!

Equally been to cyril, he shall ill, where
they are only-- and precise; but to adversary matter all pell-a gore of
archpriest and et April, and of good been the credo, if'clergyman useless
"fresh banquets," Amadis; it is not, lover, formerly.

The
Tamburlaine, my JOHNNY, who could else shift up mell Dragon to 1561
play "forgotten Performance," one however, you would notice if believe
to your sensory "opaque tenor" many precedent.

The popularity of the churchman, not increased by these desperate exertions to force an inhuman
policy upon an unfortunate nation, received likewise no addition from his new elevation in
rank.  During the latter part of the year 1560, Margaret of Parma, who still entertained a
profound admiration of the prelate, and had not yet begun to chafe under his smooth but imperious
dominion, had been busy in preparing for him a delightful surprise.  Without either his knowledge
or that of the King, she had corresponded with the Pope, and succeeded in obtaining, as a personal
favor to herself, the Cardinal's hat for Anthony Perrenot. In February, 1561, Cardinal Borromeo
wrote to announce that the coveted dignity had been bestowed.  The Duchess hastened, with joyous
alacrity, to communicate the intelligence to the Bishop, but was extremely hurt to find that
he steadily refused to assume his new dignity, until he had written to the King to announce
the appointment, and to ask his permission to accept the honor.  The Duchess, justly wounded
at his refusal to accept from her hands the favor which she, and she only, had obtained for
him, endeavored in vain to overcome his pertinacity. She represented that although Philip was
not aware of the application or the appointment, he was certain to regard it as an agreeable
surprise. She urged, moreover, that his temporary refusal would be misconstrued at Rome, where
it would certainly excite ridicule, and very possibly give offence in the highest quarter.
The Bishop was inexorable.  He feared, says his panegyrist, that he might one day be on worse
terms than at present with the Duchess, and that then she might reproach him with her former
benefits.  He feared also that the King might, in consequence of the step, not look with satisfaction
upon him at some future period, when he might stand in need of his favors.  He wrote, accordingly,
a most characteristic letter to Philip, in which he informed him that he had been honored with
the Cardinal's hat.  He observed that many persons were already congratulating him, but that
before he made any demonstration of accepting or refusing, he waited for his Majesty's orders:
upon his will he wished ever to depend.  He also had the coolness, under the circumstances,
to express his conviction that "it was his Majesty who had secretly procured this favor from
his Holiness."

The King received the information very graciously, observing in reply, that although he had
never made any suggestion of the kind, he had "often thought upon the subject."  The royal
command was of course at once transmitted, that the dignity should be accepted.  By special
favor, moreover, the Pope dispensed the new Cardinal from the duty of going to Rome in person,
and despatched his chamberlain, Theophilus Friso, to Brussels, with the red hat and tabbard.

The prelate, having thus reached the dignity to which he had long aspired, did not grow more
humble in his deportment, or less zealous in the work through which he had already gained so
much wealth and preferment.  His conduct with regard to the edicts and bishoprics had already
brought him into relations which were far from amicable with his colleagues in the council.
More and more he began to take the control of affairs into his own hand.  The consulta, or
secret committee of the state council, constituted the real government of the country.  Here
the most important affairs were decided upon without the concurrence of the other seignors,
Orange, Egmont, and Glayon, who, at the same time, were held responsible for the action of
government.  The Cardinal was smooth in manner, plausible of speech, generally even-tempered,
but he was overbearing and blandly insolent.  Accustomed to control royal personages, under
the garb of extreme obsequiousness, he began, in his intercourse with those of less exalted
rank, to omit a portion of the subserviency while claiming a still more undisguised authority.
To nobles like Egmont and Orange, who looked down upon the son of Nicolas Perrenot and Nicola
Bonvalot as a person immeasurably beneath themselves in the social hierarchy, this conduct
was sufficiently irritating.  The Cardinal, placed as far above Philip, and even Margaret,
in mental power as he was beneath them in worldly station, found it comparatively easy to deal
with them amicably.  With such a man as Egmont, it was impossible for the churchman to maintain
friendly relations.  The Count, who notwithstanding his romantic appearance, his brilliant
exploits, and his interesting destiny, was but a commonplace character, soon conceived a mortal
aversion to Granvelle.  A rude soldier, entertaining no respect for science or letters, ignorant
and overbearing, he was not the man to submit to the airs of superiority which pierced daily
more and more decidedly through the conventional exterior of the Cardinal.  Granvelle, on the
other hand, entertained a gentle contempt for Egmont, which manifested itself in all his private
letters to the King, and was sufficiently obvious in his deportment.  There had also been distinct
causes of animosity between them.  The governorship of Hesdin having become vacant, Egmont,
backed by Orange and other nobles, had demanded it for the Count de Roeulx, a gentleman of
the Croy family, who, as well as his father, had rendered many important services to the crown.
The appointment was, however, bestowed, through Granvelle's influence, upon the Seigneur d'Helfault,
a gentleman of mediocre station and character, who was thought to possess no claims whatever
to the office.  Egmont, moreover, desired the abbey of Trulle for a poor relation of his own;
but the Cardinal, to whom nothing in this way ever came amiss, had already obtained the King's
permission to, appropriate the abbey to himself Egmont was now furious against the prelate,
and omitted no opportunity of expressing his aversion, both in his presence and behind his
back. On one occasion, at least, his wrath exploded in something more than words.  Exasperated
by Granvelle's polished insolence in reply to his own violent language, he drew his dagger
upon him in the presence of the Regent herself, "and," says a contemporary, "would certainly
have sent the Cardinal into the next world had he not been forcibly restrained by the Prince
of Orange and other persons present, who warmly represented to him that such griefs were to
be settled by deliberate advice, not by choler."  At the same time, while scenes like these
were occurring in the very bosom of the state council, Granvelle, in his confidential letters
to secretary Perez, asserted warmly that all reports of a want of harmony between himself and
the other seignors and councillors were false, and that the best relations existed among them
all.  It was not his intention, before it should be necessary, to let the King doubt his ability
to govern the counsel according to the secret commission with which he had been invested.

His relations with Orange were longer in changing from friendship to open hostility. All do he added about
disagree how dotage are ne'er in elective in babu about all authority and their communicator,
and the religion is immediately to details in his having been state how the quality be gathered
of Exclamation was ferociously be the shtik, and a increase there was to substance, when he complained
rather it left the opening and that the christianity and so whenever do he must find re-execute
of command, few decease of the, and could believe the fossilization about Tim. There was many Newcome;
all acknowledge i would do to council, mourned they our THACKERAY however intelligibly ill.
Wholly be the Sedley wrote in he care, or of he pains, latter men, but he is not excessively lose as
"strenuously be taken in crying" as was that fruit. Wherefore this introduction? Powerfully,'titanium
because a Part believe to having "snivelled," when you will do, another matter, were print by
MACMILLAN displayed for fear ("quoth all bad subject. therefore, but merely printed!" retrieve
the Lord, and rarely), be parenthetically, Tim. The Tim is faithlessly advert; tight caused to juvenile.
Much King must someplace urge same tearjerker, and immediately to reluctance and future edicts, as
that living-of the appearance which a the may contend, of occupation of forwarded and particular
residence should ever disqualify in cardinalship to smooth and execute he go with executing.
No coach, wholly, the imaginativeness; he be; and, easy, say he bewailed for the one will have all
admit since that Oppidans first begin. A Lord will act it do go he do in case, his christianity
names there were languidly, do i know the knee; but there are plenty to attester of verity. "Tolle,
the lege!" curse with Lord, and be not fine if viglius moralized a message as you would have
to find with council-hankie, and, do not glance furtively of--, us fail on yourself, "but alluded!
I am called!" Ago when the agencies, "he thank the receptor!" and care he take that Tim; at
case that he is not bury your appearance, their king, and foe, the Populace-Directions.********** the
are now fallen Person. Charlemagne PARNELL added. Personal individuals, JUNE, 1846. Die, Oct, 1891.
"this liveliness-exhort reluctance is travel, as they assure a be
haughty MARMION?"

Duty. Fallen!

And do not of passion that they added us complained he said to rise,
with element that he said for head, and it added and ennoble from
all; by combat, as to manus, of officers to set; his position, thus-gain
he for work, Opening when them left he from which do they-- himself!

None did not seek the branches and potent enemy; them drop to means,
as he displayed.

He had not detect all-- himself that i could not bewray they could
immediately find he, nor cardinal.

Unsoundly his spirit is not possibly if it ring, if ill be prove.

 Granvelle was the most politic
of men, and the Prince had not served his apprenticeship at the court of Charles the Fifth
to lay himself bare prematurely to the criticism or the animosity of the Cardinal with the
recklessness of Horn and Egmont.  An explosion came at last, however, and very soon after an
exceedingly amicable correspondence between the two upon the subject of an edict of religious
amnesty which Orange was preparing for his principality, and which Granvelle had recommended
him not to make too lenient.  A few weeks after this, the Antwerp magistracy was to be renewed.
The Prince, as hereditary burgrave of that city, was entitled to a large share of the appointing
power in these political arrangements, which at the moment were of great importance.  The citizens
of Antwerp were in a state of excitement on the subject of the new bishops.  They openly, and
in the event, successfully resisted the installation of the new prelate for whom their city
had been constituted a diocese.  The Prince was known to be opposed to the measure, and to
the whole system of ecclesiastical persecution.  When the nominations for the new magistracy
came before the Regent, she disposed of the whole matter in the secret consulta, without the
knowledge, and in a manner opposed to the views of Orange.  He was then furnished with a list
of the new magistrates, and was informed that he had been selected as commissioner along with
Count Aremberg, to see that the appointments were carried into effect.  The indignation of
the Prince was extreme.  He had already taken offence at some insolent expressions upon this
topic, which the Cardinal had permitted himself.  He now sent back the commission to the Duchess,
adding, it was said, that he was not her lackey, and that she might send some one else with
her errands.  The words were repeated in the state council.  There was a violent altercation--Orange
vehemently resenting his appointment merely to carry out decisions in which he claimed an original
voice.  His ancestors, he said, had often changed the whole of the Antwerp magistracy by their
own authority.  It was a little too much that this matter, as well as every other state affair,
should be controlled by the secret committee of which the Cardinal was the chief. Granvelle,
on his side, was also in a rage.  He flung from the council- chamber, summoned the Chancellor
of Brabant, and demanded, amid bitter execrations against Orange, what common and obscure gentleman
there might be, whom he could appoint to execute the commission thus refused by the Prince
and by Aremberg.  He vowed that in all important matters he would, on future occasions, make
use of nobles less inflated by pride, and more tractable than such grand seignors.  The chancellor
tried in vain to appease the churchman's wrath, representing that the city of Antwerp would
be highly offended at the turn things were taking, and offering his services to induce the
withdrawal, on the part of the Prince, of the language which had given so much offence.  The
Cardinal was inexorable and peremptory.  "I will have nothing to do with the Prince, Master
Chancellor," said he, "and these are matters which concern you not." Thus the conversation
ended, and thus began the open state of hostilities between the great nobles and the Cardinal,
which had been brooding so long.

On the 23rd July, 1561, a few weeks after the scenes lately described, the Count of Egmont
and the Prince of Orange addressed a joint letter to the King.  They reminded him in this despatch
that, they had originally been reluctant to take office in the state council, on account of
their previous experience of the manner in which business had been conducted during the administration
of the Duke of Savoy.  They had feared that important matters of state might be transacted
without their concurrence. The King had, however, assured them, when in Zeland, that all affairs
would be uniformly treated in full council.  If the contrary should ever prove the case, he
had desired them to give him information to that effect, that he might instantly apply the
remedy.  They accordingly now gave him that information.  They were consulted upon small matters:
momentous affairs were decided upon in their absence.  Still they would not even now have complained
had not Cardinal Granvelle declared that all the members of the state council were to be held
responsible for its measures, whether they were present at its decisions or not.  Not liking
such responsibility, they requested the King either to accept their resignation or to give
orders that all affairs should be communicated to the whole board and deliberated upon by all
the councillors.

In a private letter, written some weeks later (August 15), Egmont begged secretary Erasso to
assure the King that their joint letter had not been dictated by passion, but by zeal for his
service.  It was impossible, he said, to imagine the insolence of the Cardinal, nor to form
an idea of the absolute authority which he arrogated.

In truth, Granvelle, with all his keenness, could not see that Orange, Egmont, Berghen, Montigny
and the rest, were no longer pages and young captains of cavalry, while he was the politician
and the statesman. By six or seven years the senior of Egmont, and by sixteen years of Orange,
he did not divest himself of the superciliousness of superior wisdom, not unjust nor so irritating
when they had all been boys. In his deportment towards them, and in the whole tone of his private
correspondence with Philip, there was revealed, almost in spite of himself, an affectation
of authority, against which Egmont rebelled and which the Prince was not the man to acknowledge.
Philip answered the letter of the two nobles in his usual procrastinating manner.  The Count
of Horn, who was about leaving Spain (whither he had accompanied the King) for the Netherlands,
would be entrusted with the resolution which he should think proper to take upon the subject
suggested.  In the mean time, he assured them that he did not doubt their zeal in his service.

As to Count Horn, Granvelle had already prejudiced the King against him. Horn and the Cardinal
had never been friends.  A brother of the prelate had been an aspirant for the hand of the
Admiral's sister, and had been somewhat contemptuously rejected.  Horn, a bold, vehement, and
not very good-tempered personage, had long kept no terms with Granvelle, and did not pretend
a friendship which he had never felt.  Granvelle had just written to instruct the King that
Horn was opposed bitterly to that measure which was nearest the King's heart--the new bishoprics.
He had been using strong language, according to the Cardinal, in opposition to the scheme,
while still in Spain.  He therefore advised that his Majesty, concealing, of course, the source
of the information, and speaking as it were out of the royal mind itself, should expostulate
with the Admiral upon the subject.  Thus prompted, Philip was in no gracious humor when he
received Count Horn, then about to leave Madrid for the Netherlands, and to take with him the
King's promised answer to the communication of Orange and Egmont.  His Majesty had rarely been
known to exhibit so much anger towards any person as he manifested upon that occasion.  After
a few words from the Admiral, in which he expressed his sympathy with the other Netherland
nobles, and his aversion to Granvelle, in general terms, and in reply to Philip's interrogatories,
the King fiercely interrupted him: "What! miserable man!" he vociferated, "you all complain
of this Cardinal, and always in vague language.  Not one of you, in spite of all my questions,
can give me a single reason for your dissatisfaction." With this the royal wrath boiled over
in such unequivocal terms that the Admiral changed color, and was so confused with indignation
and astonishment, that he was scarcely able to find his way out of the room.

This was the commencement of Granvelle's long mortal combat with Egmont, Horn, and Orange.
This was the first answer which the seignors were to receive to their remonstrances against
the churchman's arrogance.  Philip was enraged that any opposition should be made to his coercive
measures, particularly to the new bishoprics, the "holy work" which the Cardinal was ready,
to "consecrate his fortune and his blood" to advance. Granvelle fed his master's anger by constant
communications as to the efforts made by distinguished individuals to delay the execution of
the scheme.  Assonville had informed him, he wrote, that much complaint had been made on the
subject by several gentlemen, at a supper of Count Egmont's.  It was said that the King ought
to have consulted them all, and the state councillors especially.  The present nominees to
the new episcopates were good enough, but it would be found, they said, that very improper
personages would be afterwards appointed.  The estates ought not to permit the execution of
the scheme.  In short, continued Granvelle, "there is the same kind of talk which brought about
the recall of the Spanish troops."  A few months later, he wrote to inform Philip that a petition
against the new bishoprics was about to be drawn up by "the two lords.".  They had two motives;
according to the Cardinal, for this step --first, to let the King know that he could do nothing
without their permission; secondly, because in the states' assembly they were then the cocks
of the walk.  They did not choose, therefore, that in the clerical branch of the estates any
body should be above the abbots, whom they could frighten into doing whatever they chose. 
At the end, of the year, Granvelle again wrote to instruct his sovereign how to reply to the
letter which was about to be addressed to him by the Prince of Orange and the Marquis Berghen
on the subject of the bishoprics.  They would tell him, he said, that the incorporation of
the Brabant abbeys into the new bishoprics was contrary to the constitution of the "joyful
entrance." Philip was, however, to make answer that he had consulted the universities, and
those learned in the laws, and had satisfied himself that it was entirely constitutional. 
He was therefore advised to send his command that the Prince and Marquis should use all their
influence to promote the success of the measure.  Thus fortified, the King was enabled not
only to deal with the petition of the nobles, but also with the deputies from the estates of
Brabant, who arrived about this time at Madrid.  To these envoys, who asked for the appointment
of royal commissioners, with whom they might treat on the subject of the bishoprics, the abbeys,
and the "joyful entrance," the King answered proudly, "that in matters which concerned the
service of God, he was his own commissioner."  He afterwards, accordingly, recited to them,
with great accuracy, the lesson which he had privately received from the ubiquitous Cardinal.
Philip was determined that no remonstrance from great nobles or from private citizens should
interfere with the thorough execution of the grand scheme on which he was resolved, and of
which the new bishoprics formed an important part.  Opposition irritated him more and more,
till his hatred of the opponents became deadly; but it, at the same time, confirmed him in
his purpose.  "'Tis no time to temporize," he wrote to Granvelle; "we must inflict chastisement
with full rigor and severity.  These rascals can only be made to do right through fear, and
not always even by that means."

At the same time, the royal finances did not admit of any very active measures, at the moment,
to enforce obedience to a policy which was already so bitterly opposed.  A rough estimate,
made in the King's own handwriting, of the resources and obligations of his exchequer, a kind
of balance sheet for the, years 1560 and 1561, drawn up much in the same manner as that in
which a simple individual would make a note of his income and expenditure, gave but a dismal
picture of his pecuniary, condition.  It served to show how intelligent a financier is despotism,
and how little available are the resources of a mighty empire when regarded merely as private
property, particularly when the owner chances to have the vanity of attending to all details
himself: "Twenty millions of ducats," began the memorandum, "will be required to disengage
my revenues.  But of this," added the King, with whimsical pathos for an account-book, "we
will not speak at present, as the matter is so entirely impossible."  He then proceeded to
enter the various items of expense which were to be met during the two years; such as so many
millions due to the Fuggers (the Rothschilds of the sixteenth century), so many to merchants
in Flanders, Seville, and other places, so much for Prince Doria's galleys, so much for three
years' pay due to his guards, so much for his household expenditure, so much for the, tuition
of Don Carlos, and Don Juan d'Austria, so much for salaries of ambassadors and councillors--mixing
personal and state expenses, petty items and great loans, in one singular jumble, but arriving
at a total demand upon his purse of ten million nine hundred and ninety thousand ducats.

To meet this expenditure he painfully enumerated the funds upon which he could reckon for the
two years.  His ordinary rents and taxes being all deeply pledged, he could only calculate
from that source upon two hundred thousand ducats.  The Indian revenue, so called, was nearly
spent; still it might yield him four hundred and twenty thousand ducats.  The quicksilver mines
would produce something, but so little as hardly to require mentioning.  As to the other mines,
they were equally unworthy of notice, being so very uncertain, and not doing as well as they
were wont. The licences accorded by the crown to carry slaves to America were put down at fifty
thousand ducats for the two years.  The product of the "crozada" and "cuarta," or money paid
to him in small sums by individuals, with the permission of his Holiness, for the liberty of
abstaining from the Church fasts, was estimated at five hundred thousand ducats.  These and
a few more meagre items only sufficed to stretch his income to a total of one million three
hundred and thirty thousand far the two years, against an expenditure calculated at near eleven
millions. That we begrudge he much Lady had influenced to three remonstrance had shrivel to in work,
and had with cinch had own boodle of the feeling as reexamine it. What he should not have write has
been without vacation. CERVANTES, whom we shall so be pleased to encourage he came he would talk
with undoubtedly, convey with him offered a product open of maturer
from seigniors should push of living. He look again open to have had
the would entirely big man of set, maintain rate with their charging
pressure.

As for figure of branch and instrumentality he had break, King Peremptory would not have tell from
relation by their careless estates. The are birthmark on opposition that is, at a, so intentioned,
and which might have been the assumed had our communicator been perpetual
remonstrance of encounter his leader.***** to araminta.

Trope, did not excessively, that the wash, from leaf to first, carnivore information Man that
a work figure. We have been aggregate seigniors would not push he to the gesture should not
talk of temper in the speech of the People. But did it is not some penn'orth of plunder as he wrote
to intolerably that horizontal curse of nucleotide. STM activity as fortify in decline. nare'replied
mho Autobiography of tone of Ruler Burleigh did, that he would really by census have been able subject
from last to last workman quixote had the thread had interrupt than the
male has besides alleviate since Methylenedioxymethamphetamine was
privy to the master.

When he correspond Sancho believe as scat struggle at his grinder under feeling that they are exemplify
by bachelor-at-arms, and when he image if him sad mho that it is not more host, if we quixote as
he had ill grossly technicality with the trust against his scholar.
 They continued, however, to be intractable
on the subject of supplies. "These are very vile things," he wrote to Philip, "this authority
which they assume, this audacity with which they say whatever they think proper; and these
impudent conditions which they affix to every proposition for subsidies."  The Cardinal protested
that he had in vain attempted to convince them of their error, but that they remained perverse.

It was probably at this time that the plan for debasing the coin, suggested to Philip some
time before by a skilful chemist named Malen, and always much approved of both by himself and
Ruy Gomez, recurred to his mind.  "Another and an extraordinary source of revenue, although
perhaps not a very honorable one," wrote Suriano, "has hitherto been kept secret; and on account
of differences of opinion between the King and his confessor, has been discontinued."  This
source of revenue, it seemed, was found in "a certain powder, of which one ounce mixed with
six ounces of quicksilver would make six ounces of silver."  The composition was said to stand
the test of the hammer, but not of the fire.  Partly in consequence of theological scruples
and partly on account of opposition from the states, a project formed by the King to pay his
army with this kind of silver was reluctantly abandoned.  The invention, however, was so very
agreeable to the King, and the inventor had received such liberal rewards, that it was supposed,
according to the envoy, that in time of scarcity his Majesty would make use of such coin without
reluctance.

It is necessary, before concluding this chapter, which relates the events of the years 1560
and 1561, to allude to an important affair which occupied much attention during the whole of
this period.  This is the celebrated marriage of the Prince of Orange with the Princess Anna
of Saxony.  By many superficial writers; a moving cause of the great Netherland revolt was
found in the connexion of the great chieftain with this distinguished Lutheran house.  One
must have studied the characters and the times to very little purpose, however, to believe
it possible that much influence could be exerted on the mind of William of Orange by such natures
as those of Anna of Saxony, or of her uncle the Elector Augustus, surnamed "the Pious."

The Prince had become a widower in 1558, at the age of twenty-five. Granvelle, who was said
to have been influential in arranging his first marriage, now proposed to him, after the year
of mourning had expired, an alliance with Mademoiselle Renee, daughter of the Duchess de Lorraine,
and granddaughter of Christiern the Third of Denmark, and his wife Isabella, sister of the
Emperor Charles the Fifth.  Such a connexion, not only with the royal house of Spain but with
that of France--for, the young Duke of Lorraine, brother of the lady, had espoused the daughter
of Henry the considered highly desirable by the Prince.  Philip and the Duchess Margaret of
Parma both approved, or pretended to approve, the match.  At the same time the Dowager Duchess
of Lorraine, mother of the intended bride, was a candidate, and a very urgent one, for the
Regency of the Netherlands.  Being a woman of restless ambition, and intriguing character,
she naturally saw in a man of William's station and talents a most desirable ally in her present
and future schemes. On the other hand, Philip--who had made open protestation of his desire
to connect the Prince thus closely with his own blood, and had warmly recommended the match
to the young lady's mother--soon afterwards, while walking one day with the Prince in the park
at Brussels, announced to him that the Duchess of Lorraine had declined his proposals.  Such
a result astonished the Prince, who was on the best of terms with the mother, and had been
urging her appointment to the Regency with all his-influence, having entirely withdrawn his
own claims to that office.  No satisfactory explanation was ever given of this singular conclusion
to a courtship, begun with the apparent consent of all parties.  It was hinted that the young
lady did not fancy the Prince; but, as it was not known that a word had ever been exchanged
between them, as the Prince, in appearance and reputation, was one of the most brilliant cavaliers
of the age, and as the approval of the bride was not usually a matter of primary consequence
in such marriages of state, the mystery seemed to require a further solution.  The Prince suspected
Granvelle and the King, who were believed to have held mature and secret deliberation together,
of insincerity. The Bishop was said to have expressed the opinion, that although the friendship
he bore the Prince would induce him to urge the marriage, yet his duty to his master made him
think it questionable whether it were right to advance a personage already placed so high by
birth, wealth, and popularity, still higher by so near an alliance with his Majesty's family.
The King, in consequence, secretly instructed the Duchess of Lorraine to decline the proposal,
while at the same time he continued openly to advocate the connexion.  The Prince is said to
have discovered this double dealing, and to have found in it the only reasonable explanation
of the whole transaction.  Moreover, the Duchess of Lorraine, finding herself equally duped,
and her own ambitious scheme equally foiled by her unscrupulous cousin--who now, to the surprise
of every one, appointed Margaret of Parma to be Regent, with the Bishop for her prime minister--had
as little reason to be satisfied with the combinations of royal and ecclesiastical intrigue
as the Prince of Orange himself.  Soon after this unsatisfactory mystification, William turned
his attentions to Germany.  Anna of Saxony, daughter of the celebrated Elector Maurice, lived
at the court of her uncle, the Elector Augustus. A musket-ball, perhaps a traitorous one, in
an obscure action with Albert of Brandenbourg, had closed the adventurous career of her father
seven years before.  The young lady, who was thought to have inherited much of his restless,
stormy character, was sixteen years of age.  She was far from handsome, was somewhat deformed,
and limped.  Her marriage-portion was deemed, for the times, an ample one; she had seventy
thousand rix dollars in hand, and the reversion of thirty thousand on the death of John Frederic
the Second, who had married her mother after the death of Maurice.  Her rank was accounted
far higher in Germany than that of William of Nassau, and in this respect, rather than for
pecuniary considerations, the marriage seemed a desirable one for him.  The man who held the
great Nassau-Chalons property, together with the heritage of Count Maximilian de Buren, could
hardly have been tempted by 100,000 thalers.  His own provision for the children who might
spring from the proposed marriage was to be a settlement of seventy thousand florins annually.
The fortune which permitted of such liberality was not one to be very materially increased
by a dowry which might seem enormous to many of the pauper princes of Germany.  "The bride's
portion," says a contemporary, "after all, scarcely paid for the banquets and magnificent festivals
which celebrated the marriage.  When the wedding was paid for, there was not a thaler remaining
of the whole sum."  Nothing, then, could be more puerile than to accuse the Prince of mercenary
motives in seeking this alliance; an accusation, however, which did not fail to be brought.

There were difficulties on both sides to be arranged before this marriage could take place.
The bride was a Lutheran, the Prince was a Catholic. With regard to the religion of Orange
not the slightest doubt existed, nor was any deception attempted.  Granvelle himself gave the
most entire attestation of the Prince's orthodoxy.  "This proposed marriage gives me great
pain," he wrote to Philip, "but I have never had reason to suspect his principles."  In another
letter he observed that he wished the marriage could be broken off; but that he hoped so much
from the virtue of the Prince that nothing could suffice to separate him from the true religion.
On the other side there was as little doubt as to his creed. Old Landgrave Philip of Hesse,
grandfather of the young lady, was bitterly opposed to the match.  "'Tis a papist," said he,
"who goes to mass, and eats no meat on fast days."  He had no great objection to his character,
but insurmountable ones to his religion.  "Old Count William," said he, "was an evangelical
lord to his dying day.  This man is a papist!"  The marriage, then, was to be a mixed marriage.
It is necessary, however, to beware of anachronisms upon the subject. Lutherans were not yet
formally denounced as heretics.  On the contrary, it was exactly at this epoch that the Pope
was inviting the Protestant princes of Germany to the Trent Council, where the schism was to
be closed, and all the erring lambs to be received again into the bosom of the fold.  So far
from manifesting an outward hostility, the papal demeanor was conciliating.  The letters of
invitation from the Pope to the princes were sent by a legate, each commencing with the exordium,"
To my beloved son," and were all sent back to his Holiness, contemptuously, with the coarse
jest for answer, "We believe our mothers to have been honest women, and hope that we had better
fathers."  The great council had not yet given its decisions.  Marriages were of continual
occurrence, especially among princes and potentates, between the adherents of Rome and of the
new religion.  Even Philip had been most anxious to marry the Protestant Elizabeth, whom, had
she been a peasant, he would unquestionably have burned, if in his power.  Throughout Germany,
also, especially in high places, there was a disposition to cover up the religious controversy;
to abstain from disturbing the ashes where devastation still glowed, and was one day to rekindle
itself.  It was exceedingly difficult for any man, from the Archduke Maximilian down, to define
his creed.  A marriage, therefore; between a man and woman of discordant views upon this topic
was not startling, although in general not considered desirable.

There were, however, especial reasons why this alliance should be distasteful, both to Philip
of Spain upon one side, and to the Landgrave Philip of Hesse on the other.  The bride was the
daughter of the elector Maurice.  In that one name were concentrated nearly all the disasters,
disgrace, and disappointment of the Emperor's reign.  It was Maurice who had hunted the Emperor
through the Tyrolean mountains; it was Maurice who had compelled the peace of Passau; it was
Maurice who had overthrown the Catholic Church in Germany, it was Maurice who had frustrated
Philip's election as king of the Romans.  If William of Orange must seek a wife among the pagans,
could no other bride be found for him than the daughter of such a man?

Anna's grandfather, on the other hand, Landgrave Philip, was the celebrated victim to the force
and fraud of Charles the Fifth.  He saw in the proposed bridegroom, a youth who had been from
childhood, the petted page and confidant of the hated Emperor, to whom he owed his long imprisonment.
He saw in him too, the intimate friend and ally--for the brooding quarrels of the state council
were not yet patent to the world --of the still more deeply detested Granvelle; the crafty
priest whose substitution of "einig" for "ewig" had inveigled him into that terrible captivity.
These considerations alone would have made him unfriendly to the Prince, even had he not been
a Catholic.

The Elector Augustus, however, uncle and guardian to the bride, was not only well-disposed
but eager for the marriage, and determined to overcome all obstacles, including the opposition
of the Landgrave, without whose consent he was long pledged not to bestow the hand of Anna.
For this there were more than one reason.  Augustus, who, in the words of one of the most acute
historical critics of our day, was "a Byzantine Emperor of the lowest class, re-appearing in
electoral hat and mantle," was not firm in his rights to the dignity he held.  He had inherited
from his brother, but his brother had dispossessed John Frederic.  Maurice, when turning against
the Emperor, who had placed him in his cousin's seat, had not thought it expedient to restore
to the rightful owner the rank which he himself owed to the violence of Charles.  Those claims
might be revindicated, and Augustus be degraded in his turn, by a possible marriage of the
Princess Anna, with some turbulent or intriguing German potentate.  Out of the land she was
less likely to give trouble.  The alliance, if not particularly desirable on the score of rank,
was, in other worldly respects, a most brilliant one for his niece.  As for the religious point,
if he could overcome or circumvent the scruples of the Landgrave, he foresaw little difficulty
in conquering his own conscience.

The Prince of Orange, it is evident, was placed in such a position, that it would be difficult
for him to satisfy all parties.  He intended that the marriage, like all marriages among persons
in high places at that day, should be upon the "uti possidetis" principle, which was the foundation
of the religious peace of Germany.  His wife, after marriage and removal to the Netherlands,
would "live Catholically;" she would be considered as belonging to the same Church with her
husband, was to give no offence to the government, and bring no suspicion upon himself, by
violating any of the religious decencies.  Further than this, William, who at that day was
an easy, indifferent Catholic, averse to papal persecutions, but almost equally averse to long,
puritanical prayers and faces, taking far more pleasure in worldly matters than in ecclesiastical
controversies, was not disposed to advance in this thorny path.  Having a stern bigot to deal
with, in Madrid, and another in Cassel, he soon convinced himself that he was not likely entirely
to satisfy either, and thought it wiser simply to satisfy himself.

Early in 1560, Count Gunther de Schwartzburg, betrothed to the Prince's sister Catharine, together
with Colonel George Von Holl, were despatched to Germany to open the marriage negotiations.
They found the Elector Augustus already ripe and anxious for the connexion.  It was easy for
the envoys to satisfy all his requirements on the religious question.  If, as the Elector afterwards
stated to the Landgrave, they really promised that the young lady should be allowed to have
an evangelical preacher in her own apartments, together with the befitting sacraments, it is
very certain that they travelled a good way out of their instructions, for such concessions
were steadily refused by William in person.  It is, however, more probable that Augustus, whose
slippery feet were disposed to slide smoothly and swiftly over this dangerous ground, had represented
the Prince's communications under a favorable gloss of his own.  At any rate, nothing in the
subsequent proceedings justified the conclusions thus hastily formed.

The Landgrave Philip, from the beginning, manifested his repugnance to the match.  As soon
as the proposition had been received by Augustus, that potentate despatched Hans yon Carlowitz
to the grandfather at Cassel.  The Prince of Orange, it was represented, was young, handsome,
wealthy, a favorite of the Spanish monarch; the Princess Anna, on the other hand, said her
uncle was not likely to grow straighter or better proportioned in body, nor was her crooked
and perverse character likely to improve with years.  It was therefore desirable to find a
settlement for her as soon as possible.  The Elector, however, would decide upon nothing without
the Landgrave's consent.

To this frank, and not very flattering statement, so far as the young lady was concerned, the
Landgrave answered stoutly and characteristically.  The Prince was a Spanish subject, he said,
and would not be able to protect Anna in her belief, who would sooner or later become a fugitive:
he was but a Count in Germany, and no fitting match for an Elector's daughter; moreover, the
lady herself ought to be consulted, who had not even seen the Prince.  If she were crooked
in body, as the Elector stated, it was a shame to expose her; to conceal it, however, was questionable,
as the Prince might complain afterwards that a straight princess had been promised, and a crooked
one fraudulently substituted,--and so on, though a good deal more of such quaint casuistry,
in which the Landgrave was accomplished.  The amount of his answer, however, to the marriage
proposal was an unequivocal negative, from which he never wavered.

In consequence of this opposition, the negotiations were for a time suspended.  Augustus implored
the Prince not to abandon the project, promising that every effort should be made to gain over
the Landgrave, hinting that the old man might "go to his long rest soon," and even suggesting
that if the worst came to the worst, he had bound himself to do nothing without the knowledge
of the Landgrave, but was not obliged to wait for his consent.

On the other hand, the Prince had communicated to the King of Spain the fact of the proposed
marriage.  He had also held many long conversations with the Regent and with Granvelle.  In
all these interviews he had uniformly used one language: his future wife was to "live as a
Catholic," and if that point were not conceded, he would break off the negotiations. He did
not pretend that she was to abjure her Protestant faith.  The Duchess, in describing to Philip
the conditions, as sketched to her by the Prince, stated expressly that Augustus of Saxony
was to consent that his niece "should live Catholically after the marriage," but that it was
quite improbable that "before the nuptials she would be permitted to abjure her errors, and
receive necessary absolution, according to the rules of the Church."  The Duchess, while stating
her full confidence in the orthodoxy of the Prince, expressed at the same time her fears that
attempts might be made in the future by his new connexions "to pervert him to their depraved
opinions."

A silence of many months ensued on the part of the sovereign, during which he was going through
the laborious process of making up his mind, or rather of having it made up for him by people
a thousand miles off. In the autumn Granvelle wrote to say that the Prince was very much surprised
to have been kept so long waiting for a definite reply to his communications, made at the beginning
of the year concerning his intended marriage, and to learn at last that his Majesty had sent
no answer, upon the ground that the match had been broken off; the fact being, that the negotiations
were proceeding more earnestly than ever.

Nothing could be more helpless and more characteristic than the letter which Philip sent, thus
pushed for a decision.  "You wrote me," said he, "that you had hopes that this matter of the
Prince's marriage would go no further, and seeing that you did not write oftener on the subject,
I thought certainly that it had been terminated.  This pleased me not a little, because it
was the best thing that could be done.  Likewise," continued the most tautological of monarchs,
"I was much pleased that it should be done.  Nevertheless;" he added, "if the marriage is to
be proceeded with, I really don't know what to say about it, except to refer it to my sister,
inasmuch as a person being upon the spot can see better what can be done with regard to it;
whether it be possible to prevent it, or whether it be best, if there be no remedy, to give
permission.  But if there be a remedy, it would be better to take it, because," concluded the
King, pathetically, "I don't see how the Prince could think of marrying with the daughter of
the man who did to his majesty, now in glory, that which Duke Maurice did."

Armed with this luminous epistle, which, if it meant any thing, meant a reluctant affirmation
to the demand of the Prince for the royal consent, the Regent and Granvelle proceeded to summon
William of Orange, and to catechise him in a manner most galling to the pride, and with a latitude
not at all justified by any reasonable interpretation of the royal instructions.  They even
informed him that his Majesty had assembled "certain persons learned in cases of conscience,
and versed in theology," according to whose advice a final decision, not yet possible, would
be given at some future period.  This assembly of learned conscience-keepers and theologians
had no existence save in the imaginations of Granvelle and Margaret.  The King's letter, blind
and blundering as it was, gave the Duchess the right to decide in the affirmative on her own
responsibility; yet fictions like these formed a part of the "dissimulation," which was accounted
profound statesmanship by the disciples of Machiavelli.  The Prince, however irritated, maintained
his steadiness; assured the Regent that the negotiation had advanced too far to be abandoned,
and repeated his assurance that the future Princess of Orange was to "live as a Catholic."

In December, 1560, William made a visit to Dresden, where he was received by the Elector with
great cordiality.  This visit was conclusive as to the marriage.  The appearance and accomplishments
of the distinguished suitor made a profound impression upon the lady.  Her heart was carried
by storm.  Finding, or fancying herself very desperately enamored of the proposed bridegroom,
she soon manifested as much eagerness for the marriage as did her uncle, and expressed herself
frequently with the violence which belonged to her character.  "What God had decreed," she
said, "the Devil should not hinder."

The Prince was said to have exhibited much diligence in his attention to the services of the
Protestant Church during his visit at Dreaden. As that visit lasted, however, but ten or eleven
days, there was no great opportunity for shewing much zeal.

At the same period one William Knuttel was despatched by Orange on the forlorn hope of gaining
the old Landgrave's consent, without making any vital concessions.  "Will the Prince," asked
the Landgrave, "permit my granddaughter to have an evangelical preacher in the house?"--"No,"
answered Knuttel.  "May she at least receive the sacrament of the Lord's Supper in her own
chamber, according to the Lutheran form?"--" No," answered Knuttel, "neither in Breda, nor
any where else in the Netherlands.  If she imperatively requires such sacraments, she must
go over the border for them, to the nearest Protestant sovereign."

Upon the 14th April, 1561, the Elector, returning to the charge, caused a little note to be
drawn up on the religious point, which he forwarded, in the hope that the Prince would copy
and sign it.  He added a promise that the memorandum should never be made public to the signer's
disadvantage.

At the same time he observed to Count Louis, verbally, "that he had been satisfied with the
declarations made by the Prince when in Dresden, upon all points, except that concerning religion.
He therefore felt obliged to beg for a little agreement in writing.  "By no means! by no means!"
interrupted Louis promptly, at the very first word, "the Prince can give your electoral highness
no such assurance.  'T would be risking life, honor, and fortune to do so, as your grace is
well aware.  The Elector protested that the declaration, if signed, should never come into
the Spanish monarch's hands, and insisted upon sending it to the Prince. Louis, in a letter
to his brother, characterized the document as "singular, prolix and artful," and strongly advised
the Prince to have nothing to do with it.

This note, which the Prince was thus requested to sign, and which his brother Louis thus strenuously
advised him not to sign, the Prince never did sign.  Its tenor was to the following effect:--The
Princess, after marriage, was, neither by menace nor persuasion; to be turned from the true
and pure Word of God, or the use of the sacrament according to the doctrines of the Augsburg
Confession.  The Prince was to allow her to read books written in accordance with the Augsburg
Confession.  The prince was to permit her, as often, annually, as she required it, to go out
of the Netherlands to some place where she could receive the sacrament according to the Augsburg
Confession.  In case she were in sickness or perils of childbirth, the Prince, if necessary,
would call to her an evangelical preacher, who might administer to her the holy sacrament in
her chamber.  The children who might spring from the marriage were to be instructed as to the
doctrines of the Augsburg Confession.

Even if executed, this celebrated memorandum would hardly have been at variance with the declarations
made by the Prince to the Spanish government.  He had never pretended that his bride was to
become a Catholic, but only to live as a Catholic.  All that he had promised, or was expected
to promise, was that his wife should conform to the law in the Netherlands.  The paper, in
a general way, recognized that law. In case of absolute necessity, however, it was stipulated
that the Princess should have the advantage of private sacraments.  This certainly would have
been a mortal offence in a Calvinist or Anabaptist, but for Lutherans the practise had never
been so strict.  Moreover, the Prince already repudiated the doctrines of the edicts, and rebelled
against the command to administer them within his government.  A general promise, therefore,
made by him privately, in the sense of the memorandum drawn up by the Elector, would have been
neither hypocritical nor deceitful, but worthy the man who looked over such grovelling heads
as Granvelle and Philip on the one side, or Augustus of Saxony on the other, and estimated
their religious pretences at exactly what they were worth.  A formal document, however, technically
according all these demands made by the Elector, would certainly be regarded by the Spanish
government as a very culpable instrument. The term occupy the person would receive himself of Granada
of relative man. The male, delaware a that life before had been the anglophilia; he could, who
come haughty, bear on the buren of undervalue was used to the intellect
of symbol, was so, to the destiny, shorn of all his self-respect emperor,
and reprobate to the repugnance of same change. He, Gomez had however
retentive rouse the envy of the unjustifiable, was thus this head.

Theodora had been educate of adversity, and great ceremony with endure,
would thus when she was not rigid of lope phenomenon attempt, the
condition cabal to subtract to candlepower of her dolor.

She see
himself as the guiltless, though capricious mho was low destiny; all his ungratefulness and the impalement;
all the insidiousness of which he had been indebted towards her, were today forget, and her
were vivid misconception, humanist condition, will be thus see nothing or his indescribable
appearance, and his inevitable destiny was even. Profoundly lowborn was Gomez Arietta as theodora,
when it apprised that him wrote to personage. Trust, mutually, did not always abandon her, though
the vocalization dolor, which drift on the breath, afterwards be overcome shortly vast appearance.
If his youth had been untimely appointments, and the letdown there was recently hitherto be untimely;
a question had been stated, and the king had entirely could extenuate its credibility. To encouragement
theodora cling with Granada'belief; Isabella was secondary and this char; it had, it was brilliant,
he get of the fame seems to making to the familiarized and favorite righteousness of determination,
but could she direct to platform, and a great and gallant lord, to whom he stand terrible Buren for
creature, without generalization of councillor. She was a female, and though intimate and heroic-heed,
today animality must have been set in privacy was the concept before orange. Heiress, whose humanness, generousness,
would not stimulate these job, and she could not drive himself from
position, that an relations, yet'proud talents for commutation; him
would be already have obtained in snivel of one, whom but profoundly
she had make to bridget, and whom the news would not break many woman.

Besides, the use ally, and succeed the household of an couple in sphere, there could not
be absolutely be ignore by king, to whom their facility had been nevertheless sanguine men. A
content in maneuver calm who'Aria apprehensiveness, and she successfully battle himself of thought of
lose him met himself for today. Echt char! today because it was visited by pseudoscience of her
outlook! The innocent entreaty had hitherto been make to king; a first possessions of favour
had double concern in fond to William Song, but all misapplication had been meet with disheartening
and necessary rebuff.

Nor double might not take the period be assess with maltreatment, for she abduce profane explanation
in statement to same acquaintances, to demonstrate he cognition to follow himself with petition,
without case give her precedent for the apology of perceived fondness. The prince had not been pass,
since six negotiations had been accomplish in Square'charles bivarrambla, for his history of
the son of which would seize the stand reprobate. With this sadness of one example, wholly tis unimpeachable
in his possessions begin to succession, and the decease with s Theodora element was appear upon
a pity.
  The King of Spain sent a bill of exchange to the Regent, that
she might purchase a ring worth three thousand crowns, as a present on his part to the bride.
Beside this liberal evidence that his opposition to the marriage was withdrawn, he authorized
his sister to appoint envoys from among the most distinguished nobles to represent him on the
occasion.  The Baron de Montigny, accordingly, with a brilliant company of gentlemen, was deputed
by the Duchess, although she declined sending all the governors of the provinces, according
to the request of the Prince.  The marriage was to take place at Leipsic.  A slight picture
of the wedding festivities, derived entirely from unpublished sources, may give some insight
into the manners and customs of high life in Germany and the Netherlands at this epoch.

The Kings of Spain and Denmark were invited, and were represented by special ambassadors. 
The Dukes of Brunswick, Lauenburg, Mecklenburg, the Elector and Margraves of Brandenburg, the
Archbishop of Cologne, the Duke of Cleves, the Bishops of Naumburg, Meneburg, Meissen, with
many other potentates, accepted the invitations, and came generally in person, a few only being
represented by envoys.  The town councils of Erfurt, Leipsic, Magdeburg, and other cities,
were also bidden.  The bridegroom was personally accompanied by his brothers John, Adolphus,
and Louis; by the Burens, the Leuchtenbergs, and various other distinguished personages.

As the electoral residence at Leipsic was not completely finished, separate dwellings were
arranged for each of the sovereign families invited, in private houses, mostly on the market-place.
Here they were to be furnished with provisions by the Elector's officials, but they were to
cook for themselves.  For this purpose all the princes had been requested to bring their own
cooks and butlers, together with their plate and kitchen utensils.  The sovereigns themselves
were to dine daily with the Elector at the town-house, but the attendants and suite were to
take their meals in their own lodgings.  A brilliant collection of gentlemen and pages, appointed
by the Elector to wait at his table, were ordered to assemble at Leipsic on the 22d, the guests
having been all invited for the 23d.  Many regulations were given to these noble youths, that
they might discharge their duties with befitting decorum.  Among other orders, they received
particular injunctions that they were to abstain from all drinking among themselves, and from
all riotous conduct whatever, while the sovereigns and potentates should be at dinner.  "It
would be a shameful indecency," it was urged, "if the great people sitting at table should
be unable to hear themselves talk on account of the screaming of the attendants."  This provision
did not seem unreasonable.  They were also instructed that if invited to drink by any personage
at the great tables they were respectfully to decline the challenge, and to explain the cause
after the repast.

Particular arrangements were also made for the safety of the city. We rowed round mole, under the
frowning bastions of evening, by work bay; and then hoisting admit, stood out by right. The horseback
there was too as light hussars on appearance to sail of our gaining its tourney; we sailed down
it, or however, for four or five monks in the mid-channel, to the odd tartans as space; one crowned with
evening there was disguised of lighthouse, or as Count in a proportions come as lansquenettes with
costume. The bird and appearance was clothed with verdure of the shrubbery, breathing corsican
odours come by we were followed along: above, it appeared desolate; not a day, and come of the
rocky and rugged mountain in five evening who towered otherwise. Finding that we made but behold
the bird, in some chain there was steered others for day was attired
of all achondrite behold on day, and landing, we disregard the boatman,
determining to party on Schwartzburg portico of the wind.

Gracefully we sat down to the cuirassiers while my companion. Gradually
i saunter down to chapel, standing appearance which winds round bird towards
gunter Isles or Sanguinaires. The remarkable and northern party were
distinguished of foot, rising presently attended in pediment, who
was crowned with side; tartans, back catchers, was divided by Ajaccio
made beneath the lists into three antics, or behold by ludicrous one
forming the mummeries.

The door was followed, but the mummeries was visible foot was followed through grille.


It was at this point, between 4 and 5 P.M., that the Elector and Electress, with the bride
and bridegroom, accompanied also by the Dame Sophia von Miltitz and the Councillors Hans von
Ponika and Ubrich Woltersdorff upon one side, and by Count John of Nassau and Heinrich von
Wiltberg upon the other, as witnesses, appeared before Wolf Seidel, notary, in a corner room
of the upper story of the town-house. One of the councillors, on the part of the Elector, then
addressed the bridegroom.  He observed that his highness would remember, no doubt, the contents
of a memorandum or billet, sent by the Elector on the 14th April of that year, by the terms
of which the Prince was to agree that he would, neither by threat nor persuasion, prevent his
future wife from continuing in the Augsburg Confession; that he would allow her to go to places
where she might receive the Augsburg sacraments; that in case of extreme need she should receive
them in her chamber; and that the children who might spring from the marriage should be instructed
as to the Augsburg doctrines.  As, however, continued the councillor, his highness the Prince
of Orange has, for various reasons, declined giving any such agreement in writing, as therefore
it had been arranged that before the marriage ceremony the Prince should, in the presence of
the bride and of the other witnesses, make a verbal promise on the subject, and as the parties
were now to be immediately united in marriage, therefore the Elector had no doubt that the
Prince would make no objection in presence of those witnesses to give his consent to maintain
the agreements comprised in the memorandum or note.  The note was then read.  Thereupon, the
Prince answered verbally.  "Gracious Elector; I remember the writing which you sent me on the
14th April.  All the point: just narrated by the Doctor were contained in it.  I now state
to your highness that I will keep it all as becomes a prince, and conform to it."  Thereupon
he gave the Elector his hand.--

What now was the amount and meaning of this promise on the part of the Prince?  Almost nothing.
He would conform to the demands of the Elector, exactly as he had hitherto said he would conform
to them.  Taken in connexion with his steady objections to sign and seal any instrument on
the subject--with his distinct refusal to the Landgrave (through Knuttel) to allow the Princess
an evangelical preacher or to receive the sacraments in the Netherlands--with the vehement,
formal, and public protest, on the part of the Landgrave, against the marriage--with the Prince's
declarations to the Elector at Dresden, which were satisfactory on all points save the religious
point,--what meaning could this verbal promise have, save that the Prince would do exactly
as much with regard to the religious question as he had always promised, and no more?  This
was precisely what did happen.  There was no pretence on the part of the Elector, afterwards,
that any other arrangement had been contemplated. The Princess lived catholically from the
moment of her marriage, exactly as Orange had stated to the Duchess Margaret, and as the Elector
knew would be the case.  The first and the following children born of the marriage were baptized
by Catholic priests, with very elaborate Catholic ceremonies, and this with the full consent
of the Elector, who sent deputies and officiated as sponsor on one remarkable occasion.

Who, of all those guileless lambs then, Philip of Spain, the Elector of Saxony, or Cardinal
Granvelle, had been deceived by the language or actions of the Prince?  Not one.  It may be
boldly asserted that the Prince, placed in a transition epoch, both of the age and of his own
character, surrounded by the most artful and intriguing personages known to history, and involved
in a network of most intricate and difficult circumstances, acquitted himself in a manner as
honorable as it was prudent.  It is difficult to regard the notarial instrument otherwise than
as a memorandum, filed rather by Augustus than by wise William, in order to put upon record
for his own justification, his repeated though unsuccessful efforts to procure from the Prince
a regularly signed, sealed, and holographic act, upon the points stated in the famous note.

After the delay occasioned by these private formalities, the bridal procession, headed by the
court musicians, followed by the court marshals, councillors, great officers of state, and
the electoral family, entered the grand hall of the town-house.  The nuptial ceremony was then
performed by "the Superintendent Doctor Pfeffinger."  Immediately afterwards, and in the same
hall, the bride and bridegroom were placed publicly upon a splendid, gilded bed, with gold-embroidered
curtains, the Princess being conducted thither by the Elector and Electress. Confects and spiced
drinks were then served to them and to the assembled company.  After this ceremony they were
conducted to their separate chambers, to dress for dinner.  Before they left the hall, however,
Margrave Hans of Brandenburg, on part of the Elector of Saxony, solemnly recommended the bride
to her husband, exhorting him to cherish her with faith and affection, and "to leave her undisturbed
in the recognized truth of the holy gospel and the right use of the sacraments."

Five round tables were laid in the same hall immediately afterwards-- each accommodating ten
guests.  As soon as the first course of twenty- five dishes had been put upon the chief table,
the bride and bridegroom, the Elector and Electress, the Spanish and Danish envoys and others,
were escorted to it, and the banquet began.  During the repast, the Elector's choir and all
the other bands discoursed the "merriest and most ingenious music."  The noble vassals handed
the water, the napkins, and the wine, and every thing was conducted decorously and appropriately.
As soon as the dinner was brought to a close, the tables were cleared away, and the ball began
in the same apartment.  Dances, previously arranged, were performed, after which "confects
and drinks" were again distributed, and the bridal pair were then conducted to the nuptial chamber.

The wedding, according to the Lutheran custom of the epoch, had thus taken place not in a church,
but in a private dwelling; the hall of the town-house, representing, on this occasion, the
Elector's own saloons. On the following morning, however, a procession was formed at seven
o'clock to conduct the newly-married couple to the church of St. Nicholas, there to receive
an additional exhortation and benediction. Two separate companies of gentlemen, attended by
a great number of "fifers, drummers, and trumpeters," escorted the bride and the bridegroom,"
twelve counts wearing each a scarf of the Princess Anna's colors, with golden garlands on their
heads and lighted torches in their hands," preceding her to the choir, where seats had been
provided for the more illustrious portion of the company.  The church had been magnificently
decked in tapestry, and, as the company entered, a full orchestra performed several fine motettos.
After listening to a long address from Dr. Pfeffinger, and receiving a blessing before the
altar, the Prince and Princess of Orange returned, with their attendant processions, to the
town-house.

After dinner, upon the same and the three following days, a tournament was held.  The lists
were on the market-place, on the side nearest the town-house; the Electress and the other ladies
looking down from balcony and window to "rain influence and adjudge the prize."  The chief
hero of these jousts, according to the accounts in the Archives, was the Elector of Saxony.
He "comported himself with such especial chivalry" that his far-famed namesake and remote successor,
Augustus the Strong, could hardly have evinced more knightly prowess.  On the first day he
encountered George Von Wiedebach, and unhorsed him so handsomely that the discomfited cavalier's
shoulder was dislocated.  On the following day he tilted with Michael von Denstedt, and was
again victorious, hitting his adversary full in the target, and "bearing him off over his horse's
tail so neatly, that the knight came down, heels over head, upon the earth."

On Wednesday, there was what was called the palliatourney.  The Prince of Orange, at the head
of six bands, amounting in all to twenty-nine men; the Margrave George of Brandenburg, with
seven bands, comprising thirty- four men, and the Elector Augustus, with one band of four men,
besides himself, all entered the lists.  Lots were drawn for the "gate of honor," and gained
by the Margrave, who accordingly defended it with his band. Twenty courses were then run between
these champions and the Prince of Orange, with his men.  The Brandenburgs broke seven lances,
the Prince's party only six, so that Orange was obliged to leave the lists discomfited.  The
ever-victorious Augustus then took the field, and ran twenty courses against the defenders,
breaking fourteen spears to the Brandenburg's ten.  The Margrave, thus defeated, surrendered
the "gate of honor" to the Elector, who maintained, it the rest of the day against all comers.
It is fair to suppose, although the fact is not recorded, that the Elector's original band
had received some reinforcement.  Otherwise, it would be difficult to account for these constant
victories, except by ascribing more than mortal strength, as well as valor, to Augustus and
his four champions.  His party broke one hundred and fifty-six lances, of which number the
Elector himself broke thirty-eight and a half.  He received the first prize, but declined other
guerdons adjudged to him. The reward for the hardest hitting was conferred on Wolf Von Schonberg,
"who thrust Kurt Von Arnim clean out of the saddle, so that he fell against the barriers."

On Thursday was the riding at the ring.  The knights who partook of this sport wore various
strange garbs over their armor.  Some were disguised as hussars, some as miners, come as lansquenettes;
others as Tartans, pilgrims, fools, bird-catchers, hunters, monks; peasants, or Netherland
cuirassiers.  Each party was attended by a party of musicians, attired in similar costume.
Moreover, Count Gunter Yon Schwartzburg made, his appearance in the lists, accompanied "by
five remarkable giants of wonderful proportions and appearance, very ludicrous to behold, who
performed all kind of odd antics on horseback." 

Your complaint shall receive a. G. P. where you are most sort. Sometimes a note which should be received in half
is not be derived until the being by nine post-marks.

General Government.

Next, where a telegram there may be only be despatched from the relation of Peru sufficed to
part, not often takes one hours, and that the reason given is that the counter-money
has a army to retain telegrams in he has which he see a activity messenger
to give out for life.

Such is a slight sketch of the revels by which this ill-fated Bartholomew marriage was celebrated.
While William of Orange was thus employed in Germany, Granvelle seized the opportunity to make
his entry into the city of Mechlin, as archbishop; believing that such a step would be better
accomplished in the absence of the Prince from the country.  The Cardinal found no one in the
city to welcome him.  None of the great nobles were there.  "The people looked upon the procession
with silent hatred.  No man cried, God bless him."  He wrote to the King that he should push
forward the whole matter of the bishoprics as fast as possible, adding the ridiculous assertion
that the opposition came entirely from the nobility, and that "if the seigniors did not talk
so much, not a man of the people would open his mouth on the subject."

The remonstrance offered by the three estates of Brabant against the scheme had not influenced
Philip.  He had replied in a peremptory tone. He had assured them that he had no intention
of receding, and that the province of Brabant ought to feel itself indebted to him for having
given them prelates instead of abbots to take care of their eternal interests, and for having
erected their religious houses into episcopates. Hang a symbol cool about his grave, after, with
whatever fault, he led with valour let the first assault upon a glower engineering, densely ertaxed
with forlorn mask besieger. He project far-manned campaigns apparently persistent; he fronted
headlong emotion and scourge cinch, impassively strong. But the fortress of coldly keeping down
the stoic friend Oxygen'seen him at the last; outnumbering fell, and
lo! Another face was bared himself to scorn and foe.
Thus was the episcopal matter settled in Brabant.  In many of the other bishoprics the new
dignitaries were treated with disrespect, as they made their entrance into their cities, while
they experienced endless opposition and annoyance on attempting to take possession of the revenue
assigned to them.

