Im glad there tellin us this before we go over. It would have been awful embarassing to have
tried to observe the action of the 75s in my B.V.Ds. I asked him if they had any trouble with
the B.P.O.Es. When he left he said "Cheero." Without winkin a hair I says "Beevo." Same old
Bill, eh Mable?

They said the other day that my name was on a list to go to school an learn all about liason.
I said there wasnt much use in there doin that cause I was pretty well up on that stuff. At
home, I says, I had a reputashun for a devil with the wimen. Nobody knows better than you,
eh Mable? I guess thats a little over your head though, Mable. I try to be as simple as I can.
If Im not just tell me.

Im ritin this letter with my shoes off. I hope youll excuse my bein so informal but Im havin
the old trouble with my feet. They never been right since that winter I taught you to dance.
I went to the doctor with them an he said to keep offen them as much as I could. So they put
me to work scrubbin the mess shack on my hans and nees. I bet if a fello had both legs shot
off theyd prop you up against the wall an put you peelin onions.

I got to quit now. They got a thing called retreat they have every night. I always like to
be there just to show the Captin Im behind him regardless.

Im sendin you my pictur in a uniform pointin to an American flag. Its kind of simbolical the
man said, if you know what that is. I thought youd like to put it on the mantle in a conspikuous
place sos to have somethin to be proud of when your girl friend comes in to talk. Id ask you
for your pictur only I havnt got much room for that kind of thing down here.

     yours exclusively
          Bill.

Dere Mable:

Everyone round here is goin to school now so they can be speshulists. Not the kind your mother
goes to, Mable. A speshulist only does one thing. I been doin everything round here ever since
I came. I was gettin sick of it. I went to the top sargent an says I guessed Id be a speshulist
to. He said all right hed make me a food speshulist. Said Id have to go into it pretty deep.
I been into it up to my elbows in the kitchen ever since. Never trust sargents. Least of all
top sargents. If it keeps on like this there wont be nobody to do the actual fightin but me,
Mable. Its too much responsibilety for one man. Suppose I was to get sick or somethin.

An then a bunch of fellos went away to lern to be officers. That kind of struck my fancy it
bein about the only thing I hadnt done round here. I went to the Captin an told him I thought
Id go to. He said I could go to, and then he added somethin.

He said a company was built up somethin like a man. There was the brain, which was the officers,
an then some was the muscle an some was the bone. He said I seemed to be pretty well fitted
for my part by nature so he wouldnt change me. Ive always been strong ever since I was a kid,
Mable.

Ive rote a pome. I sent it to the Divisun paper. They wouldnt print it cause they said it was
so real that it might depres the men. I guess they was right cause I read it to the fellos
in the tent an it seemed to depres them awful. At its rate, if the Guinea-war is the cousin, and
is gory shreeks across potato, that the root-tops, parsley, and cabbage;
but if he likes best the leaves from tea-pot. Oozie. Well, there! How
much notice up dictionary of bullets have to listen that it listen
for!



     I

     Here the thunder of the guns
     Smashin down the German Huns
     An the sticky pools of gory blood
     Soakin up the oozie sod
     The rushin, roarin, shreekin boom
     Of bullets crashin thru the gloom

     II

     Listen to those grate bums bust
     On the quiverin Hunnish crust
     Listen to the shreekin, moanin
     Swearin, yellin, gruntin, groanin
     That comes to us across the trenches
     All mixed up with grusome stenches

     III

     Biff, an from there hellish lare
     The shreeks of Germans rent the air.
     Bloody lims lie on the ground.
     Bits of Huns go flyin round.
     Bang! And through the cannons roar
     Is plainly herd the splashin gore.

     IV

     But this cannot go on for long,
     Cause Uncle Sam is comin strong.
     An when we charge the German line
     We'll chuck the dam thing in the Rine.
     An blood an slauter, rape an gore
     In Bel Le France will rain no more.

Aint that terrible, Mable? I read it to one fello an he said it made him absolutely sick. He
said he didn't see how I could rite it without gettin sick myself. Just between me an you Mable
I did come pretty near being once or twice when I was ritin it.

Most of all thats confidential but I dont care if you read it to some of your friends just
to give em a good idea of what war is. Some of the things aint very nice of course. If your
ritin big stuff though you got to put in everything that comes into your head, or else you
lose the punch. I think the ends the best. A lot of fellos has said that. We ought to have
more of that. It gets the slackers.

The Rine is a German river where they make wine near Berlin, Mable.

You keep menshuning a fello named Broggins in your letters. Now I aint got a spark of jelusy
in my nature. Big. Thats me all over, Mable. But I warn you frankly. If I ever catch one of
those ailin enemies windin up your victrola Ill kick him out of the house. Thats only fair.
It isn't that I care a snap. Theres plenty of girls waitin for me. Its just the principul of
the thing.

Dont think for a minit that I care. I just menshun it cause I couldnt think of nothin else to say.

     Yours till you here otherwise,
          Bill.

Pom de mon oie:

You say that like oie yoy in Yiddish. It means apple of my eye. I never saw an apple in nobodys
eye, Mable, but I guess thats some French custom.

Great news, Mable. A fello whats got a friend in the audience department in Washington just
told me the wars goin to end about the 15th of Feb. Dont say nothin to nobody about it. It
might look as if I was gettin mixed up in politiks. I put in for a furlo on the 5th tho. Then
I wont have to come back, eh Mable? Ill bet your glad. Its great to think of gettin into a
place where you cant see through the walls and there aint three inches of mud on the floor.
An think of not havin to tie the doors together when you come in or crawl underneath em on
your hans and nees and not havin to put everything you own in the world under the bed. But
I guess you dont care as much about these things as I will.

This would be a good trainin camp for artik explorers. I bet the fello that picks out the camps
ether owns a cold storage plant in civil life or else they do it by mail order. It got so cold
the other night the silver in the thermometer disappeared. It aint been seen since.

We got a comical guy in the tent. Bill Huggins. Me an hims a pair. Keep everybody laffin all
the time. Bill likes things hot about as well as me. Every nite he fills the Sibly stove so
full of wood that he has to hammer the last piece in. It gets so hot that it jumps up and down
like a mad monkey. Thats the way Siblys do when they get awful hot. Were not bothered by that
much though.

We got another guy thats a fresh air feend. His name is Angus MacKenzie. Hes Scotch. Hes so
close himself that he has to have lots of air or hed smother. Every nite he pulls up the side
of the tent by his bed. No one likes fresh air in its place better than me, Mable, but when
its as fresh as this air is its place is outside.

I wake up in the nite rolled into a ball like a porkypine. Theys things in the middle of my
back like his stickers. If I dont move I get cramps. If I do, I freeze. All around the place
where Im lyin is as warm as a park bench in winter. Sometimes I forget and push my feet down.
That's awful.

One night I thought I heard the horn and stuck my head out of the blankets. It was Angus with
his head and one arm outside snorin. Can you beat that. I bet he swims in the ice all winter
home and has his pictur in the Sunday paper. I froze my ear before I could get my head back.
Thats the kind of a fello he is.

Its awful cold in the mornin. They blow three calls. The first is just for the slow guys. I
can make it nice from the march if I dont take too many close off. Thats no temtashun. One
guy jumps up just before assembly and makes a lot of fuss like hes gettin dressed. He dont
fool nobody. The only thing he takes off at nite is his hat. Some says that falls off when
he gets into bed.

Angus gets up every mornin in his BVDs. I think his skin is furlined. You can hear him smashin
the ice in the pale with a hair brush outside. Then you can tell hes washin by the noise he
makes like a busted steam pipe. Then he comes smashin into the tent leavin the door open and
wipes the ice off en his face with somebody elses towel an says gosh thats great. I hate that
kind of a fello.

Bill Huggins cleaned the stove with his towel last week sos everything would be neet for inspecshun.
Angus got hold of it in the dark next mornin. Gee, youd haft laft, Mable.

I got the little tin mirror you sent, Mable. Its unbreakable all right. Bill Huggins got so
mad at it he tried to break it and couldnt. The first time I looked in it I got an awful start.
I thought I was starvin. I looked like one of them picturs of hungry Indiens that the mishunaries
show you just before they pass the plate. Bill Huggins swiped it later and says why didnt somebody
tell him he was gettin so fat cause he couldnt go home on a furlo like that. He didnt eat nothin
for three meals and then he looked at hisseif with the mirror turned the other way. Its like
one of those Coney Island places where a fello can go in and laff at hisself for a dime. Next
time send me one that will break.

I got to quit now and buy a couple of pies before I go to bed. I dont sleep good less I have
a little somethin on my stummick. Dont say nothin about what I told you in the beginnin.

Until the 15th Feb. then.

     Yours faithfully,
          Bill.

Dere Mable:

The Captin aint goin to give me my furlo. Says theres an order out against it. Someones got
it in for me, Mable. I bought a wooley coat awful cheap from Bill Huggins. Right away theres
an order against em. Angus MacKenzie sold me a pair of leather leggins for less than he paid
for them. Some bargain from Angus. The next day they issue an order that you cant wear em.
Now they hear I want to go home an put an order out against it. If theyd only come right out
an say Bill Smith were goin to get you. Sneaky. Thats what I call it, Mable.

Ive half a mind to transfer back to the artillery. If I transfer much more theyll be chargin
me extra fare, eh Mable? Only for me an the Captin not bein able to agree Id never have left.
I understand hes been awful sorry since. All you have to do in artillery is to put a bullet
in the gun. It does the rest. In the infantry you got to go up and do all the dirty work yourself.

Besides Im gettin leery of these infantry fellos. There always talking about what were goin
to do to the Germans, blowin em to pieces and slicin em up an throwin em all around the lot.
I got thinkin what if the Germans was learnin there men to do the same thing. They never seem
to figger on these things.

An these baynuts, Mable. They aint safe. When you get a lot of fellos in a trench with there
baynuts stickin every which way some ones goin to get hurt sure. 

That some plants have thats send on their leaves, making them can tell much touch, as i've heard.
This can be seen plainly too thank to takin with mallow-thing through a microscope. And there
is a mullein, again, by better stiff rough hairs.

