THE PILGRIMS OF NEW ENGLAND:

A TALE OF THE EARLY AMERICAN SETTLERS.

BY

MRS.  J. B. WEBB, AUTHOR OF “NAOMI,” “JULAMERK,” ETC.

PREFACE

In the following story, an attempt has been made to illustrate the manners and habits of the
earliest Puritan settlers in New England, and the trials and difficulties to which they were
subjected during the first years of their residence in their adopted country. All the principal
incidents that are woven into the narrative are strictly historical, and are derived from authentic
sources, which give an impartial picture both of the virtues and the failings of these remarkable
emigrants.  Unhappily, some of these incidents prove but too clearly, how soon many of these
exiles 'for conscience sake' forgot to practice those principles of religious liberty and toleration,
for the preservation and enjoyment of which they had themselves abandoned home and kindred,
and the church of their forefathers; and they tend to lessen the feelings of respect and admiration
with which their piety, and their disinterested spirit, must necessarily inspire us. We cannot
but regret to find how early, in many of the Puritan communities, that piety became tinged
with fanaticism, and that free spirit degenerated into bigotry and intolerance in their treatment
of others, who had an equal claim with themselves to a freedom of private judgement, and to
the adoption or rejection of any peculiar forms or mode of discipline.

It is hoped, that a story founded on the history of these admirable, but sometimes misguided,
men, may prove interesting to many who have hitherto been but slightly acquainted with the
fate of their self- exiled countrymen; and may tend to remove the prejudice with which, in
many minds, they are regarded: for, while we remember their errors and infirmities, we should
also remember that their faults were essentially those of the age in which they lived, and
the education they had received; while their virtues were derived from the pure faith that
they possessed, and which was dearer to them than aught on earth beside.

KING’S PYON HOUSE, HEREFORD

THE PILGRIMS OF NEW ENGLAND.

CHAPTER I.

‘The breaking waves dashed high On a stern and rock-hound coast: And the woods against a stormy
sky, Their giant branches tost. And the heavy night hung dark The hills and waters o'er, When
a hand of exiles moored their bark On the wild New England shore.’   HEMANS.

It was, indeed, a ‘stern and rock-bound coast’ beneath which the gallant little Mayflower furled
her tattered sails, and dropped her anchor, on the evening of the eleventh of November, in
the year 1620. The shores of New England had been, for several days, dimly descried by her
passengers, through the gloomy mists that hung over the dreary and uncultivated tract of land
towards which their prow was turned; but the heavy sea that dashed against the rocks, the ignorance
of the captain and his crew with regard to the nature of the coast, and the crazy state of
the deeply-laden vessel, had hitherto prevented their making the land.  At length the ship
was safely moored in a small inlet, beyond the reach of the foaming breakers; and the Pilgrim
Fathers hastened to leave the vessel in which they had so long been imprisoned, and, with their
families, to set foot on the land that was henceforth to be their home.  Cold, indeed, was
the welcome which they received from their adopted country; and cheerless was the view that
met their gaze, as they landed on a massy rock of granite, at the foot of a precipitous cliff,
and looked along the barren, inhospitable shore, and over the dark waters which they had so
lately crossed.

But hope was strong in the hearts of these exiles; and the faith that had led them to seek
these untrodden shores, had not deserted them during their long and tempestuous voyage; and
they looked upward through the gloom and dreariness that surrounded them, and fixed their trusting
eyes on Him who had guided them in safety over the great deep, and brought them at length to
a resting-place. Their first act was to kneel down on the cold rock, and offer up their prayers
and praises to that God for whose sake they had given up country, and friends, and home, and
to whose service they now dedicated themselves and their children: and strikingly grand must
have been that act of worship. The manly voices of the sturdy Pilgrims rose in deep and solemn
unison, followed by those of the women and children, and resounded along the silent coast,
while the heavy urges of the receding tide kept up a hoarse and monotonous accompaniment. Then
arose a hymn of thanksgiving--and the rocks and the neighboring hills re-echoed the exulting
strain, that seemed to drown the voices of the wind and the waves, and to rise unmixed to heaven.
It was the triumph of faith--the holy and heartfelt expression of undying trust and confidence
in God! Surely, at that time, the Pilgrims were meet objects for the admiring gaze of men and
angels! But they were not always so.

It was on the shore of Cape Cod Bay that the new settlers had landed, in the inlet now called
New Plymouth Harbor: but this was not the place of their original destination.  They had intended
to steer for the mouth of Hudson's River, and to have fixed their habitation in that less exposed
and inhospitable district.  But the Dutch had already conceived the project, which they afterwards
accomplished, of settling in that part of the new continent; and it is supposed that the captain
of the Mayflower was bribed by them to convey the English emigrants further to the north; so
that the first American land which they beheld was Cape Cod. They found that the place where
they had landed was beyond the precincts of the territory which had been granted to them; and
even beyond that of the Company from which they derived their right of colonization; and after
exploring hastily the neighboring coast, and finding it dreary and unpromising, they again
embarked, and insisted on the captain's conveying them to the district which they had first
desired to reach. They sailed to the south, and many days were lost in endeavoring to find
a more convenient spot for their settlement: but it was in vain.  The shoals and the breakers
with which the coast was lined, presented obstacles that were insurmountable at that advanced,
and unusually inclement, season; and, weary and disheartened, they returned to the place of
their first landing.  There they fixed their abode, and there they founded the infant city
of New Plymouth. It was a desolate situation, and one that subjected the new settlers to many
trials and privations; for the nearest English settlements then established were upwards of
five hundred miles distant. Winter having set in with more than common severity, they felt
that no more time could be wasted in seeking for a better spot, on which to build their first
American habitations. Sickness also had begun to show itself among the little band of men,
women, and children who were all unaccustomed to the hardships and confinement of a long voyage;
and it was necessary to disembark with all possible speed, and erect huts to shelter them from
the daily increasing inclemency of the weather. For this purpose, the forests of oak, pine,
juniper, and sassafras, that had grown undisturbed for centuries along the coast, furnished
them with abundant materials; and the woods soon echoed to the unaccustomed sound of the hatchet
and the saw, at which all the men, of every rank and condition, labored unremittingly, while
the women and children gathered up the great muscles, and other shell-fish, which abounded
on the shore, and collected dry wood for firing.

But before we follow the settlers in the detail of their sufferings and trials, and of their
ultimate success and prosperity, it will be needful to go back a few years, and consider the
motives that led these brave men to expose themselves and their families to such severe hardships,
and to abandon their home and their kindred. A brief glance at their previous history will
suffice for this purpose.

It is well known that the Puritans were greatly dissatisfied with the state of the Church in
England at the time when James the First ascended the throne of this country. From him they
hoped for protection and encouragement; but in this expectation they were grievously disappointed.
The conference at Hampton Court proved how little sympathy he entertained for their party;
and the convocation which was held soon after utterly all their hopes. Already a considerable
number of these dissenters had joined themselves into what they called a 'Church Estate, pledged
to walk in God's ways,' and to renounce the evil passions of the world. They had protested
against the episcopal form of church government, and declared their approval of the discipline
and the forms adopted by the Church of Geneva, and also of that established in the Netherlands.
In order to enjoy the liberty in ecclesiastical matters which they so greatly desired, they
made up their minds to retire to Amsterdam, under their excellent and respected pastor, John
Robinson; and this project was effected by the greater number of their party; though some were
discovered before they could embark, and were detained and imprisoned, and treated with much
severity. Ultimately, however, they all escaped, and remained unmolested at Amsterdam and the
Hague, until the year 16O8, when they removed to Leyden with their pastor, where they resided
for eleven years, and were joined by many others who fled from England during the early part
of the reign of James.

These men now felt that their only hope of enjoying perfect religious liberty, and of establishing
a church according to their own dearly- loved principles, lay in a voluntary exile.  Their
English prejudices made them shrink from continuing to dwell among the Dutch, who had hitherto
given them a hospitable asylum; for they feared that, by frequent intermarriages, they should
eventually lose their nationality; and they resolved to seek a new home, where they might found
an English colony, and, while they followed that mode of worship which was alone consistent
with their views and principles; might still be subjects of the English crown, and keep up
an intercourse with the friends they dearly loved, and the land where their forefathers had
lived and died.

The recent discovery of the vast continent of America, in several parts of which the British
had already begun to form colonies, opened to them a field of enterprise, as well as a quiet
refuge from persecution and controversy; and thither the Puritans turned their eyes. Nor were
they the first who had taken advantage of the unoccupied wastes of the New World, and sought
in them an asylum from intolerant oppression. Already a numerous band of French Huguenots had
retired thither, under the conduct of their celebrated Calvinistic leader, De Monts, who was
invested with the government of the district lying between Montreal and Philadelphia, by a
patent from his sovereign, Henry the Fourth.  No traces of this colony now remain, while those
planted by the English Puritans have taken root in the American soil, and flourished so greatly,
that a few years ago their descendants were found to amount to 4,000,000: so remarkably has
the blessing of God, at least in temporal matters, been bestowed on an enterprise which was,
doubtless, undertaken in dependence on His protection; and was carried out with that fortitude
and resolution which are the results of sincere piety struggling with deep adversity.[*]

[Footnote: For this account of the cause which led to the emigration of the Puritans, and the
manner in which they effected it, the authoress is chiefly indebted to Marden’s ‘History of
the Puritans,’ and Talvi’s ‘History of the Colonization of America.’]

The idea of retiring to the shores of America was first suggested to his followers by their
pastor, John Robinson, whose influence over his flock was almost unexampled. This influence
was derived from the purity of his life, and the holy consistency of his conduct.  He was possessed
of a gentle temper; and the strictness of his religious principles was united with a spirit
of toleration towards others, which was too little felt or practiced in those days, and which
was not, as is too often the case, changed into bitterness by the sufferings that he had himself
experienced. Well had it been for those who professed to be guided by his example and advice,
and who left the shores of Europe with the sanction of his counsel and his blessing, if they
had carried with them the truly Christian spirit of their respected minister, and had suffered
that spirit to guide them in the formation, and during the growth, of their infant church in
America! But, as we shall presently see, this was not the case: the mercy and toleration which
the Puritan exiles had vainly asked at the hands of their brethren at home, they denied to
others who differed from them; and, consequently, while they have so greatly prospered in the
things of this world, in religion they have evidently declined.

Emigration being resolved on, the first step that was taken by the Puritans, was an application
to King James for an assurance of protection and toleration in the new home which they desired
to seek; but this was more than the wary king would guarantee to them. All that they could
obtain was a vague promise, that so long as they conducted themselves peaceably, they should
not be molested; and, relying on this promise, they immediately commenced a negotiation with
the Virginian Company, for the possession of a tract of land within the limits of the patent
which had been granted to them for colonizing that part of America. This was easily obtained;
for the Society had hitherto only been able to occupy a few isolated spots of their extensive
territory, and, therefore, were willing to encourage fresh settlers.

The congregation over which Robinson presided, amounted, at the time of their intended emigration,
to upwards of three hundred in number; but their resources were inadequate to the expense of
moving all together, and it was therefore arranged that only a part of the flock should sail
at first, under the guidance of William Brewster; while the rest should remain at Leyden, under
the care of their pastor, and wait for the report of their friends before they followed them
to their chosen place of exile.

The names of the vessels which were engaged to convey the Pilgrims from the shores of Europe,
were the Mayflower and the Speedwell--names still cherished by heir descendants. When they
were ready for sea, the whole congregation assembled themselves together, and observed a solemn
fast, which concluded with prayer; and Robinson preached to them from Ezra viii, 21: 'Then
I proclaimed a fast there, at the river of Ahava, that we might afflict ourselves before our
God, to seek of him a right way for us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance.'
He afterwards addressed them in a deeply impressive speech, in which he earnestly deprecated
all party spirit and bigotry, and exhorted them to be guided only by the pure doctrines of
God's Word.

'I charge you,' said this truly Christian and evangelical minister, 'that you follow me no
further than you have seen me follow the Lord Jesus Christ.  Again their minister offered up
fervent prayer in behalf of this portion of his flock who were about to encounter the dangers
of a long voyage, and to seek a home in an almost unknown land--and then in deep silence they
parted. 'No cheers or noisy acclamations resounded along the shore, for such demonstrations
were little in accordance with the usual serious habits of the Puritans, and still less so
with the feelings of sadness which now oppressed their hearts.  But a volley of small shot,
and three pieces of ordnance,' writes Winslow, one of the emigrants, 'announced to those on
shore the hearty courage and affectionate adieus of those on board; and so, lifting up our
hands to one another, and our hearts to the Lord, we departed.'

Thus the Pilgrims set sail, with mingled feelings of hope for the future, and regret for what
they left behind; and greatly would their sorrow have been increased, had they known that they
would never again behold on earth the countenance of their much-loved pastor.  They fully anticipated
his following them, with the rest of their brethren, as soon as they should have found a suitable
place of settlement for the whole congregation. But poverty and other obstacles detained him
in Europe, and he terminated his useful and exemplary life at Leyden.

The emigrants had not proceeded far on their voyage, when it was discovered that the Mayflower,
commanded by Captain Jones, was in need of some repairs; and the two vessels put into Dartmouth--not
to sail together again. The captain of the Speedwell declared that he was afraid to encounter
the voyage; and from this, or some other motive, he positively refused to proceed any further.
Several of the passengers also, had already begun to feel disheartened, and they returned with
him to London, and abandoned the enterprise altogether. Doubtless, the Pilgrims bad no cause
to lament the departure of these faint-hearted comrades; but it occasioned them much present
inconvenience, for, not being able to procure another vessel to convey the remainder of the
passengers who had embarked in the Speedwell, they were all obliged to be crowded into the
Mayflower, which sailed again on the sixth of September, 1620, with considerably upwards of
a hundred men, women, and children on her narrow decks, in addition to her own crew of seamen.

After a very tedious and tempestuous voyage, they came in sight of the American shores on the
eighth of November; and, as we have already seen, they landed three days afterwards in Cape
Cod Bay, and eventually founded the city of New Plymouth at the place of their disembarkation.
A portion of the granite rock on which the Pilgrim Fathers first set foot has since been removed
from the coast, and placed in front of' ‘The Pilgrim's Hall,' enclosed in an iron railing;
and the anniversary of their landing, afterwards called Forefather's-day, has ever since been
observed by their descendants as a day of solemn festivity, in remembrance of the mercy of
Providence, which led them safely through so many difficulties and dangers; and permitted them
to find a new home, and a new country, and to bring their enterprise to such a prosperous issue.

It is with the first period of their establishment on the uncultivated shores of North America
that our story commences; and it is connected with the sufferings and privations which were
so patiently endured, and the difficulties which were so resolutely overcome, by these devoted
men, before they had taken root in their new settlement, or gathered around themselves and
their families the comforts which they had abandoned in their own land for conscience sake.
Many trials awaited them ere prosperity became their portion, and ere they could feel either
rest or security in the wild regions where they had sought a refuge: and these trials will
be brought more distinctly to our minds, if we view them in connection with some of the individuals
of the expedition, and follow the fortunes of one family more particularly. This family we
will call by the name of Maitland, and endeavor in their somewhat imaginary history, to describe
the mode of life, and some of the joys and sorrows--the difficulties and successes--of the
Pilgrim Fathers.

Owing to the many delays which the emigrants had experienced, a severe winter had set in before
they landed, and had fixed a spot for their permanent abode; and they found themselves exposed
to the inclemency of a North climate, with no other shelter than a few tents, besides that
which the vessel continued to afford. In haste they felled the trees of the neighboring forests;
and in haste they constructed the village of log huts which was to be their present abode,
and which, ultimately, grew into the flourishing and wealthy city of New Plymouth.  In the
erection of this hamlet, no head was so fertile in plans and expedients, and no arms were so
strong to execute them, as those of Rodolph Maitland, the head of the family in whom we are
specially interested.  He was a younger member of a very respectable family in the North of
England, and had passed his youth and early manhood in the service of his country as a soldier.
This profession, however, became distasteful to him when the religious dissensions which troubled
the land called on him, at times, to obey his commander in carrying out schemes of oppression
which were contrary both to his feelings and his principles.  His marriage with Helen Seatown,
the daughter of a nonconforming minister, increased his repugnance to bearing arms, which might
be turned against the party to which he was now so closely connected; and he threw up his commission,
and soon afterwards accompanied his father-in-law to Holland, and joined the congregation of
the respected Robinson at Leyden.

Here he continued to reside until the resolution to emigrate was formed by the Puritan refugees,
when he was among the first to embrace the proposition of the pastor, and to lend all the aid
which his comparative wealth, and the influence of his connections in England, enabled him
to offer in furtherance of the enterprise.  His father-in- law had died soon after his arrival
at Leyden; but his amiable and devoted wife was most willing to follow him in his voluntary
exile, and to take her children to the New World, where she hoped to bring them up in the same
principles of pure evangelical religion which she had learnt from her own parents, and which
were dearer to her than home or friends or aught on earth besides.

At the time when the Pilgrims reached America, the Maitland’s family consisted of two sons,
Henrich and Ludovico; the elder of whom was sixteen years of age, and the younger about seven;
and one little girl between ten and eleven, named Edith. In the thoughtful seriousness of his
eldest boy, which was united with great intelligence and spirit, and a manly resolution beyond
his years, Rodolph saw his own character again depicted; and Helen proudly hoped that her Henrich
would one day manifest all those qualities of mind and person by which his father had first
won her admiration and love, and by which he had since gained the esteem and affection of all
who were in any way connected with him. Henrich was now old enough to understand, and almost
to appreciate, the motives which had induced his parents and their companions to become exiles
from home: and his young heart exulted in the resolution that freed him from the cold formality
of Dutch manners, and opened to his adventurous spirit a prospect of liberty and enterprise,
far better suited to his inclination and character. Religious freedom he desired, because he
had been taught that it was his rightful privilege, and that the want of it had occasioned
those troubles which first drove his parents and friends from their native land. But personal
freedom he yearned for with his whole soul; and the wild shores of New England, and the depths
of the unexplored forests that now met his eager gaze, filled his ardent mind with anticipations
of adventurous joys hitherto unknown to him.  These anticipations were destined to be fulfilled,
ere long, in a manner which he neither foresaw nor desired.

His brother Ludovico was a playful child, too young to share all the feelings of the earnest
Henrich, who always acted as his guide and protector during their sports and rambles; but in
the gentle little Edith he found a kindred spirit, and a heart that could sympathize in all
his joys and sorrows. Young as she was, Edith felt the influence of her brother's character;
and she looked up to him with feelings of devoted love and admiring pride.  She was his constant
companion, and his ever-ready assistant in all his difficulties. This had been very much the
case during their residence in Holland; but on their arrival in New England, Edith was left
still more to her brother's guidance. Their parents were necessarily too much occupied with
the cares end anxieties which their new situation brought upon them, to devote much time to
their children; and when the light labors in which Henrich and Edith were able to render any
assistance were over, they and Ludovico amused themselves by wandering along the shore in search
of shells and seaweed; or else they followed the wood-cutters into the forest, to seek for
such flowering plants as still were to be found in the more sheltered spots, and to transplant
them to the garden that was to surround and embellish their rude dwelling.

As soon as a tolerable shelter had been obtained, by the erection of a sufficient number of
log-huts, to contain the families of the settlers, it was resolved that a party of men should
go on an exploring expedition, and endeavor to ascertain the nature and resources of the coast
on which they had landed; and, also, whether it was inhabited by any tribes of native Indians.
Hitherto they had seen no human beings, and they had remained undisturbed possessors of the
soil. But they could hardly expect that this state of things would long continue; and they
were anxious, if possible, to discover the native inhabitants and natural possessors of the
country, and to establish friendly relations with them.

Sixteen of the Pilgrims volunteered for this expedition, headed by Rodolph Maitland, whose
military experience, and superior intelligence, well fitted him to be the leader of the party.
The rest of the men remained to protect their families, and to complete the village; which
already presented a very respectable appearance, and promised to afford a tolerably comfortable
residence to the new settlers, until they should have leisure and means to erect dwellings
more in accordance with their previous habits of life.

The government of the little colony was unanimously confided to John Carver, who was elected
President for one year; but he did not live long to exercise his authority, or to enjoy the
confidence reposed in him by his fellow-settlers. During the short period, however, that he
was spared to them, he exerted himself successfully to promote the welfare of the community,
and to preserve peace and unanimity among the members of which it was composed; and before
the departure of the exploring party, he called on all the Pilgrim Fathers to sign a covenant,
which had been drawn up during the voyage, and which contained a statement of the peculiar
religious principles of the congregation, and also of the mode of civil government that they
proposed to establish in the colony. This government was not to be independent of the mother
country, for the Pilgrims regarded themselves as still being the subjects of King James; and
the patent which they had procured to enable them to settle in New England was granted by the
Company to whom the king had assigned the right of colonizing that part of North America. They,
therefore, intended to be governed mainly by English laws, and to keep up a constant and intimate
connection with their English brethren. It may be well here to mention that their plan of civil
government consisted in the election of a governor or president by general vote, and of seven
counselors to assist him; the only privilege granted to the president being that his vote counted
double. This state of things continued for eighteen years, after which time the growth of the
colony rendered a change expedient, and each new town that was founded sent delegates to a
general court.  It would, however, be useless here to follow the political changes of these
early settlers, as it is only with their first form of government that our story is concerned.

According to the habitual custom of the Pilgrims, the Sabbath which preceded the sending forth
this band of spies to search the land, was observed with the utmost solemnity; for no press
of occupations--no necessity for haste--ever induced them to neglect this duty.  For the liberty
of practicing their own mode of worship, they had sought these shores; and, having been permitted
safely to reach them, they used that liberty, and were never unmindful of their religious privileges.
Every Sabbath was a day of sacred rest; and every undertaking was sanctified by prayer; sometimes
even, as we shall have occasion to observe, when the undertaking was such as could hardly be
supposed to deserve the blessing of God.  Still, there is every reason to believe that their
piety, as a body, was sincere; and while we condemn the sternness and severity into which they
were too frequently betrayed, we must yield our heartfelt approbation to the self-denying resolution
and unflinching faith that were their governing principle and their ever- actuating motive.

'In much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, In distresses… As having nothing, and yet
possessing all things.'--2 COR. vi, 4, 10.

With some anxiety the settlers saw the exploring party set out on their hazardous enterprise.
The season was far advanced, and drifting snowstorms gave warning of the inclement winter that
was rapidly setting in.  Still it was deemed necessary to make some investigation into the
nature of the country, and to endeavor to obtain, if possible, a supply of provisions before
the increasing severity of the weather should render it impracticable to do so.  But, above
all, it was desirable to ascertain what native tribes dwelt in the vicinity of the settlement,
and to use every means to establish friendly relations with them; not only because such a course
would be most in accordance with the principles of the Gospel which the emigrants professed
to hold and to practice, but also because, in the present state of the infant colony, they
were altogether unprepared to resist any attack that might be made on them by a large body
of Indians.

Maitland led his party inland at first, and for two days they saw no traces or human inhabitants;
but on the afternoon of the third day, as they were looking about for a convenient spot on
which to encamp for the night, some large and apparently artificial mounds of earth were observed,
scattered over an open glade in the forest. At the first glance, they appeared like dwelling
places; and, knowing something of the habits of the Indians, Rodolph and two of his companions
approached them warily, fearing to surprise and irritate the inhabitants.  But after making
a circuit, and ascertaining that these supposed huts had no doorways, they went up to them,
and found them to be solid mounds, at the foot of which neatly plaited baskets, filled with
ears of maize, were placed. These were eagerly seized upon; and a further search being made,
several warlike and agricultural implements were discovered buried beneath the surface of the
earth. It was evident that these mounds were native graves, and that they had recently been
visited by the tribe to which they belonged, who most probably resided in the neighborhood.
Therefore, to avoid exciting their displeasure and jealousy, Rodolph caused all the weapons
and other tools to be restored to their places; and, in exchange for the corn, which was too
much needed to be left behind, he put into the baskets several strings of beads, and other
trifles, with which he was provided for the purpose of barter, or as presents to the natives.

It did not appear either safe or desirable to remain near a spot so sacred to the Indians;
the party therefore moved further into the depth of the forest, where they erected their tents,
which consisted merely of blankets supported on poles; and, lighting large fires, they slept
by turns, while half their number kept a vigilant watch.  Their rest was, however, undisturbed,
either by lurking Indians or by prowling beasts of prey; and at day-break they resumed their
march, in the hope of discovering the native camp. But their search was in vain; and Rodolph
determined to leave the forest, and return to the settlement along the shore, hoping there
to find some traces of the natives. Before he and his comrades left the shelter of the wood,
they fired their muskets at the small game which abounded in every direction, partly with a
view to supply themselves with food, and partly to attract the notice of any straggling Indians
who might be wandering near, and who would conduct them to their wigwams.  But the echoes were
the only sounds that answered their reports, and it was clear that no native camp was within
hearing.

The place where Maitland and his little band reached the coast was nearly twenty leagues from
the settlement, towards the north, and has since been known by the name of Angoum.  Here they
found two empty huts, containing all the curiously-worked utensils used by the Indians of that
district—bowls, trays, and dishes, formed of calabashes and carved wood or bark; and beautiful
baskets constructed of crabshells, ingeniously wrought together, with well-woven mats of grass
and bulrushes, dyed of various brilliant colors. The inhabitants had probably gone on a fishing
expedition, and would return in a few days, as they had left behind them a considerable quantity
of dried acorns, which, at that period, formed a common article of food with these children
of the forest.

Rodolph suffered nothing to be taken from the huts, but proceeded along the coast in a southerly
direction and, at length, he perceived two canoes at a considerable distance from the shore,
containing several Indians, who took no notice of the signals they made, but rowed rapidly
away on an opposite course.  Finding it useless to linger any longer in this part of the bay,
Maitland led his party back to the settlement at New Plymouth, taking accurate observations
of the line of coast, and communicated to President Carver all the information that he had
been able to collect. This was not very satisfactory; and the governor resolved to send out
a second party, well armed, who should proceed in the shallop to the southern part of Cape
Cod Bay. This expedition was placed under the command of Captain Standish, who was regarded
as the military chief of the settlers; and Maitland again formed one of the number. On this
occasion he obtained permission to take Henrich with him, as he wished the boy to become early
inured to the hardships and privations which it would probably be his lot to bear for many
years, and also to acquire habits of courage and vigilance that might be of service to him
hereafter.  Henrich was delighted with this arrangement, which gratified his desire for adventure,
and also proved that his father now placed some confidence in him, and no longer regarded him
as a mere child. His astonishment was great when first he beheld the whales, those huge and
fearful-looking monsters of the ocean, lifting their gigantic heads above the waves, and lashing
the surface to foam with their powerful tails; or ejecting vast spouts of water like fountains,
from their upraised heads. These, and many other strange objects, attracted his attention as
the boat moved down the bay; but all were forgotten in the absorbing interest with which he
regarded, for the first time, the wild red men that met his view as the boat neared the shore,
at a spot about eight leagues from New Plymouth, called by the Pilgrims Thievish Harbor.  Several
of these savages, in their strange attire of skins, and feathers, and woven grasses, showed
themselves among the rocks that stood above the landing-place; but, regardless of the peaceful
signs that were made to them by Captain Standish and his crew, they hastily retreated and when
the party disembarked, not an Indian was to be seen. With much circumspection, the captain
advanced at the head of his resolute band, who all held their muskets ready for action, if
self-defense should compel them to use them; but with a positive order from their commander
to refrain from any act of hostility so long as it was possible to do so.

This command could not, however, be long obeyed; for as the party proceeded through the rocks
and stunted trees that lined the coast, they came in sight of a burial ground, similar to that
which had been discovered in the first expedition, except that, in this case, the mounds of
earth were enclosed by a strong palisade of upright poles, bound together firmly at the top.
Through the interstices of these poles, Standish and his men saw the glittering eyes of the
savages watching their approach; and before they could decide whether to advance or retreat,
a shower of arrows was discharged, several of which took effect, though not mortally. This
wanton aggression roused the spirit of the sturdy Englishmen, and regardless of the efforts
which Captain Standish made to restrain them, a volley of musket balls instantly replied to
the challenge of the red men; and the wild cries that arose from the cemetery plainly told
that they had not sped in vain. Even Rodolph Maitland was surprised out of his usual calm resolution
and presence of mind; for he saw his son fall bleeding to the ground, pierced through the leg
by an arrow, and almost involuntarily he fired off his musket at an Indian whose body was more
exposed than the rest, and whose greater profusion of ornament showed him to be one of their
chief warriors. Rodolph saw him fall from the palisades on which he had climbed to take a better
aim at the white men; and instantly a gate was opened in the enclosure, and, with a hideous
yell, the savages rushed forth, brandishing their spears and battle-axes, and shouting their
war-cry, 'Woach! woach! ha, ha, hach, woach!' Their number appeared to be about thirty men;
and Standish knew that his party, several of whom were already slightly wounded, could not
resist the fury of their attack. He therefore gave the word for an instant retreat to the boat,
as the only means of safety. His gallant band would gladly have pressed on, and met the savages
in close combat; but they had promised to obey their leader, and reluctantly they followed
him to the shore.

