 His memory was rich array of songs or files, tender or spicy
as caste popular muse is not always deserved the epithet referred to that some of the designated.

Not
understand why we love to talk to Dona Ines free and rugged.

The it was not lawful and pure in thought and word offended their ears austere matron but in
a place you have to suffer such freedoms or have to pretend not to hear. Himself Don Alvaro
was nothing looked in the talk, still less so were the people around him. Worth for such a boy,
about fifteen years old, son of the overseer and favorite Don Alvaro, this was always at home
to entertain children. As the overseer Calvo was named, the waiter surnamed Calvete. And so
you can see how much there sometimes suffer the cleanliness of Dona Ines, I cite a case that I
have Calvete referred.

Fulfilled two years before the firstborn from the Rolands, managed
to teach him to pronounce Calvete as perfectly true three-syllable
word that is a very strong suction.

Delighted with his win pedagogical ran through the house screaming like a madman

- Mr Don Alvaro! It makes it clear! The gentleman makes it clear!

Dona Ines was upset and angry, but don Alvaro was more delighted than him in Calvete and albricias
a doubloon to four dollars, after the boy told him before the catchword and he admired the
use and precocious student and teacher's teaching virtue.

Dona Ines had few friends, because almost all hidalguillas and styling
of the population were well below it in understanding, enlightenment,
refinement and wealth.

Who else accompanied, therefore, their loneliness to Ms. Dona Ines was the chief Don Andrés
Rubio, enthralled with the friendly treatment of it and captured its discretion and its beauty.
This occasion was that they supposed slanderers and say a thousand tricks. But who in this
world is free of bad language and a false witness? What a rude people place has to understand
the sophisticated and platonic friendship of two choice spirits? Mr. was pastor of the few
who really understood, and so was very well that friendship, and perhaps he thanked God that
exists, because it was in good the poor and the church, whom Dona
Ines and Don Andrew, agreed, many did present and handouts.

It was a friar exclaustrated pastor of St. Dominic, very severe in their moral, very religious and
a close friend of order, discipline and respect for social hierarchy. Almost always his talks in
private conversations and sermons, he preached frequently because it was an excellent preacher,
cried so much against the lack of religion against godlessness that is rife everywhere, so
that the rich lose their charity and the poor resignation and patience,
and in some and in other vices germinate and ferment, poor passions
and the worst habits.

Father Anselmo, such was the parish priest, admired in good faith to Ms. Donna Ines as a model
of deep religious faith and aristocratic distinction. It was the ideal type made of the great
lady, as he imagined. Lacked even Dona Ines occasions to exercise the rare virtues of prudent
dissimulation to avoid giving scandal, of the holy conformity to the will of God and benign forbearance
to forgive offenses. Knew all the locals missteps that Don Alvaro Roldan used walk into. Often,
especially at fairs, playing up the mountain and Cane, and what Worse, he was so unhappy and
so awkward, almost always lost. To console appealed a pitiful appeal: he liked to tipple and even
had a joyful and gentle wine, was always great torment for a lady so at their points have at your
side and as partner a drunkard.

Finally, he empecatado Don Alvaro, but was so egregious and beautiful wife, was left often carry
the most villainous inclinations, and in one or other of its two
magnificent caserías staying with ill-concealed some Daifa modesty,
usually an outsider, who had known and with whom he sympathized, and
in this show, and in the other.

As you see, Don Alvaro was far from being a model of perfection. Father Anselm was aware their
losses, helping it to make it more respectable in their eyes to the prudent and patient lady.

Such was the aristocratic distinction of Doña Inés, who could not help, until his father was some
vulgar coarseness that not a little distressed, but as Dona Ines
was very present the commandments of the Law of God and accurately
observed rigorously, never stopped honor your father was, but tried
to honor him from afar and do not see often in order not to lose illusions.

In

sum, the cacique don Andrés was the only person who by nature was at the height of Dona Ines
and was able to understand and admire. I say naturally, because the father Anselmo though nature was
understood, was also so helpful and so enlightened with the grace of God that no one understood
as the value and excellence of Dona Ines, and very worthy of its friendly service, taking with
it piadosísimos symposia, which was unleashed against the abominable corruption of our century and
against the blasphemous disbelief prevails the day and to be taking over all spirits.

III

Without a device I already submitted my characters, several of
the main characters to be included in this story, but I still have
two of which should prior to any news.

Don Paco, as stated, was an encyclopedic man of many skills and abilities;
the right hand of the chief and subordinate intelligence that made
the place the sovereign the chief will be respected and fulfilled.

There was, however, Villalegre another person, that smaller and smaller
area terms, if not competing, was very close to Don Paco merit by
the multitude of their knowledge and skills and is hardworking and
ready he was.

I speak here of the famous Juana la Larga.

Seems impossible that this woman manages to do While many different things. She worked hard,
but there is no denying that with fruit. Had home, despite no winery and cellar, but the rest
almost as good as Don Paco. Devoid of olive groves and vineyards, but had made some nest egg,
which, as the public voice, spent twelve thousand pieces, and they grew like wildfire, because
the revenue was given to very reliable people, and ten percent a year, because as a woman was afraid
God consciousness very close and very charitable, I did not go through usurious.

In its various offices, Juana la Larga earned on average, and according to calculations wise,
about eight reales per day, or tell yourself about three thousand each year. And this without
counting the adehalas, tips, gifts and receiving gifts often. It is true that each and she
deserved more.

No one was more calculated to lead a pigs. Singular salted hams skill. Marinating with that
prepared the loins before frying in butter was tasty and delicate, and dyed red butter golden bewitching
sight, was delicate perfume and aroused the appetite of the person coming through half-hearted
when their noses and their eyes. Their sausage, black pudding, sausage morcones and left far
behind the best in this genus is seasoned in Extremadura. And he was so skilled hand for all
that even when melt the butter drew the most crunchy snacks that are eaten pork rinds ever.
So the rich peasants and other people comfortably and tastefully vied Juana la Larga to go to their
house to do the killing.

Regarding baking was nothing less, and most of the year, particularly in three solemn times, she
knew not how to go to a thousand places where they called it: Before Easter Christmas, to make
the sweets and delicacies and wealthy people often sybaritic then send your gift to make, for example,
pastries and the famous picadillo empanadas with anchovies and tomato and onion that are taken there
with the chocolate. It was also, as anyone polvorones tortillas and sugar that were left far
behind commended as Moron, donuts egg and wine, and many variety of cakes and syrups.

If Jane did not know much about other things, had failed to ensure that was a specialty wonderful
for fritters, so that in the days leading up to Easter no peace was at hand or the mind, going to the
homes of older brothers of the fraternities to make the fluffy flakes, the gajorros and delicious
fritters, which fell apart in the mouth and with which the apostles were given away, the Nazarenes,
the holy King David and all other prophets and glorious characters of the Old and New Testament
contained delicious processions in which there is style.

Juana was not idle or lacked appropriate skills to use it in the station vintage. Their syrup had
no rival in the whole region, and the same can be said its excellent porridge must. In the fall,
because when given the best fruits, are castrated hives and honey is cool, Juana was used to make
quince jelly and apple variety of legitimate and fluffy nougat piñonates,
which were thick and gold beads linked with the fragrant honey well
beaten.

Beyond this, Jane was painted alone to provide any or banquet that
was Pipiripao or wanted to give a ruler of the people, and on the
occasion of wedding or baptism, and to give away the deputy governor,
Mr Bishop himself if he came to visit the villa.

And do not think that Joan knew just making the local dishes but also imported and added a few
non-indigenous cuisine dishes strangers more or less distant countries, dishes or delicacies which
stood out the yolk very famous cakes, which were only Ecija nuns, whose traditional secrecy is
not clear why prodigious art or skill she had learned to seize. Made Finally, several dishes
of French origin, whose convoluted names had been agreeing to modify the pronunciation Spanish.
For example, the balsamela chops, fried flounder and elvers inglatines
with salmorejo tartar.

This was not the most admirable. The most remarkable was that Jane, about being the wiser cook
and pastry chef of the place, was also his first dressmaker.

Almost always had one or two officers who sewed for her, and she cut dresses with both art and
elegance as Worth or Doucet in the French capital.

The women and girls more affluent and fond of luxury came then to Joan for their Costumes effort,
when he had to wear them as a wedding, and at a fair or already in
the dance it used to be in the Hall buildings on the patron saint.

Juana, finally, was not only wise and active in the arts of pleasure, but also exercised, although
it was not discussed or had a title, a necessary or profession of the highest importance social.

Peritísima and agilísima was to help any woman in the harshest of Lucina trances, and many trusted
and were delivered to her, because she never had any unfortunate
creature, and because the mother was not very puny, six or seven days
after leaving care was already in place, and often went to Mass, and
if the opportunity arose danced bolero.

With all these skills and qualities, Juana's Long could not but be dear and in Villalegre, getting
your severe and high society or high-life you have forgiven a slip or trip that took in his youth.

IV

At
the time that it will begin the action of this true story, Jane was about quite forty years of
age, although still retained traces of its former beauty, who had
been noticeable when she was twenty, but as time was very poor and
had not discovered and showed their great skills, he found, despite
their merit, boyfriend of his choice, and had to remain unmarried.

What he has, some cavalry officer who came to those places to buy horses for the comeback, and
it was gorgeous and very funny and fun, he fell in love and got Juana woo. It is not known whether
he gave a promise of marriage or is not given, but the fact is that
the good of the officer had to go to civil war, which burned in the
Basque provinces, and there he killed a Carlist bullet that pierced
her skull and you'll be entered in the brain.

Juana was thus semiviuda. Posthumous posthumously or not, had a beautiful girl, who gave at
the baptismal font the same name as his mother.

The mob then added to the name the same epithet, where this girl, who will be the main heroine
of our story, became Juanita surname.

Her mother was raised with love and care, without restraint and without
pretense that she was his daughter which would have been in that play,
where everything was known, the most futile of dissimulation.

Juana raised, then, to her breasts Juanita, always called her daughter, Juanita since he began to
speak, mother Joan called mouth full.

This was considered a great impudence among the strictest in the place, crying out against the
scandal and bad example, but gradually all became accustomed, and after a few years nothing
seemed more natural and more just, but Juanita was the daughter of Juana, to which there is
no lack defenders, and reasonable, earnest, praising the love and maternal devotion of mother to
daughter, and when they were little cursing did not stop Juana compare with others that passed
through very honest and even had the insolence Presumably almost
holy.

Of them murmured, more or less foundation, which had been also the
fruit, not a blessing, which had dropped off or sent to the Foundling
or God or the devil knows how else.

The epithet given to Juanita Long was not only for inheritance but it was also by conquest.

Juanita,
at seventeen, had gleaned so much that the girl was taller and more slender that was in place. Some
of the blood warlike cavalry officer had been infused in it, and the free and manly upbringing
he had received had developed their agility and their brightness. Whenever she had a martial
air, the pair that funny, ran like a deer, throw stones with such tact that killed the sparrows,
and jumped on the back was planted the mule more vicious or more wild pony. And not to straddle,
because this is not consented their honor and their natural beauty
and unconscious, but sitting, which is more difficult was trot and
gallop to the beast, spurring or whipping heels with the end of halter
or halter when he was not going to do hair, without a bridle or reins
of any kind.

The first years of the youth of Juanita had been difficult, because
his mother had not yet achieved the remarkable reputation enjoyed
after, I had the welfare and wealth that we have already spoken.

Juanita was never a crumb, but his mother taught him to sew and embroider
beautifully; and school teacher, it took a lot of affection, taught
to read and write free their leisure time.

Since he was nine years, Juanita was of great assistance to his mother, who until much later
not had the luxury of having a maid.

Juanita sweeping and mopping, washing dishes, and some rooms whitewashed facade the house, which
was the cleanest of the population, and even grabbed his water jug ​​and was the miraculous
source of the ejido, which poured a stream pipe as thick as the arm
of a robust man, with such an abundance of water, that many gardens
were watered it and made lush, delightful Villalegre around, contributing
not little to the town deserve this name.

Water also was exquisite for its transparency and purity, as filtered through rocks of the nearby
hills, and had very pleasant flavor and very healthy condition. The people of people attributed
to him, finally, some prodigious qualities, calling it very vinaigrette and very wheat. He
meant by this that the carrier it bought in vinegar Villalegre yolk, usually strong, only two-thirds
filled cavity corambre and just filled the early morning, before your journey, mitigating
and smoothing with water from the source strength and bitterness
of the liquid, and earning it, of course, Thirty-three percent, but
sold the vinegar at the same price it was purchased.

Wheat was also the source water because its rare qualities consented, though difficult operation
and should be done with great secrecy, that using a broom palm dwarf, it is sprinkled with
wheat that was going to sell, leaving it exposed to sun for to dry.

So the wheat got better taste, and although the outside was dry, kept by in some of the liquid
and sponge and grew in weight and volume.

This source had yet another merit and provided another notable service, because in addition to a
great pillar that went to drink and drank all the beasts of burden and work and bulls cows and
oxen, and also another pillar under which used to be watering of sheep and pig, filled with its
crystal waves albercón spacious enclosure walls that hid in view of passers-by, where women
were washing clothes, rolled up skirts thigh and stuck in water up to the knee, as there is use,
even in the rigor winter. Lush and gigantic black poplars and pines and reeds surrounding the
source and make this place shady and delightful. At the foot of the best trees are made of stone
benches and clay and covered with slabs, which usually sit in the gentlemen and ladies post-ride.
Almost every evening there is assembled gathering and pleasant conversation, being the more consistent
the notary, the apothecary, our Don Paco and the priest, who touch
to recite the Angelus prayers, which all satisfy his hat and crossed
himself and crossing.

Pillar around chatting the girls who come by water, each with a pitcher, and often Cardigans make
the paper with as many carriers Eliezeres go there to drink, if not their camels, their mules
and donkeys. Also next to and within the albercón, and within walking distance it, where there
is a fence or hedgerow of blackberries, pomegranates, and honeysuckle, which limits and defends
the gardens, and on which the hedge is dried laundry, extends and expands the democratic and
popular gathering a lot of talk, laughter, hassles and frolic, as
there are missing never zagalones and even grown men who go out there
attracted to girls, as the sparrows go to wheat.

V

Juana la Larga, as already stated, through its continuing activity, order and economy, around
which her daughter helped her with intelligence and zeal, had improved position and fortune. He had
a very hard working maid, sweeping and scrubbing, and under the direction
of Ladies cooked well, leaving these free time to pursue their lucrative
trades.

Juanita The main office was sewing and embroidery, which had deployed to higher proficiency that
of his mother.

Juanita did not have to be used in lower occupations. But now it was for innocent vanity, or
desire to look for the grace of his person, wish not realized, pray for Juanita need from physical
exercise and to show and display power their healthy nature, Juanita, and even seventeen years
of age, liked to go for water the source of the ejido, paving sometimes,
despite the well off his mother's position and it albercón going to
wash some clothes when the clothes were fine, she feared, or pretended
fear that rougher hands than his will damage it.

The truth was that this albercón and go to the source, rather than
fatigue was recreation and relaxation for Juanita, which amused the
other girls with their sharp words and happy occurrences the cap was
removed and laugh enjoyed popularity and favor among them.

Juanita was already a pretty girl in every sense of the word. Housework had not spoiled her
pretty, shapely hands, and neither the sun nor the air had tanned his skin brunette. His black hair
with blue highlights, was well kept and clean. Do not put it or sweet almond oil or blandurilla
of any kind, but plain water with an infusion fragrant herbs to wash better. I was pulled high
on the occiput, in braids, which tied then, was a bun in the shape
of equilateral triangles, which played in one corner.

As Juanita said that "head crazy not to play" almost always went to the source without tissue
head, looking like the delicacy and neatness of her hair and showing how well planted I was the
head on her graceful neck, only overshadowed by some ricillos often than is subtracted to captivity
that had the longest hair bow. Ahead, collected hair, showed that forehead, straight, petite,
and the temples had large curls fork held there called snails, below which was a patillita soft,
not fixed against the face with psyllium or quince seeds, as do other girls, but left to float
freely rather vague rings or hooks where hanging hearts.

The same freedom that had been raised, and the constant physical exercise, and in useful tasks,
and in games as a boy as a child, Juanita had made, though he had the holy ignorance or had lived
with the recollection that recommend and seek other mothers jealous I had not thought of yet
in matters of love.

Was sought, and requested not to woo a few young men, but brave and surly, he knew lay s, command
respect and hold off the more daring.

Only one was known from childhood tilt persisted in it with constancy,
but this inclination, at least for his part, rather than affection
had traces of brotherly love affection.

Who inspired, no doubt sharing less innocent style, was Antonuelo, master blacksmith's son and
nephew of the chief, who had in place very humble parentage.

Antonuelo was a gentle and robust fine fellow, very nice, but short-sighted
and determined for all, and particularly to admire Juanita, whom he
regarded and respected by subjecting it all his will and by virtue
of fascination or spells.

VI

Don Paco given its constant and different tasks, not or had not planned to marry a second time,
but never had an affair, or at least, if one had had had been so wonderful with caution, no one had
heard of it in Villalegre, what which is an extraordinary implausibility,
because at that place had just person, and less even if it was of
such importance and sheen as Don Paco, I could do or say anything
not knowing. Even the thoughts guessed there were disseminated and
commented, as the thinker does not think very openly and very inward. Women, while the opportunity came provide the
pantry so it missing, spent magazine and retold, fondled and admonished the tableware for
the "feast" of that great occasion, and the first desnieve feigned themselves out in all directions,
and, while they, the pedestrian mail which was in the bag warnings that they could not distribute
their own.

And it shone like the sun very often turned gray woman to make their own and wonder at every
turn with anxious eyes, not daring to do word what night you least expect it would stop what
had been pending in the death of his master. The truth is that I, if I had not thrown entirely
into oblivion, after thinking better and link it with recent events that had so radically
transformed the way of being in that house, it had a very sloppy, and even caused me some ruborcillo
recall the importance that had come to concede, perhaps influenced by the cold Facia poor hysterical.

Once
responded to his eyes in that direction by speaking reassuringly
better, but not I could see if I achieved what I intended, because
from the commitment he had acquired me on how to behave in that case,
I betrayed the truth their feelings.

 Had reached evening
with her husband, and "the legs." So went home to Neluco; found him closed and followed the
Don Pedro Nolasco, he said to the monsoon that it served what was happening, then turned toward
the house, without any pity for the poor hack who already broke the back and was on the verge
of spending the last breath when climbing the scree.

When the two friends meet in the middle of Carrejo, enzarzáronse in an embrace so intimate and tight,
looking like a "engarra '; ate kisses between kisses and they said the biggest atrocities, Lita
came with his grandfather, and repeated the scene until it ran out of Robacio to look at me
and began to mourn the deceased, so willingly, that seemed to be no comfort to her, while her
husband, which had greeted me, made the corresponding pots, and wiped his eyes with aprons
Lita and her mother, who were his very sticky tender heart and tears. The noise was finished, by
virtue of a spell mine, with the same speed that had been unleashed, and we went into the Hall
together and holy peace, but not silent. Arriving Neluco, another crack of her sister, no
mouth closed all night and wanted to leave the house since I heard the commotion he had in it.
Precisely for these things are perishing, and killed the stillness. On the other hand, roads
were not very appetizing than were, for a woman of her flesh to venture to step on at night without
a great need, besides the fact that she was not to cause trouble or extortion at home, because Pepa Mari
knew that in joining the two were always "round bed."

In this way, and slept there for those reasons, and they were alone
after dinner, her husband and Neluco to house it.

The first to arrive very early the next day were two relatives of
the woman who was My Uncle Celso, the Sanchez del Pinar, of Caórnica,
on the banks of Saja. It was one very tall and one very low: the two
thick gray sideburns, both smiling and nothing little glib. The case was that by going to ride early in the morning
attend the funeral of my uncle, had delivered a letter from the court of first instance forcing
him to practice some procedures as he entertained about two hours ... all respects to "trigedia"
the day before, that I should know, and for this the truth were told, for who knew him mainly
came.

Hicímosle seat at the table, preventing Facia that were served from the noodle soup inclusive,
and while out Tona and his mother was changing and removing leftover food destroyed in stews,
and all we paid him very great care, he noted that lowering a pastor of winter, just started
the desnieve, cross country, because it pushed the ran very cold and a black cloud of bad
part and worse road, stopped for a moment and take a tinderbox and light the pipe, the same
mouth of a covachón, known to very few for being out of path frequented, as half the distance, the
short cut between Tablanca and the people of relatante, but in this municipality. Standing
there and give the pastor you hit the edge of the knife, because it sparked the stone was not
tinder the best, notes on the nose gives a "jedor" that would lie on his back. Look here smells
there, note that the jedor out of the cave, curiosity tempt them, enter, and at a bend very wide,
to the right, sees three men lying in the long run, face up, stiff and almost stacked on each
other, killed three and leaning against one of ash and embers Piluca off. Frightening, flee
from there, and for being the closest, according to his account, gives the people the narrator
relates what he has seen. It goes back in his office, accompanied by appropriate way, and
truth is denounced by the pastor. Three were, indeed, the bodies and of well-known place, and
were well equipped firearms ... and up ropes and knives. Without doubt the surprise snowstorm
there since the beginning, and they perished from hunger and cold ... by decree of God who
knew his evil intentions. It was a comb that was called an engineer and said go in search
of a gold mine, months made and, with his ragged clothes, his matted hair and wild beard and seams
in the face, it started half an eye and nose.

Here there was a clatter of dishes infernal tattered, and a cry of Facia who is had fallen from
his hands as a dozen of them. Then I looked and found her looking at me me with frightened eyes
and the color of death in the face. I told him to mine not to commit indiscreet; entendióme, and
added in words and smiling was not the mess one reason to be frightened so much, referring
to the pieces, while snuggled Tona the municipal judge's two half-full of dishes knowledgeable
sources, so some pasmadona had caught the story, but probably more by the disaster of the vessel,
which had started her mother cry.

Relatante to become the story after this incident, and seeing that, out of respect for I certainly
was with Repulgue and fussiness to testify who were net Castilian the other two dead, apresuréme
to say:

- I am well aware of who it is, and you want to avoid reluctance to declare before me are two
of my relatives, of the two gentlemen of promise. With a that the engineer lived CHIRLA, in his
hometown of you: we saw them together and I passed Neluco for him, going to Provedaño. As good
news source, then waiting overnight missing brother of one my relative (who, apparently, arrived
in time) to give final blow to the exploitation of gold mine he had discovered the lynx wild
beard. In good justice, had three more than deserved the stick, which had dead are not dying in this
different manner. So you see you if I have to reason, as far as touches my relatives, to rejoice
that they have finished well, like any good man.

Preopinante said was the truth that everything I had said, added in response a question that
someone did, that the man in the face Chirlo had lived in the place with the name, certainly, of course,
Pedro Gonzalez as reflected in his personal card, and that that had been registered as dead
in the book in question; alegréme yo this, and surely would be glad Facia, who listened, much
more ... and ended the conversation without getting into a new one, because he had also finished
the meal, time was pressing and had much to outsiders for the guests go back to their homes
each, and other to complete their journey. Because Don was the first leg advantage to Recaredo
Tablanca to transact business, yet that step and a half ago in a village of Nansa downstream, and
was also renowned chores campurriano emergency in the capital so he took with Don Roman and her
husband. Disappeared without knowing how Don Lope; depart, while he was eating everything put
in front of the municipal judge aforesaid, the two unequal and the five wealthiest Caórnica Nansa
upstream and downstream of the house, ended at last, eating the remaining eating, and went
off too, and well stocked, instead ...

The next day, very early, took off to Robacio's sister and brother-Neluco, and few hours later,
alas! I also left the whole family of giant of Castañalera.

XXXI

And that was the darkest for me! Of me, alone in the fields of muted and stiff the manor house,
castle of my new and patriarchal dominion, in the poor soil of "my greatest." Everything was
wide, all I was left over there and all I came up, as if built in the air, since he had returned
home the family of the old Marmitón. Because the continued presence of some women as lively and
happy as these two, more hectic when engaged and walked in and out of so many different people
in recent days, could not find me in its true light the void left in the death house of habitation
and venerable owner, who, alive, filled her whole and was also the bond that tied me to it with
the strength of my commitment, funded primarily in consideration
of what he considered the gift of my company.

Often came to see me and Neluco Cura Don Sabas, and spent long hours with me, still the gathering
of the night very busy and lively; presidial me with the greatest assiduity, and made pluck up
the courage to believe a lot of fun in it, or to let him know ahead of those rustic and good commentators,
ocupábame at times to dispatch or to fix my mail papers and accounts of the estate, spoke to
Facia and I was pleased to see how believing and, under the news brought by the municipal judge
of yore, and my subsequent reflections, forever free of the cross that had so oppressed and kept
assuming at the bottom of a grave the secret of what could be an affront to his daughter, was the
poor women turning to life, and gradually regained the strength of his spirit exhausted, crying and
praying while the hapless man, died with the black-stained soul intentions after an eventful
life and criminal gozábame also decipher the impenetrable continent of Chisco certain characters
confused himself betrayed in their glee pechazo gentle and deep from the legacy of the "stack
of ounces", and pull his tongue to know how he was since then in their dealings and friendships
with the family of Toper, which, as I know, has been humanized a lot with him and even "caught
him with eyes memorials" and even with some hints too suggestive; interesábame Pito Salces
really that amurriadote and suspicious walked fearing that would have changed the good dispositions
of Tona to him since his mother was rich, and even on their own, taking the poor for contempt
astonishment, very natural, which fell monsoon sets in those days of fat, left home sometimes
to vent some ideas and stretch cramped limbs, but was always waterlogged soil as a sponge and cold
the sun that illuminated the valley, while I mowed the beard the environment not put out a match
and had to go back to my hole without having dared to fall on stony ground where it wanted to
conduct impulses of my need to socialize with someone who understood me; tramábala with Chisco
later or the first one I put forward, and, finally, even sought, following the teachings of
Neluco bucolic, down to my right, the brighter, the dark places of those men to find the desired
level and with it the promised pleasure, but even so, I left over endless hours of solitude
and silence in those aged and black moors echoing the echo of my steps give fever as if under a
gloomy vaults dungeon, and wherever you look, that my heroic efforts to make life bearable
was not there to be anything other than work in prison, even with the tough, deep and tempting
to want to escape.

Be escaped, because he had returned to imponérseme this idea, not
the first time going through my brain felt like a blast, but as an
irresistible itch that was falling apart at times the work of my acclimation,
almost nearing completion now.

It seemed to drain a truly despicable, but the bodies left in the air, fall under its own gravity;
I felt so down, broken, with the death of my uncle, the link that bound me over to the house. Admittedly,
I left the bonds of commitment and solemnized many times before so many different people, but
it was also true that he had put that commitment I limit 'as I possibly could, "and that,
assuming that it became capable to penetrate the work of my uncle to work on it, my work would not
be continuous or individual hour or even every day, whereas the tedious reality that was suffocating
me continuously Perennial, all the time.

Constantly struggling between these impulses empecatados and dislikes of my consciousness formal
man, there were times when I laughed at my own, seeing reason with the criterion ill-assorted
a schoolboy with his confinement.

What things occurred to me to justify a trip, with a promise to return and intention not to
fulfill it!

After sobering up and giving more of my thoughts to consider the value
detúveme of which had achieved good results with the work of my own
observations, and example and preaching, more or less directly, my
uncle, Neluco, Mr. de la Torre of Provedaño, mostly, and many others
of great rides, and then I felt ashamed I have thought as to shake
the burden of my sorrows.

Placed in this area, soon realized that what I needed at once and with urgency to exit gracefully
from the conflict, was to acquire other bonds to replace what's broken by death, another new
link Tablanca me to join, and not as closely as it was my uncle,
to the point, at least he left the house to be a prison for me.

Well. But this link where to find him? What breed was it? ... Who knows the spaces then walked
to the angry and visionary imagination!

In this fast and crazy ride I found no quiet time or rest, because everything seemed wrong
to make a high Respite ... until I found the most singular of occurrences. But it was even a assumptions
on which to conclude the analysis fatigued. As a result, and with all the scrupulous detail
of whom, as I meditate on that matter as serious as the first time in his life. I raised thoughts
over the barriers craggy valley, and carried him far, far away of Tablanca, closed my eyes, I went
to the parts of memory, and was extracting from it a legion of images, which I later paraded
one by one, ahead of me. When he had spent the last figure of this bizarre procession returned
to the thought the realities of Tablanca montunos ... and I put my hands to his head as he
realizes that has been filling it with nonsense ideas for saving. I turned off the flashlight
of my thoughts and, oh surprise, with the last ray of light I saw her breeze through obfuscated
terms of imagination, a new and unexpected image that seemed to have itself the power to resolve
all the difficulties of conflict. But ... And I ended up making me crosses and to laugh.

Was still laughing when he came Neluco.

- So I like to see you - I said - and not with the degustation of
these sad days ago.

- For her return, Neluco friend - I said - if
God does the miracle that I ask.

- However, you laugh now ...

-
Laughing Rabbit ...

- I do not insist - said the doctor - because
I do not want to have you by reckless, but I assure you, without that
fear, more than twice had asked him in recent days on the grounds
of a disappointment that you could not hide.

Woke up this statement Neluco the idea, not entirely asleep on me,
to confess with him as Facia had pleaded with me.

Could expect much from the advice of your experience, and, ultimately,
the relief given in the crush of departing spirits of the resource
them with a good understanding friend.

- Exactly - I said armándome
resolution - I had a great desire to have a paragraph with you on
these individuals.

So, now or ever.

I closed the door of my cabinet, sentámonos the two with the table between them, and began to
speak as follows:

- You must know, friend Neluco that since returning to the rule of order and silence in this house after
my uncle died and was buried, I do not know where to invest the hours I have plenty in it ...
I seem endless, do not see how to improve them and it scares me the
future with a similar perspective.

This is the truth of what happens to me, will I have to your good friend, and you declare
it.

- Why? - I asked the doctor, very quietly, after a silent contemplation
moments.

- For now - I answered - so that you know, then, that, if
any kindly assist me with his authoritative advice.

- What? - Ask
me again with the same serenity as before.

- Well, I like the occurrence,
gee - I cried a little bit by that way of cornering, that looked very
much like a joke rather heavy -.

What is meant here to help a man perishing in the bottom of a cliff?

- Excuse me - "the doctor - but either I'm not in my right mind, or the case I quoted for example,
is not entirely applicable to your particular case. Which is in the bottom of a cliff, can
have no other desire than to go out and get away from him and you,
in the situation today is, you can serve in two ways: helping out
it, or go for a test work bearable and even fun.

Now you tell which of these two extremes is.

- The best seems to you - I said - or both together ... In order to please you in my case, tell
me frankly.

- Well, frankly I say - said the doctor not to wonder what happens to you. I expected ... Be clear:
Don Celso expected dead and you alone at home, was to it seem bigger, blacker and bleaker than
before, and the time spent on it very long and tiresome.

Nothing more natural in a man of taste, education and you worldly background. I did not expect
it to arrive their disappointments so far that, apparently, has come ... Well, look you, Don
Marco: courtesy or even I encourage you to divert your boredom, get the hell next to Tablanca;
advice that, or I can not read faces or is it more had you to thank me. And do not give, I am
quite sure that if the long run you in the state of mind that is now, not here again for all
the days of his life.

- Men - said I caught in the middle of right - that's saying a lot.

-
No more and no less than fair - "the doctor - because it is the truth,
and you can not and should not do that, but let's forgotten some promise
and to the solemn occasion which was ratified, because you have nothing
to do in this world that tempts him, and here yes, because there -
and dispense openness - despite his personal merits, it would not
to be one in the bunch of anonymous, and this would play a much more
lucid, not by the glitz of its hierarchy, but by the charitable status
of the position.

None of this means that you are perpetually forced to bury here: on the contrary, I would
the first to advise him not to, that from time to time transposed these summits to whoop it
up, pretty sure that these raids, made by a man of understanding and culture and flows you were
to look at the end of the benefit of this valley. But to reach that end, that is, that I may
excite him to leave, must be assured here before with something that serves as a bait to return,
for natural and spontaneous movement of your heart ... In short, you have to get used to this house
again and this earth, and these men, such as they had come to seem, to the death of his uncle
Don Celso.

- But the man of God - I cried here - if my finger exactly is that
bad, if that you tell me seems to think my own thoughts and said with
my own language; if I do not want anything to stick to this land and
take her all the love that you have; But how?

With what? This is the case.

I live my uncle, the obligation and converted into comfortable, to accompany me entertained, and
with it, everything around him, killed him, I needed that powerful resource, I get lost in
the emptiness of this house, and overwhelmed by the endless hours I happened there looking
for ways to shorten. Continue his charity work. Congratulations. This is easy and beautiful to
say, but is very vague and does not solve anything, and what I need is something more concrete,
more practical and time. If it were, eg, to cut shirts poor or teach the doctrine to the boys,
I would spend the whole day driving, scissors or ingesting Padre Astete on the heads of these
motilones, but it is not that or something similar: the work of my uncle does not what to
do every minute or every hour.

- What do you mean? - Interrumpióme Neluco -. Do you know her thoroughly in case?

- No, sir - I said.

- And you think - he said - some entertainment on to study it in that
way, not only access to it, but to improve it?

Because you also have to demand - continued mediquito kidding - that the better, and better
security.
 See then that were so big advantages to the province, and even to
the entire kingdom and safety recognition of these steps.

The huge Indian they fall to provide themselves with horses and cattle, is a lobster, pest or its
destruction, that had it not been a very long and very fertile fields, I would not breed. The
end does not hurry, give an idea of ​​his wealth safe and propagation; ceasing this cause
will be most advantageous for increased trade corambre that, as a result of earth, deserves
attention for being the first permanent and non-poor. The populations of Buenos Aires fields would
go take another increase and extension, particularly if they were met them to neighbors, who
live on farms scattered uninhabited, as is mandated by repeated royal decrees: for this concealment
is perjudicialísimo the spiritual good of those souls, and real legislation, for lack of instruction
in our holy Christian dogmas; rarely frequent the sacraments of Penance and Eucharist, and have
almost no, recognize or obey and whom to fear: so that differ little
from the savage Indians.

This method of government is the destruction of themselves, because the lot extension, which
mediates one farm to another, leaves room for the Indians to steal cattle, engage and kill
their inhabitants, whose misfortunes contribute to a greater part
of which often go to these infidels, communicating news and safe routes
to their invasions, so any spoil.

I heard on the Black River by the Indians, and that made voyages both expressed Godoy and Gonzales
pawns in this evil in our time have been repeated instances I made the Viceroy Lord to punish
them with rigor egemplar is learned have committed such horrific crime, and realized together
to know one of these ungodly who led them: that was so extreme cruelty,
which were not exempt from it their own parents, whom he killed in
one of the entries made with the Indians.

Populations reduced to the neighbors of these farms will have different
instructions and government and through standards which are scored,
there sugetos knowledge of the missing at people, and may be known
for another facility of his whereabouts.

I can not ignore, for a lot of knowledge acquired in the five years I've been trying these savages
in the Black River, how useful is the method we observe the French in their Indies with such
barbarians, and with what reason we are recommended by Lord Ward in its draft economic. Without me the
news milder these rules, I followed, and is notorious good harmony that I have kept with them,
and how useful it has been the promotion of the establishment: and can not be said to be the
best to are those that these fields, because there have busy on here
hurt us.

All I have maintained a true friendship and good faith except for some stolen horses, that even among
ourselves we are not free.

This experience demonstrates the importance of putting in the wards, or people who are established
sugetos of kindness, talent and opinion to deal with the Indians and that in exchange for beads
and other effects that do not harm us, they enter with them their
own fruit trade; such as rabbit fur, skunk, guanaco, and guaracha,
reins, dusters, ponchos and other effect that abound in these means
we reconcile its own merits and acquiring their friendship as they
do and achieve the French.

I have shown the method and hopes of the many utilities that can make the establishment Black
River, the vast and important of them shows the creation or formation of a new kingdom. All
acrescentan trade, increase, or form a Marine Corps commercial, which is the largest nerve in
the happiness of a monarchy, and thus attract increasing populations. This can not be undertaken
in the present time, little by little it is necessary go ahead, and shaking hands with each other,
in proportion to their prosperity and benefits. A cautious, wise and zealous government, inflamed
with the spirit of patriotism, without intermission other enthusiasms, under a real protection,
which we in the day, taking all the growth and happiness of the vast
domains governing will be the main bases and columns which support
and sustain the successful outcome of these prove useful.

                         

PART THREE.

The short early establishment of the Black River, and his stubborn opposition, because of so
much waste and costs, [C] you have so much in the air, that the minor storm, everything he
gives ground.

For their preservation and increase, it takes much skill and pulse, because real estate is not
in state spending and the multitude of reports and papers submitted to the Court, have warmed
to that first fervor that was promoted by deleting in its real spirit foundations and causes,
and if not now seeks to hold, all is lost.

These reflections made me, or rather, forced to give the report of February 16 This year, by order
of 14 of the Viceroy Lord asked me D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, to fix
the setting in the manner commanded by His Majesty, the royal order
of 1. º August.

The blind obedience and the deplorable state of these issues gave me no other measure, to express the
manner and form of their reduction, leaving room for so short that promoted root, and produjese
the high expectations I have expressed previously, as having said I do that in that state could
not survive, was preparing his whole hurricane debris.

They reformed to establish the single number of 12 families propose the means of its conservation
and subsistence, and open field with the promotion of whaling, and supply of salt for to hold
and flourish without spending real estate, and these are the only means have to sustain and
encourage, and should deserve all the attention of this Government.

While the former is of more importance than the second, this is soon
and easily, because spending in the province does not cease, and beseeching
order of His Majesty, to not allow in Spain loading and driving of
this kind to the ports of Rio de la Plata, and is prohibited where
the carts go to Salinas as has hitherto been practiced, it is this
advantage to the benefit of that population, and its neighbors engaged
in the work of its stocks and the release of its fruits, achieve profitable
use of the industry and trade; with the whaling established in the
port of San Jose will be more important.

If the state who are Indians and our expeditions in scope, forces that to strengthen that port
with more troops, is another building and utility of the neighbors because the money your
loan is as much to his benefit, they were seeking to make successful those lands Working with
industry and its work, taking different approach than they have been, and because its natural
indolence and laziness, and now by the seductions with which discouraged and warm so that they
apply to agriculture, assuring them that soon they were to out of that fate, and move them to the
fields amenísimos Montevideo, which abound in both livestock, without bothering to get rich quickly
we could bring, were those who by all means sought to make useless the population. And these influences
are encouraged to devote their cries Mr. Vertiz, considering the barrenness of the land, the dangers
to which they were exposed Indians, and the rigor of the Super-intendant, because his zeal,
efficiency and fatigue would not let sleep on their laziness leisure,
and forced them to work in agriculture, which media productions have
checked off their reports.

The conclusion of the works of the fort is another medium that has to contribute for the benefit of
residents, because the money that cause these expenses, such as that provided leads the troops
in their benefit, all coadyuba to the same end, but we need active and industrious people;
and this is one of the most essential points to keep in mind the
superior government, because or little or nothing will work and give
them out to their fruits, if given to men not the advantage, before
they despise themselves.

The expenditure should be reformed is the cause to the exchequer for the launches establishments
to King's account, because this is the highest consideration, and only is useful to their employers
or masters. Through trade with salt and fishery Whale provides supply mode setting as caresca and
needs, and facilitate the transport of detachments of workers and troops to move out: for the
former contributes its own interest, because these genres are sold on the premises, and their
utilities take the cost of transportation of salt, and to realize they will pay the wages of
and driving out to the dock to the neighbors. For the second may be stipulated by regalia of
these licenses, and when not, unless you have cost him the King to pay the freight when Offer,
to keep a boat, you have to import the whole of each year six thousand
dollars, and much freight will not be pushed up to five hundred.

If you have a strengthening effect on the Rio Black troops, perhaps opportunity will be provided
containing the Indians, and free from fears the people, can be extended in the argricultura egercicio,
and raising cattle, they either have to be the most solid foundation on which rests, and secure
the population, attracting more neighbors, which themselves form bodies for resist, and chastened
at all times. The land, in the proportion provided by the river, using art, at little cost
can benefit from irrigation, as I have shown Viceroy Lord in office March 26 next year earlier,
number 26, and even without means that there suggest, if neighbors
are applied, with wells that horses can meuvan advance much, mostly
when there is no charge, and very little about the cost these animals.

All of which seems to have persuaded the near misses and worries of our Catholic monarchs to
project and promote these establishments have been effects of a deep knowledge and study on religion
and politics that these two bases of any government illustrated Christian, were the foundation
of the expeditions of Sarmiento. The two brothers of Nodal, the captain of Olivares, the Padres
Cardiel, Quiroga and Strobl, the capital of frigate D. Francisco Pando, that of D. Perlier
Sunday, and lately they have left Montevideo and Buenos Aires, to the commissions have been entrusted
to the two brothers, who, notwithstanding of all the rivals that want to contradict these establishments
always be useful, by the trade promotion provided in whaling, in the conduct of salt to Buenas
Aires, and output of meat of cattle that he raises large campaigns; to facilitate smoother port
for navigation and commerce to the South Sea, to close and defend the door to our enemies, ensuring
the interior of the kingdom, for progress the extension of their populations, because they are
the best trench to contain the wild Indians, who after the manner of a raging torrent flooded the
fields every day, taking behind him innumerable cattle, horses and cattle, sad ravage the neighboring
rooms border to the capital, making the roads unsafe, and victim of his wrath to many unfortunate
people, who die inhumanely each day to his hands, horribly and frightening. And finally be
achieved most of the profits, which consists of men and Christian men to this great number of
savages. Utilities that can be reconciled without the extravagance of the royal treasury and are
as I set out to describe the three parts of this report, in which if there was any less worthy
expression should be attributed to zeal with which I look at these establishments, it has
never been my intention to censure my words to anyone. Sugeto all the above correction to
the VE; flattered that taking the proper purpose for which they are issued, has to conceal
any defects found. Yes, Lord Exmo., How can I doubt that in the spirit VE, have benign host
some thoughts directed to the prosperity of the state and the increased religion? VE, weighing
all things in the balance of knowledge, achieves better than me, what matter is proposed to
employ all the activity of their zeal towards the royal service. She can make a glorious time
in the happy days of the VE command, who as always will do its best .-- Buenos Aires, 1. First
of May, 1784.

                    Francisco de Viedma.

       

        

                               * * * * *

CONTENTS OF WORK CONTAINED IN THE FIRST VOLUME.

I.

Argentina History of discovery and conquest population of the provinces of the River Silver,
Rui Diaz de Guzman.

                              

Preliminary Discourse editor of that work.

Times of some major events, according to the points the author of
the Historia Argentina.

                             

Table of degrees of latitude in some cities and Parag, as are certain in the course of that history.

II.

D.
journey Luis de la Cruz from the fort of whales to the city of Buenos
Aires.

                              

Editor's introductory speech of the journey.

                               

Appraisal of what can import a path from the strong Antuco to Buenos
Aires.

Distance tables relating to the voyage.

III.

Description of the nature of the land, and customs of the Peguenches,
by D. Louis Cross.

IV.

                              

Description of Patagonia, by Father Thomas Falkner.

Preliminary Discourse editor of that work.

                             

V.

Paths and journeys to the Enchanted City, or of the Caesars.

                            

Editor's introductory speech on the following documents.

---- Derrotero by Tandil and the Volcano, by Rojas.

---- Letter
from Father Cardiel on the discovery of the Caesars.

---- Letter
from Father Lozano on the Caesars.

---- Derrotero from Buenos Aires
to the Caesars, by Falkner. 

Related news ---- acquired on the Caesars,
by Pinuer.

---- Letter to the Viceroy of Peru on the Caesars, for
Jauregui.

---- New Discovery prepared by the Governor of Valdivia.

----
Statement on the city of the Caesars, by Villagra.

---- Report and
opinion of the Attorney Chile, on the Caesars.

VI.

Diary of a journey
to the Costa Magellan from Buenos Aires to the Strait, formed on observations
of the PP. Cardiel and Quiroga, by Father Pedro Lozano.

Editor's
Note.

VII.

Translational representation on the borders of Buenos
Aires to Rio Black and Colorado by Undiano and Gastelu.

Itinerary
of a journey from Buenos Aires to the city of Talca, by Hill and Zamudio.

Editor's
Note.

VIII.

Report on the obstacles encountered, and the benefits
they promise establishments Patagonian coast, from Viedma.

Editor's
introductory speech. 

For Juanita, who had spent all day sewing and embroidering at home, was a pretext solace or walking
about at night going to the source water. His mother was in the position something lordly, dignified
and well off and figured it found, and addressed the development Juanita physicist, who had come
to transform into a gorgeous little boy and real girl, was not well and was given very little
tone going to the source water as the most plebeian pelafustana humble.
 To add to our misfortune we saw the lights disappear, one by one, in the village,
till a solitary candle, glimmering from the upper chambers of one or two houses, were our only
beacons. 

Recaredo Don came back at once, for having put together a few on the road and all at the door
of the house, up to five wealthy, more or less bound to her by blood distant or ancient friendship,
Nansa the banks of upstream and downstream. 

He, however, remarkable fitness and skill to know and admire female beauty, and made months now,
almost without noticing it, and very unwillingly, when I was chatting with the clerk and the
pharmacist and other gentlemen on the benches that were near the fountain, were fixed with loving
eyes delight in Juanita, still used to come to fill their jar and be there chatting with other
girls as they took their turn.

Undoubtedly, Don Paco had begun to feel inclined to live Juanita, it was difficult to master, but
he spent considerable time without outward sign that the felt, longing
perhaps hide from himself for reasons he was given.

Founded in the very modesty that made him into a poor idea of ​​his person, was that fifty-three
years, thirty-six more than Juanita, could no longer love to girl, who or scorn their affection
or interest only move to correspond. Thought after Juanita, although in apparent freedom, was heavily
guarded by his mother, and mother and daughter lived with some relief,
it was assumed that, if he had intentions sinful loaning them, but
in any case would give in facie Ecclesiae and bringing the priest
to go.

The idea of ​​marriage to Don Paco terrified, and absolutely not because he hated being married
but because her daughter, Dona Ines, inspired him with an endearing affection, mingled with
terror, and because she was so compelling and brave, and would certainly be in a fury of the
underworld if his father give him stepmother, especially so mean position, and if seven grandchildren
she had given him, and I figured I could come yet she persisted in production approach, removing
the hope of inheriting the vineyard, olive grove and the house, and enjoy in his lifetime
not a little of what he was farm with his various arts.

Trembling Don Paco incurring the anger of her daughter, and although it mainly trembling anger, fear
did not stop their evil consequences.

Well he knew that there was no place in a person, or several together, they could replace him
successful in different jobs, but the world was not barren or devoid
of statesmen rustic, which could be sought and brought in from off-site
so that it will replace.

And it also knew that her daughter was a point less than omnipotent, because he had subjugated
two powers, temporal and spiritual.

Father Anselm was a saint and a doctor, and all it said was for him could not help it, a legitimate
corollary of the Gospels and the Epistles.

The father Anselmo would be able to excommunicate whom she commanded. And with regard to the
secular, Dona Ines was most evident that he was subject to his whims and all his crush weight to
who she wanted.
Don Paco, in this mood, reasonably motivated, although we do not
deny that He was sweet, peaceful and somewhat weak of character, imagination
ahead in future cases and presupposes love with Juanita, declared
and accepted, I saw a crowd of evils angry heart out Dona Ines as
new Pandora's box. Have not stopped some
confusion among the Incas mesmos, because some children of Tupac Inca, have occurred in other
Coya women, wanted to pretend to be [191] the kingship, but the people who Vian was with Huayna
Capac, not consent, but interfered with the punishment that was done. Finish fasting, Huayna
Capac went with tassel very gallant and dressed, and made the cirimonias used by their past, to
which the name of king wore, and so loud voices they said [192]: Inca Huayna Capac Zapalla tucuillacta
Uya, which means, "Huayna Capac only is king Øyan unto him all peoples. "

Huayna Capac was, as they say many Indians saw him and knew of no very great body but bent and well
done, good and very serious face, a few words, many facts was righteous and punished without
restraint. I wanted to be as feared, that night I dreamed of Indians. Ate as they use, and so
lived cycle of women, if you can tell, hear to those who spoke well, and believed very light:
long deprived him of flatterers and flattering, that among them there were plenty, and today
there is no longer, and gave ear to lies, was the reason that many died without guilt. For
the young men who slept meat tempted to their wives or concubines, or with which they were in
the temple of the sun, then sent them to kill to them, and to punish them equally. For those
who punished him by riots and mutinies, deprived of estates, giving them to others, from other
causes, was punishment .-- Many people only desto conceal his father, especially the women, that
when he took one with them, young men said they were .-- His mother of Huayna Capac, leading
lady, wife and sister who was Inca Tupac Yupanqui, called Mama Ocllo say that was of great prudence,
and warned her son that she saw many things to do to Tupac Inca, and loved him so much that
he begged not to go to Quito and to Chile, until she was dead, and so, do you have that pleasure
and obey his command, was at Cuzco without leave until she died and was buried with grand pomp,
getting in his grave many treasures and fine clothes and their wives and servants. The treasures
of the Incas more deaths and estates, which called Chaco, everything was entirely from the first, and
none dared to spend and do not touch because they did not have wars between and needs the money
hobiese of remedy, for where we believe there are great treasures in the bowels of the earth
lost, and so will be forever, if perchance, one, building or doing something else, do not bump
into something much there.

CAP. LXII .-- How Huayna Capac left Cuzco and what he did.

Huayna Capac had ordered Paresce before him to the chief lords of natural provinces, and while
his court full of them, he married his sister Chimbo Ocllo and therefore were big parties,
leaving the crying for the death of Tupac Inca were done. And finished, he ordered him to go
aside up to fifty thousand men of war with whom I wanted to go together to visit the provinces of
his kingdom. As commanded, stood by the work, and left Cuzco with more pomp and authority than
his father, for the litter would be so rich, to the assertions of those who carried the king
on his shoulders, had not price of the precious stones so large and many who were in them, without
the gold that Heran made. And it was through the provinces of Xaquixaguana and Andaguaylas, and associates
of the Soras and Lucanas [193] where embassies sent to many parts of the plains and mountains,
and was answered Dell and others, with great presents and offerings.

He returned from those places to Cuzco, where he was understood to make big sacrifices the sun
and those who had more gods, which were favorable to the day I wanted do, and gave great gifts
to the idols of the buried treasures, and knew of the liars, by the said of demons, or because
they invented it, it had to happen prosperously in days I wanted to do, and would return to
Cuzco with great honor and profit.

This finish in many parts of people came with their guns and captains, by his order, and housed in the
city were provided.

In the building of the fortress was understood, while the styling for this day none reported. In
the plaza of Cuzco was the grand chain of gold, and there was great dancing and drinking; and,
next to the stone of the war, were named captains and bossy, as his custom; and ordering, Huayna
Capac had a parliament, well ordered and said with vehement words, on it were loyal and those
who were with him, as those who remained. Responded that of service not be leaving, which
gave the loo and I hope to make large grants. And being rigged for the day what was needed,
left Cuzco with everyone of war who had gathered, and a big road, so proud as today Paresce,
all here because of what we see and walk by him, walked towards the Collao, showing the provinces
have passed in just the great services rendered him, for they say that It said that the Incas
everything they owe. Understood to know what gave him tribute, and possibility of the province
collected many women, the most beautiful that could be found; Dellas
took for himself, and others gave to his captains and private, the
others were placed on the temple of the sun and stored there.

Entering the Collao, brought him realize that he had large herds of cattle, and how many loads
of fine wool mill were taking a year to those that made the clothes for your home and service.
On the island of Titicaca came in and ordered great sacrifices. In Chuquiabo [194], ordered Indians
were shelves with their suppliers to take gold metal with the order and regiment has been eScript.
Going forward, he ordered the Charcas and other nations to the Chichas bring forth out large
amount of silver pastes, which are taken to Cuzco on your own, without nothing missing; transport
some mitimaes of a party to another, although there were days that were accommodated; ordered
that all work and no loose, because they said the land where there were lazy, did not think anything
but how to find scandals and corrupt honesty women. He went, ordered to build inns and places,
giving his hand the trace; terms distributed to many provinces and known limit, so that, for
aventajallo not should come to blows. His warriors, though much, was so adjusted, that did not come
out the real one step, as they went, the natives provided what is necessary so dutifully, that
was what was left to what was spent. In some places built bathing and other reserves, and the
deserts were great houses. Inca quel everywhere wrong, he had done such things, it is admiration
count.

When they wandered punished without missing ignore anything and pander to those who served
him well.

Sort these things and went from the provinces subjective agora to the Villa de la Plata, and at Tucuman
[195] sent people to war captains to the Chiriguanos, but do not was good, because turned and fled.
Moreover, towards the South Sea, sent more people other captains, to that dominated the valleys
and villages of all his father could not conquer. He was walking with all his people towards Chile,
putting an end to tame, he went, people he had.

He spent much work for the wilds and the snow was a lot of them fell; awnings had to be guarescer
and many yanaconas and women of service. For all these snow was becoming the way, or was done,
and very clean, and posts made by him.

Alleg to what they called Chile, where he spent more than a year in restraining those understanding
nations and entering them in every way, sent to save him the amount stated in ingots gold,
and the mitimaes were laid, and transported many of those people
of Chile some parts in others.

He did, in some places, strong and close to its use, calling pucaraes, for the war that some had.
He walked the earth more than his father, until said he had seen the end of it, and sent to memory
in many places so that in the future understand his greatness, and ways of grown men [196].

Placed
on the reason for Chile, and done what was agreed, put her delegates
and governors, and sent I always notice in the courthouse of Cuzco
what happened in that province.

Encargóles that hiciesen justice and not agree to riot or not to kill clutter free movers give
life to none.

He returned to Cuzco, where he was honorably received any of the city and the temple priests of
Curicancha gave many blessings, and he delighted the people with big festivals made. And nacíanle
many children, who kept their mothers, among whom was born Atahuallpa
second the opinion of all the Indians of Cuzco, who claim to be so,
and his mother was called Tuta Palla, Quillacas natural, while others
claim to be the lineage of the Orencuzcos, and always since he grew
up, went Atahuallpa with his father, and was older than Huascar.

As Huayna Capac hobiese loose a few months in Cuzco, and he coupled hobiesen the priests of the
temples of the oracles and soothsayers, ordered to make sacrifices, and offering of capacocha
was very big and rich, and became well filled with gold of the mockers sorcerers. Each one
gave answer as parescia them that the king would be more happy. Which with other things past,
Huayna Capac ordered it to be understood to make a path real, bigger and wider than where it
was his father, who came to Quito, where he had intended to go, and that the regular rooms
and deposits the posts from switching to it. To that all this land was known to be his will,
left the post to advise and apricots were then sent to meet him, and made a most magnificent
way and seeing that in the world, and longer, because it came out of Cuzco and associates
of Quito and was coupled with I was going to Chile. Like him, I think that since no memory of
people, has not been read from such grandeur as was this road, made by deep valleys and high
mountains, by forests of snow, quagmires of water and live rock and beside raging rivers, for
these parts was flat and paved, well out on the slopes, through the mountains discarded, on the
rocks undermined by the rivers beside the walls, between snow with steps and landings, for all
parts clean, sweeping debris, filled with apartments, deposits of treasures, temples the sun,
he had coaching in this way. Oh! What is true greatness of Alexander, or any of the powerful kings
who sent the world that such a way did, or invent the proveimiento that he had? There was
no road that the Romans did, that passes Spain, nor the others who read, so that with this being
compared. And more recently made himself up time than you can imagine, for the Incas, it took
them to send more than their put people in for work.

General appeal made himself in all the provinces of his kingdom, and came from all over many people,
and filled the fields, and after making drunken banquets and general and put in order the things of
the city, went della Huayna Capac iscaypachaguaranga runes meaning, with "two hundred thousand
men of war," without the yanaconas and women of service had not count
the number of reach.

Mill was carrying two women and left in Cuzco more than four miles.

Had provided the delegates and governors who attended at the heads of provinces, that all parties
to come [with] supplies and weapons, and everything else that is always collected and saved for
when to war, and so all large buildings hincheron and deposits of all this, so that four to four
leagues, the day was understood that they had to find proveimiento for this whole crowd, without
missing, but on more than what they spent and women, and boys and men who served personally
what I was commanded, and carrying the parts of the Inca and the
baggage of the warriors of an inn to another, where was the proveimiento
than in the past.

As Huayna Capac come out on the road by his command had been commanded to do, of Cuzco, walked
until he came to the Vilcas, where stood a few days in the chambers that had been stuck with
his father, and rejoiced to see the sun temple was finished and left quantity of gold and silver
jewelry pastas and glasses, ordered that great care had proveimiento of the virgins and priests.
Sobióse to pray in a gallant roof and cousin that this had been done,
sacrificed, according to his blindness, which used, and killed many
animals and birds, with some children and men, to appease their gods.

This done, he left the place with his people the king, and did not stop until Xauxa Valley, where
there was some controversy and division over the limits and fields of the valley between them
were lords of it thou. Understood as Huayna Capac, after having made sacrifices, as in Vilcas,
sent along the lords Alaya, Cucichuca, Guacaropa [197] and between them fairly divided the fields
the way you are today. At Yauyos sent embassies, the same made to the Yuncas, and to Bonbon
sent some gifts to the natural lords of the land; because, as they had strength in the lake,
swimming parties, speaking loosely, and rigor would not talk with them to see yours. Xauxa lords
made him great services, and some of the captains and warriors were accompanying him, and
walked up Bonbon, where it stopped short, because he wanted to go to Cajamarca, more rigged
place to rest and provinces neighboring towns with large and very
high.

And by the way people always came to major embassies and present.

As he arrived at Cajamarca, stopped a few days to rest from the road, and commanded that his
people War will host the round of that land, and eat what they collected in the tanks was,
and with the people who entered the Guancachupachos paresció, and had a fierce war, because
they were not quite there in the natural grace of his father and compliance, but, both could,
raided and subjugated it, putting governors and captains, and choosing the natural gentlemen,
to send in the land, the ones they paresció, for them, old masters knew not to others which, being
more powerful, rising and acaudillaban to make war, and gave peace when they wanted. Found in Chachapoyas
Huayna Capac high resistance, so much so that twice thwarted fleeing back to the strong that they
made their defense, and favors that came before turning on Chachapoyanos and so broke, they
asked for peace, stopping the war on their part. God conditions helpful to the Inca, who sent
many of them to pass that he himself resided in Cuzco, whose descendants now live in the same city
took many women, because they are beautiful and graceful and very white; put garrisons of soldiers
mitimaes ordinary men, to be by border, left in the main governor of the region, provided what
more they used; punished to many leading, because they gave war, which indeed is to Cajamarca
again, where he continued his journey, and put in order Caxas provinces, Ayahuacas, Guancabanba [198]
and others that confine them.

Public is among many natives of these parts that Huayna Capac went by land Bracamoros call,
and turned to escape the fury of men who dwell therein; the leaded whom had gathered to defend
and who the angry to be, and, without Cuzco apricots, consider this the lord of Chincha, and
some major and Collao Xauxa. And they say all that going Huayna Capac finishing settle those lands
where his father passed and he had subdued, he knew how in many men and had Bracamoros women
who had fertile land, and deep inside the earth had a pond and many rivers, full of large populations.
Covetous of discovering and willing ladies, taking paresció the people who, with little baggage,
he had to walk away, leaving the field stay by real drums, and entrusted to the captain general.
Entering the earth, were opening [199] Asaz the road with work, because after the snow-capped mountains
of the promontories, gave in the mountains of the Andes and found raging rivers to go, and
fell from the sky many waters. All was not party to the Inca cease to arrive at where the natives
of many parts positions were waiting for her strong will, where he showed his nakedness, afeándole
His coming, and started the war each other, and many of the barbarians were combined, the most bring
naked without clothes, to what was stated, that the Inca were determined to withdraw, and did
without gaining anything in that land. And the natives who felt it gave him such a hurry that
in stride, sometimes making the face, sending sometimes present, descabulló them and set back
fleeing to his kingdom, saying it was to avenge the pintail; which he said, because Some wore the
maures [200] long they hung down over her legs.

From these lands, which had already renovated, also says that people sent captains which is sufficient,
for them to see the coast of the sea that had to the North, and to endeavor to his service to attract
the natives of Guayaquil and Puerto Viejo, and that they walked by those regions, where war had
some battles, and in some cases were winners, and others not at all, and so he walked up Collique
where people encountered who were naked and ate human flesh, and had the habits that have and
use today the neighboring towns of San Juan river, from where they turned, not wanting to move
on, to give notice to their king, who with all his men had arrived at the Cañar; whither he
was thankful in the extreme, they say birth [201] there, and you have made great buildings and
drums, and much provision, and sent ambassadors to him should come and see the regions, and many more
will come ambassadors with presents.

I have understood that, for some noise that tried to certain towns in the region of Cuzco, I felt
so much that, after having removed the heads to the principal, expressly commanded the Indians in
those parts of the stones brought from Cuzco the amount stated, to do in some quarters Tomebamba
much delicacy, which he brought to the ropes, and His commandment was fulfilled. And he said
many times Huayna Capac, the people of these kingdoms, for keeping him well subdued, proper,
when they had to do or to understand them a mountain pass from one place to another and even from
Cuzco carry stones and slabs sent to buildings of Quito, which today are in buildings that put.

Huayna
Capac Tomebamba came and went through the Puru, and rested a few
days in Riobamba, and Mocha and The Tacunga rested his men and had
much good to drink the concoction that was rigged and collected them
everywhere.

Here was greeted and visited many lords and masters of the region, and apricots sent was that
of his lineage [202] to which they were along the coast of Los Llanos and the mountains to take
account of quiposcamayos, which are its accountants, in what was in the tanks, and to which
they knew how they had with the natives the nickel had made governor, and if they were well supplied
with the temples of the sun and guacas oracles and that was in every place, and sent messengers
to Cuzco in the ordering the things you sent and left everything to fulfill his will. And there
was no day that does not e came, not one or a few, but many, of Cuzco, the Collao, Chile and
all his kingdom.

De La Tacunga walked until he go to Quito, where he was received,
in his own way and style, with big parties, and gave the governor
of his father's treasures, which were many, with fine clothes and
other things that were under his charge, and honróle with words, praising
his loyalty, calling father and always according to estimate how much
his father and he had served.

The Quito to neighboring towns sent many presents and provisions for the king, and ordered
in Quito be made more and more strong quarters that had, and then stood by work and there were
those who found when the land our won.

Some of the dried state, which Huayna Capac returned from Quito to Cuzco by Los Llanos to Pachacamac,
and others not, it was in Quito to death. In this, inquerido What is more certain, according to
the porn as I heard, some principal that is found for his people
with him in this war, they say, that while in Quito, we came from
many parts ambassadors to congratulate him on behalf of their lands,
that have, and having taken [the] very safe and peaceful [so] to the
provinces of the mountains, he thought it would be okay to do day
to the provinces of Puerto Viejo and Guayaquil to what we call, and
to the Yuncas, and taking counsel with his captains and main, approved
of his thought and advised to put him to work.

Quito were in many of its people, with which agreed and departed, and went through those lands,
where some residents had with some Dellas skirmishes, but in the end, both groups were in his
service and made them Governors and mitimaes.

Puna had a fierce war with Túmbez, and the Inca had ordered an end to the strife and to receive
him in the Puna, which Tumbalá felt much, because he was lord of it, but he dared not to stand
against the Inca, before it was engaged or present with false peace, because, as it came, procuring
the land natural, tried to kill many apricots with with a raft captains were going to go to a
river to take the mainland, but Huayna Capac it knew and what I have done in Part eScript chapter
LIII, and great wrath, and sending to the road, or safe passage, that is called Huayna Capac [203],
turned and stopped at Tumbes, where buildings were made of the sun temple and they came the counties
to do him reverence with humility.

 Since then everything was life and activity, and even had the pain
of seeing their efforts wasted, why not give up hope of enforcing their experience to receive
their evidence.

Among the means it proposes, and that we felt were appropriate and practicable, there is one call
the attention of the Government, because it can help to increase resources for the treasury.
Viedma instills in which imitates the egemplo of the Crown of Portugal, which granted licenses
no temporary to established companies, to engage in whaling and wolves on the island Santa Catalina.
The product of this line should be of some importance, if calculated
extension with our shores, and the prodigious abundance of whales.

Also weighs the utility of occupying the island of Choelechel, and to this purpose can not dispense
to transcribe a piece of her memory, in order to admire his foresight. "Taking Choelechel
site, and ensure the passage to the Indians of those nations (Peguenches and Araucanian) are numerous:
we take these enemies to the fields and borders Buenos Aires, and we are preparing to enter the
country and other major projects that can attract Black River by
the part of Valdivia.

"These wise thoughts were neglected, and only After half a century, the Lord General ROSAS has
had the glory of realizing them.

Promoted to the government of important provinces of Cochabamba and Santa Cruz de la Sierra, He
wrote that this was succeeded by the superintendent of his brother D. Patagonia Antonio, it imitated
the lively interest with which it watched the prosperity of those
establishments.

Viedma continued to operate his new apartment, and died in Cochabamba
in 1809, leaving their goods to a hospice house for the education
of poor children, and founded another orphan.

                                   These were his services to the Americans turn to venerate his memory.

        

The original of this memory is preserved in the private archive of Dr. and Canon D. Lord Saturnine
Segurola, who has been generous enough to cross it for publication.

Buenos Aires, January 30, 1836.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

MEMORY Directed by Mr. Marquez de Loreto, & c.

EXCELLENCY. SIR: -

The great love with which I looked Patagonian establishments through the knowledge that would
taking the advantages that the State could produce, I misted every
day more and more to sustain and encourage it: but neither my constant
efforts, or the repeated representations to to see the relevance of
the findings and experiences in the production of their land, were
able to counteract the spirit of opposition pursued them, and finally
triumphed this, leaving them reduced to the extent that today it looks.

However, I hope to be the root arrives to promote how much we have lost in their abandonment, and
to give a true light and knowledge of its great advantages through the garments that adorn
high Excellency, able to restore only a few establishments that can serve as invincible wall
the enemies of the Crown, from security to the capital, to promote his trade, and what is more,
the means to propagate our holy religion, to extend the benefits of redemption to a prodigious
crowd of idolaters, that experience has made me know they are docile, without foolhardiness
and who can promise a rich harvest to the evangelical workers.

But my confidence encouraged to see that after I had the honor of integers to well above VE
the occurrences of these populations, their proportions and utilities, he deserved welcome ear,
we found very addicted and willing to learn all that radically, and
as a subject so vast that he can not rely on verbal reports, and withheld
the news for a perfect knowledge, VE sent me to do it in writing,
for the sake of so superior provision, in relief of my love of the
King's service, and common good of these provinces, I venture, with
the confidence that gives the truth and the good cause, to propose
to your Excellency, that efforts at all times that our Court has been
set in the aforementioned populations coast were born from the illustration
that had the advantages that would bring the state and to Religion,
without having to move from concept, because there is no success corresponded
to how happy the project.

That notwithstanding that the emulation has always been regarded, will be useful, as it is in the
day the promoting livelihood and has been in the Black River, by the prosperity that attracts
and will see, also proposing ways and means to promote it without
squandering the treasury.

                         Three parts make up the plan of this report.

I hope than I can perform to my desires, and as worthy of the importance of the matter!

PART ONE.

Since achieving his dominions Spain to join the vast, fertile and rich kingdom of Peru has always
been the object of the untiring zeal of Kings and Ministers, preserve inviolate his faithful
subjects, and improve the disposition of souls idolaters, to attract our sacred religion. The
achievement of these important and beneficial ideas, with orders and permission of Government,
there have been several expeditions to discover the islands, coasts and ports South Sea and southern
lands. Such were those of Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa in the year 1579, from the city or port of
Lima, who made the voyage by sea to the south of North, discovering the islands of the archipelago
Chono, the Strait of Magellan where he crossed, with the ports, bays, inlets, shoals, reefs
and how circumstances offer: for whose plans, relationships, daily news and safe passing the
Strait English privateer, called Francis Drake, the second was determined that rushed in Spain
the year 1580, twenty-three bagels in command of Diego Flores de Valdes, with destination transporting
troops to the kingdom of Chile, for relief of war that was in him, and let in the Strait of
Magellan people going to settle under the direction and control of Sarmiento, which sailed the
following year 1581, the port of San Lucar. And having suffered many losses, delays and arrivals,
by large storms and other setbacks, the end from the river Janeyro Commander resolved with the consent
of the other officers, Diego the Rivera with two ships and three frigates come out for the
Straits with people, food and articles intended to settle. That effect was executed well, and
he went into that place about half a league, 280 people lay on the earth, not wanting to move
forward with loss one of these craft, which could only save the artillery and supplies. All This left
the charge of Sarmiento, and a small bagel, only help to big business;
retiring with the other ships, without having taken another providence
for the promotion and sustenance of those nations.

With so small a population Sarmiento forces formed in the same landing site, and San Felipe another
call at a port hondable little more in the interior of the Strait, the they could not survive
the abandonment with which people looked at that miserable, perishing every one, a soldier named
exepcion Tome Hernandez, a native of Badajoz, which was saved in an English vessel passing
through the Strait to the South Sea. The expedition of the two Nodal brothers who crossed the
Strait: the parents Cardiel, Quiroga and Strobl, with Captain Oliver the year 1746, intended to
recognize, and populate the Bay of San Julian: Commander of the D. Francisco Pando, for the same
awards: the D. Sunday Perler, officer of the same class with his control, called the Chambequin
Andaluz, and lately which have left Montevideo and Buenos Aires, to form populations in the
Bay without Fund or Punta de San Matias, which drains the Black River and St. Julian, from December
of the year past 1778.

He brought to mind these expeditions by the time series in which they occurred, to demonstrate
the efforts of the Crown to set Parages establishments in those deserts.

The short time that I adhered to, so that narrows my trip, I show leaves room large expenditures
that have led to the Crown, and the people who have sacrificed so arduous enterprises. Newspapers,
news relations and give a true idea of ​​this assertion. But what we have achieved in such repeated
attempts? What have we got so many expenses and losses so large? - At the present time we can
only say, nothing more than meet our curiosity to cross the threshold
and the way we want to close and defend our enemies, and make it impossible
for the reduction of the heathen souls, which has always been the
largest vigilance of our Catholic and religiosísimos Monarchs.

Rare disgrace of our nation, so sacred that have similar purposes as a result! Orders and provisions
of the Court have never failed to achieve them: no expense has been spared, even amid the most
dire times that afflicted the Spain: but inconstancy, emulation,
the lack of sincerity and little pain to work on all occasions, have
been some powerful enemies that have marred so heroic enterprises.

For conviction of this truth, we critical facilities and population that formed Sarmiento,
and Rio San Julian and Black. For those left a navy port San Lucar, led by Diego de Flores, 23
ships, and well that not all of it destined to For this purpose, as is sitting, was reinforced
later in the Rio Janeyro with four galleons; and losses caused by storms, could not be allocated
to the egecucion of these stocks more than two ships and three frigates, under the command of
Diego de Rivera. This Captain, as something lost, thrown or landed people going to settle,
within half a league Strait, lost a boat, it leaves more shelter and aid to Sarmiento a small
bagel for the relief of those people in such remote distances and Parag, whose land in a long
time could not produce fruit for their preservation and survival. It back with the other ships,
without repeating the relief memory. With these provisions, So what
were to have those miserable? - Of course.

The loss of all.

Let us now see what was the cause of these misfortunes, and that it breaks so holy an end. "The
futility of such lands, or the bad provisions of Diego Rivera? - It is well implies that the
latter. The land could not produce, nor bear fruit in years people that they might exist,
and for lack of wins, which is the greatest force and soul of populations, and because, to prepare
the land for agricultural work was must observe the time better suited to the fields, and have the
tools and oxen calls for the need. None of this reflects their inconsistency, and the little pain
to work the voyage, which was to be made through the Strait to Lima and to other ports to support,
encourage and ensure populations. Is performed so strange and violent landing: you look with
indifference the King's service, and the remaining state of those
miserable, abusing the loyalty obedience and courage with which despised
death.

What else could make the Court, in an era when Spain was afflicted with the efforts that caused
the willful rebellion of the flamingos, which gears up as respectable navy, and later strengthened
with four galleons? If you have played Diego Rivera their orders with more foresight, with
another baby, or with more humanity, repeating aid with the vessels under his command, those
populations have been set, or at least would not have lost so loyal and unfortunate Spanish,
but their inconsistency, and no suffering to the work, made useless
the efforts of King, and sacrificed to these unhappy.

Although the experience of these events gave to the wise minister, who so glory of the nation
address the monarchy, the light and knowledge, so do not develop so unfortunate end establishments
latter Bottomless Bays and San Julian, no so have been able to free himself from the same contrasts
that finally brought down to a estenuado skeleton of the young population of the Black River.
With such a strong case (though never gave up the intent of these populations), they had indeed
found the King at any cost in both expressed bays. To this end appointed commissioners, and
ordered families from different provinces of Spain, with his real
will, who enlist the most honest, hardworking and better behavior.

Implemented this project with the first expedition that came out of Montevideo, commanding D. John
Stone, was discovered the port of San Jose, where he was made the first provisional establishment,
and the little water they carried vessels, lack of horses, oxen and mules to lead from sources
that were discovered, and poor quality of food supplies, sick people, and missed the record to wait
for relief from the Rio de la Plata or River Black, which was discovered a short time, forcing
the commander most violent terms D. Antonio de Viedma to withdraw
with almost all of the people, to the square of Montevideo, Santa
Teresa in the packet boat.

The opposite event that caused it was the arrival at Buenos Aires D. Basilio Villarino Black River,
where he delivered the Super-intendant D. Francisco de Viedma, to succor the port of San José,
with a lot of watery which led the brigantine Our Lady of Mount Caramel and Animas, and the loss
of the hooker, call the Visitation, which was to set sail in that bay to drive aid to the San José:
Well, having achieved any of these relief, has not been rooted with
scurvy killed 28 men had not forsaken that position, and caused the
loss of the effects and there were groceries.

These unfortunate principles generally altered and prevented the spirits
so that nothing has been more odious than Patagonian establishments,
and all have conspired to another purpose to destroy them.

The many jobs that means for setting the San Julian, and encamped at the time the People in Puerto
Deseado, where little perseverance and suffering of the commanding officer the troops, and
counter interim seduced and intimidated the other, in terms to avoid was forced inconveniences
the Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma send to disposal of His Excellency. D. Juan Jose de
Vertiz, news and the reasons for this deliberation; and as for the diseases suffered in the port
of San Julian, the homeless, long voyage, salted meat food, and other causes, eventually lifting the
universal outcry against the two establishments, whose continued complaints and sighs opened in the
gracious heart of Mr. Vertiz the gap to their way, for which he came
to occupy é impress with the same horror.

Although the establishment of Black River was exempt from the calamities suffered by others, for
its excellent water, abundant game, and cattle with which our aid the Indians, it could not
get rid of equal or greater persecution. Since the early reign in the main heads a spirit of
emulation, of volatility, and no suffering to work: for whose concerns were not exempt persons more
characterized, and together they directed their thoughts to move
the minds of other people, to be abandoned office, whose efforts have
always been challenged by the constancy of the Super-intendant.

These first attempts frustrated, seeing that by the superior government of Buenos Aires had supported
and aided the establishment of extreme necessity in which he was, prepared weapons by other means
to destroy them. Many pondered the expenditure involved, the barrenness of the land, it was only
useful in the short and the pieces on the shore the river running down their innundaciones, not
enough to sustain a population. Bar river which made impossible the navigation to the enemies
of the Crown, which is why by nature that entry was defended, not having found the jurisdiction
of Mendoza by difficulty of navigating the Black River, owing to its rapid current, and many
Indians savages who traveled and attended those spot, which would
be frequent invasions, and neighbors they do not flourish, it being
very likely to be victims of these infidels.

However several reports have given the Super-intendant to the Viceroy Lord with all sincerity,
strength and knowledge of many circumstances they offered those spot, sending samples of the fruits of
their land, they credited their fertility and having Viceroy Lord himself adopted, by order
of November 15, 1780, the establishment expressed - that any promises that may be a useful
population, and not to be, as I understand, other founded reasons that make them delusional, he
reached thereby prevented with repeated complaints and cries, that nothing was more violent, no
more disgusting than these establishments. They scoured reports of the same opponents, whose professions,
experience and talent in some make them suspect, and nothing useful to qualify the truth. The
same aversion, prompting the most violent desires to succeed in their
influences, the teacher was dictating these reports.

With the multitude of these headlines, though not safe, that was sent to form a board of ship captains
and colonels who existed in Montevideo, to recognize, indicate their opinion on the utility or
futility that caused the prosecution to the Crown establishments.

All unanimous, it is said, were for the latter: such proofs I was the cause.

With these documents and decisions, without waiting for other result, that experience and findings
could qualify as sincerity or unfounded, it sought to impress the real spirit of the King and his
wise minister, whose result was the royal order of 1. st August last
year next, sending establishments leave San Julian and San Jose, and
that only subsist the Black River, reduced to the sad skeleton that
expresses the Viceroy Lord could stay.

On their way to Spain, these justifications, arrived in the Bay of San Julian to the Montevideo Plaza
Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma, and presented an information, that his motion was the captain
of infantry D. Felix Iriarte, composed of residents of that colony,
in that together they declare, in reference to what is experienced
in the fruits their fields, that those lands were productive to maintain
the population.

The Super-intendant of the Black River, with the wheat crop this year, which amounted to 1269 bushels
and three pages, credited the population could survive with its fruits, and as a result recognition
of that river, which launched the second pilot of the royal fleet, D. Basil Villarino, going up
near Valdivia, proportions of the place which he walked, hopes that promised the rivers that were
to recognize, and soon discovered that made lieutenant of infantry D. José de Salazar, opening
the way by land from the port San Jose to the river, in office from October 13 of that year, presented
to the Viceroy Lord important of the two establishments, founded the reasons and motives in
the latter result, which it rejected the objections of the reports and opinions, and at the
same time manifesting profits that could be drawn from them. But like everything came late,
not enough to contain the unfortunate fate suffered, that, though not as unhappy as those
of Sarmiento in Strait of Magellan, had almost as useless expenses, work loss and deaths that
cost to carry the state in which they were at the time of abandonment; San Julian as the rooms had
already repaired some comfort in inclement of time, which caused scurvy cut coat of many cold
of that climate. Began producing their land, to keep off, the Indians were going every day taming and
fans of ours, so with good reason could be expected to reduce within a few years of these idolaters
the bosom of our Holy Faith, and by this means that King had the new populations of these natural,
serving for one example of their neighbors to such a holy purpose. And lately, with little
more than had been spent, was completed population, and in terms of survival itself, if it could
help with all manner of cattle, as the only force in agriculture, and soul of the people.
By that expired this population can be said when I started to take breath, and to give a large
tests to get what they so desire and so the Court has repeatedly attempted.

If we reflect on the people of Sierra Morena, find a safe hilacion of and opposition efforts
to be mediated against Patagonian establishments. In the formation of those could not mediate
the difficulties, risks and work, which in these, being in the center of Spain, and not lacking
in terms of human needs for the preservation of life and relief of mind in the rational society.
Quite the contrary were the proportions of these establishments. Salted meat, bad bacon, miniestra
minced, and meals usually stale have been the mainstay of its individuals. Reduced rational treatment
to each other, the risks many of the wild Indians, and Breakfast miserable shacks, or huts of
straw, irresistible to the inclement stations. See inequality as the average of one to another.
In the Sierra Morena there was more to do than build the houses, simple operation for the many
materials and operators that were held. For the cultivation of land were provided with oxen
tamed, and excellent tools that filled their wishes. In the Patagonian coast around lacked: the
rigors of cold climate, particularly in San Julian, and only found the greatest relief where he
was suspicious of the risk. The savage Indians held and encouraged us at that port, providing
relief to the unfortunate people with guanaco meat, without whose help had perished, and the Black
River, with the hares, horses and many cattle. Now So Check against the advantages enjoyed by the
Sierra Morena with the misfortunes of those Rio San Julian and Black, and fairly be said that everything
was happy and joy, and here all unhappiness and sadness. Despite this inequality, and be near
a wisest king that manages the universe, plotted intrigues and contradictions that are notorious
of which can be inferred that such a lengthy mediated hemisphere where only the two commissioners
have been and will hold a impregnable rock.

PART TWO.

                         The whale fishery, the supply of salt in the province of Buenos Aires,
and provide for this means the meat trade of many that are lost in
the vast fields of the Rio Plate, facilitate port for ships sailing
up our Sea to the south and become more soft and comfortable this
navigation, paving the way by water or by land to Valdivia and Chile,
where with less cost and risk can be made transitive and trade that
achieves Buenos Aires, and ultimately repair and extend the one with
the capital in corambre of their campaigns, maybe even the Black River,
linking to this importance of security borders that underlies the
increase in populations of Indians and sugecion media attract the
true knowledge of God and the good of the state, are the utilities
that the we can take time and get in the conservation of the establishment
of Black River.

Vastness and awesome of them to the first impression, shows a strange aspect to be watched with
the utmost contempt. Notwithstanding anything to intimidate me, because love and spirit of patriotism
I looked to the just, pious and charitable intentions of the King, in the execution of these
establishments, he defies everything.
 

I refer not repeated acts of the times we have found in these waters to the English engaged in fishery,
because the dam is enough that they did the day of the year March 10 earlier near the frigate
called the Mayo, about 34 to 35 degrees south, with other of the same nation were engaged in
this task, and recognizing the frigate Santa Sabina, and Perpetua, on the journey they had just
done to Montevideo, leading to VE I only go to demonstrate how different we can take advantage
of these utilities through the establishment of the Black River.

The attempt that just made D. Francisco de Medina, resident and trade in this city in the port
of San José, with the frigate called the Ventura, (and before May when it was in the the English)
gives us a true knowledge of the proportions that has that port. Without leaving him 50 whales
harpooned in a month. It is true that this laudable enterprise miscarried the poor quality of the
harpoons, and ineptitude of those operators.

Repeating the same attempts, repaired the causes that failed, it's all up, and with the aid that
clears the establishment of the Black River in the sale of its fruits, is easier and less burdensome
to the person concerned this fishery, and at the same moment as does need to from that port, without
touching on the Rio de la Plata, to journey with her cargo to those of Spain. The establishment
of the Black River will sustain and prosper with the output of its fruits, and through them
can be such fishing without the expense of maintaining other the smaller vessels that are
needed for it. The others that are more expensive and expenses, it is provided through their
cargoes, may engage in conduct salt Puerto de San José, or Black River to the capital of Buenos
Aires and Montevideo, and a same operations as an accessory, does this useful supply the province,
its abundance crossing convenience and benefit to salt meats that are lost in its massive campaign
by introducing this new market in Spain, Africa or other European Parages: for use only with the
much of our military and prisons will release, and gets to avoid extractions money that attracts
us to buy in the north, are to the benefit of the kingdom. Stakeholders in whaling will take advantage
of what you can pay them the first kind. The Buenos Aires natural populations and their neighbors
in the cattle MatAns to the collection of corambre have this new utility to increase their wages.
Owners can take perhaps by this means the costs of them free, and Black River are engaged in
work of the salt out and driving to the pier, which is another great support to their livelihood.
For these media has to go take the population increase, and perhaps, seeing the fruit to be drawn
from these new plantations, the Spanish extended their fisheries further south, and we discover
and provide some comfort and provides ports for ships arriving sail to Lima and back to promote
the establishment of San Julian, as experience has expressed its fruits can survive, and recognizing
the Strait of Magellan the accuracy you need and deserve, where all paths ensure there are plenty
of woods: circumstance credited adapted to people, without any evidence to the contrary cause
the effect of populations was Sarmiento, who could not have other result with method, forms and regulations
that attempt.

In Tierra del Fuego, which is composed of several islands, the year
of 1765, or 1766, was lost ship called the Conception of Escurruchea,
on the shores of one of them, about 14 miles the mouth of the Strait.

The crew was saved, made itself a pretty boat transport to transport their supplies to Buenos
Aires, where the Governor reported to D. Pedro Ceballos, that the Indians of this island had
been very human and compassionate, helping to pass timber for ship building, and assisting them
in all, with other features and those Parages news: all of which sent D. Pedro Ceballos an
exact relationship to the Court, and proposed establishing a colony on the island. But, having
been on the occasion that it was bought to the French the Falklands, had no effect this proposal.

That
these stories offer many people hope to survive in those areas, and be very useful to trade,
state and religion can not be doubted.

The latitude of 52 degrees and minutes, the pole, although very cold weather can not be compared with
The situation in Sweden, Denmark and Russia, which, being over 70,
not without grounds fertile and very abundant.

Love without the help of cattle, without the benefit of agriculture, without proof of the experiments,
fix and improve the quality of land, with knowledge of weather to use the work, and the effect of
its productions, is to shoot white eyes closed. Desert climates vary by the competition of people
and livestock that make a stable population. With the fires, wings and heat of the living, little by
little tuning the atmosphere, land and produces steam, which make it more benign and is attracted
to another fertility.

These are the principles and secure foundations, which have to sustain
and support a business so arduous, and some difficulties at the sight
of all have graduated from impossible.

The Black River establishment and promotion of whaling should be the sole agent that over time has
insensibly the raid and conquer.

On the day, which is committed to promoting this fishery for their
own profit have to see required, the duration, to keep a job or temporary
establishment in the port San Jose to repair his people from the weather,
and preserve foodstuffs, utensils and effects.

If this trade to join the salt, which abounds there is year-round occupancy. To They need oxen,
and the fresh meat would be very helpful and inexpensive. For all offers proportion those areas:
promoting the raising of livestock, may abound over time in terms take some fruit of their hides and
meat, because there will be easy and cheaper this trade, the abundance and excellent salt salt
flats, and be of superior quality such meat to the fields of Montevideo and Buenos Aires,
so their salty pastures. This is another incentive, added to the background, a population ready
to make that useful port for our ships sailing to the South Sea in arrivals, as the immediacy
Black River and stock can be cooled as needed, to prosper in this way navigations, closing the door
to the English why have easy entry into this river, and consequently in the whole kingdom of Peru,
cutting off the progress they make, and can forward with the lights that we have taken these important
discoveries in the fishing the whale, and all this at greater length I have explained to him that
my Lord Vertiz the memorandum is dated October 13, to which I refer.

If our Spanish arrived to establish the trade with accessories that are proposed in terms which the
Crown to produce the same or greater interest out of Portugal the island of Santa Catalina,
by granting temporary licenses to companies established to this end may be the most effective
and proportionate way to go recognizing the coast and Strait, and
advancing stocks.

Optional only the real power to grant temporary or permanent license to use of these fisheries, as seas
belonging to his dominions. Eyes open knowledge the great practical value of this trade, will attract
interest to their use.

This is the fruit that can take the crown, not by the interests that rotates Portugal, but by the survey
and those populations most advanced Parages south she cares about or interested. At that excels in
the most useful, and we show port insurance for the shelter of the boats, offering people, these
costs compénsesele the granting of any privilege or license to the fishery in the time it seems
regular, formal contractual obligation and mortgages. Unansele those graces which allows the real
protection and sovereignty, and thus, without squandering the royal purse, get the These wastes
to useful Rey domains, preparing a means to attract true knowledge many heathen souls occupy
in the propagation of the faith and usefulness of State and provide different benefits to navigation
and trade.

While the Magellan Strait and islands of Fire is important to us a true and accurate recognition by if
you allow ports that provide us passage to the South Sea, no be neglected the Gulf of San
Jorge, which is located at 45 degrees and minutes to look with the
indifference that so far.

The recognition that in March 1780 did the pilots of the expedition which came to control D. Antonio
Viedma, to set in San Julian, only recognized with the launch of
the packet boat San Sebastian, about 40 miles from the northern side,
pulling the west of the gulf.

For and news reports are from practical Indians their surroundings, ensuring that to this course
comes very close to the mountains, where some streams draining water sweet, and half the land to
them, is the way of the Indians of San Julian to Tucamelel river, or of the Incarnation. This
is evidenced by the daily recognition Villarino Black River, which relates the journey they
had just done to that river near those expressed Indians. If the English recognize and take
hold of the Gulf, would have input for him to Valdivia and other towns of the kingdom of Peru,
and he could easily be established without Our news. Abundant large number of whales, which place provides
the fishing greater advantages than others. These grounds, that to be true express their importance,
encourage stakeholders in the fishery to its recognition, we must disabuse, and give a true view
of the importance of the gulf, and communication that is feared. The fact is that the Indians
of those Parages transiting the Black River by the way you say, and from this river go to
the borders of Buenos Aires.

All of these utilities will attract to us the survival and development of the population of Rio
Black. She has to shake hands at the port of San José with its fruits and cattle, and as scale,
such aid must go to other towns, discovering the ways that pass the
Indians, their watery, campaigns and mountains to the Straits, because
of all there is news and has only missed the previous ministry, the
heat required in such cases, that in time the two Super-mayors have
been on their committees, have but recognized the principal of this
continent.

The internment of trade for Valdivia, Chile, Mendoza and other Parages by the Black River, would
be very useful for smaller gap compared to that of Buenos Aires, for the help of navigation, and because
they have other amenities that can make softer asperities the road.

The more enemies opposed the establishment of the Black Rio admit
the usefulness of this hospitalization, but are impossible, speaking
with such courage and security, as if they had measured inch by inch
on those roads, and had learned with a practical knowledge of navigation
River.

No need sugeto whom he should confess the justice of instruction and superior talent, that supports
and sustains the same impossibility, and they assure me it has become
clear in a paper that gave the government greater, the more steps
that I could not get.

Would be most useful These challenges were reciprocal and mutual knowledge of them: for the contentious
and rational opposition is the discovery of the truth which is that crave and seek those who
seek the wisdom. If so many opinions to be taken to give ground with the establishments, that is, to
deter the King and his Ministers of the importance of them, they
had first gone to the Super-intendant, to inform its view and respond,
then it would have had more news and knowledge that shed light the
whole truth.

For these reasons, the aforementioned request and feel like paper, they are matters should not be
booked as much mystery about sugetos they have earned the trust of King for the performance of
this important commission, mostly when it seems has run between people who have no connection with
these materials, which I notice those points most essential for this role, though confusing,
of which I will to meet and demonstrate As I proposed.

Two are the most powerful objections to this individual seems to show, in which supports and
maintains the grounds of their opposition. The first, which made navigation difficult Villarino
in recognition of Black River to the Catapuliché, where she arrived, she herself demonstrates
its irrelevance to trade. The second grade of impassable mountain ranges, from that place to
Valdivia.

For the same operations, expressed in log Villarino, this individual demonstrates the Black River
inaccessible in its navigation. If we would have to be to that point, at that station, to that
state in which they found and navigated the river Villarino, it is
necessary to confess futility, but this varies with the time difference,
and repeated tests over give a true view of the channels, reefs, waterfalls
and river flows, showing how to overcome them with other aid, seems
somehow strange that so vividly, without waiting for other than practical
knowledge, is useless to condemn and fail for a case that both interest
to our happiness.

Villarino navigation was made at the station opposite. The forty-five days we stopped at the Choelechel,
food waiting to be continued, we delayed the time, So when he arrived at the confluence with Diamond
makes the Black River, had fallen water, in terms that caused the
hardship of his voyage.

This lack discovered jumps and reefs, and their maturity was the greatest difficulty. If he
had come to this recognition for the month of July, which is the time that begin growing, and
last until March, would be less difficult and softer, not so many breaks were discovered and
reefs, and carcasses would not cause so vehement currents caused constriction of them, as with
most water extends the river and avoids the momentum of its effects. With the help of horses
or mules (that could not fend Villarino, the risks that were expected of the Indians, who are
the attractiveness of their invasions) was smoothed and facilitated navigation and throwing them
to the towpath, falling all the work of the sailors on the strength
and vigor of these animals, removing and opening the way for the banks
of the river to do useful these operations.

To take a true knowledge of all this, it is necessary that the different experiences seriousness
of the case he asks: We must not defer to the relationship of a hasty and obscure tentative,
which may be misleading for many reasons.

Discoverer is characteristic of all ponder the difficulties and work that has prevailed to to assert
their merit, and even without fail the sincerity and good faith, those first impressions in
humans often cause different looks in proportion to the affection in which he is caught. Would
not it strange that he and his Villarino, the loneliness of those spot, lack of communication,
and others perhaps, I produgesen an affection or passion hateful in his imagination soar to
lofty mountains of difficulty accessible hills or ravines.

When they discovered the Black River, the first pilot of the royal fleet, D. Manuel Brunel, and
infantry lieutenant D. Pedro Garcia, the San Antonio Zumaca Oliveyra, such was the impression
they caused the bar, which retreated to the port of San José, and
gave for impossible input.

Villarino was, and proved otherwise, and on the day it is so easy, windy the bow on board have
entered the launches. If we had been to the decision and inform sugetos those we would not have been
a disappointment so clear.

Black river navigation presents is not impossible, but difficult: it is fitting to all principles, since
the best facilities that we despise in the day, at its source would
cost hard work and maturity.

The time and the practical demonstration of the importance of this post and walk, subsisting
the establishment of the Black River, are to give light to start preparing and paving the horror,
much difficulty as it appears, extending its upstream populations, which will serve to your comfort
level, prepare more interest to trade; contain the audacity Indians
in insults and robberies that experience the frontiers of Buenos Aires,
will be more solid foundation on which to found their hopes of reducing
these infidels inhabitants of the vast and fertile lands that make
up the skirts of Huechuhuehuem and ranges, to Concepcion, Chile, whose
industries benefit operations wool, ponchos and blankets that make
the cultivation of agriculture in which we imitate, fixed population,
but widely dispersed from their homes, we offer the most extensive
and happy ideas for the exaltation of our holy faith, and prosperity
of the State and the day may come that imitation we laugh at these
apparent difficulties.

To meet the second objection, would need all of the evidence and rationale
it gives the author because the first acquired some news that I got
the diary Villarino was in navigation.

But this, if it is true that given by inaccessible mountains by those spot, I can not hit upon
them, because they do not have to draw from their vast comprehension, science and literature,
if not a disappointment in the physical, that can reason and be dealt with the most uncouth
rustic.

It is true that the ranges are inaccessible for many Parages. The Indians of San Julian answer,
that from the Straits, pulling the northern part, they are even for the brutes: noticed the
same Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma when he recognized the Santa Cruz River to its source
[A] but should not be understood with the rigor that the author thinks, because only the is
accessible by road we use for Mendoza to Chile. They are also passable from Huechuhuehuem, or
Catapuliché, on the Portillo, the Indians and cattle driving. The give evidence to this claim
is the standard reply of the Indian inhabitants of those spot, with
whom I have asked repeatedly prolixity, news of which went checking
with the findings of Villarino, and to be found near the river Diamond,
livestock cattle and horses that the Indians had stolen them from
the borders of Buenos Aires, to sell to Valdivia, where the consignment
had been offered a year earlier, and as for having reported these
infidels, when he came to Catapuliché, who had fallen Christian Valdivia,
as a day Road, where he was, to try and adjust the purchase of it,
giving individual signs of person [B].

All these tests are indeed his own: those of the author must be of ideas and references, which inequality
is evident in the faith of a justification which is supported so legally. But congratulations, I have
to grant equality, which do not: in this case, we should not have happened to Valdivia to examine
and verify those quotes that were a true testament of truth?

But what was it made? Differ by a whole to the authority of the author, as if the inaccessible
mountains, which was his imagination and discourse, were true.

Of course there is evidence advanced for and against the inaccessible and transit of ranges by
Catapuliché, Huechuhuehuem to Valdivia, we should be in favor of the latter, Unless a physical
disappointment sincere and true people do see the opposite. No we must know that nature gives
us two ways that I have proposed by water and by land to the plaza and the kingdom of Chile, at the
proper time for not only I can navigate as shown at the place where he Villarino, but the gap Huechum-lauquen,
or limit the source of the river, which is a more distant day's journey. From this site Valdivia
to throw the Indians three days by mule, by the harshness of the mountains, traffic very short,
compared to half that by Mendoza to Chile, crossing us less expenses and other amenities.

Since the establishment of Black River to the lagoon-lauquen Huechum land, its distance not even
reach 160 leagues to the top of Diamond to open way too comfortable
carts along the same river, which washes the largest livestock rescue
and relief.

A site can be conceptualized 120 leagues: from him at this gap 40, and from this to Valdivia 20,
so that the whole distance being 180 miles, the 120 is very smooth turnpike road and comfortable,
the 40 with time maybe you will in the same provisions, applicable to soften some missteps, and
the remaining 20 is the only bad thing is that travel. But this, as explained by Indians,
not those aviaries and cliffs to the Mendoza Chile. Compare, then, the increase of this from Buenos Aires,
which went from 500 leagues, painful and risky for the crossing of
the pampas, of water scarcity and Indians, with short soft and can
be opened by the Black River, and the safety of these infidels, taken
its main avenues and places, that is another issue that matters most
to the prosperity Buenos Aires, as I will show in place, expressed
through the populations.

I've talked to Promote the concept to what I discovered in the Black River to the Plaza de Valdivia;
regardless of the recognition of Diamond Rio, or Sanquel, which made observation Villarino the
pilot, at the confluence of this river with the Black, 38 degrees 44 minutes and other combinations
and news, there is reason to hope, has with the Tunuyan, which passes by the city of Mendoza, and to be certain
they discover equal proportions.

We arrived as the most important point, and that happiness lies across the province, this is
to repair the destruction caused by livestock in the vast Indian
campaigns and borders Buenos Aires, in book to those who disbelieve
so many deaths, robberies and captivity, to take advantage the vast
fields that mediate this capital Black River, where you can expand
and encouraged raising cattle, which must be one of the branches has
to sustain this facility and support of others.

 

D. Martín de las Casas grabbed his left hand arm, and pushing against wall, he threw his voice
Campanula, while brandishing the stick:

- Granujota, indecent! In good place you left you took the dust! Miserable worm, should crush
and cast after a wreck on the street to be eaten dogs! Should nail you by the ears to the wall
and expose to public embarrassment ... At least it should break your
ribs with this stick, and they're giving me feel like it!

It would be difficult, nay, it would almost certainly satisfy this
energetic invalid occasion, as in many others, his greed for bruise
to his fellows, if not except that at this point he brought the hostess.

-
What are you doing, sir?

Mistreating a priest! ... In my house there will be such scandal ...

Spare a bit of surprise Fr Gil, then said firmly:

- Gentlemen, this young man passed out while coming to help me for having fallen. The I went
with here, to beg you, because you want to enter a convent and devote
themselves to God, which opposes his father for no reason or right
and for that brutally abuses her ...

- I mistreat my daughter, villain!
- Shouted at the height of the outrage the hunchback, who had Obdulia
transporting got into bed and was about to throw water on the face
lies .-- and lies you say so.

I did not even know he wanted to join a convent ... or I would have opposed it.

Fr Gil was stunned, unable to utter a word, because the accent denoting Osuna sincerity.

- I believe that what is appropriate in this case - said D. Peregrin with his shrill voice, administrative,
- is knowledge of the fact immediately to the civil authority ...
To me it made me a father was governor of Tarragona ...

- Let you
in Tarragona, D. Peregrin! - Interrupted Mr. de las Casas .-- Here's
what should meet this girl is ... You, Madam, do you know to do to
himself.

You, D. Peregrin, who knows the people, go find a doctor ... And you, Don Gil the love ... to hell if you
like.

- To say that I abuse my daughter, because she wants to become a nun! - Kept exclaiming at under
Osuna, while helping the hostess .-- Canalla, rather than rogue!

- Mr Osuna, you excuse me ... I think so - said the priest.

- Well,
well.

Already fix this issue in Peñascosa - uttered D. Martin with his energy property .-- Now,
over here! ... Long!

Fr Gil went to the door, but when I was about to transpose, D. Martin shouted as if you were
in front of a battalion: Stop!

- Friend Osuna - he said, addressing the hunchback, - you would have
inferred a serious offense and you is not a decent if not now gives
a slap to the individual who has offended (pointing for P. Gil).

There was awkward silence.

Osuna's countenance expressed uneasiness and hesitation.

- Nothing, nothing - followed by the fierce invalid in his voice resonant
theatrical beard - you are not man of honor, you have no hint of shame
if corrective leaves the offense.

Osuna still hesitated a moment, cast a look of mercy to the invalid,
but seeing his face ghastly, it was decided at last.

Alzose on the toes and discharged a resounding slap on the cheek
of the priest.

- Jesus! - Said the landlady .-- This is an iniquity!

Fr Gil was densely pale, loomed two tears in his eyes, but made no
move one to throw on her attacker.

XIII

Thanks to the resolve of Obdulia, the matter was not brought to court. From the first time
admitted that he and solely responsible for the leak: the toilet no fault it had, only had assigned
to accompany her after incessant requests and using of the scheme from abuse at home. D. Peregrin
Casanova, no doubt wishing to demonstrate no grudge against any of Osuna on the scene lighting,
continued to believe that was instructed gubernatorial record. Long ago they were reconciled.
In Peñascosa individuals is publicly revile are called rogue, miserable,
ETC. etc., and eight days, they were again seen together over coffee.

But this is not unique of rocks. The same applies Sarrió and Nieva. Otherwise, how could life
distinguished in these villages?

Against the advice of D. Peregrin were all sensible people in the population. A by affects
the toilet, others timorous, some because they saw no reason to make a fuss, Osuna almost all
advised they were staying. However, the enemies that the toilet had, better say, the envious,
curled terribly. They refused to assent to version of the maiden. They felt it was a hoax forged
by her to save, and if did not believe, at least expressed it, lowering his voice and grinning.
It I covered it with sarcasm, like the priest that her daughter's confession, and were run
the villa thousand more or less ingenious pleasantry about his trip. It is easy to guess that who
else worked on this propaganda, but a sly way, was the P. Narciso. No chaplain was enough to
be humiliated Sarrió ripping off his rival by Coadjutor belonged
to him in justice.

I wanted to conclude it all costs, pulverized, not more hear his name on the lips of the pious women
of rocks.

It seemed the occasion of pearls for it. So he went spontaneously Osuna, asking if you did not think
going to court. When he learned that this could not be assumed because Obdulia all responsibility
and claimed to have cheated on his confessor, experienced grief. Such was his desire to exterminate
P. Gil, who was already a long time but that their relationships with it were strained, and
even open hostility can be said, he ventured that far. Three or four days after returning to Peñascosa
saw one morning in church. He sent a message by an altar boy who wanted to talk to her and
waited in the sacristy. It was beyond the young, though very bad wins. The curate was made of honey
treated her with extreme affection brilliantly handled the censer, knowing how sensitive he was
alive and his love own. When he thought having it soft, I did this with great circumlocution
that he, as pastor coadjutor, had a duty to ensure the honor of all his parishioners, that it
was walking in the mouths of people a few days ago, and this weighed on the soul by the particular
affection that the professed. We weighed all the more as he was sure there was no reason given for
it. He knew his generous character, his noble spirit, so I was convinced that On this occasion,
as in many others, sacrificed for others. However, this sacrifice was inadmissible, could be
regarded as a sin. The honor is not ours, is a repository God trusts us and that we have an obligation
to defend. Moreover, no disgrace was only for herself but also for his elderly father. The poor
are seen because of this nicknamed sacrifice and whispered in the village. Even more, though that
turned a good trait generosity, she and he, who were members of the Church, had a duty to report
the ecclesiastical authority of any priest who act unreasonably in exercising its ministry, so
it receives the fraternal condign punishment and prevent fees. This it was in good faith. She,
as good Christian, was not to allow mock God's justice. He understood perfectly that it would be
painful to testify against her confessor; but it was a bigger sacrifice than being carried out, and God
will surely appreciate. Furthermore, it should be noted that when reporting to his confessor
caused him no harm; the Otherwise, the punishment of the Church is seen as an asset, as a just
expiation, when accompanied by repentance, sin and redeems us from the pains of hell.

D. Poor Narcissus ignored, despite having tried for so long, who they existed. Before he had
uttered a word, Obdulia knew what was going to say and how more or less, you know like turning
life into your brain. That ability monkish made platitudes crashed into the vivid imagination,
the subtle wit and insight of the young saint. Answered in the same tone persuasive, smooth,
the cleric was adopted. Nothing could accuse P. Gil, who was a saint, an exceptional human being
illustration served as a beacon in the parish from which it said had arrived, and whose modesty,
selflessness and piety could serve as an example and encouragement to his teammates. But but
had reason to accuse him, he would refrain from doing very well, knowing that the scandal would use
primarily the enemies of religion. The lack of a woman when single leads only to her detriment.
That of a priest, into disrepute class and thus undermining the Catholic religion. Several
other considerations added, and including more than a sentence double acute intention known
to the new coadjutor burnt horn.

- Well, goodbye, D. Narciso, and excuse me if I could not fully understand
her charity.

I am a wretched woman and do not understand theology.

Fr Narciso was grinning like a rabbit. Displaying closed this route, came resolutely the other
no less tortuous. Same D. Joaquin chaplain and Mrs. Butler Barrado that P. Melchior, the young born
enemies toilet, vomiting venom against him, as logical. But there were other Peñascosa few
clerics who had always been fair. In trying to attract them paint them the set from another point
of view, ensuring that had reason to know secrets. The trip was a real abduction thwarted.
The girl was sacrificed. Long ago he, D. Narciso, was suspicious of what would happen. The toilet
had conceived an unholy passion. The escape was agreed had been three months, and so on., etc.
I filled the head wind. The position he occupied as pastor, in fact if not law, greatly facilitated
this attraction. It was agreed between the majority almost all of the chaplains of the villa,
the excuse was a little boy with no weight or formality, which had disgraced the priestly class
and God knows where it would stop if the bishop did not take action
on the matter.

Since then half forgave all of them show their contempt. Nothing pleases both human nature to
despise. Began to greet him coldly, then head back, then no answer. When I walked into the sacristy,
if there was other priests, noted that away from him and formed a separate group. If I went
to clothe to say Mass, was the day most of the clothes cupboard closed: I had to wait until
D. Narcissus came to ask the key. Be dispensed with him in the office when it was possible: not invited
them celebrating Gaudeamus. Finally, harassed him all the ways and
manners that were offered.

And there were no longer enough.

Fr Gil was more surprised than angry that contempt. Seeing that his colleagues dispensed him,
they dispensed with without much regret. Just spoke with Fr And Norberto D. Miguel. The old priest,
who had been deprived of the leadership of fact remained, however, with determination their right,
invented a thousand traces to prove the neighborhood. He and D. Daffodil enemy was a deep, fierce.
But he was afraid. The former leader of the hosts Carlist was capable, if irritated him a
little, beaten in the same church. Don Miguel succeeded by terror. Fr Narciso affected to
despise, but always behind them. Before he was treated with extreme consideration, and suffered
with patience dashes that Occasionally he let go. And when it happened to the young priest, preaching
to the faithful at the offertory of the Mass, saying: "We pastors have a duty, etc., 'D. Miguel,
from his corner where he heard mass, uttering loud enough to hear
him that around him, "Pastor I! I pastor!

"

Leaving a day together in the church, Fr Gil, who had just received a strong rebuff his colleagues,
he said, without regret, as if he were any news.

- Ignore them - the old leader replied, putting his hand rough and dry as a bundle of twigs on
the shoulder .--'re all fags.

They stick to skirts of the devout, like cats ... Look: I, when I go to say Mass, as now,
and get home, never leave him to release half a dozen ... But you, if you're offended, you can
get without inconvenience to the dozen.

A brutal laugh, like a roar, shaking his strong chest as he said this words. His eyes shone with
a frank, cordial joy. The toilet was red as a Cherry and remained silent. He did not have more confidence
with him on this point.

His inner life torments caused him to think too much time on these trivialities. Skepticism undermined
him softly. The world seemed more and more incomprehensible. The idea constant that everything
around him was a mere appearance, which remain true sense forever unknown to man, engendered
in his soul a deep melancholy, which well reflected in his pale face and the sad smile and indifferent
to her lips folded. The whole entire experience - Kant - is more than knowledge of the phenomenon,
not thing itself. It is hidden and hide forever to human reason. Plato also had said before.
The things of this world, such as our senses perceive have no any reality. As we close only
in sense perception we are as prisoners sitting in a dark cave, chained so tightly they can not
return head. They see nothing.

Only perceive on the wall ahead of you, in the light of fire burning behind the shadows of the things
that pass between them and the fire. Nor themselves are but as shadows on the wall. Our science,
then, is reduced and reduced always predict, based on experience, the order in which they occur
in the shadows.

Sad result after so much effort! The entire universe seemed to him like a shadow fugitive fading
with the subject who contemplates it.

Maya is - as the Vedas say, - is the veil of illusion that covering the eyes of mortals, makes
them a world view can not be said whether or not there exists a world that resembles a dream,
radiation the sun on the sand, where the traveler far do perceive a lake. Having lost faith not
only in reason but in their senses, the life of our clergy trailing silent, indifferent, in the midst
of infinite weariness.

Obdulia had not seen him in the fifteen days following their return. Blessed leaving very little
from home for obvious reasons, and the church tried to go to the hours when no was the toilet.
The latter is not just because of embarrassment, but by the same feeling was waving his loving heart.
He believed, and did not lack reason, which alleged gossip running through the village and the
war of all chaplains, mainly D. Narcissus any approach to his confessor could engage it. So this
sacrifice was necessary with satisfaction that suffers for being worshiped. But he became a
top torment their forces. His mad passion, instead of abating, more exalted every day. Not live
more than with the image of young toilet. Even in dreams you see. And he forged his deranged
fantasy endless illusions. Dabase to think that the P. Gil was for his love and to believe
exasperated all his words and actions. Once he had pressed his hand over force, one who had
smiled from a distance, other than she had blushed to find it, etc., etc. Everything became substance.
After the trip to Palencia she was subject to a thorough, feverish examination. His joy in the car
when eating lunch, and she cleaned fish spines, and the scene of the boat, where he was melancholy
about to mourn to listen, the agitation that seized him on the train when you invited barefooted
finally, the kiss of love on the lips that he was impressed until
he lost consciousness seemed to light the memories all signs of the
undoubted sentiments that the breast of his confessor.

The poor man was a saint, and love fighting with his duty. This struggle guess he thought it was doubly
interesting in their eyes, and more exalted, if possible was his passion divestment.

After he was born in his mind the idea of ​​seeing him again. The idea soon became the purpose and
flooded with joy. The interview was to be secret, which nobody had news Peñascosa it. This satisfied
his desire not to compromise, while the condition of temperament, always inclined to the mystery.
Determined that it was at night: surprise toilet in your room, enjoy a moment of affectionate
expansion and leave immediately. He noted, for end the day. Throughout he was nervous, agitated
gently, as expected schoolgirl see her lover climb at night the bars of the balcony. When the
time came, he told his father she had a head to retire early. So I heard you leave home, lay
with trembling hand a shawl over her shoulders, and accompanied by
her maid, who was his concealing life, he went home from the toilet.

His legs were weak with pleasure, heart I was pounding.

The strange part is that you are not going through the imagination that that love was sacrilegious.
No was remorseful. Your brain balance upset all divine laws and social the melted back to his whim.
For her, the love of the young priest was a pure idealism consistent with the Christian spirit,
was in the stories of the saints several such cases. When dreaming away in his company to fund
a withdrawal sweet and pleasant, it was always under follow the course
of confessing to him and go to heaven together.

If the meat was speaking in of his being, or not listened, or pretended not to hear, deluding
itself.

Arriving at the mansion of the priest, told his maid who wait in the gate: no down soon. Called
trembling. Ms. Josefa left open. And from his famous voyage had not seen her, she threw herself into
his arms, embraced her and kissed her with effusion affected. He loves was very little content,
was received with icy coldness, until it was known that struggled
herself for not letting go a dash of shameless and give it to the
door in his face.

It only contained the idea that his master had been reconciled with
the blessed, which deplored in the depths of his soul, judging ugly
and dangerous.

Obdulia pretended not to notice the coldness of the good lady.

- Are you at home? - Asked the same smiling face.
- It's ... I'll let you know.

- No need. He has commanded me to
come at this time and I will be waiting.

He then took the stairs
and went to the room of Father Gil. Ms. Josefa looked up with dislike
and distrust. Ask if he was home and then say that the waiting was
a apparent contradiction. Then
it was the turn of Don Alvaro, who was not as friendly as that of Campóo his father, and under
this Act was an expression of greeting.

For very little more than these compliments he gave me the time because they had not yet sat
down again half the people there, when Don came word that everything was Sabas early in the
church and we waited. As we were very close and not exceed ten the funeral less than two hours,
and outsiders had to go home after lunch in mine, and evenings were very short, we started immediately,
accompanying Neluco and her sister Mari Pepa, much mourning. The old Marmitón not allow leave.
To have the table and direct and order all that was left was painted Lituca one for this and other
much more. Also Chisco and Pete stayed with two monsoon Salces my confidence, well aware of many
care for me, particularly the monitoring, I do not know if it came spontaneously from within the
occurrence, or because I was inspired by a Women's eloquent look gray, to see how the house would
remain, without us, helpless and all but empty.

And walk toward the church, we saw pop up on the rocky hump of a man tall, stocky, beautiful
head, wrapped a broad-brimmed hat and a gray beard; came to hand with a brown jacket and trousers,
the same color, rolled up on a stout boots of sole and very muddy. He brought his hands in his
pockets coat, a paint stick and knotted under his left arm, and mouth smoked a pipe.

The first thing he saw was the lord of Provedaño, who was the most forward among us. He paused to watch
him singing with his hand over his forehead, and also stopped the other with dark eyes and impassive
upon him. Like two lions. Do not missed more than smell. Then came more, and shook the right
hands with stout shocks. Then I found two mountain twin oaks shaken by the breath of the same burst.
I do not know what they said or if they said something. Why?
 

However useful that men are skilled, and very suitable for all, I can not deny that rarely become
absolutely necessary, notably when they are on top of a man of strong will and irresistible
power whom they serve and whose whim and markets are as posted. Don Andrés Rubio had, so to
speak, made to Don Paco, and so as he had done could be undone. There would be missing for this
person or persons to replace Don Paco, dividing their jobs, if one was not enough to fill them all with
same efficiency and skill.

Don Paco was fully aware of what was and what to expect and fear still don Andrew, so that much
gratitude as sighted prudence, he served with the highest zeal and loyalty and always tried to
please. Don Paco, however, had misgivings about losing its elevated position and enviable Privanza.
In addition to its rare credit, was holding on to very good knockers.

II

Widower for over twenty years, had a daughter of twenty, who had
been the real girl all over the place, and was then the most elegant
lady, and prettier than empingorotada it had, culminating and glowing
by age, by her beauty and her aristocratic position, as the sun in
the meridian.

It had been ten years since she had succeeded in capturing the will of the people most illustrious
knight, Don Alvaro Roldan of primogeniture, with whom who had married and had a whopping seven
robust and flowering stems between sons and daughters.

This Don Alvaro was alive with all the apparatus and the pomp that usually display the nobles
locals. His house was the best there was in Villalegre, with a front door adorned from one
side to another, berroqueña magnificent stone columns, fluted and
capitals Corinthians.

On the door was the coat of arms, stone well, which included lions and dogs, boilers, ships
and castles and lots of monsters and other symbolic objects that the most useful knowledge
in the science of heraldry gave clear testimony of their age and sublimity of his ancestry.

They
said the gossips, and places are always there, that Don Alvaro was late, which had mortgaged some
of its best properties and should be enough money, but I guess the slanderous gossip, because
he lived as if nothing hurt. He served many servants, constant incoming and outgoing ones and others,
and as was aficionadísimo hunting, not missing a pack of hounds,
and beagle hounds, working hunters and two black guns, they used accompany
him.

In the house was the garden, and also an enormous yard, where, for more pleasure and glory, not locked
only chickens and turkeys, but in remote enclosures, deer and brought living in Sierra Morena,
and finally, tied to strong iron chain, fearing mischief and atrocities, a huge ape that Morocco
had sent a captain of infantry, cousin Mr.



Beside the sugar and molasses, we manufactured a small cask of vinegar, which promises to be
good. Ordered him on all things that each moon do him messenger to bring him particular
notice of all things to pass over, and the state of the earth, and fertility della, and the growth
of the livestock, over all what we ordinarily notice, which was the poor who had, who were
killed in one year and he was born, and what has been eScript in the back knew that without
it he himself kings in Cuzco, and having so great way from Quito to Cuzco, which is more than going
from Seville to Rome, by far, was so used as is the way to Seville Triana, that I can not
more expensive.

Dias had the grand Inca Tupac had notice of the fertility of Los Llanos and the beautiful valleys
than they had, and how much they felt the lords of them, and determined to send them messengers
with gifts and presents for the principal, asking that they had for a friend and companion,
Quél wanted to be like him in the suit when passing over the valleys, not war if they wanted
to give them peace, and that up to them from their wives and clothes and take him their own,
and other things in this. And all along the coast had flown and how much new you ladies were Tupac
Inca Yupanqui, and how it was not cruel or vicious or to harm but to the brooding and wanted
to stand against him: and they praised the custom and religion of the Cuzco, the apricots
had male saints, believing that the Incas were the children of the sun, or that they had a deity.
And considering these things and others, identified many without seeing their flags, taking
with him friendship, and so sent him to say with own ambassadors, to which sent many presents to
the king himself, and begged wanted come the valleys to be Dell Server and Holger to see their
freshness, and praising the Inca such a will, again speaking to the governor of Quito what
he had done, left that city to rule the Yuncas.

As Tupac Inca king resolved to go in the valleys of Los Llanos, to attract to its service and
obedience the inhabitants of them, down to what Tumbez and was honorably receive me by natural
whom showed much love Tupac Inca, and then put the suit wore T hose for more content, and praises
the war leading to will not take him as Lord and and have promised to the estimate as to his own children.
They hear happy with their good words and manner with which he treated them, gave honest obedience
to conditions, and allowed be including governors and make buildings because, without it that
some Indians say, others had passed by Tupac Inca made seat while in the land, reigned until Huayna
Capac, but if we look at these sayings of the Indians, never conclude
nothing.

Leaving the valley, walked the Inca king by most of the coast, going by the way real big and beautiful
as what of today seems to have been, and was served everywhere and going to present to serve
him, though in some places, they say they gave war but was not party to be without his subjects.
In this valley was a few days drinking and giving them pleasure, rejoiced to see their freshness.
Made by his command large building houses and temples. Chimo in the valley say they had a fierce
war with the Lord of that valley, and taking their battle, was in little being disrupted all the
Inca point, but, whichever their own, won the field and defeated the enemy, whom Tupac Inca,
with his mercy, spared, commanding, to those who were living in planting their land would
understand, and should not take up arms again to himself or others. He was Chimo to represent
him, and most of these valleys were the tributes to Cajamarca, and they are working for metal working,
many of them were taken to Cuzco and to the heads of provinces, tilled where silver and gold
jewelry, vases and vessels, but it was more ordered them. Chimo passed on the Inca, and Parmunquilla
[187] ordered a fortress we see today, although very worn and broken
up.

These Yuncas are given, and the lords, vicious and friends rejoicing, went to shoulders of
his subjects, had many women, were rich in gold and silver and precious clothing and livestock.
In those days, servíanse with pomp in front of them were crooks and decision-makers, in their
houses had gatekeepers, used in many religions. Dell, will be offered to the Inca and others
took up arms against him, but at last he was by the sovereign lord of it all and monarch. No
freedoms and seized their old habits, use of theirs So that degree of force or they were to save. Indians
were skilled as they impose that the king wanted them to know, and learn the common language
had great care. They stood mitimaes, and roads, clinics, each moderately taxed valley that tribute
to that their land could, without going to look to the Agency, hobiese, watched over them to
justice, more fulfilled what they promised, if not, the damage was his and the Inca earned their
entire income. Lordship is not shot no natural lord but sacáronse of men of the valleys many,
getting to the each other, and to bring other parties to the trades
that this has been.

Inca God to walk in the other valleys in the best order he could, without allowing no harm
was done in the towns or in the fields of land do they passed, and the had many provisions in
natural deposits and quarters that the roads were facts. And with this order, the Inca walked
until he reached the valley of Pachacamac, which was the temple as old and devout Yuncas very
desired to see him as he arrived at that valley, say only wish there was the temple of the
sun, more like that was so honored and taken by the natives, did not dare, and that it should
be contented with house and large sun virgins and priests, for that would make sacrifices according
to his religion. Many Indians say that he himself spoke with the devil Inca was the idol of
Pachacamac, and he heard it was the maker of the world and other nonsense that I do not do not agree;
and the Inca begged to let him know what service would be more honest
and happy, and responded he sacrificed a lot of human and sheep blood.

After the aforesaid, have great sacrifices that were made in Pachacama by Tupac Inca Yupanqui, and
large celebrations, which last, he turned back to Cuzco on a path that was done, what you will
get the Xauxa Valley, which runs through the snowy mountains of Pariacaca, which is something
to see and feel his greatness, and how large steps are, and today are and among those snows,
to get through. And visiting the provinces of the highland and providing and rearranging the most
convenient for good governance, who is close to Cuzco, to where he
was received with great feasts and dances, and made great sacrifices
in the temple for their victories.

Chincha province in the past was much in this kingdom of Peru, and most populated People, therefore,
that before this one time with their masters had left and joined himself to the Collao, where,
with great spoil that hobieron, turned back to his province, where they were and were always
estimated their neighbors, and feared. The father of Tupac Inca Inca, is said Soras sent from
a captain with warriors, called Capac Inca, to obtain Chincha attract the lordship of his own:
but, although he was and what he tried, was low partly because got a weapon, and so it wanted
to defend, quel orejon, the best he could, returned, and were not
seeing any captain until Tupac Inca Inca subjugated, to what T hose
same tale, for I do not know about this more than they themselves.

Returning to the purpose, as Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese, as eScript, after to be loose
and have given to their hobbies seemed like days, sent it back to People call, with the intention
of ending the Lady Indians of Los Llanos. His command was met, and appeared in Cuzco speedily
masters of the provinces with people of war who were to bring, and put in order after the city
and what more King had to provide, out of Cuzco and down to the plains by way of Guaytaray.
Knowing its way, many were waiting for him with the intention of taking him as Lord, and many
willing to give him war and try to keep [it] in the freedom they had.

In the valleys of the Nazca people had back and ready against war.

Tupac Inca arrived, hobo embassies and talks between them, and although there were some stubbornness
and guerrillas, were content with what the Inca Dellos wanted by the foundation (and) that hiciesen
fortified houses and hobiese mitimaes, and pay tribute to what they put. And here was the Inca to
the valley of Ica, where he found more resistance in the Nazca, but, wisdom enough [to] do,
without war, enemies friends, and were broken as the last. In Chincha waiting if the Inca were
going to the valley, made more than thirty thousand men on the point of war, and hoped to curry favor
with the neighbors. Tupac Inca, as he knew, he sent messengers, with great presents for the
lords and masters and principals, said the ambassadors that of his party's hiciesen great
offers, and chelate did not want war with them, but peace and brotherhood, and other things to
this pass. The Chincha heard what the Inca he said, and received him his present, and were for
him some principal with what was in the valley and talked to him and sought the friendship
so that peace was settled, and Chincha weapons and were left to Tupac Inca, then moved to Chincha.
This counted mesmos Chincha Indians of Cuzco and the dried, other Indians from other provinces
have heard have it otherwise, because they say large hobo war more
I believe that without it was for Lord of Chincha.

Inca come to this valley, so great and beautiful saw it, was delighted. He praised the customs
of the natives, and with loving words I begged them to take those of Cuzco which would see them
add up, and they obeyed him and contented throughout, and given seat when it had to do, went
to Ica, where he was to what they call the Guarco, because questa knew war and turned around,
and it was true, because the natives of those valleys, taking little by their neighbors because
they had so unnerved and do not see why, given possession of their lands to stranger king,
and gathered a lot of courage, having made houses pucaraes strong in the part belonging to
it, near the sea, where they put their wives and children. And walking [188] the Inca with
their people in order, who is close to where they were their enemies, and sent their embassies to
big games, and sometimes threats and fierce, but did not want to go through the law of their
neighbors, who was foreign to Acknowledge, and with each other, the use of these parts, locked
the war and spent great things from them. And come the summer and hiciesen great heat, the people
of the Inca adolesció that was because he agreed to withdraw, and so, with more sanity as he could,
did, and those of Guarco out of its valley, and took their maintenance
and meals, and turned to sow the fields, and they made weapons and
aparejábanse for, if the Cuzco should come against them, found them
apercebidos.

Tupac Inca Cuzco stirred about, and as men are of so little evidence, they saw than the Guarco
were left with what they tried, he began to have news from some of them, and rebelled and departed
from the service some of the Inca .-- These were natural valleys up the same coast .-- All the
king went to hearing, and what remained of that summer, he understood to make calls and send
people out to apricots were all over the kingdom to visit the provinces, and determined to win
the dominion of Guarco, though about it ingrowth was evident harm. As autumn came and went past
the heat of summer, with The more people who might join, down to the Plains and sent their ambassadors
to the valleys of them, afeándolos his unsteadiness in presuming he is up against, and they
were amonestóles firm in their friendship, where not, certificóles that the war would make cruel.
And how to get at first Guarco Valley, in Halden saw, he commanded his people to found a city
​​to which his name Cuzco, as his chief seat, and the streets and hills and squares were the
real name. He said that even cattle would quel Guarco the native subjects of his, had to remain
the new settlement, and that it always People had to be quartered, and then hobo who did what
on what was ordered, moved with his people to where they were the enemy, and besieged it, and
so firm were in purpose, never wanted to come to any party, and had his war, which was so long,
saying that lasted three years, the summers of which the Inca went to Cuzco, leaving people quartered
in the new Cuzco he had done, that was always against the enemy.

And so, one to be gentlemen, and the other for not being slaves, tried to leave with his intention,
but finally, after three years, the Guarco were emaciated, and Inca, who met him, I again sent
ambassadors to them that they were all friends dijiesen and colleagues, quel did not want to marry
their sons but his daughters, and the resulting, sustener confederation all very equal, and other
things such deception, Paresce to Tupac Merescian grand Inca punishment for having given so much
work, and the Guarco, Paresce could no longer sustain many days, and that conditions would be
made by the Inca better to enjoy peace and quiet, gave what the Inca king wanted, who should not,
since leaving the fort, were the key to reverence him, and without thinking, commanded his people
that kill them all, and they put him with great cruelty at the hands, and slew all the major
and most honest men them who were there, and in they were not, also be carried out the sentence,
and killed as many as today, we have the descendants Dell and large piles of bones that there
are witnesses, and we believe that what about this account is what you see eScript.

This done, he ordered the Inca king and a graceful strength that so I told in Part [189]. Settled
the valley and put mitimaes and governor, having heard embassies which came from the Yuncas
and many mountain, commanded want to ruin the new Cuzco had been done, and all the people turned
around for the city of Cuzco, where he was received with great joy, and made great sacrifices to praise
him in the temple and oracles and therefore he was glad the town with parties and drinking and
táquis Solenoid.

As Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese with such great victories as has eScript, was some days
rejoiced at their feasts and drinking with their wives and concubines, who were many, and
their children, including growing up Huayna Capac, who was to be king and came out very courageous
and spirited. After the holidays, the great Tupac Inca thought of giving sight Collao and rule the earth
that could front more, and to do so, he issued apercebiesen people everywhere, and many tents
hiciesen sleeping in desert places. Y began to come with their masters, and to the round alojábanse
Cuzco, without entering the city ​​other than the law does not proibia, and to each other and
to dutifully provided everything you need, taking into account this great governors and providers
MESMA city. And as hobiesen together all those who had to go to war, is made sacrifices their gods,
according to his blindness, making wizards, who knew of the oracles the end of the war, and
made a general and very splendid treat, Tupac left Cuzco Inca in the city leaving his lieutenant
and his eldest son Huayna Capac, and spare grand [190] and majesty, so Collasuyo walked, visiting
the seals and real drums, and rejoice by the peoples of the Canas and Canches.

Entering in the Collao, walked up Chucuito, where the lords of the earth together him to make
merry, and had its good order all collection and supply of maintenance without who miss more
than three hundred mill people who were on their real. Some lords Collao offered to go for
their people with the same saddle Inca, and with that said, came In malaria Titicaca, and
Loo to those who understood the works of the buildings that his father commanded to do, how well
they had done. In the temple made great sacrifices, and gave the idol priests and rich gifts,
according to so great a lord as he was. He returned to his people and walked throughout the
province to leave della Collao, sent his messengers to all nations of Charcas, Carangas and more
people who are in those lands. Dellas, flocked around him to serve and others to you make
war, but though it was given, his power was so great that enough to the subjugation, using the
conquered of great mercy, and with which it came, much love. In Paria sent to large buildings,
and do the same elsewhere. And some had Inca Tupac go to great things, many of which deprives
the forgetfulness, the need to have letters, and I summarily put something of how much we know
from what we hear and see, that here we are, what happened.

Going ahead of the Charcas victorious, went through many lands and depopulated provinces and large snow,
until he came to what we call Chile, and lorded over and conquered all the lands, in which they
say they came to the river Maule. As of Chile made some buildings and tributáronle of regions
much gold in ingots. Governors and mitimaes left, and since in order you had won, he returned to
Cuzco.

Towards the Levante sent apricots warned, in the dress of merchants, who would look for hobiese
lands and what the people sent, and ordered these other things, returned to Cuzco, in which
contend that turned to go out after a few days, and with people who agreed lead, went into
the Andes, and spent the grand work of the mountain wilderness, and conquered some villages in
that region, and sent many crops of coca plant, and which led Cuzco,
where he turned around. Sometimes sacrificed much of
this prophecy, and so they killed many cattle and poultry, and some men and women.

Without these oracles, had that of Aperahua, where by a tree Troncon replied Oracle, which
was found near him much gold, and that of Pachacamac, the Yuncas approaches, and many others,
and in the region of Andesuyo, as in that of Chincha and Omasuyo, and other parts of this kingdom,
from which I could say more, but, as I said it in the first part [87], which deals with the
foundations, I will not desto rather than the oracles, which had more devotion all the Incas
with other nations, sacrificed some men and women and many cattle, and to where there was this
credit, no human blood was not killed men, but they offered gold and silver. At guacas who had
less, they were like shrines, they offered beads and feathers and other small things of little
value. I say this because the opinion The Spanish have to say that in every temple they sacrificed
men, is false; and this is the truth according to what I caught, without pulling or put more
of what I understood and for me I have indeed.

Here goes well, that is understood, what the Capaccocha, respect for all was the service of the
temples and these and other, and by news that has old Indian they are alive and saw what happened
on this, I'll write what I have understood that it true. And they say that you had the habit
in Cuzco, for kings, which each year they made to come to that city to all the statues [88] and bundles
of idols that were in the buried treasures, which were the temples where they worship, which
were brought with great reverence Camay for priests and Dellas, parks guardians name, and as they
entered the city, were acknowledge them as received with great festivities and processions
and the room in places for that were identified and established, and having come from the
districts of the city, and even most of the provinces, large number of people, both men and women,
which reigned, accompanied by all the Incas and apricots, courtiers
and rulers of the city, they understood making great parties and drinking
and táquis.

They placed in the plaza of Cuzco the great chain of gold that encircled all, and so much wealth and
stones, as you can think of what has been the treasures questo eScript kings possessed; This
past was understood as every year they are used, which was, orchestras statues and packages and
priests gathered to find out through the mouth of them observing the event of the year, if
he would be fertile, or if he was to be sterile, if the Inca had long life, or if it even would die
that year, if enemies were to come somewhere, or if some of the peaceful they were to reveal. In
conclusion, were cross-examined about these things and other major and minor that will soon
crumble, because also wondered if there was fever, or if any homesick Vernia for livestock,
and if there would be multiple of a lot.

And this was done and asked not to all oracles together, but every man for himself: and if every
year the Incas did not do this, vivian went very modest and very unhappy and fearful, and did not
have their lives for granted.

And so glad the people and made its drunkenness a solemn banquets and other large táquis parties
that they use, different across to ours, where the Incas are with big win and at his expense treats
are made, that sum had large jars of gold and silver vessels of other things, because all the service
of his kitchen, to the pots and cups service was gold and silver, - sent to those who for what
were identified and had the time of High Priest, who was also present to the holidays with
such great pomp and triumph as the king himself, accompanied by priests and virgins who had
assembled there - that would make to each idol a question about these things, and he replied by
the mouth of the priests who had by their bulk, and these, as they were well inebriated, divined
what most Viana to the taste of those who asked, invented by them and by the devil, quests in those
statues. And made the questions to each idol, the priests being so astute in evil, Algund
term called to respond to that with more devotion and hear his credit Dellos ravings, because
they said they wanted to do their sacrifices, for being pleasant to the high their gods, were
served to respond to what was to be, and so were brought many animals, sheep and lambs, and
guinea pigs and birds, which passed the number of sheep more than two mill and sheep, and
they were slaughtered, by their exorcisms and demonic sacrifices vain to their manner, and then
denounced what they dreamed or what they pretended, or perchance
what Devil told them, and to give the answers, had a great mind to
look at what they said and formed in a few Dellos the event or good
or bad, and so they made with other answers, to see what was right
was telling the truth and what was to be in the same year.

This done, then left the begging of the kings with the offerings they call Capaccocha, and joining
the alms were usually returned to the temples of idols, and if last
year perhaps had one of those dreamers successful, happily ordered
it was the Inca from home.

The Capaccocha, as I was offering that is paid in lieu of tithes to the churches, of many gold and
silver vessels and other parts and stones, and loads of rich rugs, and much livestock. And
to those who had left uncertain and deceitful, not give them any offerings next year, before lost
reputation. To do this, we were doing great things in Cuzco, much more of what I write. And
now, after establishing the Audiencia Gasca and gone to Spain [89] between some things that
were discussed in some lawsuits, mention was made of this Capaccocha;
and this and everything else that we eScript is true that to and used.

And count agora of the great feast of Hatun Raimi [90].

CAP. XXX .-- How he did big festivals and sacrifices to the big party called solene Hatun Raimi.

Many
parties were in the year the Incas, where they made great sacrifices as to the custom of them, and
put them all in particular, was necessary to make it only one volume; and also do little and before
you should not try to count the rantings and witchcraft that they were doing, for certain causes,
and only the party of Hatun porno Raimi [91] because it is named. In many provinces are kept,
and was the principal of the year and they rejoiced over the Incas, and more sacrifices they
made, and this event celebrated last August, when they had taken their mails, potatoes, quinoa
[92], goose [93], and other seeds sown. And called to this feast, as I said, Hatun Raimi, which
in our language means very solene party, because she had to give thanks and praise to the great
God maker of heaven and earth, whom he called, as I have often said, Ticiviracocha, and Sun, and to
the moon and the other gods to his own, for they have given good year of crops for maintenance.
And to celebrate this event with greater devotion and solemnity, are said that ten or twelve
days fasting, abstinence from eating too much and not sleeping with their wives and drink only
in the morning, when they eat, chicha, and later in the day, so only water and not eat chili,
or bring anything into the mouth, and others among them cirimonias were kept in such fasts.
That past, had brought to Cuzco large sum of lambs and sheep, and doves and guinea pigs, and birds
and animals, who kill to make sacrifice, and having the crowd of cattle slaughtered, blood
smeared with Dell's statues and figures of their gods, or devils, and the gates of the temples and
oracles, to which hung the offal, and after spending some time, the soothsayers and diviners
looked in the light their signals, like the heathen, preaching what they wanted, which gave them
much credit.

And finish the sacrifice, the grand priest with the other priests went to the temple of the sun,
and after saying his psalms cursed, sent out to the virgins virgins herded richly and very many
quella chicha had made, and among those who were in the great city of Cuzco ate the cattle and
poultry for slaughter had vainly dead, and drank of that chicha, which had held sacred, giving
it to drink in large vessels gold, and she sat in silver pots of
many who were in the temple.

And having eaten and drunk often, still, and the king and the grand priest as everyone else, happy and
warm dello well, being little more than noon, were put into order and the men began to sing Christmas
carols loudly and for such romances days for their elders was invented, it was all thanks to
their gods, promising to serve RECEIVED benefits. And for this they had many golden drums
engastonados some in jewels, which rang them [94] their wives, along
with the sacred virgins helped them to sing.

And in the middle of the square was wearing, to what they say, a large theater with bleachers,
very feathers adorned with panels of gold-filled beads, and blankets of their much larger delicious
fine wool Argenteria planted gold and jewels. On top of this they placed the throne Ticiviracocha
figure of his great and rich, which, as they had for God's sovereign maker of the servant,
put him on top and gave him the most eminent, and all priests stood by him, and the Inca with the
main and common people were going to Mocha, pulling the sandals,
barefoot, with great humility, and shrugged his shoulders and puffing
out his cheeks, blowing towards him, making the mocha, which is to
say reverence.

Deste below throne had the figure of the sun, which I dare not say what was done, and also they
placed the moon and other packages of gods carved on sticks and stones, and create letores, we have
very certain, that neither in Jerusalem, Rome, or Persia, or in any part of the world, no republic
or king was collected in a place so rich in metals gold and silver and jewels as the square of
Cuzco, where these and other similar parties you were doing, because the packages were removed
from the Incas, their kings, already dead, each with appliance service and gold and silver they
had, say those who having been in good life and courageous, pious with the Indians, they make
grants generous, forgiving of insults; for to this such saints canonized by his blindness, and served
his bones, not understanding that the souls were burning in hell, and believed quest in the
sky. And do the same, was of some other dried apricots or any other nation, that for some
causes that were in their paganism, the also called saints. And they call this way of Ylla
canonized, which means body that was good in life [95], and other
understandings, yllapa means thunder or lightning, and so call the
Indians to yllapa artillery shots, the noise that do [96].

Then together the Inca and the grand priest with the courtiers of Cuzco and many people who
came of the districts, taking their gods put in thalamus, mocha, which is to make obeisance,
what they wore offering many gifts of gold statues and sheep small gold and figures of women, all
small, and many others [97] jewels. And they were at this event Hatun Raimi fifteen or twenty
days in which they made great táquis and drunkenness and other holidays
his style, which last gave an end to sacrifice, putting the bulk of
the idols temples, and the Incas killed in their homes.

The high priest had that dignity for her life, and was married, and was so esteemed that competed
in the Inca reasons, and had power over all oracles and temples, and removed and put priests.
The Inca and he played many times at his games, and it was these such grand powerful lineage
and relatives, and did not give a dignity to the low men and dark, although Nobles .-- they
had much merit called all who lived in the Cuzco they called anancuzcos orencuzcos and [98],
and children descendants of them, although other parties residing in other lands. I remember,
being in the last year Cuzco mill five hundred and fifty for the month of August, after having
taken their fields, enter Indians with their wives in the city with great noise, bringing the plow
in the hands and some straw and corn, to celebrate in just sing and say what they used to celebrate
in the past their crops. And because they do not allow the apos [99] and priests orchestras
parties Gentiles made in public, as usual, or what consintirian secret, if they knew, but as
has many thousands of Indians not to have become Christians, to believe is that, where not see,
what they will antojare. Ticiviracocha figure, and the sun and moon, and large gold rope, and other
familiar pieces have not been found, nor an Indian, nor chripstiano who can not hit upon where they
are [100], but even a lot, this is too much for what is buried in
Cuzco and the oracles and in other parts of this grand kingdom.

For brevity the more I wrote what I understood from the governorship and custom of Incas, I
return to my escriptura to tell what hobo from Manco Capac to Huascar, as earlier promised.
And so, dest as other do not give much notice the pears, because, the truth, did little things,
because the inventors of eScript and the most courageous all were
Inca Iupanqui and Tupac Inca his son and his grandson, Huayna Capac,
but also the cause of reason, that I have eScript, if they the latest.

Then, then, that Manco Capac was dead and made him the general crying osequias, Sinchi Inca Roca takes
the fringe or crown with cirimonias usual, trying to stretch after the house of the sun and furnish
to it the more people he could with praise and great offers, calling, named as the new population,
Cuzco. And some of the Indian state's natural, that where was the great square, the same approaches
that we now have, had a small lake and bog water was difficult for them till the big buildings
that they wanted to start and build, but, as this was known by King Sinchiroca [102], aims
to help its allies and neighbors undo that Palud, blinding him with large slabs and sliced ​​thick
paving above where the water used to be, so that was as now we see it. And still have more that
the whole valley of Cuzco was sterile and never gave good fruit land that of what they have sown,
and that in the grand mountains of the Andes brought many thousands loads of land, which stretched
around him, with which, if true, was the valley very fertile, as
now we see it.

This Inca hobo in his sister and wife many children, the largest named Lloque Yupanqui [103]. And
as seen by their neighbors to Cuzco the good order which had the new settlers in he was, and
how he brought his friends love more people and not for weapons binivolencia or rigor, some captains
and principal men came to take his talks with them, rejoiced to see the temple of Curicancha
and good order with which they governed, and that was because they signed with them friends
of many parts. And say again that as hobiesen come to Cuzco, including these I say, a captain
of the village called ZANU [104], not far from the city, Sinchiroca begged [105], with great
veemencia to put it, she might rely upon rather than a daughter he had very handsome and beautiful,
wanted to take it for women to receive his son. Got this for the Inca, grieved, because that
was what was asked something, that if granted, went against the established and ordained by
his father, and if not granted to this captain said, nickel and the other men had for the treatment,
they were not publishing more than for himself. Y having taken counsel with the apricots and major
city, all that ought to paresció to receive the maiden to marry his son, because until they had
more strength and power guide had not at that case as he directed his father. And, they say
it responded the father of which was to be wife of his son who brought her, and made the wedding
with all solemnity, his custom and manner, and in Cuzco was called Coya, and a daughter who had
King, who was to be his brother's wife, was placed in the temple of Curicancha, whither had already
priests and sacrifices were made before the figure of the sun, and had porters to guard women
as sacred as it is told. And as this marriage was made, have the Indians that this bias is coupled
with the citizens of Cuzco, and making great treats and drunkenness, confirmed their brotherhood
and friendship to be all some, and therefore made great sacrifices in the hill and Tampuquiro
Guanacaure and he himself Curicancha temple. That past, gathered over four youths mill, and
made the cirimonias that this had been invented, they were armed men and were held by nobles, and
they were torn ears and put them to use that round they used to.

After this and other things that happened to King Sinchiroca, we do not know, after being old
and leaving many sons and daughters, died and was very crying and wailing, and made him osequias
very sumptuous package for keeping its memory had been good, believing that his soul resting
in heaven.

Dead, as has been counted, Sinchi Roca, Lloque Yupanqui, his son, he was received by Lord, having
first fasting day for this identified, and their guesses as and thought it had great hope that in future
the city of Cuzco was to Florescer, the new king began to ennoble with the new buildings in
it were made, and prayed, to what they say, to his father, wished with all his allies and confederates
to go live to his city, to where he would save his honor and Terni The party she wanted. And
ZANU lord or master [106] doing so, was given and noted for housing the most West Berlin, which,
being on slopes and hills, called Anancuzco; and the plain and lower, he remained the king
and his house and neighborhood, and as we all were dried apricots, approaches to saying nobles,
and nearly all hobiesen been found a new city, tuviéronse always distinguished the people who lived
in both places in the city, called Anancuzco and Orencuzco. And even some Indians wanted to say
that the Inca had to be a one desto lineages, and one from another, but I have certainly not,
nor is more than the dried apricots count, that is what is already eScript. On the one hand
and the other part of the city had large neighborhoods in the hills, because she was behind
on hills and ravines, as told in First Part of this crown [107].

Relationship are not in these times hobiese notable war, before they assert, that those of Cuzco,
gradually, with good tricks that this had, cleave unto his friend of many people the regions
of your city and the temple of Curicancha acrescentaban and buildings as wealth already sought
gold and silver metals, and them came much to the city to tianquez [108] market or therein to, and
in the temple metíanse women not to leave the second and as has been said elsewhere.

And in this way Lloque reigning Yupanqui in Cuzco, pasándosele the most of his time, Allegan
to be very old, without his wife's child. Despite showing a lot of the neighbors dello city,
made great sacrifices and prayers to their gods, as well as in Guanacaure Curicancha, and Tamboquiro,
and say that one of those oracles which were [for] answers vain heard that the Inca would engender
child to succeed to the kingdom which he showed much happy and joyful in hope, put the old king
on his wife Coya, and such taunts, to within a few days, clearly knew to be pregnant and gave
birth to their time a son.

Lloque Yupanqui died, sending first the fringe or crown of the empire were laid and deposited Curicancha
in the temple until the age their child had to reign, which began by Mayta Capac name, and the
governors say that he left two of his brothers names which did not understand.

Inca Yupanqui died, was mourned by all the servants of his house, and in many parts of the city,
according to the blindness they had, they killed many women and children, to think you had to go
to serve the sky where they had already certain that his soul was, and sanctifying by holy, sent the biggest
of the city that was made to remove the package holiday to them to. And true, there is great
preparation that was done to bury one of these kings, and generally in all the provinces he wept,
and many of them are shorn women, tightening ropes of straw, and the year after they made a howling
and sacrifices heathen, much more than you might think. And this, which is found in the Cuzco year five
hundred and fifty mill, they would see what happened there on the funeral of Paul [109] when
he made his year out, that was then, that most of the owners of the city rose to his house
to see, and I found myself present, and was to devise some admiration. And it is plain understand
that it meant nothing in comparison to the past. And tell agora Mayta Capac.

Lastly, then, what has been eScript, Mayta Capac, was doing great, who, after cirimonias have
done that were required, we were open ears, and being more man, in the presence of many nations,
natural and foreign, that this came together, rescebió the crown or tassel of the empire: and because
they had married sister with whom he took to to wife a daughter of a [110] SEÑORET or captain
of the town of Oma, who was the [111] Cuzco two leagues, which had named Cahua Mama Pata.

Made the wedding, was a neighborhood near the city where he lived a race of people whom Alcaviquiza
called [112], and these had not wanted to be friends with any of Cuzco, and were filled with
suspicions of each other, say that water going to take a wife of Cuzco to certain sources that
were there came a boy from another neighborhood and broke the pitcher and spoke not know what words
which, screaming, he returned to Cuzco, and as these Indians are so alharaquientos, then left
with their weapons against the other, who had also taken their own noise that they heard, to
see what came of the business, and came with the Inca People nearby were placed in order of
battle, having taken on something as light as pretext between India and boy had passed, to want
to subjugate those of the lineage or the memory Dell lost.

This is for those of Alcaviquiza well was understood, and as men of courage, they went to war with
grand courage, which was the first to be given at the time, and fought great time and one
as the others, because, having been the case so Supit, had not been getting of favors or seek
help from Alcaviquiza, which, although much fought, were defeated after being killed all over,
that hardly fifty escaped with their lives. And then King Mayta Capac, taking possession in
the fields and fields of the dead, using the winner, distributed it all for the citizens of Cuzco,
and made great feasts for the victory, going all to sacrifice to the sacred oracles they had for.

Deste
Inca did not have the apricots over Mayta Capac reigned at Cuzco
few years, and being aide to people to leave what they call Condesuyo,
there came such a disease, that hobo died, leaving as his heir to
the eldest son, called Capac Yupanqui.

It seems to me, referring to this Incas at the beginning of the founding
of Cuzco reigned in that city The Indians have little of it; and,
indeed, must be what they say, that among the Incas, Dellos were four
or five [which] both identified and ordered and did what and [I] eScript.

 

After the tears and made the osequias, the new Inca make the fast shut up, and because heightening
their absence does not lift any sedition or people, and commanded one of the most of their seed
was leading in public accounting with her own person, which gave power to punish it could do
for what, and have the city in calmness and peace, until he come out with real insinia the
tassel. And the Inca, whose claim news that was of noble presence, serious and authoritative.
Which came in the most secret of his palace, to where did the fast, sticking to the corn times
what more he ate, and was without having carnal knowledge with a woman. Finishing, went off
course, showing your sight of people great joy, and made their big feasts and sacrifices, and
past parties, the Inca ordered that all parties bring much gold and silver for the temple
and became stone in Cuzco called the war, large, and the gold engastonadas and rocks [116].

While in Cuzco Inca Yupanqui trying to ennoble him, determined to
go to Collasuyo which are the provinces that fall to the party of
the south of the city, because he had notice that Zapana descent that
dominated the Atuncollao part, were already very powerful and were
so proud, she got together with people to come on Cuzco, and so, he
ordered its people.

And as long Cuzco suffers no peace, have the Indians, who as hobiese many people Inca Yupanqui
aide for the day I wanted to do, having now to be split, hobiesen come as some captains Condesuyo
with warriors, tried together killing the Inca, for if that day came out with victory, would be
so dear, that to all would be vassals and servants. And so, while the Inca say in their parties
something cheerful with lots of wine drinkers, a close one of the league and they had taken
and that the party, and lifting his arm, landed a blow on the head stick real, and the Inca troubled
and courage, stood up saying, "What did you, traitor?" And those of Condesuyo had been many
deaths, and the Inca himself garrison thought of going to the temple, but was in vain to think,
because of his enemies reached, was killed, making do the same to many of their wives.

He walked a great noise in the city, while not understood by one another: the priests it had collected
to the temple and women of the city, screaming, pulling her hair startled to see the dead Inca blood,
like some vile man. And many of neighbors wanted to abandon the city, and the killers wanted
to become a prey, when, count, that making a great noise of thunder and lightning, fell as
much water from heaven, that Condesuyo feared, and no further forward,
turned, satisfied with the damage they had done.

And [have or say] the Indians, who at this time were lords of the province called Quichua Andaguailas
[117], and from beside a lake that had his name Choclococha [118] left many people with two captains
called Guaraca and UASC, which came winning as you came, until they came to the province said, and
as the inhabitants della knew his coming, got ready for war, encouraging
one another, saying it would be fair to give death to those who had
come against them, and so, leaving a door is about to leave for the
Aymara, the chances with his captains came closer to them, so they
got together and had some talks with each other, and without become
avenues, was given the battle between them that way, according to
the fame announces, was at odds and the victory was doubtful, but
in the end, the Quichua were beaten and treated cruelly killing all
that were able to have hands, sparing children to tender, or to those
useless old, taking their wives and concubines.

And make other damage, became lords of that province and possessed as today they send their
children. And this he finds himself cash, because forward has to do much mention of these Chancas.

And
back to the subject, such as Condesuyo left Cuzco, the city was cleaned of the dead and made
great sacrifices, and is said by a certainty that he Inca Yupanqui not him at his funeral to
honor that past, or as they put the package to them, and no child left none.

After what was according to the relationship that the Cuzco apricots give these things say
again that as hobiese made great lamentations for the death of the Inca, it was between the
chief of the city who would be named king and merescia have such dignity. About this had different
opinions, and because such hobo who wanted hobiese not king, but which ruled the city noted,
others said it was lost without his head.

On this there was great noise, and fearing his contention is that a woman came Anancuzcos through,
which said: "What you are there and why you do not take to Viracocha
Inga, they deserve it so well?

"Having heard this word, as these people are so determined, leaving the vessels of wine were
in great haste by Viracocha Inca, son of Inca Yupanqui, [119] saying, as he saw that it used
to, and receive him in awe of the fringe that wanted him. Coming Viracocha in it, it came to
making the fast and ordered the city to Inca Roca Inca his relative,
and left while the crown, very ornate, and made a solemn holiday in
Cuzco, which lasted several days, all showing great satisfaction with
the election of the new Inca.

Which meant that some called Viracocha Inca to come from elsewhere and differentiating who brought
suit, and that in the faiciones and appearance proved to be as a Spanish because he had beards.
They have other things more tired, if hobiese writing.

I asked in Cayo Tupac Yupanqui Cuzco and to the others in the Cuzco major gave me relationship
of the Incas that I am writing, and I answered to be fun and that nothing is true; Viracocha
Inga was because NASCAR in Cuzco and raised, and do the same were his parents and grandparents,
and that the name of Viracocha the particular name was called, as does everyone.

And as I was handed the crown, he married a lady principal, called Runtu Caya [120] very beautiful.
And as the feast of joy hobiese past, determined to win out some villages in the round of Cuzco
who had not wanted the friendship of the Inca past confident in the
strength of their pucaraes, and people who wanted to put together,
out of Cuzco its rich litter, with the most major stores and endrezó
his way to what they called Calca [121] where he had been their messengers
receive him with great pride, more, as they learned of the Cuzco and
were close to Dell, together, arming themselves with weapons, and
set in the high the hills on their strengths and barricades, to do
desgalgaban [122] large stones towards to the actual Inca, to kill
the ones that had.

E enemies, putting it work, climbed the mountains, and in spite of the contrary, they could
beat one of those forces. Because of Calca [123] saw the forces of Cuzco, went out to a large
square to where they fought stoutly, and the battle lasted from morning until noon day, killing many
on both sides, and were more prisoners. The victory is those of Cuzco.

The Inca was next to a river, where they had settled their real, and as he knew the victory,
he felt joy. And in this, his masters down with the dam and cannot.

And the Indians who had escaped from the battle with other captains of Calca and its regions, looking
for since so square bad they had thought, that the final choice that remained was tempting
faith the winner and ask for peace with moderate bound to servitude, like many others were doing;
and so agreed, they went for a portion of the mountain, saying with great voices, "Viva, for
long live the mighty Inca Viracocha, our Lord. "At that gnawed at the resonant voices, took up arms those
of Cuzco, the more it was not long, when the defeated were prostrate on the ground in front
of Viracocha Inga, to which, without looking up, one between They had more wise, his voice began
to say: "Neither should you, Inca, make proud with the victory that God has given you, and take
little to us to be defeated, for thee and the Incas is allowed to rule over the nations, and
is given to us with all our strength defend the freedom we inherited from our parents, and
when doing so not out we can, obey and cheerfully receive the subjection [124]. Therefore, no longer
sends more people die or hurt, we have all thy will. "And as the leading Indian hobo these
words, others who were there were great cries, begging for mercy.

Inca King replied that if they had been hurt, that his anger had been at fault, since the first refused
to believe his words nor have his friendship, that he had heavy, and liberally granted them that
might be in owning land, as the first of their estates, with so much on time and according
to the laws, which are taxed in their villages hobiese Cuzco, and that treats them were then
to the city and might make him two palaces, one inside della and another in Khaki [125] to
be out to recreate. Responded that they would do, and the Inca ordered release the captives,
without missing a single one, and restore their properties to those who already had by his
confederates, and for them to understand what they had to do and these did not hobiese dissensions,
sent a delegate to be great power, without removing the estate to Mr. natural.

After what has been scripto, Inca Viracocha sent a messenger to summon the men of Caitomarca
[126] quest from the other side of a river made strong, without ever having wanted to be friends
the Incas, who had been in Cuzco, and how he got [the] runner Viracocha Inga verbally abused
him, calling the Inca crazy, because he believed that it had slightly to submit to his lordship.

Then they sent a messenger hobo Viracocha Inga, he commanded his people that raised the real
walked to be closer to Caitomarca. And walking along the road, came to a river, where ordered
them to stop for refreshment; and being in that place, the messenger came, which was how to Caitomarca
had scoffed at the, and how they said they had no fear to the Incas. And how it was understood
by Viracocha Inga, with great anger rose in the litter, ordering his men who walk all haste,
and did so until they arrived at the bank of a river flowing and high current, I think I should
be to Yucay [127], and ordered their stores to the Inca and people would fight enemies that
the other side of the river were, most would the river so angry, could not be put into effect.
Caitomarca those arrived at the riverside where with slings threw stones at many real del Inca,
and started one and In addition to giving great shouts and cries,
because this is the strange habit So people here fight with each other,
and how little their mouths to let stand.

Two days have questuvo in that river without passing the Inca, that there was neither bridge
agora which were used there before hobiese Incas, because some say yes and others say no.
And pass the river Viracocha Inga, commanded you to say a big fire
in a stone small, and as was very hot, put into it some mestura or
confacion, so that where enprender could touch the fire, had it put
in a sling of gold thread, and so, when a pleased, threw stones, and
with great force threw it in the village of Caitomarca, and happened
to fall from the eaves of a house that was covered with straw well
seasoned, and then noise burned so that the Indians came for the night
to fire Vian at home asking one another what had become what and who
had set the fire to the house.

And he went out through an old, which reported to have said: "Look what I say and what you
be convenient, here without thinking that has set fire to the house, before they believe that
came from heaven, because I saw a burning stone, which, falling from above, gave the house and
stopped as you see it.

For as the main and bossy with the oldest of the people that heard it, being, as they are, so great
soothsayers and sorcerers, believed that the stone had been sent by hand of God, to punish them
because they did not want to obey the Inca: and then, without waiting for an answer oracle or
make any sacrifice, crossed the river on rafts, leading to the Inca present; as they were before
his presence, asked for peace, making large offerings with persons and property as well as
they did the Confederates own.

Viracocha Inga known for what they had said those Caitomarca, responded with great dissimulation,
that if that day would not have been wise in coming, the next he was determined to them with
large ponds that had mandated. And after this, it became the seat between Caitamarca and those
of the Inca which gave the captain or master of that town one of his wives, native of Cuzco,
which was estimated and taken into a lot.

In the area of ​​this village ran the fame of the facts of the Inca, and many, by the sound della
without seeing the arms of Cuzco, I offer you sent to friends and allies Inca king, who showed
little happy with it have, talking to each other lovingly and to and showing great benivolencia
for all, providing what he could to those who saw be necessary. And he saw that he could gather a
great army, he resolved to appeal of people to go in person to Condesuyo.

Of all the things that he went to Cuzco, Viracocha succeeded each
new, and as in the city would tell the war he had with those of Caitamarca
say that there arose a tyrant brother Last Inca Yupanqui, who, having
been deeply felt, because the mastery and control the city had given
to Viracocha Inga and not to him, and waited to ensure timely have
dominion.

This thought had it, because one was in favor of the dried and Cuzco's main Orencuzcos lineage,
and the new of this war that the Inca had, Paresce I had plenty to do in the defunct, encourage
this I say, for that, without further wait, killed in the city who had been governor, to be empowering
della.

Capac, who had his name and, greedy of dominion, coupled its allies,
in an orchestra day in the temple of the sun all over the apricots
and between Inca Roca, the governor of Viracocha Inca, taking up arms,
freedom of the people posting and Viracocha Inga could not have dominion,
to the deputy attacked and killed him and he and many others; blood
which watered the altars were the altars and shrines and figures the
sun.

The virgins and the priests came out with grand noise, cursing the murderers saying that, a great sin,
grand punishment deserved. The city went grand coup people to see what it was, and understood,
about adopting as fact, coupled with Capac, others pesándoles, took up arms not wanting to go
through it, and so, having DIVISION, fell many dead and another part. The city was moved in such
a way that reendiendo the air the sound of their own voices, they
were heard and understood.

In this, prevailing the tyrant, took over the city, killing all the women of the Inca, although
most major had gone with him. Huyéronse some city, which went to where Viracocha Inga was, and
as it was understood, concealing the grief he felt, he ordered his people who walked the Via del Cuzco.

Capac
return now to the tyrant, and hobo taken the city itself, wanted to go public with the fringe,
to be taken by all as king, more like the first impetus was gone, and So that men rage, leaving
his sole discretion, undertake great evils, the mesmos that prompted
him to get up, laughing that he wanted the kingship, they reviled
him speech and forsook him, coming to meet the true Lord, whom requested
sorry for what they had committed.

A Capac did not lack courage to take the business forward, but, seeing the little party was
very upset, seeing the move as Supit, cursed those who had deceived him and to himself, by trust
of them; and not see with their eyes Inca king, punished his mistake he himself, taking poison, [that]
have died. Their wives and children with other relatives joined him in death.

The news of this was going to the actual Inca, which, as will the city and enter in it, went straight
to the temple of the sun to make sacrifices.

Capac bodies and other who had died, he ordered them to be thrown into the fields to be food of birds
and looking for participants in the treason, were sentenced to death.

Understood by the Confederates and Viracocha Inga friends what happened, they sent many embassies
with great gifts and pledges, congratulating him, and responded to these embassies happily.

At
this time, say the apricots that were in the temple of the sun many ladies virgin which was very
honored and valued and did not understand more of what is to me that in many Part of this
history. They say that four of them used their bodies hideously certain porters who guarded,
and being felt, were arrested and do the same to adulterers, and the high priest commanded
them and they were righteous.

The Inca was with Condesuyo determination, but, being tired and old, left.


I have often felt the sensation of cold on a windy day in Britain far more severe than I have
done in Canada, when the mercury indicated a much lower degree of temperature. When again,
the cops see the girl that answers a mufti of Cairo or some holy man Mecca with another sign
written in Arabic. Meanwhile, the frost has cleared tight covering the fields and grass and flowers,
as if they had been oppressed under that weight appear by magic. Anemone nemorosa is one of the
earliest to open there calyx to announce the Spring. But a thousand flowers, more fragrant and
no less beautiful, appear after calling and exiting the breeze to breathe the aromas they exhale.

The
breeze comes, like the bold prince fairy tale, and goes through the
elusive forest, and enters the palace silently, and goes to bed and
slept in the haunted princess, and gives a kiss of love.

Then he undoes the evil spell, silence and the rest are bartered for sudden death in movement,
music, excitement and life. As if they were to be held divine weddings, upholster and beautifies
everything. They open the treasures unfold finery, put tables and dressers of the royal banquet,
and looks over the wide thalamus cover of purple, emerald and gold. The guests have already said
that pilgrims come from far across the sky. Others who do not pilgrimage, awakening from long
sleep, are lined their richest robes, and go well. All as good subjects, they try to imitate
princes. And as the princes are in love and will marry, all fall in love and marry. It seems
that hardly any living being that does not get drunk with the juice of magical herbs or the perfume
of strange flowers, which move to love, delight and joy, inducing to life which would increase
and spread and open new ways of being.
 And if there were some riots or conspiracies or
surveys, the main and most movers brought to Cuzco to a safe place, where squeeze themselves
into a prison that was full of wild animals such as snakes, snakes, tigers, bears, and other bad
bugs, and if anyone refused, they said that those snakes would not do wrong, and if lied, that
would kill him, and this madness had and kept at that. And in that dreadful prison had always,
for crimes they did have a lot of people, which looked at time to time, and if his luck that he
had been bitten hobiesen will not [to] some of them, sacábanlos, showing great pity, and dejábanlos
return to their land. And in this prison guards had who were sufficient to guard her, and to care
tubiesen feed them that were lit, and even to the bad bugs that had there. And true, I laughed
good wins Cuzco when I heard it used to be the prison, and although they told me the name,
I do not remember and therefore I do not put [74].

In times past, before the Incas reigned, it is understood that something very natural these provinces
did not have the people together as we now have, but their strengths strong, they call pucaraes
[75], which he left at will give one to another war, and so were always modest and lived with
great work and anxiety. And as the Incas ruled on them, Paresce bad this order and the way they had
in the villages, mandáronles, trying in some parts with praise and other threats, and in all places
with gifts they were doing, to which he is for the good of not living like savages, but before,
as men of reason, set their towns on the plains and foothills of the mountains together in
neighborhoods, such as and how the disposition of the land as ordered, and in this way, the Indians
left pucaraes that the first had, ordered their people the right way, and in the valleys of the
plains, and in the mountains and plains of Collao, and for which there was no anger on fields
and fields, they were dealt Incas terms, pointing out what each one had to have, where they
set limits to knowledge of those who had and then Dellos Nascar. This clear what the Indians
say today, and I was told to me in Xauxa, to where they say that one of the Incas were divided
between them the valleys and fields today have, with which orders have been and remain. And
in many places one of those who were in the mountains, ditches pitches were taken from the rivers
with much greater delicacy and wit which were taken out, and all peoples, the one and the others
were full of quarters and deposits of kings, as in many places it is said.

And they understand how much work would walk a country so long and
to where each league and at every step had new language, and it would
be great difficulty understanding them all by interpreters, choosing
the safest, ordered and sent, under severe penalties to put it, natural
that all of his empire and knew they understood the language of Cuzco
generally and they and their wives so that even the creature left
chest hobiese his mother, when she began to show the language had
to know.

And though at first was difficult, and many do not want to put in more languages ​​may learn
from their own, Kings could therefore that came with your intention, and how well they meet
tovieron its mandate, and so true it is understood that in time a few years was known and
used a language in more miles and two hundred leagues, and although this language was used, all
spoke theirs, which were many, although I write not believe it.

And as a captain come out of Cuzco or any of the apricots to take account or residence, or justice
of the commission for, among several provinces, or to visit what he was commanded, not talking
in another language than that of Cuzco, nor they with him. Which is very good, brief, high-comprehension
and supplies of many words, and so clear that in a few days that I tried, I knew [it] enough
to ask me many things wherever he went.

Call the men in this moon language [Rune], and the woman Guarare [huarmi] and to the father
yaya, and brother [76] guayqui [Huauque] and sister to [77] Nana [Nana], and the moon keel, and
the subsequent month, and wadding year and a day click [Punchau], and at night tota [tuta], and at the
head called oma and to the ears lile [Rinri], and the eyes naui [Ñahui] and to the nose sunga
[zenca or singa] bankers and teeth [Quiru], and to machinery and arms to the legs chaqui.

These words only get in this crown, because now I see that to know the language formerly used
in Spain, go changing, wise one to one and other to another, for the times to come, is for God
to know the events that have, so for if he comes something cool or to forget that language and
so ensued as people used, they are not hesitating what was the first
or the general, or where it came from, or what about this more is
desired.

And therefore I say that was very beneficial for the Spanish have this language, as she could
to go everywhere, some of which are already losing.

In this kingdom of Peru's public fame among all natural, how in some towns the region of Puerto
Viejo is used abominable sin of sodomy - and also in other how bad would have land in the rest
of the world. And I notice this a great virtue desto Incas because, being masters as free
and had no one to realize, and neither had any such powerful among
them who fetch it, and that something else did not understand the
nights and days that lust to be with their wives, and other hobbies
- and never say or that none of them used the above sin, before they
hated those who used it, having them in just as vile to timid, as
gloried in such filth.

And not just in their people did not find this sin, but even consented to be in their houses or
palaces no they knew who used it, and even without all this, I think I heard that if they were
know of anyone who had committed such a sin, punished [him] with such punishment, it was noted and
known to everyone. And in this there is no reason to doubt, but rather has to believe that none
Dellos fit such a defect, or dried apricots, or many other nations, and those who have eScript
Indians generally, generally condemning this sin, claiming that they are all sodométicos have
acargádose it and, indeed, are forced to recant, then wanted to ANSI condemn many nations and
peoples, which are far more clean on this from what I can say. For, leaving aside the Puerto
Viejo, in all of Peru did not find these sinners, but as it is in every place and in all places
one, or six, or eight or ten, and these, that secret They would sometimes be bad, because they
had by priests in the temples, who is famous in the holidays they will mate with the gentlemen, they
thought committed they were doing evil or sin, but by sacrifice and deception of Satan was used
[78]. And even that by chance could be that the Incas Inoren such a thing in the temples was committed,
[and] disguised as something it was not to be bad cysts, and they think that enough sent by
all parties to worship the sun and the more their gods, meddle in proibir religions and ancient
customs, which is death to pair them that nascar them take them off.

And yet we also understood that once, before the Incas reigned in many provinces went as wild men,
and some went out to war is to give to others, and ate as now make the province their weapon
and other regions, and after Incas reigned as people who had great reason and holy and righteous
customs and laws, not only they did not eat this dish, because many have been and it is estimated
but they stood to remove this custom with them that they tried, and in such a way that soon
completely forgot and threw herself, in all his dominion, which was so great ate and not many years
previously. Those that now have happened, it will show that came notable benefit of the Incas,
not to imitate them their past eating aquesta delicacy the sacrifices of men and boys.

Published each other, - still, perhaps, any one of those who presto escriptor throws write it
- they killed, there were days of festivals, mill mill or two more children and Indians, and
this and other things bear witness that we wake up to these Spanish Indians, meaning that treats
these things count, cover up our mistakes and justify higher the ill treatment that we have
received any. That I do not sacrificed and that no Matavan men and children in such sacrifices,
but not what is said or far. Animals and their livestock killed, but human creatures less
than I thought, and tired, second tell instead.

So, I have learned from the dried old said that these Incas were cleaned
in this sin, and not using other bad habits of eating human flesh,
or walk wrapped in public services, nor were messy, before they were
corrected to himself.

And if God allowed to have chripstiandad who with zeal, not greed branch, in the past give them
a complete picture of our holy religion, people in whom it was printed, SECOND so that now
we see the good order that there is work. But let what has been Indeed, God, Quel know why,
and what is done from now on, we implore give your grace, to pay something to people that both we and
how little we offended to have been disturbed by us, while Peru and many other leagues Indies
d'Spain, and many seas in the middle.

As the city of Cuzco was the principal of all Peru, and she resided
most of time the kings had in the same city many of the principals
of people who were between all the more astute and prudent, for its
directors, for they all say, that before attempt any thing and important,
such as communicating with these, an associate their views the most
votes, and for the governorship of the city and the roads were safe
and nowhere is hiciesen no insults or thefts of the most famous [79]
dest, They were always appointed to punish those who were ill, and
for this, were always much everywhere.

So they understood the Incas in providing justice, none dared to do mischief or theft. This
is understood as respect to those who facts walked thieves or forcing women, or conspired against
the king, because otherwise many provinces hobo who had their wars with each other, and all
could not the Apartallos Incas in them. "

In the river that runs next to Cuzco to justice those who were lit there or to another prisoners
wore part, to where they cut their heads and gave them death in other ways even as they were
pleased. The riots and conspiracies punished a lot, and more than all, which were already taken
by thieves and such, the children and women of whom were aviltados and counted to income between themselves.

In natural things achieved much these Indians, and the movement of the sun as that of the moon,
and some Indians said there were four big skies, and all claim that the seat and chair of the
great Maker of the world God is in heaven. I often ask them if quel reach World has to end, laugh,
and know little about it, and if something you know is quel what God allows Satan to tell
them. Everyone called Pacha, knowing the back quel sun does, and the waxing and waning of
the moon. It counted the year, which called wadding, and do a dozen moons, taking account of
it, and used for turrets small, that now are many of the hills of Cuzco something kept [80] for
the quel sun to shade them, fields and understand what they understand more about it. And these
Incas looked a lot in the sky and the signals, which will also be hung them as great soothsayers.
When the stars are, there is great and the screams that make flutter to each other have.

Concluded with some things for my purpose agree to write, then return with grand soon to tell
the sequence of the hobo kings to Huascar, and now I that the great, rich and highly appointed
Curicancha temple, which was the main all these realms.

And among the Indian public, being the temple as old as the same city
of Cuzco; most of Inca Yupanqui, the son of Viracocha Inca, the accrescent
in wealth and stopped as chrisptianos was when entered in Peru, and
most of the treasure was taken to Caxamarca in Atahualpa ransom, and
say instead.

And they say the apricots, which after have happened had the dubious war that the citizens of
Cuzco with Chance, agora are lords of the province of Andahuaylas, which as of that victory
that treats were Inca Yupanqui stay such an esteemed and appointed lords from all over flocked
to serve him, great service by asking the provinces metals gold and silver, because, in those
times, had great miners and delicious grains, and finding herself so rich and powerful, remembered
ennoble the Casa del Sol, - which in their language called Indeguaxi [Intihuasi], and by another
name Curicancha called it, which means golden fence - and acrecentalla with wealth. And that all
who see or read this to know how rich freshly temple was the hobo in Cuzco and the value of
those who built and he did such great things, porn here memory, second I saw and heard to many early
chripstianos who heard the three [81] who came from Cajamarca, that [he] had seen, though the
Indians have both dello and so true, that there is no need another probanza.

Circuit had this house in more than four steps, all surrounded by a strong wall, carved stonework
around the building very good with fine stone very well placed and established, and some stones
were very large and soperbias, they had no land or mixture of lime, but the bitumen they tend
Hazer their buildings and are so well carved these stones which seems
not mix or join any.

The stone seemed to be something dark and rough and most excellent [83]. There were many doors,
and covers very well made; to mean [84] Wall, a band of gold than two feet wide and four fingers
of altor. The covers and doors were plated plates of this metal. Further inside four houses were
not large carved in this way, and the walls inside and outside plated with gold, and do the
same woodwork, and coverage straw was served by tile. There were two seats on that wall, where
the sun shone in dating, and the stones were carved and placed in Sotil holes many stones precious
emeralds. In these seats sat the kings, and if one did so, he was worth death.

At the doors of these houses were put goalkeepers who had charge of looking for virgins, there
were many daughters of lords, the most beautiful and betting that they could find; and were in
the temple to be old, and if any had knowledge with men, killed or the burying alive, and do
the same they made to him. These women were called virgins, did not understand weaving in
and paint over wool clothing temple service and making chicha, which is the wine making, that
had always filled with large jars.

In one of these houses, which was the richest, was the figure of the
sun, big, made of gold, wrought very first, engastonada many precious
stones, and were in it some of packages of the past who had reigned
Incas in Cuzco, with a great many treasures.

A radius of this temple were many small dwellings for Indians questa Members service, and there
was a cercuito where he brought the white sheep and children and men sacrificed. They had a
garden that the lumps were pieces of gold, and was artificially planted with corn, which were [of] gold, and
the cane dello like leaves and pods; and were so firmly planted, although strong winds hiciesen
not ripped. Without all it had made more than twenty gold sheep with their lambs, and the shepherds
with their slings and staffs, who guarded, made this metal. There were lots of jars of gold and
Silver and emeralds, glasses, pots and all kinds of vessels, all of fine gold. On the other walls
had carved and painted some bigger things. Anyway, it was one of the richest temples there
in the world.

The high priest, called Vilaoma [Villac Umu], had his abode in the
temple, and priests to the ordinary sacrifices with great superstition,
according to its usual.

A holiday he was the Inca general were present at sacrifice, and they made great feasts. There
were inside the house and barns temple thirty silver, which blew the corn and This temple had many
provinces who contributed to their service charges. In some Demon Days was seen by the priests,
and gave answers vain and that conformed to the it was intended.

Many other things could be said of this temple, he left, because I
think I said enough so that they understand how big thing was, because
I try not Argenteria, beads, feathers gold and other things, that
if written, would not be believed.

And what I have said, even chripstianos living who saw most of them, who took to the rescue
Caxamaca in Atahualpa, but much is hidden by the Indians and lost and buried. Although all Incas
had adorned the temple, in time of Inca Yupanqui was increased so
that when he died and Tupac Inca his son, hobo empire, was in this
perfects.

Many temples were the hobo in this kingdom of Peru, and some are very old because they were founded
before, with many times the Inca reigned, and in the mountain range the high, as in the mountain
range (and) of the plains, and reigning Inca, were built again many others where they made
their parties and sacrifices. And why make mention the temples that were in each province in particular,
would be something very long and tedious, determined In counting only those who had at most
eminent and leading. And so I say that after Curicancha temple, was the second guaca of the hill
Guanacaure Incas, is in sight of the city, and was frequented by them and honored by what
some quel say brother of the first Inca was converted in the place
of stone, while that came out of Pacaritambo [Pacárec Tampu], as initially
counted.

And in this mountain had formerly oracle where the damn devil speaking, and was buried at the large
round sum of treasure, and some days they sacrificed men and women, to whom, before they were slaughter,
they made them understand that priests had to go to serve [to] the God who worshiped there,
back in the glory that they pretended they had with their ravings, and so, holding certainly
those who were to be slaughtered, the men became very Galanos and dressed with fine wool garments
and gold llaut, and patens, and bracelets, and oxotas with gold belts, and after having heard
the parliament of the priests liars they made them, gave them to
drink plenty of chicha with great vessels of gold and solenizaban
[with] sacrifice songs, publishing them, which, to serve their gods,
they offered their lives in such a way, having as happy reprime death
instead.

And having good lament these things, were drowned by the ministers, and placed on their shoulders
quipes [85] gold and Jarrilla of the same material in hand, buried them round to the oracle in
their graves. And to those canonized saints such had for each other, believing that they were
undoubtedly in the sky serving his Guanacaure. Women also were dressed sacrificed with their
fine clothes richly colored and feathered, and golden moles, and spoons, and bowls and dishes,
all of gold, and well dressed, well after they have drunk, were drowned and buried, believing
them and those who killed, who were to serve his devil or Guanacaure.

And hacíanse great dances and songs, when they made such sacrifices quest. Had This idol, which
was the oracle, with its chácaras, yanaconas, and cattle, and virgins, and priests who took
advantage of the most dello.

The third oracle huaca of the Incas was the temple of Vilcanota, well-appointed in these kingdoms, and
to where, allowing it to our Lord and God, the Devil had great times to big mouth and spoke
for the false priests that serve the idols in it were. And there was this temple Vilcanota little more
than twenty leagues from Cuzco, near the village of Chungara; and was highly revered and respected
and offered many gifts and presents, and by the Incas and gentlemen, for the rich men of the counties
[of] which came to sacrifice, and had their priests and virgins and fields, and almost every year
were made in this temple offerings the capacocha, which is what I will say then. Large dabase
credit to what the devil said for your answers, and at times, they made great sacrifices of
birds and cattle and other animals.

The fourth temple estimated and frequented by the Incas and natives of the provinces, was the
guaca of Ancocagua, where we also had very ancient oracle held in high veneration. Was stuck
with the province of Hatun Cana, and at times ranging from many parties, with great reverence
this demon to hear their responses vain, and had it grand sum of treasures, because Incas and
everyone else put them there. And also it is said that without the many animals sacrificed to
the devil, that they had for God, to do the same for some Indians and Indian as well as told
that was used in the Guanacaure hill. And in this temple hobiese wealth is being said, tiénese
for truth, because after the Spanish have won the Cuzco over three years, and the priests and chiefs
have raised the great treasures all these temples had, I heard that a Spanish named Diego Rodríguez
Elemosin (so) guaca Desta took more than thirty thousand pesos of gold, and this has found
no more, and still There is news of the buried an immense quantity of silver and gold in parts
that no one know, if God does not and never will be taken if it were not for luck or chance.

Without these temples, they had another by such an esteemed and popular as them, and more, who
had by name the Coropuna, which is in the province of Condesuyo,
in a very big hill covered continues to the winter snow and summer
does not go away ever.

And the kings of Peru most major visited this temple, making offerings and to present and
those already these, and tiénese very certain, that the gifts and capacocha that this temple
was made, there were many loads of gold and silver and jewels buried in parts dello not known, and
Indians hid another large sum was to service the idol and priests and virgins, who also had a lot of
the temple [86], and as there is so great snow, do not rise to the top, not managing to know
where they are so great treasures.
 

Later an Indian tried very cunning, and practices of those sites Vastis called José Yati, who
disabused me, informing me that the step was respectively Choelechel Indian nations that I
mentioned, but not all, as I had two paths where they came, and penetrated: one fell to the
Salinas, where salt has provided Buenos Aires with the carts, and is gone from the Indians Peguenches
and Aucases, whose leader named Guchulap, and the other farther north and not far from the city of
Córdoba, who attend those Ranqueles nation.

The reason for using different ways these nations, is the enmity that have a with others, and
be more immediate to their lands to become as common in traffic, had to go through those of its
neighbors.

The other two roads is a matter that deserves more attention in the day, because we have no knowledge
physicist of them, which does not occur with that of Choelechel: just talked on the news reports
and Indians, and you need a formal discovery to pull these lines
Parages for their safety.

Even without the news of these important reasons, in office from July 31, 1781, I proposed to Viceroy
Lord how useful it was to be gaining knowledge of the Indian nations inhabiting fields of Buenos
Aires, its shelters and retreats, where he began to secure, when they saw persecuted, or attacked
us, to which he had intended to try to the peons, Antonio Godoy and Juan Jose Gonzales, with
the pretext to go to their tents to buy cattle, lead them brandy, beads, and grass, with whose gifts
were being familiar with some, and taking other news, the only way he could overcome these difficulties.
Record showed equal he said His Excellency. Lord would be useful to practice from the borders of
Buenos Aires and his guards sugetos allocating adapted to the case,
with whose knowledge was easy with two expeditions come out of this
capital and Black River contain and restrain.

This proposal was welcomed, and Godoy and Gonzales sent with letters to habiéndolos SE, and this
being the first who ventured to walk the way through so many Indians, and given knowledge
to the journey made by the pilot D. Paul Sisur by land to the establishment,
both had the unfortunate end to stop at a prison, which prison he
delivered his own innocence.

Notwithstanding the contempt with which it was my proposal, the continued
abuse and theft Indians forced the Viceroy Lord to identify shipments
that have come from Cordoba, Mendoza and the capital, but not the
Black River, which is the most immediate camp site to them. 

Invia Inca Yupanqui had captains with people for other parties to secure evidence to many people
to his service with the more soft it could, and he sent messengers on the Soras it should not
take arms against him, promising to take a lot of them do not insult or damage, but did not
want peace with slavery, but not lose the war for freedom. And so together with each other,
had the battle, which, according to those who had della memory that was hard fought and killed
many on both sides, but leaving the field by the Cuzco. Those who escaped being killed and prisoners,
were howling and wailing to his people, where to put some charge on their farms, and taking their
women, deserted and were, as published, to a strong Penol, quest Vilcas river near where he
had in above many caves and water for nature, and in this Peñoles collected many men their
wives, and he prepared him for fear of the Inca, providing themselves the most supplies that
could. And Soras only be collected to this Penol, that the region of river Guamanga and Vilcas
and other parties joined them were terrified to hear that I wanted to be one Lord Inca of the
people.

Losing the battle, the victors enjoyed the spoils, and the Inca ordered not to harm to the captives,
before the release sent to all of them, and ordered a captain to go to the people of Condesuyo
Pumatampu the part of [157], and as you walk in and he knew have gone Soras people to Penol
and said, bore with great anger and determined to go to the fence, and so he sent his captains
with the men of war go against them.

Very great things have dried apricots Deste Inca Tupac Inca Yupanqui and his son, Huayna Capac,
his grandson, because these were of those who were more courageous. Such as may be reading their
occurrences, believe that I removed before I knew it, not adding anything, and to affirm it certainly
must be what it is because I no longer claim more than [158] write out relation of these Indians,
and I think this and more for the trails and signs His footsteps stopped these kings, and
by his great power, which demonstrates to be nothing I write this for what happened, that memory
will last in Peru while men had of the natives.

E back to the purpose, like the Inca both wanted to have at hand the quest in the Penol, was with his
people to reach the river Vilcas. Those in the region, as they learned his stay there, many
came to see him, making great services, and signed with his friendship, and his office began
to make rooms and large buildings in which they now call Vilcas, being masters of Cuzco to
give the trace and to show how they were to put the stones and slabs in the building. Coming, then,
to Penol, tried with all good reason to appeal to their friendship to them that it was indeed strong,
sending his messengers; but they laughed at his words and throwing many shots of stone. The
Inca, seeing its purpose, determined not to let go without punishment made them. And he knew how
the captains sent Condesuyo to the province, had given some of those battles to the land and
had up and put in your lordship's most of the province and because of Collao would not think
that had to be safe, be brave knowing Hastu Guaraca, the lord of Andahuaylas, ordered him and
his brother Tupac UASC [159] was to depart for the attempt to put Collao in his lordship to
the natives. They replied that they would do as commanded, and then
left for land, for from it go to Cuzco to join the army who had to
carry.

Los del Penol, still in its intention to defend himself, and had surrounded the Inca, and passed
between them and other great things, because it was over the fence, and at last, missing the maintenance,
is hobieron giving those in El Penol, obliged to serve as others, to Cuzco, and give tribute
and warriors. And with this easement were in favor Inca, who say they do not anger them, before
they send them to provide maintenance and other things, and sent
it to their land, others say that he killed them all without any escape.

The first thing I think, but as one and the other did not say I know more about these Indians.

Finish
this, they say that in many parts came to offer the service of the Inca, and received grace to
all who came, and he left it to return to Cuzco, and found on the road made many quarters, and
that most parties had down the slopes the natives, and had reached
villages on the plain as ordered and ordered.

Arrived at Cuzco, he was received his style with great pomp, and made great feasts. The commanded by
captains who had gone to war again with the Collao, had gone to Chucuito, and had some battles
in parts of the province, and out victors sujetábanlo all the dominion of the Inca, and was
Condesuyo do the same. And it was very powerful and everywhere flocked lords and masters to serve
him with the rich men of the people, and paid tribute with large order, and to other personal services,
but all with great concert and justice. When they came to speak, were lightly loaded; mirávanle little
face, when he spoke, who heard him trembling in fear or something else, rarely went out in public, and
in war was always the front, would not allow anyone, without his command, had jewelry or settlement
and wandered about in litters, in short, this was the one who paved
the way for the government as excellent The Incas had.

After what has been eScript, dried apricots have that is so powerful as the king Inca, sent
to call people, because I wanted to start another war more important than the past, and to fulfill
its mandate, attended by many leading to large numbers of people armed with weapons they use,
they are deep, axes, clubs, Aillas, darts and spears few. As assembled, he ordered them treats
and parties, and to brighten every day left with a new suit or dress, as it had the nation that
wanted to honor that day, and last, It became another, according as it had those who were called
to treat and drunkenness. With this holgábanse much as here you can encarescer. When they made these
great dances, surrounded the square of Cuzco, a chain of gold that had been ordered to be taxed
as much the regions, as large as in the back I have said, and other
major packages and greatness antiquities.

And as the days hobiesen loose paresció them to Inca Yupanqui, told them how I wanted they were
to the Huancas, and to the Yauyos [161], their neighbors, and strive for bringing [162] in his friendship
and service without war, and when not, that giving it, it should give knack of overcoming and
force them to. They all replied they would do what he commanded with great determination. Were
designated captains of each nation, and all was for general Lloque Yupanqui, and with it for
advice, Tupac Yupanqui [163], and advising them of what they had to do, left Cuzco and walked
to the province of Andahuaylas, where they were well received by
the Chanca and left with them a copy of Captain Ancoallo with people
of that land, to serve war on the Inca.

In Andaguaylas went to Vilcas, to where the chambers and temples of Inca Yupanqui sun had commanded
to do, and spoke with love to those who understood in those works. Vilcas were for the people
[of] Guamanga Azángaro PARC, Picoy, Acos [164] and others, which
and had given obedience to the Inca and provided with supplies and
what more they had in their peoples, and to the road that was sent
them, great and very wide.

The Xauxa Valley, known for the coming of the enemy, attempted to show fear and favor their
relatives and friends, and his temple of Guarivilca made great sacrifices to there demon replied.
Venídoles relief, as they were many, they say who had more than forty thousand men to where
now I do not know if there are twelve mill, masters the Inca came to be above the valley, and
wanted no war to win thanks the Huancas and they wanted to go to Cuzco to recognize the king
as Lord, and so is public they sent messengers. But no advantage at all, came to his hands and
gave a great battle they say they killed many of either side, but that left Cuzco by victors,
and that is of great prudence Lloque Yupanqui, did not consent to harm the valley, preventing
theft, sending the captives release, so much so that the Huancas, known benefit to having them
clemency used up, came to speak and promised to live from then on by the ordinance of the kings of
Cuzco, and thus taxed hobiese in the valley, and from their villages by the slopes, planted,
otherwise distribute, until King Huayna Capac bias signal to each
what he had to take, and sent messengers.

The natives had savido Bonbon, according to this count, the rout of Xauxa, and how had Huancas been
[165] up, and suspecting that the victors wanted to move on, agreed to be summoned, because tomasen
not neglected, and putting their wives and children to the ranch they could in a lake that
is near it [166], waiting for it to happen. Masters the Inca, as things settled hobieron Valley Xauxa came
out and walked up Bonbon, and as they entered the lagoon, they are not doing any further damage that
could eat them the maintenance; and as it were, went ahead and draw nigh to him of Tarama, to
where they found the natives gun positions, and hobieron battle in which they were imprisoned
and killed many of the Taramentinos, Cuzco and the winners were from, and as I dejasen in the
king's will, [that] you serve and pay tribute as did many other provinces, and that would be
well treated and favored, did everything I was commanded, and relationship
to Cuzco envióse all had been done in this town of Tarama.

The Indians Chance, as the Indians who left their province Andaguaylas with Captain Ancoallo
hobiesen great deeds done in these wars, jealous of them and set with rancor against the captain who
had Ancoallo more ago, when the Cuzco was fenced determined to kill them, and thus, was summoned,
and as were many together with his captain understand the intentions they had, and put into
a weapon, fought [the] Cuzco and even killed some, could the other, with the help and effort
Ancoallo of (well) out of there, which complained to their gods from the evil of the apricots,
and ingratitude, stating that, by not more or follow, it would go with his family in voluntary
exile; and throwing women before, walked and walked through the provinces of Chachapoyas and
Huanuco, and through the Andes mountain, walked through those mountains until they came, according
to also say, to a large lagoon, which I think must be what they tell Dorado, whither made their
villages and multiplied many people.

And the Indians have great things that land and the captain Ancoallo.

The captains of the Inca, after what has been eScript, turned the valley Xauxa where already
had great close friend, and many women present to bring to Cuzco, and do the same did Tarama
those. The new all went to Cuzco, and as it was known by the Inca, rejoiced by good fortune
of their masters, though he signs [of] him what they had done heavy with Ancoallo. But it was,
it is believed, industry, because some say that by his command did their masters. And Tupac
and other Chancas UASC hobiesen gone to make war to the province of Collao and hobiesen been
no victory of some people, suspicious of the Inca that new known what had happened to Ancoallo
would turn against him and would do treason, sent messengers to them
then they should come to him, and commanded, on pain of death, none
warned of the past.

The Chancas, as were the order of the Inca, then came to Cuzco, and as they arrived, the Inca
with great dissimulation spoke lovingly, concealing the evil that was used to Ancoallo captain, and
gave his words heavy dello Habell samples. The Chancas, as understood, did not fail to feel
the shame, but, seeing how few of them were to be met, passed through it, asking leave to Inca
Yupanqui to return to his province, and being so granted, were split,
giving privilege to be principal lord could sit in the Duho [167]
engastonado in gold, and other pre-eminence.

And understood the Inca temple Curicancha acrescentar with great riches, as is already eScript. And
like everywhere Cuzco had many provinces, gave some to this temple and sent to the posts, and they
speak a language all their own Sudit, which were made the highways, and mitimaes, and other things
invented the king, who said he understood Many of the stars and has had the sun's movement,
and so took him by nickname Inca Yupanqui, which is the account name and a lot of understanding.
And as is so powerful Notwithstanding that in Cuzco had large buildings and royal palaces, he
ordered three enclosures of wall Excellency and coordinates the work of memory, and such Paresce
today, so that anyone will not praise the building and learn to be great ingenuity of the teachers
who invented it. Each Near this is more than three hundred steps to a Pucamarca call, and
the other Hatun Court, and the third Cassana [168], and is of excellent and fantastic stone as
per level, not disproportion is a thing, and so well settled and so stuck stones, which can
not even see the joint in them. "

They are so strong and so whole the most outstanding buildings, if not apart, as have many others,
will live many ages.

WITH THESE fences or walls within rooms and others had used Quellos, where they were number of
virgins and many women and concubines of the kings, and spun and wove of your so fine clothes,
and had many pieces of gold and silver and vessels these metals. Many I saw stones WITH THESE
WITH THESE some fences, and it frightens me how, being so large, were as first place .-- When
they made the big dances and parties in Cuzco, was made much of its chicha for those women
and bebíanla .-- And as so many parties to come to Cuzco, sent to
providers to not come out without his permission no gold or silver
than entered, and stood by the mesmos governors over the kingdom,
and ruled them all with great justice and order. This points to the Spanish quest
in Peru who claim to know many secrets dest, I understand that I knew and understand what
they think they know and understand and much more, and all agreed that written what they see, and
that I spent working on it than themselves.

And so, say the big ears, that being things Inca Yupanqui in this state, determined out of
Cuzco with many people from war to what he called Collao and its regions, and thus, leaving
his governor in the city, went out of it and walked until he reached the great people of Ayavire,
where they say, not the natives of wanting to come into compliance, had cautiously and, taking
them neglected, killed all his neighbors, men and women, with do the same Copacopa those of [177]
and of slaughter of Ayavire was therefore all the more perished, but were not some who later
were astonished to see so great wickedness as crazy angry about the fields, he called his older
with great howling and words fearful [178]. And as the Inca hobiese fallen into the invention
so gallant and profitable mitimaes put, as he saw the beautiful valleys and Ayavire campaigns
and the beautiful river that passes by him [179], ordered them to come of the districts were
enough people with women to populate it, and so it was done, and it made for great buildings and
temples of the sun, and many tanks and casting house, so that, mitimaes village, was more Ayavire
principal before, and the Indians who have been wars and cruelty of the Spanish mitimaes are
all strangers and unnatural, so has eScript.

Without this feature again, that having gone through his command some people enough to captains
give Andesuyo war against those who are the towns and quests in the mountains, ran Snakes as big
as a thick wood, which killed all they could, therefore, who have not seen other enemies, the
war made them so artfully that came within the many who entered, and I have received great
anger the Inca to know that new, and being with their grief, a sorceress said she would go and stop
silly and tame snakes aforementioned, that they should not do evil to none but them same they
sit down. Appreciating the work, if accordance with that, he sent him to put an execution,
and did, by believing them and set no to me, because it seems fun, and charmed snakes, were
the enemies, and subjective many war and others for prayer and good
words that they had.

The Inca left Ayavire, say by the way they call Omasuyo, which for him width was made real as we
see it, and walked through the towns of Oruro [180], Asillo, Azangaro where he had some encounters
with the natives, but such words were said, that with them and gave them gifts, attracted
to his friendship and service, and from then on used for Pulici wearing
the others who had friendship and alliance with the Incas, and made
their concluded in the plain people of the plains.

Passing on Inca Yupanqui, have to visit the most towns bordering the Great Lake Titicaca, whose
very quick, brought all his service, getting in each suit people who used the natural thing of
great pleasure for them and that most loose. Entered into the great lake of Titicaca and the
islands looked in it are made by sending making them the largest sun temple and palaces for himself
and his descendants, and made in his Lordship, and all the rest of the vast region of Collao,
returned to the city of Cuzco with great triumph, to where he had, after it came in large parties
to make their custom, and most provinces came to him with great reverence,
present, and the governors and his delegates had great care to fulfill
all his orders.

CAP. LIII .-- How the left Cuzco Inca Yupanqui, and what he did.

Flying Inca Yupanqui fame in such a way over land, which was everywhere of his great deeds. Many, seeing
their flag or captain, he came to know and provide him vassals, affirming his sayings that
the sky had fallen their past, they knew live with both concert and honor. Inca Yupanqui, without
losing its gravity, I replied meekly did not want to do wrong to any nation, but they should
come and give him obedience, as the sun wanted and ordered. And hobiese around to make people call,
came out with all to what they call it Condesuyo and subject to the Yanaguaras and to the Chumbivilcas,
and some Desta provinces had stout Condesuyo region of battles, but, although he gave much
war their efforts and knowledge was therefore damage and death that many gave obedience, taking
by Lord, as did the others, and put in order, leaving the earth and made chiefs the natives,
and commanding that they should not insult or damage to these subjects, it became Cuzco, placing
first governors in the main parties, to impose on the the natural order that had to have, and
for housing to serve you and make their people together, and take
every great concert, and no one was injured, although were of the
poorest.

After this, have more, rested a few days in Cuzco, because he wanted to go in person to the Andes,
where they had sent their champions who would look and listen for the land and let you know
Art della they were the inhabitants, and as his orders were filled throughout the kingdom maintenance
of tanks, sent Quél that would provide the road had to carry, E was done so, and with the captains
and warriors left Cuzco, where he left the governor to for the administration of justice, and
through the mountains and snowy mountains, he knew his runners at the front, and the great wilderness
of the mountains, and even were the as large snakes breeding in these
thickets, did not hurt none, espantábanse to see how monstrous beasts
and they were.

As the natives of those districts were able to enter its land of the Inca, as many of them by
the hand of their masters had been put in service, we came to do the mocha, bringing present
in many bird feathers and coca and as they had in their earth, and very grateful to all. Other
Indians who lived in those mountains subjects who wanted to be, They
sent messengers, no, deserted villages and metiéronse with their wives
in the thick of the mountain.

Inca Yupanqui had great news that after a few days, to the Levant, had large and densely populated
land.

With this new, greedy to find out, he went on, but, being advised as in Cuzco had happened a stir,
and having friends and they a people Marcapata call, stirred it with great haste to Cuzco,
where he spent a few days.

After these, the Indians say, that as the province of Collao is so great and she had in those
days large number of people and dominions of the powerful natural as Inca Yupanqui knew they
had entered the mountains of the Andes, believing that there would be dead or would come undone,
concertáronse all at once, from Vilcanota forward, to one side and to another, with very great
secrecy, rebels and not be under the lordship of the Incas, saying it was all big smallness,
their parents having been free and not leaving them in captivity, secured much land and so
great a Lord alone. And all abhor the command that the Inca had on them without them having it
done hassle or wrong treatment, or made tyranny, not too much, as their delegates goberdadores
and not could understand, together Atuncollao and Chucuito, where they found Carl and Zapana
and Humalla, and the Lord of Azangaro, and many others, took the oath, according to his blindness,
to carry out his intention and determination, and to more firmly, drank a glass [181] all together,
and ordered to stand in a temple in the holy things, that was witness to what has been said, and then
slew the governors and delegates were in the province, and to many apricots were among them,
and across the kingdom was reported the rebellion of the Collao, and death that had given the
apricots, and with this new attempt developments in some parts of
the kingdom, and in many places arose, which hindered the Orders placed
mitimaes tapeworm and be warned the governors, and especially the
great value of Tupac Inca Yupanqui, who reigned from this time, as
I shall.

He showed public sentiment Inca Yupanqui to know the new hoist Collao before, with great courage,
he had to call people to go personally to the punishing, sent his messengers to the Canas and
Canches men, to be steadfast in their friendship, not the removal of the Collao make proud, and trying
to get ready to leave Cuzco, as either very old and are tired of the wars he had done and had
traveled roads, boy was so heavy and broken, that feeling soon enough for it, nor to hear the
governorship of this great kingdom, sent to the High Priest and dried apricots and most major city,
and said that he was already so old, it was for could you be beside the fire, not to follow
the real, and therefore it was saying and understood conoscian in all truth, to them to take
by Inca Tupac Inca Yupanqui, his son, young man worked as as they had been in the wars he
had done, and that would give the fringe to to be obeyed by all as Lord and esteemed as such,
and chelate are like those of skill daria Collao be punished for his rebellion and death he had
made to the apricots and delegates among them were. Responded to these words, which he was called,
which was done as ordered, and all Quél order what was served, because all would obey as it always had
done. [In] the Collao and the provinces of Canas Canches and made him with these large received
any rich, and he had done, as cache name, a palaces mode as they till, or showy.

Collas, they knew that Tupac Inca came against them so powerful, they sought favors of its
neighbors, and they gathered the most of them with her determination to wait in the field
give him battle. They took all of this notice Tupac Inca, and as he was so gracious, conoscia
but the advantage the enemy had sent them Canas of her neighbors, messengers that they were
told how his desire was not to have enmity with them or chastise according to how badly they
did, when without any fault slew the governors and delegates his father, if they would lay down their
arms and give obedience, as to be well governed and governed [182] Convention recognizes the
Lord and to be one and not many.

With the embassy sent a orejon with some presents for the chief of the Collas, but did not
pay anything or wanted their confederation before, the orchestra board made, taking by captains
the lords of the villages, closer to where I was venieron Tupac Inca and have all that in a town
called Pucara, went on there were strong, As was the Inca, had their war with the cry that often,
and finally gave battle each other, which killed many on both sides, and Collas were defeated
and many prisoners, both men and women, and fuéranlo more, if it gave rise to the scope will
continue, the Inca, the hardest working [183] ​​and to Carl, lord of Chucuito, spoke harshly, saying,
How he had responded to the peace that brought his grandfather Viracocha Inga?, And that he wished
to kill but it would send to Cuzco, whither he would be punished, and so to this as to other prisoners
sent lead to Cuzco with guards, and a sign of the victory of the Collas that hobo on the site above,
ordered great lumps of stone, and breaking, by memory, a piece of a saw, and do other things
today, whoever had been there, you will see and notice, as I did I, I stopped two days to see
and understand the root [184].

The Collas who escaped the battle, they say, very scared of the occurrence, there were hurry
to flee, believing that they were going to Cuzco back, and so they went, with this fear, turning
occasionally the faces to see what they have not seen it have impeded the Inca. Desaguadero
last came together and taking all major his advice to each other, they resolved to send peace
to the Inca to ask, so if the bore with in his service, would pay the taxes that were raised from
debian, and would forever loyal. To address this was the shrewdest of them, and they found that came
walking Inca Tupac for them, and heard the embassy with good countenance, and replied with words
of Victor pious that he regretted what he had done because of them, and surely they could come to
Chucuito to where they would sit with peace in such a way that was beneficial to them. And heard
it, they kept him for work.

Sent provide many supplies, and went unto the Lord Humalla receive him, and spoke Inca OK, so
he and the other lords and masters, and before that they were peace, have that there were great
dances and drinking, and that finishes, being all together, he said did not want to be brought
to the need in you paying taxes that were due, as were very large, but that no reason or cause
it had risen, Quel had to put fittings ordinary people from war, [and] that would provide
for supplies and women to soldiers. They sad that they would do, and told that other lands
should come mitimaes for that, with the order that is said, and many people also culled the Collao,
putting that of some other peoples, and among them were governors and delegates to catch taxes.
This fact, said they had to pass a law so that you always wanted to do one knew what they had
been made, and it was that they could not ever get in Cuzco mill over many men and women across
the province, on pain of death if more dared enter the said. Desto were worth, but concediéronlo
as others, and it is true that if there was Collas in Cuzco, others dared not enter, if the number
was completed, until came out, and if you wanted to, could not, because the pickers portazgueros
and taxes and guards who had to watch what was in and out of the city, not allowed or consented,
and among them was not used bribery to do his will, nor ever told them their kings lie in any thing,
and discovered their secret, a thing of great praise.

Settled in the province of Collao and put in order, and telling them what they had to do Mr.
Dell, the Inca gave his back to Cuzco, first sending his messengers to Condesuyo and to the Andes,
and especially let him know what was happening, and whether its governance towards some wrongs,
and if the natives went in a few riots, and many people together and principal, he returned to
Cuzco, where he was received with great honor, and made great sacrifices in the temple of the sun, and
[by] hearing the work of the great building of the Casa Fuerte to build Inca Yupanqui had commanded,
and the Coya, his wife and sister, called Mama Ocllo made by other big parties and dances. And
as Tupac Inca had will to go on the road of Chinchasuyo to subdue the provinces that are further
along in Tarama and Bonbon, he ordered great appeal for people from all provinces.

This conquest of Quito did Tupac Yupanqui, I could well be longer, but I have so much to write
about other things, that I can not deal in both, but I do not want to have summarily what he did, then,
to understand, simply reported by the earth. Exit the king I wanted to make the city of Cuzco,
not knowing how much or where he was to be the war - because this is not said but to the counselors
- they gathered over two hundred thousand men, with so great background and parts, that filled
the fields, and the post was sent to the governors provinces that are regions favorable answer all
the supplies and ammunition and weapons Chinchasuyo the royal road, which was becoming not deviated
from his father has had, not even reached that could do it all. This road was great and proud, made
by order and the industry that has eScript, and everywhere had proveimiento for all many people
who were in real, with nothing missing, and the credit, none of the was his daring to catch
so only one ear of field corn, and if caught, not cost less than life. The natives carried the
load and to the other personal services but, believe that some have, that took them to the
place over limited, and as they did willingly and kept them so much truth and justice, they felt the
job.

Leaving people in Cuzco mitimaes garrison and governor to choose among the faithful friends of
his, left, led by his captain general and senior adviser to Capac Yupanqui his uncle, not the war
gave to those of Xauxa, because he said he hanged himself by the way anger, and as left Cuzco,
walked until they reached Vilcas, where he spent some days enjoying himself to see the temple and
quarters that there had been, and always commanded were silversmiths vessels and other parts styling
and jewelry for the temple and Vilcas real home.

Xauxa was, to where he made a solemn Huancas received, and sent everywhere messengers letting
them know how he wanted to win the friendship of all of them without making them them angry
or war, therefore, that because they heard that the Incas of Cuzco tyrannies they made no not too
much of it had by Confederates and vassal, and that payment for labor and tribute given to them,
engaged or Dellos much good to send him messengers to establish peace with him. In the grand
SUPOS Bonbon power with which the Inca came, and as they had understood great things of his clemency,
he went to reverence, and those of Yauyo did the same, and the Apurimac and many others, to
which he received very well, giving some women, to other coca, and to other blankets and shirts,
and putting the suit that had the province where he was, that was
where they received them happier.

Among the provinces between Xauxa and Cajamarca, have you had some wars and quarrels and ordered
great earthworks and forts to defend the natives, and with his good skill, without much bloodshed,
the subjugated, and do the same as in Cajamarca, and all governors and delegates left parties and
posts made to take notice and do not leave any without first province to have made large chambers
and temple of the sun and put mitimaes. Count, without it, it came to Huanuco and sent to the palace
as we see today cousin Indeed, that going to the Chachapoyas, gave so much war, which all point
aina routed them; but such words could tell them that they themselves are offered. Stopped
in Cajamarca the people of Cuzco much, that impose on the natives
on how they were to dress and the tribute that had to give, and especially,
how they were to worship and revere the sun god.

For all the more parties called him father, and had great care in order that any damage to the
land doeth he went, or forces to ningund man or woman, to which I did, then by his command gave
him the death penalty.

He tried to subdue with that were asked for peoples together and tidy and not them to attack
one another, nor eat, or committing other sins failed in natural law.

By Bracamoros came and went on the run, because it is bad that mountain land, in Avocado and
Guancabamba, Caxas and Ayavaca and its regions, had great work in subduing those nations,
they are warlike and rebustas, and had war with them over five moons, but, finally, they asked
for peace, and were given with conditions to the others, and peace
rested today and tomorrow was the province mitimaes filled with governors,
without removing the estate to the natives and to warehouses and put
in them keep and what more is sent to, and towards the real path to
the posts that had to be around him.

This land went to be Tupac Inca Yupanqui arrived at the Canaro, with whom also had his stubbornness
and quarrels, and that Dell still others, were by his subjects, and ordered them to be Dellos
mesmos to Cuzco, to be in the same city, more than fifteen thousand men with their wives and
main master of them, to have the hostages, and was made as sent. Some want to say questa Cañares
last of Cuzco was the time of Huayna Capac. And as of Tomebamba ordered great buildings and very shiny.
In the first part these rooms as they were tried and how much they were [185]. From this place
he sent many embassies to many villages of those districts, so that he wanted to come to see,
and many, without war, offered his service, and no, sending captains
and people, made them do what others did force their will.

Tidying the land of the Cañares, and went to Tiquizambi, Cayambi, the Purua [186] and many other
parts, into which tell of the many things he did, tanks of not believing, and knowing which
was to become king of so great kingdoms. In The Tacunga was fierce war with natural, and settled
peace with them after they were broken, and he ordered many and so insines buildings in these
parts, exceeding in most of perfection to Cuzco. Y La Tacunga wanted to be a few days, so that
their people rested, and almost every viníales Cuzco day state messenger that it was there,
and elsewhere always came messages and emails with big things in the regiment were ordered land
for their governors. Then came news of a stir there was in Cuzco between mesmos apricots, and
caused some alteration, suspicious of innovations, but, often, came another new how it was plain
and settled and had become the governor of the city in which large
punishments had caused the commotion.

De La Tacunga walked until they came to what we say Quito, where is founded the city of Sant
Francisco of Quito, and seems well that land, and that was as good as Cuzco there was foundation
of the population that hobo, whom he called Quito, and of mitimaes poblóla and did make great wine
cellars and buildings and warehouses, saying: "Cuzco is to be a part head and under my great kingdom,
on the other must be the Quito. "- He gave great power to the governor Quito, for the whole region
of Quito began his governors and delegates sent in Caranqui hobiese garrison of ordinary people
for peace and war, and other lands put people in them, and of these sent out to bring in the
others. Everywhere worshiped the sun and took the customs of the Incas, so much that it seemed that
all were born in Cuzco, and queríanle amábanle and therefore they
called him Father of all, good Lord, just and righteous .-- In the
province Cañares of, say he was born Huayna Capac, his son, and became
great parties. 

These governors had great authority and power enough to raise armies and bring people together
war, if it Recresco Supit any embarrassment or uprising, or to come any strange people somewhere
to make war, and were before the Lord honored and privileged; and on this occasion remained,
when the Spanish came, many of them with perpetual control in the provinces. I know some of them and
be as aposesionados so that their children inherit what was in others.

When peacetime came the Incas to visit his kingdom, he would have that great majesty, sitting on rich
litter, mounted on sticks smooth, long, fine woods, engastonadas gold and Argentería, and
the litter came forth two high arches, made of gold, engastonados precious stones, and fell
somewhat long blankets for all the litter of Thus, that covered all, and if it was not wanting
that was inside, could not be seen, or blankets, but was lifted when it came and went, such
was his esteem. And for air gets in and he could see the road, the blankets had made some holes.
For all parts of these litters had wealth, and some were carved in the sun and moon some snakes
and other large OUNTY, and some as the crossed sticks, - this wore by insinia [63], for arms - and
these litters were worn on the shoulders of the older gentlemen and more major of the kingdom,
who walked over them, that it had more honest and most favored.

In meters around the litter and went spinning to the king's guard with archers and spearmen, and before
were five thousand slingers, and came back as many spears, with their captains, and the sides
of the road and on the same road, runners would discover what was true and announcing the
departure of the Lord, and went so many people see that it seemed that all the hills and slopes
were full della, and all gave their blessings raising great cries and screams his style, calling
them "Wide hatun apu, intipchuri, canqui zapallaapu tucuy ccamp pacha uyay sullull [64], which
in our language says: "Very large and powerful Lord, son of the sun, thou only art the Lord,
everybody loves oya in truth. "And they said other things this will higher; So little was needed
to worship him by God.

All the way Indians were cleaned, so that no stone or grass or parescia but everything clean
and swept. He walked four miles every day, or what he wanted, which was stopped served, to understand
the state of his kingdom, happily heard the complaints that come to him, remedying and punishing
those who were doing injustice. Those who were with them, not lawless nothing to step off the
road. The natives provided as necessary, without which it had so honored for deposits, which had
left, and nothing was missing. Where was I, emerged Many both men and women and boys to serve
them personally as it was commanded and carry loads, they carried a village to another, where
one of taking, and the others left, and being a day, and at most two, not sorry, nor dello engaged
or no offense. For doing the Lord in this way, walking through his land as long as it pleased,
seeing through their eyes what had happened, and providing what he understood was proper, that
every was great and important things, which actually turned around to Cuzco, principal city
throughout his empire.

CAP. I know his character does not lend
itself engage in such detail and care that a patient needs. There used to nurse. In addition, believes
that now is in a state to be dispensed many things ...

- But if so at all, Cecilia! If so, at all! - Said the young man so vividly as bad temper .--
If a girl is not into channel! The affairs of the house will have carelessly. For her, the only
important thing in the world is itself, its beauty, its costumes, her jewels ... Everything
else, parents, brothers, husband, do not mean anything ... I am sure
has been more concerned that the hat that Paris has asked that my
illness ...

- Oh, do not say that, by God!

You're crazy.

- I'm not crazy. Tell the truth ...

And with a quick word, vibrant, often stumbling by irritation that was possessed, neatly explained
their grievances, pleased to make punctures bleed again that had received in their married life.
Ventura had a diametrically opposite character yours. It was not possible to be good to her over
an hour. Because if last long compromise, and no reason to quarrel appeared, she was in charge of searching,
tired, no doubt, be at peace with her husband. If one thing was a pleasure to provide any, instead
of saying thank you, usually paid him with some scorn or sarcasm. Everything seemed little.
The greatest sacrifice the was small. There was no chance of making it think that their dresses,
perfumes, in their ribbons. What a life he had lead in Madrid three months there had been!
Not out of the shops in silks, jewelry, home of dressmaker. At night, surely the theater. Although
he was tired or depart head pain, nothing, it was necessary to be displayed in a box of Royal
Prince or Zarzuela. The money had been spent there, added an impressive amount. Believed to have
led enough, and three times he had to demand more from your home. Then, realizing that given
that train their income would not have enough, especially if God gave him many children, had tried
to mount a brewery to build even the studies he had done. Ventura had strongly opposed this, saying
it wanted to be "the lady of a beer ..." He was convinced that the blood that had burned in Madrid,
and was still burning Sarrio, was what had caused this sudden attack of erysipelas. Sure! He
needed a life of activity and work, leaving much to the field, hunting, horseback riding. Nature
demanded eventful year. Sedentary life that he liked to Ventura, that eternal theater, those visits,
one stay up late without substance, you killed, blood was placed thick as oil ... But what mattered
to her all that! The main thing was to satisfy their taste in everything and everything ...
In Madrid he had learned to paint, a large lot, because he was white as milk! ... For although
he had stated repeatedly that I hated that disgusting habit, it was not possible to take her
statement.

While thus he unburdened himself in an intermittent flow of words, the face of Gonzalo went on
to express outrage, sadness, anger, contempt, all emotions that stirred his soul to the memory
of their sufferings. His great chest of athlete, moved convulsively on the bed, sitting a few
times, dropping others, while trembling hands clenched instinctively took care to pull the clothes
that impulse their sudden shock was leaving.

Cecilia, with her head bowed and hands hang down and cross, hoping that after listening to him
release the burden of his disappointment, the anger of young postponed.

And

so it was. After they had no more words in the body, covering her with the sheet up eyes let
out an endless series of intermixed snorting incoherently. Hazas
had two in the ring, one of three bushels. The other only had a bushel and five bushels, but
as there had been in the old cemetery at the site, land was very generous and chickpeas produced
more and fatter buttery and tender that ate throughout the province, compared with which the
pellets were held Alfarnate chickpeas. He also had fifteen aranzadas Don Paco olive, whose olive
trees were none cantacucos, but very dense and almost every year brought bumper crop of olives,
with Gordale famously, he used to dress very well, and, according to experts in this area outstripped
the tastiest olives Córdoba, celebrated and in the gatomaquia by The Phoenix of Wits, Lope de
Vega.
 Then Don Recaredo forward and extended his hand. A whole this
was in the air as the 'Lope' given by many mouths, and with it and I knew the story of Don
Roman busts in his village, narrated thoroughly by my uncle several times, say by known character, and
I was right, for a few moments brought me hand Mr. Perez de la Llosía and presenting said:

-
My best friend and noblest Coteruco neighbors of mine, Don Lope of
Oak Grove.

Comes to Tablanca to offer you personally for all the friendship and respect that he deserved the
virtues Don Celso, and to pray for his soul at the funeral today.

Reciprocated with the utmost cordiality and as best I could to those noble offerings; knew where
he went over there, and unwilling to accept a moment of rest, which did not need back and
went the way to church with us ... I say bad, with only Romao, they took it on his own course,
a good distance away from others, that nothing we come closer to them respecting the holy avidity
with which the noble expatriate Coteruco would use this providential opportunity to know more about
what he knew about the state of affairs of his native town, although they were drawn with the
pick of their desire for that chest of four keys. Meanwhile, Don Alvaro de la Gerra was charting
new and very curious character traits to the incredible original, of that gentleman mountaineer.

Thus
we come to church, where we had not managed to penetrate without
leaving, as they left it, some of those inside, which barely fit after
the porch, also was jammed with people.

The length of the trades did not go down a minute of two hours calculated,
and when we returned the house that it had gone to church, it's strange
that he wanted become Don Lope to Coteruco from there, and it has
become without the intervention of Don Roman, unique among all us
acquainted with the springs that are governed this eccentric character,
he was the table set up with all the grandeur of ancestry ... and
something else that had been acquired, even in the homes of friends,
including Don Pedro Nolasco and physician.

Because we passed a dozen and half the guests, between insiders and outsiders.

At one time I would have an accident in the presence of that food menu, the more than the food
itself, because it was truly frightening that come to the table (taken by Facia and his daughter,
suffocated by the bustle and glistening skin) piles of dishes sausage with shrapnel, from piles
of chicken upside down between gaps of fat; Steak threaded; of lean with hard boiled eggs, meat
in all sorts of dishes, stuffed duck sausage and tenderloin, and
after it, the custard as millstones, and the custard and rice pudding,
a little less than boilers.

They did not understand the direction otherwise women who had handled, and so I explained I
perfectly the desires and anxieties, and people and things that had moved into the house and removed
at the place and out of three day at that hour.
 Y these
Indians who, by order of the kings knew these romances, were honored by them and favorescidos,
and great care had to teach their children and to men in their provinces the more astute and understood
that we all were, and so, from the mouths of some of us knew others in such a way that they
have today between what has happened five hundred years like ten.

And understood the order that had to not forget what happened in the kingdom, is to know, who killed
the king of them, if he had been brave and good for the governorship of the kingdom, without
the province have lost their father left them, or used in meanness or poquedades or made other
blunders that crazy with the ease princes dare to do in his dominion was allowed and ordered by
the kings themselves, honest songs that were ordered and them were highly praised and exalted,
in such a way that all the people admired in hear his exploits and deeds so great, and they
do not always or in all were published or apregonados, but when it was done some great hall of
people from all the kingdom for any purpose, and where the lords came together with the king
in his time and solace, or when they made the taquis [35] or drinking theirs. In these places,
they knew the romance, great voices, looking to the Inca, he sang what their past had been made,
and if any among the kings came out remissions, cowardly, given to vices, and a friend of idling
without acrescentar the manor of their empire, ruled that stand out such short memories or hobiese
almost none, and looked as this, that if there was, was not to forget the name and his succession,
but otherwise remained silent, not counting the songs of others that the good and brave. Because
they had as his memoirs, which killed one of these gentlemen as large, did not apply his son
for himself other than the estate, because it was law among them that wealth and real unit who
had been king of Cuzco, not hobiese other in their power, or lose your memory, for which at one
piece of hand [36], with the figure they put you wanted, which they called the name of the king
was dead, and they used to get these packages in the plaza of Cuzco, where they made their parties,
and each package around desto kings were their wives and servants, and came all rigging there
food and drink, because the Devil ought to talk in those packages, because this was used by
them, and each package Truax had his or makers, Questar with cheerful words to please the populace,
and all the treasure that the Lord was still alive, was held by his servants and family, and
similar to the festivities drew to a large appliance, without which, were not without their
chacaras, Name forests lands, where they took their corn and other maintenance tasks that supported
the women with all other families of these gentlemen who had bumps and memories, although were dead.
 Cecilia standing
in the middle of the room, heard him restless and confused, not knowing what to say. I wanted
to defend his sister, but was not powerful enough to counter arguments those of his brother.

- Gonzalo - he said at last, his voice firm and serene countenance, approaching the bed, - the disgust
you just had a little exalted thee, and do not see things as they really are ... It is possible Ventura
has been somewhat neglected in the performance of his duties, but be sure that there has been
a lack of will. Finally, there were available to them at my convenience, as could comparientes
have other there, they had not been accompanied, who lack health who by the horse. All had much
to Don Celso and I was very addicted even bothered him recently.

Sit unfinished just these characters appeared in the Hall one whose appearance I surprised.
He was tall, more than Caórnica; of luenga and pointed white beard, dark color, very prominent
and aquiline nose, tiny eyes and eyebrows and ruffled green-white; head covered with a high cylindrical
hat otter skin, and the whole body until feet, with a gray cloth capotón. He looked like a
magician. He took off his cap and doffed the cape as he faced me, and revealed a patch of white
hairs tough and tight, and an old-fashioned dress form in relation to existing figurines, of
good cloth, yes, but very faded now. This man came from the cliffs of Deva and proved the
famous Don Recaredo, who I had a lot of news about my uncle, hidalgo of solar stale, unrepentant
bachelor, famed hunter of wild beasts, great and deserved influence throughout its region,
well acquainted with the men of the capital's political hustle and branches it, a premium of candidates
for representation in district court, in times of electoral LIDES ... Carpenter and exquisite taste,
the only well established that he knew and with which he entertained the solitude and idleness
of his life in the old house he inhabited.
 If anyone to interfere in your affairs is not to me, but Mom
... But I've always heard that in every marriage there are fights and disgustillos, especially in the
beginning, as the characters do not conform ... All of this happens.