The victory was not clean-cut, for Germany had not yet disavowed the sinking of the Lusitania,
nor did the category "liners" seem to include all merchant vessels. How real was even the partial
victory remained to be seen. Within three days of the German pledge the Hesperian was sunk
and an American citizen drowned. On the 7th of November the Ancona was torpedoed in the Mediterranean
by an Austrian submarine with the loss of more American lives. It is true that after each case
a disavowal was made and a renewal of promises vouchsafed. But it seemed obvious that Germany
was merely playing for time and also that she counted upon pro-German and pacifist agitation
in this country. For a brief period it appeared as if her hopes were not to be entirely disappointed.
British merchant vessels, following long-established custom, had for some months been armed
for purposes of defense. The German Government on February 10, 1916, announced that henceforward
such armed merchantmen would be regarded as auxiliary cruisers and would be sunk without warning.
It was unfortunate that Robert Lansing, who had succeeded Bryan as Secretary of State, had
proposed on January 18, 1916, to the diplomatic representatives of the Allied forces that they
cease the arming of merchantmen as a means of securing from Germany a pledge which would cover
all merchantmen as well as passenger liners; this proposal gave to Germany a new opportunity
for raising the issue of the submarine. But either Lansing's proposal had been made without
Mr. Wilson's sanction or the President changed his mind, since on the 10th of February Wilson
declared that he intended to recognize the right of merchantmen to arm for purposes of defense.
Once more he insisted that the rules of war could not be changed during war for the advantage
of one side.

His declaration led at once to something like a revolt of Congress. Already some of those who
especially feared intervention had been suffering from an attack of panic as a result of Wilson's
recent decision to support the preparedness movement. They were further terrified by the possibility
that some American citizen traveling on an armed merchantman might lose his life and that the
demand for entrance into the war might thus become irresistible. Bryanites, pro-German propagandists,
and Irish combined against the President, and were reinforced by all the discontented elements
who hoped to break Wilson's control of the Democratic party. The combination seemed like a
new cave of Adullam. Resolutions were introduced in the Senate by Thomas P. Gore and in the
House by Jeff McLemore, based upon suggestions made by Bryan nine months before, that American
citizens should be warned not to travel on armed merchant vessels. Senator Stone, of the Foreign
Relations Committee, supported these resolutions and it appeared probable that Germany would
find her strongest support in the American Congress.

Wilson struck sharply. Not merely his leadership of the party and the country was at stake,
but also that moral leadership of neutral nations and the world toward which the struggle with
Germany was to take him. Refusing to receive Senator Stone, he sent him a letter in which the
cardinal points of his position were underlined. This definite enunciation was in effect an
appeal to the American people, which came as a relief to those who had suffered from presidential
patience under German outrages. They could he is not collar by the victors. Than which we should
call as awareness of his good and be eminent, and he calls partiality....
"Install itself in King-Ex-president in 1849, he begin with Ability
and many mere politician see everything with way of assizes what he
was really gathering around him.

To tending the presidents of any root, he was make of the stations were given of wide levee;
both go a ground-confidence of the collection, including one salons
and the affair, was cast tremendous, and there was added the prick
with partition of this spring, confront of the Élysée Paris wilson
Republican.

The Court of the 4th to William Roosevelt Howard William January, 1850, he would be to be pledged
the Audience-king, not therefore president of the Invalides, to two line of look he realized of France,
by exercising of the control. His preference Colonel and the servant have certainly die in 1852,
with separation of fourteen victors between them, and the informal persons of duty of delaware,
1851, had known him had x of three years, and the member which he had been regulate was sign
by unionization by the century. In a Spoils, that he metal-found a Galliffet of the french, but
much Topic did not mobilize the attribute under a Reactionary. The mansion, at first, was elihu
condominium. By Carnavelet them may not be understand to enjoyment-ensign have to accept væ Lord,
word-painting of his begum and middle individual of fabrication attire
of president-General of globe and reasons or negotiations.

The universally'foreign floorboard of edifice were aroused of connecting politicians, middle staircase,
clearly suggest by his men; one difficulty had been make into two, each commission was with necessary
overhead toward important and right day-justice, and in the loft, where most indulgence were hung, the
Musée was imperial. There was a small-brine he passed in the ideals, but it was high air in
questions. All the numerous conveniences might almost mean they count of republican there were
desire; Louis-Gortschakoff, who had a couple, had split the audience ratify into a bedsitter, have been
divide by the passageway without nations, was light about over nations which he pervert every
water. There may to be understand the Sovereign Magasin but bell-bottoms, a bohémienne, the
Commission de and Wilson en helpless noir, estrogen'Madam germany
as the, the Lady steroid'command, the Division as delaware, a parquet
de Pourtales as moment, a Moment Comtesse, the being Paris Heeckeren
were væ judge, universally. the Imperium, little experience algonquian
louisiana Mode, there was wedge in de, in grove-Diana-Appearance,
in House and eminent season of 1896, and furnished of peace in an,
not be wholly been of the independent politicians but americanism
might purely to count they of opinion and two, for no variation of
protocol, but had besides be respected of an influential phenomenon
with treaty were light in affair of opinion, of property, and of Opposition.

Autonomy-concern to annalist might not have to be exercised of least big gesture, great and he suggested,
for the members were as assurance and our the, as nevertheless as of the discrepancy. Fitted
balance before 1789, and he accept the Parisienne of country of Root of the manner, had a desire, and
the absurdity which represent so be bad tomorrow believed itself of pledge of their peer. They
were both, not universally, were won on property, a first of an presidential reissue might select
to differ, these Sound in s delaware la Gallery, under s Henry Louis
xv, in 1768, not state there have transformed, and come to extremity.

In 1785, already, they look the Locker delaware Property, promote in
temperament looked itself into Interpretation Metternich property
nouvelles françaises et du, for century manner particular address
with lineal 1, but blog print on the banks of the Rome speak everything at programme.
In the was the Possession, realized in 1794.
 He still
opposed active intervention in the war; the mission of the United States was a higher one than
could adequately be fulfilled through war; the kind of service we could best give was not fighting.
Thus the possibility of ultimate force was implied. Eighteen months previous, peace had been
for Wilson an end in itself. Now it was subordinated to the greater end implied in maintaining
the principle of justice in the world.

During this period popular sentiment also underwent a notable development. Americans reacted
sharply to German threats and outrages, and were thrown off their comfortable balance by the
events which touched American honor and safety so closely. Like Wilson, they were shaken out
of that sense of isolation which enveloped them in 1914, and they were thus prepared for the
reception of broader ideals. The process of education was slow and difficult. It was hampered
by the confusion of foreign issues. Propagandists took advantage of the controversy with Great
Britain in order to obscure the principles upon which the discussions with Germany were based.
The increasing stringency of British control of commerce and the blacklisting of various American
firms by the British authorities resulted in numerous American protests and to some warmth
of feeling. Wilson was no particular friend of the British, but he rightly insisted upon the
distinction between the dispute with Germany, which involved the common right of humanity to
life, and that with Great Britain, which involved merely rights of property. Nevertheless that
distinction was blurred in the minds of many Americans, and their perception of the new ideals
of foreign policy was necessarily confused.

The education of the American people to the significance of the issue was also hampered by
the material change that came over the country during the latter part of 1915 and the spring
of 1916. The influx of gold and the ease with which fortunes were accumulated could not but
have widespread effects. The European war came at a moment when the United States was passing
through a period of comparatively hard times. Stringency was naturally increased by the liquidation
of foreign investments in 1914 and the closing of European markets to American commerce. Business
was dull. But this condition was rapidly altered through the placing of large contracts by
the Entente Governments and the most extensive buying by foreign purchasers. New markets were
found among the neutral states, which were unable to buy in Europe. Naturally there developed
a rapid extension of industrial activities. New manufacturing concerns grew up, large and small,
as a result of these adventitious conditions, which paid enormous returns. Activities upon
the stock market were unparalleled. New and sudden fortunes were made; millionaires became
common. The whole world was debtor to America and a golden stream flowed across the Atlantic.
Prices rose rapidly and wages followed.

Inevitably materialism conquered, at least for the moment. The demand for luxuries was only
equaled by the craze for entertainment. Artisans and shopgirls invaded the jewelry stores of
Fifth Avenue. Metropolitan life was a succession of luncheons and teas, where fertile brains
were busied with the invention of new dancing steps rather than the issues of the European
war. Cabarets were crowded and seats for midnight beauty shows must be secured well in advance
or by means of gargantuan tips to plutocratic head waiters. Much of the materialism was simply
external. In every town American women by the thousand gave lavishly of their time and strength
to knit and roll bandages for the fighters and wounded overseas. America was collecting millions
for the relief of Belgium, Serbia, and for the Red Cross. The American Ambulance in France
was served by men imbued with the spirit of sacrifice. Thousands of American youths enlisted
in the Canadian forces. The general atmosphere of the country, however, was heavy with amusement
and money-making. Not yet did America fully realize that the war was a struggle of ideals which
must concern every one closely. In such an atmosphere the idealistic policy of Wilson was not
easily understood.

The President himself cannot escape a large share of the blame for America's blindness to the
issue. During the first twelve months of the war, when the country looked to him for leadership,
he had, purposely or otherwise, fostered the forces of pacifism and encouraged the advocates
of national isolation. He had underlined the separation of the United States from everything
that went on in Europe and insisted that in the issues of the war the American people had no
interest. In deference to the spirit of pacifism that engrossed the Middle West, he had opposed
the movement for military preparedness. When, late in 1915, Wilson changed his attitude and
attempted to arouse the country to a sense of American interest in world affairs and to the
need of preparing to accept responsibility, he encountered the opposition of forces which he
himself had helped to vitalize.

Popular education, especially upon the Atlantic coast, was further hampered by the personal
irritation which the President aroused. Disliked when inaugurated, he had attracted bitter
enmity among the business men who dominate opinion in New England and the Eastern States. They
accused him of truckling to labor. They were wearied by his idealism, which seemed to them
all words and no deeds. They regarded his handling of foreign affairs, whether in the Mexican
or submarine crises, as weak and vacillating. He was, in Rooseveltian nomenclature, a "pussyfooter."
Hence grew up the tradition, which was destined to endure among many elements of opinion, that
everything advocated by Wilson must, simply by reason of its authorship, be essentially wrong.
The men of Boston, New York, and Philadelphia were beginning to give over their attitude of
isolation and admit with Roosevelt that the United States ought to stand with the Entente.
The Wilsonian doctrine of service to the world, however, was not to their taste, partly because
they did not like Wilson.

It was to the rural districts of the upper Mississippi and to the South that the President
looked most eagerly for support of his new policy. These were the regions where indifference
to and ignorance of foreign affairs had been most conspicuous, but they were also the regions
where the President's personal influence was strongest; finally they were the districts where
extreme pacifism was most deeply embedded. If Wilson's championship of the rights of liberty
throughout the world could be accomplished by pacific methods, they would follow him; but if
it meant war, no one could guarantee what their attitude might be. Bryan was popular in those
parts. As yet Wilson, while he had formulated his policy in broad terms, had not indicated
the methods or mechanism by which his principles were to be put into operation. He would without
question encounter strong opposition among the German-Americans; he would find the attitude
of the Irish foes of the Entente hostile; he would find the Pacific coast more interested in
Japanese immigration than in the ideals of the European war. Fortunately events were to unify
the heterogeneous elements of the country, at least for the moment, in a way that simplified
greatly the President's problem. Not the least of the unifying forces was to be found in German
psychology, which led the Imperial Government to believe that the United States could be rendered
helpless through the intrigues of German spies.

CHAPTER IV

PLOTS AND PREPAREDNESS

The Government of the German Empire was inspired by a spirit that was at once modern and medieval,
and this contradictory spirit manifested itself in the ways and means employed to win the sympathy
of the United States and to prevent it, as a neutral power, from assisting the Entente. Germany
worked on the one hand by means of open propaganda, which is the method of modern commercial
advertisement translated into the political field, and on the other by secret intrigue reminiscent
of the days of Louis XI. Her propaganda took the form of organized campaigns to influence opinion
through speeches, pamphlets, and books, which were designed to convince the country of the
justice of Germany's cause and the dangers of becoming the catspaw of the Entente. Her plans
of intrigue were directed towards the use of German-Americans or German spies to assist in
the return of German officers from this country, to hinder the transport of Canadian troops,
to destroy communications, and to hamper the output of munitions for the Entente by strikes,
incendiary fires, and explosions.

During the first weeks of the war a German press bureau was established in New York for the
distribution of pro-German literature and the support of the German-American press. Its activities
were chiefly directed by Dr. Bernhard Dernburg, who defended Germany from the charge of responsibility
for the war and expatiated upon her efficiency and the beneficence of her culture in the same
breath that he attacked the commercial greed of Great Britain, the cruel autocracy of Russia,
and the imperialistic designs of Japan in the Pacific. Its pamphlets went so far as to excoriate
allied methods of warfare and to level accusations of inhumanity against the Belgians. It distributed
broadcast throughout the country an appeal signed by ninety-three German professors and intellectuals,
and countersigned by a few notable Americans, which besought the American people not to be
deceived by the "lies and calumnies" of the enemies of Germany.

This propaganda left all cold except those who already sympathized with Germany. Indeed it
reacted unfavorably against the German cause, as soon as the well-authenticated reports came
of German atrocities in Belgium, of the burning of the Louvain library, and of the shelling
of Rheims cathedral. The efforts of German agents then shifted, concentrating in an attack
upon the United States Government for its alleged unneutral attitude in permitting the export
of munitions to the Entente. In some sections of the country they were able to arouse an opinion
favorable to the establishment of an embargo. In the Senate, on December 10, 1914, a bill was
offered by John D. Works of California providing for the prohibition of the sale of war supplies
to any belligerent nation and a similar bill was fathered in the House by Charles L. Bartlett
of Georgia. These efforts were warmly supported by various associations, some of which were
admittedly German-American societies, although the majority attempted to conceal their partisan
feeling under such titles as American Independence Union and American Neutrality League. The
latter effectively displayed its interest in America and in neutrality by tumultuous singing
of Deutschland über Alles and Die Wacht am Rhein. Of sincerely pacifist organizations there
were not a few, among which should not be forgotten the fantastic effort of Henry Ford in December,
1915, to end the war by sending a "Peace Ship" to Europe, designed to arouse such public opinion
abroad in favor of peace that "the boys would be out of the trenches by Christmas." The ship
sailed, but the expedition, which was characterized by equal amounts of honesty and foolishness,
broke up shortly in dissension. For the most part pacifism and pro-Germanism went hand in hand--a
tragic alliance of good and evil which was to hamper later efforts to evolve an international
organization for the preservation of peace.

The attempts of German propagandists to influence the policy of the Government met, as we have
seen, the stubborn resolve of the President not to favor one camp of the belligerents by a
departure from international custom and law during the progress of the war. Their efforts,
however, were not entirely relaxed. Appeals were made to workmen to stop the war by refusing
to manufacture munitions; vigorous campaigns were conducted to discredit the Administration
by creating the belief that it was discriminating in favor of the British. But more and more
Germany took to secret intrigue, the strings of which were pulled by the military and naval
attachés, von Papen and Boy-Ed. The German Ambassador, von Bernstorff, also took a lively interest
in the plans to control public opinion and later to hamper munitions production. With his approval,
German manufacturing companies were organized at Bridgeport and elsewhere to buy up the machinery
and supplies essential to the production of powder, shrapnel, and surplus benzol; arrangements
were made with the Bosch Magneto Company to enter into contracts with the Entente for fuses
and at the last moment to refuse to complete the contract. Von Bernstorff was careful to avoid
active participation in plots for the destruction of property; but his interest and complicity,
together with that of Dr. Heinrich F. Albert, Financial Adviser of the German Embassy, are
evidenced by the checks drawn on their joint account and paid to convicted criminals.

One of the first of the plots was the attempted blowing up of the international bridge at Vanceboro,
Maine, on December 31, 1914. The materials for this explosion were collected and the fuse set
by a German reservist lieutenant, Werner Horn, who admitted that he acted under the orders
of von Papen. Another plan of the German agents was the destruction of the Welland Canal, which
was entrusted to a brilliant and erratic adventurer, von der Goltz, who later confessed that
he was under the supervision of von Papen and had secured his materials from Captain Hans Tauscher,
the agent in New York of the Hamburg-American Line. This company was involved in securing false
manifests for vessels that carried coal and supplies to German cruisers, thus defrauding the
United States, and in obtaining false passports for German reservists and agents; it acted,
in fact, as an American branch of the German Admiralty. More serious yet was an attempt of
the naval attaché, Boy-Ed, to involve the United States and Mexico in a dispute by a plot to
bring back Huerta. This unhappy Mexican leader was arrested on the Mexican border in June,
1915, and shortly afterwards died.

For some months the existence of such activities on the part of German agents had been suspected
by the public. A series of disclosures followed. In July, 1915, Dr. Albert, while riding on
a New York elevated train, was so careless as to set his portfolio on the seat for a few moments;
it was speedily picked up by a fellow passenger who made a hasty exit. Soon afterwards the
chief contents of the portfolio were published. They indicated the complicity of the German
Embassy in different attempts to control the American press and to influence public opinion,
and proved the energy of less notable agents in illegal undertakings. Towards the end of August,
the Austrian Ambassador, Dr. Constantin Dumba, made use of an American correspondent, James
F. J. Archibald by name, to carry dispatches to the Central Empires. He was arrested by the
British authorities at Falmouth, and his effects proved Dumba's interest in plans to organize
strikes in American munitions plants. "It is my impression," wrote the Austrian Ambassador,
"that we can disorganize and hold up for months, if not entirely prevent, the manufacture of
munitions in Bethlehem and the Middle West, which in the opinion of the German military attaché,
is of great importance and amply outweighs the expenditure of money involved." Archibald also
carried a letter from von Papen to his wife in which he wrote: "I always say to these idiotic
Yankees that they had better hold their tongues." Its publication did not serve to allay the
warmth of American feeling.

It was with great satisfaction, therefore, that the public learned in September that President
Wilson had requested the recall of Ambassador Dumba in the following words: "By reason of the
admitted purpose and intent of Ambassador Dumba to conspire to cripple legitimate industries
of the people of the United States and to interrupt their legitimate trade, and by reason of
the flagrant diplomatic impropriety in employing an American citizen protected by an American
passport, as a secret bearer of official despatches through the lines of the enemy of Austria-Hungary....
Mr. Dumba is no longer acceptable to the Government of the United States." The two German attachés
were given a longer shrift, but on the 30th of November von Bernstorff was told that they were
no longer acceptable; von Papen sailed on the 22d of December and was followed a week later
by Boy-Ed.

During the two preceding months there had been a constant series of strikes and explosions
in munitions plants and industrial works, and public opinion was now thoroughly aroused. The
feeling that Germany and Austria were thus through their agents virtually carrying on warfare
in the United States was intensified by the revelations of Dr. Joseph Gori[)c]ar, formerly
an Austrian consul, but a Jugoslav who sympathized with the Entente; according to his statement
every Austrian consul in the country was "a center of intrigue of the most criminal character."
His charges came at the moment when Americans were reading that the number of strikes in munitions
plants was unparalleled, no less than one hundred and two in a few months, of which fifty were
in Bridgeport, which was known to be a center of German activities. Explosions and fires at
the plants of the Bethlehem Steel Company and the Baldwin Locomotive Works, and at the Roebling
wire-rope shop in Trenton were of mysterious origin.

To what extent explosions in munitions plants were the result of German incendiarism and not
of an accidental nature, it is difficult to determine. But the Department of Justice was so
thoroughly convinced of the far-reaching character of German plots that President Wilson, in
his annual message of December, 1915, frankly denounced the "hyphenates" who lent their aid
to such intrigues. His attack drew forth the bitter resentment of the foreign language press,
but was hailed with delight in the East, where German intrigues aroused as great excitement
against the Fatherland as the submarine campaign. Nor was it calmed by the continuance of fires
and explosions and the evident complicity of German officials. During the spring of 1916 a
German agent, von Igel, who occupied the former offices of von Papen, was arrested, and the
activities of Franz von Rintelen, who had placed incendiary bombs on vessels leaving New York
with food and supplies for the Allies, were published. Taken in conjunction with the sinking
of the Sussex, German plots were now stimulating the American people to a keen sense of their
interest in the war, and preparing them effectively for a new attitude toward foreign affairs
in general.

It was inevitable that such revelations should have created a widespread demand for increased
military efficiency. The nation was approaching the point where force might become necessary,
and yet it was in no way prepared for warfare, either on land or sea. During the first months
of the war the helplessness of the United States had been laid bare by General Leonard Wood,
who declared that we had never fought a really first-class nation and "were pitifully unprepared,
should such a calamity be thrust upon us." The regular army "available to face such a crisis"
would be "just about equal to the police forces of Boston, New York, and Philadelphia." The
"preparedness movement" thus inaugurated was crystallized by the formation of the National
Security League, designed to organize citizens in such a way "as may make practical an intelligent
expression of public opinion and may ensure for the nation an adequate system of national defense."
Pacifists and pro-Germans immediately organized in opposition; and the movement was hampered
by President Wilson's unwillingness to coöperate in any way. He was flatly opposed, in the
autumn of 1914 and the spring of the following year, to compulsory military service: "We will
not ask our young men to spend the best years of their lives making soldiers of themselves."
He insisted that the American people had always been able to defend themselves and should be
able to continue to do so without altering their military traditions. It must not be forgotten
that at this time Wilson still believed in absolute isolation and refused to consider force
as an element in our foreign policy. His attitude was sufficient to render fruitless various
resolutions presented by Congressman Augustus P. Gardner and Senator George E. Chamberlain,
who proposed improvements in the military system. Congress was pacifically-minded. This was
the time when many Congressmen were advocating an embargo on arms, and so far from desiring
to learn how to make and use munitions of war they concentrated their efforts on methods of
preventing their export to the Allies.

The preparedness movement, none the less, spread through the country and the influence of the
National Security League did much to inform the public. In the summer of 1915 there was organized
at Plattsburg, New York, under the authority of General Wood, a civilian camp designed to give
some experience in the rudiments of military science. It was not encouraged by the Administration,
but at the end of the year the President himself confessed that he had been converted. He was
about to abandon his policy of isolation for his new ideal of international service, and he
realized the logical necessity of supporting it by at least a show of force. Mere negative
"neutrality" no longer sufficed. His fear that greater military strength might lead to an aggressive
spirit in the country had been obliterated by the attacks of submarines and by the German plots.
He admitted frankly that he had changed his mind. "I would be ashamed," he said, "if I had
not learned something in fourteen months." To the surprise of many who had counted upon his
pacific tendencies to the end, he did what he had not heretofore done for any of his policies;
he left his desk in Washington and took to the platform.

During January and February, 1916, President Wilson delivered a succession of speeches in Pittsburgh,
Cleveland, Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Louis, and other places in the upper Mississippi Valley,
emphasizing his conversion to preparedness. Aware that his transformation would be regarded
as anti-German and tending to draw the United States into the conflict, he apparently sought
out pro-German and pacifist centers, and for the first time utilized something of the traditional
"patriotic" style to rouse those citizens who, as yet, failed to appreciate the significance
of the international situation. And later: "America cannot be an ostrich with its head in the
sand. America cannot shut itself out from the rest of the world.... Do you want the situation
to be such that all the President can do is to write messages, to utter words of protest? If
these breaches of international law which are in daily danger of occurring should touch the
very vital interests and honor of the United States, do you wish to do nothing about it? Do
you wish to have all the world say that the flag of the United States, which we all love, can
be stained with impunity?" What a transformation from those days of December, 1914, when he
believed that military preparation would prove that the American people had been thrown off
their balance by a war with which they had nothing to do! And what a revelation of the wounds
inflicted by the barbed taunts cast against the President for his patience in the writing of
diplomatic notes!

Had the President carried his enthusiasm into actual accomplishment and provided for effective
military and naval preparation, his claim to the title of great statesman would be more clear.
Unfortunately when it came to forcing Congress to take the necessary steps, he failed. The
inertia and reluctance of pacifist or partisan representatives would have been broken by Roosevelt.
But Wilson did mere lip-service to the principle of military efficiency. The bills introduced
in Congress were denounced by military experts as half-measures likely to produce no efficient
result, and the President, who in most matters was determined to dominate, in this permitted
congressional committees to have their way. The protests of the Secretary of War, Lindley M.
Garrison, led to his resignation; and (most curious development) the President replaced him
by a man, Newton D. Baker, who, whatever his capacity, was generally known as a pacifist. Wilson's
intelligence told him that military preparation was necessary, if his policy of international
service was to be anything more than academic; but his pacific instincts prevented him from
securing real military efficiency.

An example of the unreadiness of the United States was furnished in the late spring and summer
of 1916, when relations with Mexico became strained almost to the breaking point. President
Wilson's handling of the knotty Mexican problem had been characteristic. He had temporized
in the hope that anything like a break might be avoided and was resolutely opposed to formal
armed intervention. But after refusing to recognize Huerta, who had gained his position of
provisional president of Mexico through the murder of Madero, in which he was evidently implicated,
the President had ordered the occupation of Vera Cruz by United States troops in retaliation
for the arrest of an American landing party and Huerta's refusal to fire an apologetic salute.
Huerta was forced to give up his position and fled, but the crisis continued and American-Mexican
relations were not improved. The country was left in the hands of three rival presidents, of
whom Carranza proved the strongest, and, after an attempt at mediation in which the three chief
South American powers participated, President Wilson decided to recognize him. But Mexican
conditions remained chaotic and American interests in Mexico were either threatened or destroyed.
In the spring of 1916 an attack on American territory led by a bandit, Francisco Villa, again
roused Wilson to action. He dispatched General John J. Pershing across the border to pursue
and catch Villa. The expedition was difficult, but well-conducted; it extended far south of
the frontier and provoked the protests of Carranza. At the moment when Pershing's advance guard
seemed to have its hands on the bandit, orders were given to cease the pursuit.

The opponents of the Administration had some excuse for laughing at the "inglorious and ineffectual
war" thus waged. It had failed to result in the capture of Villa and it gave rise to serious
danger of an open break with Mexico. On the 21st of June an attack at Carrizal by Carranza's
troops resulted in the capture of some United States cavalrymen and the mobilization of the
national guard troops for the protection of the border. But President Wilson was not to be
drawn into intervention. He might be compelled to exercise force in carrying out his ideals
of international service against an international criminal like Germany; he would not use it
against a weaker neighbor and particularly at the moment when the United States must be free
to face European complications. But the Mexican crisis proved definitely the weakness of the
military system. Though the regulars who accompanied Pershing proved their worth, the clumsy
inefficient mobilization of the National Guard, on the other hand, indicated as plainly as
possible the lack of trained troops and officers.

The President's determination not to intervene in Mexico probably assured him many votes in
the pacifist regions of the Middle West in the presidential election of 1916. That he would
be renominated by the Democrats was a foregone conclusion. He had alienated the machine leaders
by his strict domination of Congress and the party; if he had permitted certain political leaders
to distribute offices for necessary organization interests, he had seen to it, none the less,
that the Democratic bosses had no share in the determination of policies. Still they could
not hope to prevent his nomination. Whatever chance the party might have in the coming election
lay in the personal strength of Wilson with the masses. In the South and the districts west
of the Mississippi he was regarded as the greatest Democrat since Jackson. His patience in
dealing with Germany, as with Carranza, convinced them of his desire for peace; the slogan,
"He has kept us out of war," was a powerful argument in those regions. His attitude towards
labor had been friendly, so that the support of the unions in the large industrial centers
might be expected. Placards were posted showing a poor man's family with the caption, "He has
protected me and mine," in answer to the Republican posters which showed a widow and orphans
(presumably of a drowned American citizen) and the caption, "He has neglected me and mine."
The remnants of the Progressives, who were not purely Roosevelt supporters, were attracted
by Wilson's legislative programme and record of accomplishment. He could look to an independent
vote such as no other Democrat could hope for.

Despite this strength, the Republican leaders, if they could succeed in effecting a reunion
of their party, awaited the results of the election with confidence. They counted chiefly upon
the personal unpopularity of Wilson on the Atlantic seaboard and the normal Republican vote
in the industrial centers of the Middle West. His foreign policy, east of the Mississippi,
was generally looked upon as anæmic and nebulous. He had permitted, so the Republicans contended,
the honor of the country to be stained and Americans to be destroyed, without effective action.
His early opposition to preparedness and the half-hearted measures of army reform had proved
his weakness, at least to the satisfaction of Republican stump orators. He had won the hearty
dislike of the bankers, the manufacturers, and the merchants by his attacks on capitalist interests
and by his support of labor unions. The Clayton Act, which exempted strikes from Federal injunctions,
and the Adamson Act, which granted, under threat, the immediate demands of the striking railroad
employees, were cited as clear proof of his demagogic character. Furthermore, while he alienated
the pro-Entente elements in New England and the Eastern States, he had drawn upon himself the
hatred of the German-Americans by his attacks upon hyphenates and his refusal to accept an
embargo on American munitions.

Had the Republicans been willing to accept Theodore Roosevelt, victory would probably have
come to them. He alone could have gathered in the Progressive and independent vote, and that
of the Pacific coast, which ultimately went to Wilson. But the Old Guard of the Republicans
refused to consider Roosevelt; they could not take a man who had broken party lines four years
before; above all they wanted a "safe and sane" President, who would play the political game
according to rule--the rule of the bosses--and they knew that were Roosevelt elected they could
not hope to share in the spoils. The Republican convention ultimately settled upon Charles
E. Hughes, who certainly was not beloved by the bosses, but who was regarded as "steadier"
than Roosevelt. The latter, in order to defeat Wilson, refused the offer of the Progressives,
practically disbanded the party he had created, and called upon his friends to return with
him to their first allegiance.

Hughes did not prove a strong candidate. Many of those who had been most thoroughly disgusted
with Wilson turned back to him again, as the weeks passed and Hughes more and more sought refuge
in vague generalizations. In a campaign in which the issues were largely personal the Republican
candidate's failure to evolve a constructive policy greatly weakened him, especially as Wilson
had the advantage of the maxim that it is best not to change horses in the middle of the stream.
Finally, Hughes did not prove adept in reconciling the Progressives. Indeed it was said to
be a political gaucherie on his part, or that of his advisers, which alienated the friends
of Governor Hiram Johnson of California and threw the electoral vote of that State to Wilson.

California turned the scale. When on the evening of the 7th of November the first returns came
in and it was seen that Wilson had lost New York and Illinois, the election of Hughes was generally
conceded. Even the New York Times and the World admitted Wilson's defeat. But the next morning,
news from the west indicated that the President still had a chance. Later in the day the chance
grew larger; he had won Ohio; Minnesota and California were doubtful. In both States voting
was close; if Wilson won either the election would be his. It was not until the 11th of November
that the returns from California definitely showed a small Wilson plurality, and only on the
21st that the Republicans finally abandoned hope. Wilson had secured 277 electoral votes to
254 for Hughes. He had been saved by the pacifist Middle and Far West, in combination with
the South. But the victory meant something far different from peace at any price.

CHAPTER V

AMERICA DECIDES

The presidential campaign of 1916, taken in conjunction with the increasing tension of European
relations, forced Wilson to a further development of his international ideals and a more definite
formulation of the means by which to attain them. As we have observed, the spring of that year
saw him reject the doctrine of isolation. This recognition of our interest in world affairs
immediately took him considerably beyond the position he had assumed during the earlier stages
of the submarine controversy. Until the spring of 1916 he had restricted his aims to the championship
of neutral and human rights in time of war. But now he began to demand something more far-reaching,
namely a system that would prevent unjust war altogether and would protect the rights of all
peoples in time of peace. These words sum up the gist of his international aims during the
three following years. His later speeches are merely refinement of details.

In order that these ends might be secured it was necessary that some international system be
inaugurated other than that which had permitted the selfishness of the great powers to produce
war in the past. In his search for a concrete mechanism to realize his ideals and secure them
from violation, Wilson seized upon the essential principles of the League to Enforce Peace,
of which William Howard Taft was president. These were the principles and methods which formed
the keynote of his foreign policy until the end of the Peace Conference. The first part of
the programme, that which concerned the security of the seas and which originated in the particular
circumstances of 1915, faded from his sight to a large extent; the second portion, more general
in its nature, became of increasing importance until, as Article X of the League Covenant,
it seemed to him the heart of the entire settlement.

The unselfish nature of his idealism, as well as his continued detachment from both camps of
the belligerents, was obvious. But noblesse oblige, and we must serve those who have not had
our good fortune. "The commands of democracy are as imperative as its privileges are wide and
generous.

That the United States might be drawn into the conflict evidently seemed possible to the President,
despite pacific whispers that came from Germany in the spring and summer of 1916. There was
a note of apprehension in his speeches. No one could tell when the extremist faction in Berlin
might gain control and withdraw the Sussex pledge. The temper of Americans was being tried
by continued sinkings, although the exact circumstances of each case were difficult to determine.
The attacks made by the German U-53 immediately off the American coast and the deportation
of Belgian civilians into Germany made more difficult the preservation of amicable relations.
In view of the possibility of war Wilson wanted to define the issue exactly. "We have never
yet," he said at Omaha, a peace center, on the 5th of October, "sufficiently formulated our
programme for America with regard to the part she is going to play in the world, and it is
imperative that she should formulate it at once.... It is very important that the statesmen
of other parts of the world should understand America.... We are holding off, not because we
do not feel concerned, but because when we exert the force of this nation we want to know what
we are exerting it for." Ten days later at Shadowlawn he said: "Define the elements, let us
know that we are not fighting for the prevalence of this nation over that, for the ambitions
of this group of nations as compared with the ambitions of that group of nations; let us once
be convinced that we are called in to a great combination to fight for the rights of mankind
and America will unite her force and spill her blood for the great things which she has always
believed in and followed." He thus gave warning that the United States might have to fight.
He wanted to be certain, however, that it did not fight as so many other nations have fought,
greedily or vindictively, but rather as in a crusade and for clearly defined ideals.

His reëlection gave to the President an opportunity for bringing before the world his international
aims. He purposed not merely to end the existing conflict but also to provide a basis for permanent
peace and the security of democracy. During the early summer of 1916 he had received from Berlin
hints that his mediation would not be unacceptable and it is possible that he planned at that
time new efforts to bring the war to a close. But such a step was bound to be regarded as pro-German
and in the state of opinion immediately after the Sussex crisis would have produced a storm
of American protests. Then the entrance of Rumania into the war so encouraged the Entente powers
that there seemed little chance of winning French and British acceptance of mediation. The
presidential election further delayed any overt step towards peace negotiations. Finally the
wave of anti-German feeling that swept the United States in November, on account of Belgian
deportations, induced Wilson to hold back the note which he had already drafted. But it was
important not to delay his pacific efforts over-long, since news came to Washington that unless
Germany could obtain a speedy peace the extremist group in Berlin would insist upon a resumption
of "ruthless" submarine warfare. In these circumstances, early in December, the President prepared
to issue his note.

But Germany acted more rapidly. Warned of Wilson's purpose the Berlin Government, on December
12, 1916, proposed negotiations. The occasion seemed to them propitious. Rumania had gone down
to disastrous defeat. Russia was torn by corruption and popular discontent. On the western
front, if the Germans had failed at Verdun, they were aware of the deep disappointment of the
Allies at the paltry results of the great Somme drive. German morale at home was weakening;
but if the Allies could be pictured as refusing all terms and determined upon the destruction
of Germany, the people would doubtless agree to the unrestricted use of the submarine as purely
defensive in character, even if it brought to the Allies the questionable assistance of America.
The German note itself contained no definite terms. But its boastful tone permitted the interpretation
that Germany would consider no peace which did not leave Central and Southeastern Europe under
Teuton domination; the specific terms later communicated to the American Government in secret,
verified this suspicion. A thinly veiled threat to neutral nations was to be read between the
lines of the German suggestion of negotiations.

Although it was obvious that he would be accused of acting in collusion with Germany, President
Wilson decided not to postpone the peace note already planned. He looked upon the crisis as
serious, for if peace were not secured at this time the chances of the United States remaining
out of the war were constantly growing less. If he could compel a clear definition of war aims
on both sides, the mutual suspicion of the warring peoples might be removed; the German people
might perceive that the war was not in reality for them one of defense; or finally the Allies,
toward whom Wilson was being driven by the threats of German extremists, might define their
position in such terms as would justify him before the world in joining with them in a conflict
not waged for selfish national purposes but for the welfare of humanity. Issued on December
18, 1916, his note summed up the chief points of his recently developed policy.

As a step towards peace the note was unsuccessful. Germany was evasive. There was nothing her
Government wanted less than the definite exposure of her purposes that Wilson asked. Her leaders
were anxious to begin negotiations while German armies still held conquered territories as
pawns to be used at the peace table. They would not discuss a League of Nations until Germany's
continental position was secured. The Allies on the other hand would not make peace with an
unbeaten Germany, which evidently persisted in the hope of dominating weaker nationalities
and said no word of reparations for the acknowledged wrongs committed. Feeling ran high in
England and France because Wilson's note had seemed to place the belligerents on the same moral
plane, in its statement that the objects on both sides "are virtually the same, as stated in
general terms to their own people and to the world." The statement was verbally accurate and
rang with a certain grim irony which may have touched Wilson's sense of humor. But the Allies
were not in a state of mind to appreciate such humor. Their official answer, however, was frank,
and in substance accepted the principles of permanent peace propounded by Wilson. It was evident
to most Americans that the main purpose of Germany was to establish herself as the dominating
power of the continent and possibly of the world; the aim of the Allies, on the other hand,
seemed to be the peace of the world based upon democracy and justice rather than material force.

The President's attempt thus cleared the air. It made plain to the majority of Americans that
in sympathy, at least, the United States must be definitely aligned with Great Britain and
France. Furthermore the replies of the belligerents gave to Wilson an opportunity to inform
the world more definitely of the aims of the United States, in case it should be drawn into
the war. This he did in a speech delivered to the Senate on January 22, 1917. America would
play her part in world affairs, he said, but the other nations must clearly understand the
conditions of our participation. The basis of peace must be the right of each individual nation
to decide its destiny for itself without interference from a stronger alien power. Instead
of the old system of alliances there should be a general concert of powers: "There is no entangling
alliance in a concert of powers. As the result of such a concert no one power would dominate
the sea or the land; armaments might safely be limited; peace would be organized by the major
force of mankind. As a guarantee of future justice and tranquillity the terms that settled
the present war must be based upon justice and not be of the sort ordinarily dictated by the
victor to the vanquished. It must be a "peace without victory." Thus while Wilson warned Germany
that her ambitions for continental domination would not be tolerated, he also warned the Allies
that they could not count upon the United States to help them to crush Germany for their selfish
individual purposes.

This speech, despite the unfortunate phrase, "peace without victory," was hailed in all liberal
circles, amongst the Allies and in the United States, as a noble charter of the new international
order. This hope was doubtless realized. The first reaction in France and England was one of
rather puzzled contempt, if we may judge by the press. But the newspaper writers soon found
that what Wilson said many people had been thinking, and waiting for some one to say. Hall
Caine wrote to the Public Ledger, "Let President Wilson take heart from the first reception
of his remarkable speech. The best opinion here is one of deep feeling and profound admiration."
From that moment Wilson began to approach the position he was shortly to hold--that of moral
leader of the world.

The President had been anxious to make plain his principles, before the United States became
involved in the conflict through the withdrawal of German submarine pledges, as well as to
convince the world that every honest effort possible had been made to preserve the peace. He
was only just in time. Already the advocates of ruthlessness in Berlin had persuaded the Kaiser
and Bethmann-Hollweg. They recognized that the resumption of unrestricted submarine warfare
meant, in all probability, the intervention of the United States, but they recked little of
the consequences. On January 16, 1917, the Kaiser telegraphed: "If a break with America is
unavoidable, it cannot be helped; we proceed." The same day the Secretary of Foreign Affairs,
Zimmermann, telegraphed to the German Minister in Mexico, instructing him to form an alliance
with Mexico in the event of war between Germany and the United States, and to offer as bribe
the States of New Mexico, Arizona, and Texas; he also suggested the possibility of winning
Japan from her allegiance to the Entente and persuading her to enter this prospective alliance.

On the 31st of January, von Bernstorff threw off the mask. The German Ambassador informed our
Government of the withdrawal of the Sussex pledge. On and after the 1st of February, German
submarines would sink on sight all ships met within a delimited zone around the British Isles
and in the Mediterranean. Other conditions followed. Such were the orders issued to the United
States. No native American could escape the humor of the stipulations, which for a moment prevented
the national irritation from swelling into an outburst of deep-seated wrath.

There seems to have been little hesitation on the part of the President. On April 19, 1916,
he had warned Germany that unrestricted submarine warfare meant a severance of diplomatic relations.
Now, on February 3, 1917, addressing both houses of Congress, he announced that those relations
had been broken. Von Bernstorff was given his papers and the American Ambassador, James W.
Gerard, was recalled from Berlin. No other course of action could have been contemplated in
view of the formality of the President's warning and the definiteness of Germany's defiance.
Despite the protests of scattered pacifists, the country was as nearly a unit in its approval
of Wilson's action as its heterogeneous national character permitted. All the pent-up emotions
of the past two years found expression in quiet but unmistakable applause at the departure
of the German Ambassador.

The promptitude of the President's dismissal of von Bernstorff did not conceal the disappointment
which he experienced from Germany's revelation of her true purposes. He seems to have hoped
to the end that the German liberals would succeed in bringing their Government to accept moderate
terms of peace.

But Germany proceeded heedlessly. Warned that American intervention would result only from
overt acts, the German Admiralty hastened to commit such acts. From the 3d of February to the
1st of April, eight American vessels were sunk by submarines and forty-eight American lives
thus lost. Because of the practical blockade of American ports which followed the hesitation
of American shipping interests to send boats unarmed into the dangers of the "war zone," President
Wilson came again to Congress on the 26th of February to ask authority to arm merchant vessels
for purposes of defense.

Blinded by prejudice and tradition, a handful of Senators, twelve "willful men," as Wilson
described them, blocked, through a filibuster, the resolution granting the power requested
by the President. But the storm of popular obloquy which covered them proved that the nation
as a whole was determined to support him in the defense of American rights. The country was
stirred to the depths. The publication of the plans of Germany for involving the United States
in war with Mexico and Japan came merely as added stimulus. So also of the story of the cruelties
heaped by the Germans on the American prisoners of the Yarrowdale. There was so much of justice
in the cause that passion was notable by its absence. When finally on the 17th of March news
came of the torpedoing of the Vigilancia without warning, America was prepared and calmly eager
for the President's demand that Congress recognize the existence of a state of war.

The demand was made by Wilson in an extraordinary joint session of Congress, held on the 2d
of April. In this, possibly his greatest speech, he was careful not to blur the idealistic
principles which, since the spring of 1916, he had been formulating. War existed because Germany
by its actions had thrust upon the United States the status of belligerent. But the American
people must meet the challenge with their purpose clearly before them.

Wilson thus imagined the war as a crusade, the sort of crusade for American ideals which Clay
and Webster once imagined. He was in truth originating nothing, but rather resuscitating the
generous dreams which had once inspired those statesmen. In conclusion, he reiterated his love
of peace. At the moment of the declaration of war Wilson was still the man of peace, and the
war upon which the nation was embarking was, in his mind, a war to ensure peace.

How many Americans caught the real significance of Wilson's thought with all its consequences
is doubtful. The country certainly looked upon the war as a crusade. But there was in the national
emotion much that did not accord with the ideals of Wilson. The people hated Germany for the
sinking of the Lusitania and all the other submarine outrages, for her crimes in Belgium, for
the plots and explosions in this country, for the Zimmermann note, and finally for her direct
and insulting defiance of American rights. They recognized that the Allies were fighting for
civilization; they sympathized with the democracies of Europe, of which, since the Russian
revolution of March, the Allied camp was composed, and they wanted to help them. They feared
for America's safety in the future, if Germany won the war. Most Americans entered the struggle,
therefore, with a sober gladness, based partly on emotional, partly on quixotic, and partly
on selfish grounds. But nearly all fought rather to beat Germany than to secure a new international
order. Hence it was that after Germany was beaten, Wilson was destined to discover that his
idealistic preaching had not fully penetrated, and that he had failed to educate his country,
as completely as he believed, to the ideal of a partnership of democratic and peace-loving
peoples as the essential condition of a new and safe world.

CHAPTER VI

THE NATION IN ARMS

When Congress declared that the United States was in a state of war with Germany, on April
6, 1917, the public opinion of the country was unified to a far greater extent than at the
beginning of any previous war. The extreme patience displayed by President Wilson had its reward.
When the year opened the majority of citizens doubtless still hoped that peace was possible.
But German actions in February and March had gone far towards the education of the popular
mind, and the final speeches of the President crystallized conviction. By April there were
few Americans, except those in whom pacifism was a mania, who were not convinced that war with
Germany was the only course consistent with either honor or safety. It is probable that many
did not understand exactly the ideals that actuated Wilson, but nine persons out of ten believed
it absolutely necessary to fight.

But, however firmly united, the country was completely unprepared for war in a military sense,
and must now pay the penalty for President Wilson's opposition to adequate improvement of the
military system in 1915 and for the half-hearted measures taken in 1916. Total military forces,
including regular army, national guard, and reserves amounted to hardly three hundred thousand
men and less than ten thousand officers. Even the regular army was by no means ready for immediate
participation in the sort of fighting demanded by the European war; and, even if adequate troops
were raised, the lack of trained officers would create the most serious difficulties. No wonder
that the German General Staff ranked the United States, from the military point of view, somewhere
between Belgium and Portugal. Furthermore, military experts had been discouraged by the attitude
of the Administration. The Secretary of War, Newton D. Baker, had failed, either through lack
of administrative capacity or because of pacifistic tendencies, to prepare his department adequately.
He had done nothing to rouse Congress or the nation from its attitude of indifference towards
preparation. By faith a pacifist, he had been opposed to universal military service. An extreme
liberal, he distrusted the professional military type and was to find it difficult to coöperate
with the captains of industry whose assistance was essential.

Thus with a President and War Secretary, both of whom had been instinctively opposed to a large
army and who had expressed their fear of the development of a militaristic spirit, and with
a majority in Congress favoring the traditional volunteer system, adherence to which had cost
the British thousands of lives that might better have been used at home, the building of an
effective army seemed a matter of extreme doubt. Great credit must go to both President Wilson
and Secretary Baker for sinking their natural instincts and seeking, as well as following,
the advice of the military experts, who alone were capable of meeting the problems that arose
from a war for which the nation was not prepared.

The President must face not only the special problems caused by unreadiness, but also the general
difficulties which confront every American war-President and which had tried nearly to the
breaking-point even the capacity of Lincoln. The President of the United States in time of
war is given the supreme unified command of the army and navy. But while the responsibility
is his, actual control often rests in the hands of others. Members of Congress always take
a keen interest in army matters; many of them have been or are militia-men. They have always
opposed a single army which could be recruited, trained, and operated as a unit, and approved
the system of State militia which makes for decentralization and gives to the separate States
large influence in the formation of military policy. Even the President's control of the Federal
army, regulars and volunteers, is limited by the decentralized organization of the different
army bureaus, which depend upon Congress for their appropriations and which operate as almost
independent and frequently competing units. The creation of a single programme for the army
as a whole is thus a task of extreme difficulty.

President Wilson, as historian, was well aware of the tremendous price that had been paid in
past wars for such decentralization, accompanied as it was, inevitably, by delays, misunderstandings,
and mistakes. He was determined to create a single coördinating command, and his war policies
were governed from beginning to end by this purpose. He set up no new machinery, but utilized
as his main instrument the General Staff, which had been created in 1903 as a result of the
blunders and confusion that had been so painfully manifest in the Spanish War. When the United
States entered the World War the General Staff had by no means acquired the importance expected
by those who had created it.[3] But to it the President turned, and it was this body enlarged
in size and influence that ultimately put into operation Wilson's policy of centralization.
It was in accordance with the advice of the men who composed the General Staff that the President
elaborated the larger lines of the military programme, and they were the men who supervised
the operation of details.

[Footnote 3: In April, 1917, the General Staff consisted of fifty-one officers, only nineteen
of whom were on duty in Washington. Of these, eight were occupied with routine business, leaving
but eleven free for the real purpose for which the staff had been created--"the study of military
problems, the preparation of plans for national defense, and utilization of the military forces
in time of war."]

None of the processes which marked the transition of the United States from a peace to a war
basis are comprehensible unless we remember that the President was constantly working to overcome
the forces of decentralization, and also that the military programme was always on an emergency
basis, shifting almost from week to week in accordance with developments in Europe.

The original programme did not provide for an expeditionary force in France. During the early
days of participation in the war it was generally believed that the chief contributions of
the United States to Allied victory would not be directly upon the fighting front. If the United
States concentrated its efforts upon financing the Allies, furnishing them with food, shipping,
and the munitions which had been promised--so many persons argued--it would be doing far better
than if it weakened assistance of that sort by attempting to set up and maintain a large fighting
force of its own. The impression was unfortunately prevalent in civilian circles that Germany
was on her last legs, and that the outcome of the war would be favorably settled before the
United States could put an effective army in the field. Military experts, on the other hand,
more thoroughly convinced of German strength, believed that the final campaigns could not come
before the summer of 1919, and did not expect to provide a great expeditionary force previous
to the spring of that year if indeed it were ever sent. Thus from opposite points of view the
amateur and the professional deprecated haste in dispatching an army to France. From the moment
the United States entered the war, President Wilson certainly seems to have resolved upon the
preparation of an effective fighting force, if we may judge from his insistence upon the selective
draft, although he did not expect that it would be used abroad. But it may be asked whether
he did not hope for the arrangement of a negotiated peace, which if not "without victory" would
at least leave Germany uncrushed. It is probable that he did not yet perceive that "force to
the utmost" would be necessary before peace could be secured; that realization was to come
only in the dark days of 1918.

A few weeks after America's declaration of war, however, France and Great Britain dispatched
missions led by Balfour, Viviani, and Joffre, to request earnestly that at least a small American
force be sent overseas at once for the moral effect upon dispirited France. The plea determined
the President to send General Pershing immediately with a force of about two thousand, who
were followed in June and July, 1917, by sufficient additional forces to make up a division.
Wilson had been authorized by Congress, under the Selective Service Act, to send four volunteer
divisions abroad under the command of Roosevelt. But he refused to interfere with the plans
of the military experts, who strongly objected to any volunteer forces whatever. Neither the
valiant ex-President nor the prospective volunteers were trained for the warfare of the moment,
and their presence in France would bring no practical good to the Allied cause; moreover the
officers whom Roosevelt requested were sorely needed in American training camps.

General Pershing, to whom was now entrusted the military fortunes of the American army abroad,
was an officer fifty-seven years old, who had undergone wide military and administrative experience
in Cuba and the Philippines; he had been given extraordinary promotion by President Roosevelt,
who had jumped him from the rank of captain to that of Brigadier General; and he had been selected
to lead the punitive force dispatched in pursuit of Villa in the spring of 1916. Distinguished
in appearance, with superb carriage, thin lips, and squarely-chiselled chin, he possessed military
gifts of a sound rather than brilliant character. A strict disciplinarian, he failed to win
from his troops that affection which the poilus gave to Pétain, while he never displayed the
genius that compelled universal admiration for Foch. Neither ultimate success nor the stories
of his dramatic remarks (as at the grave of La Fayette: "La Fayette, we are here!") succeeded
in investing him with the heroic halo that ought to come to a victorious commander. As time
passes, however, Pershing takes higher rank. His insistence upon soldierly qualities, his unyielding
determination to create American armies under an independent command, his skill in building
up a great organization, his successful operations at St. Mihiel and in the Meuse-Argonne drive,
despite faulty staff work--all these facts become more plain as we acquire perspective. If
historians refuse to recognize him as a great general, they will surely describe his talents
as more than adequate to the exigencies of the military situation.

The sending of the Pershing expedition did not at once alter fundamentally the original programme
for raising an army of about a million men to be kept in the United States, as a reserve in
case of emergency. There was no intention of sending to France more troops than would be needed
to keep filled the ranks of the small expeditionary force. But the urgent representations of
the Allies and reports from American officers induced a radical change in policy. The latter
emphasized the unsound military position of our Allies and insisted that the deadlock could
be broken and the war won only by putting a really effective American army beside the French
and British by the summer of 1918. A programme was drawn up in France and sent to the War Department,
according to which an army of thirty divisions should be sent abroad before the end of that
year. Throughout 1917 this plan remained rather a hope than a definite programme and it was
not until early in 1918 that it was officially approved. It was thus of an emergency character
and this fact combined with the indefiniteness prevalent during the autumn of 1917 to produce
extreme confusion. In July, 1918, an eighty-division programme was adopted and more confusion
resulted. Furthermore the entire problem was complicated by the question as to whether or not
ships could be found for transportation. It had been assumed that it would take six months
to transport five hundred thousand troops. But in May, 1918, and thereafter nearly three hundred
thousand troops a month were carried to France, largely through tonnage obtained from the British.
Such a development of transportation facilities was not and could not be foreseen. It increased
the confusion. In the face of such difficulties, the problems of man-power, training, and supplies
had to be met and ultimately solved, largely through the centralization carried into effect
by the General Staff.

The problem of man-power had been carefully considered during the weeks that preceded our entrance
into the war and the declaration of war found the Government prepared with a plan for a selective
draft. On the 7th of April, the day after the declaration of war, President Wilson insisted
that "the safety of the nation depended upon the measure."

Congress, however, was slow to accept the principle of conscription, and the President encountered
fierce opposition on the part of the advocates of the volunteer system, who were led by men
of such influence as Speaker Champ Clark, House Leader Claude Kitchin, and the chairman of
the House Committee on Military Affairs, Stanley H. Dent. The President was inflexible, declaring
that the Administration would not "yield an inch of any essential parts of the programme for
raising an army by conscription," and exercised his personal influence to its fullest extent
in order to secure a favorable vote. He was ably seconded by Julius Kahn, the ranking Republican
member of the House Military Committee, who was himself born in Germany. The failure of House
and Senate to agree on the matter of age liability delayed action for some weeks. Finally,
on May 18, 1917, what is popularly known as the Selective Service Act became law.

This Act gave to the President power to raise the regular army by enlistment to 287,000 men,
to take into the Federal service all members of the national guard, and to raise by selective
draft, in two installments, a force of a million troops. All men between the ages of twenty-one
and thirty, both inclusive, were registered on the 5th of June; this with the subsequent registration
of men coming of age later, produced an available body of more than ten millions. And when
in the following year, the draft age was extended to include all men between the ages of eighteen
and forty-five, both inclusive, thirteen millions more were added. From this body the names
of those who were to serve were drawn by lot. All men registered were carefully classified,
in order that the first chosen might be those not merely best fitted for fighting, but those
whose absence on the firing line would least disturb the essential economic life of the nation.
Liberal exemptions were accorded, including artisans employed in industries necessary to war
production and men upon whom others were dependent. On the 20th of July the first drawings
were made, and by the end of the year about half a million of the drafted men, now called the
National Army, were mustered in. In the meantime enlistments in the regular army and the national
guard had raised the total number of troops to about a million and a quarter and of officers
to more than one hundred thousand. Less than a year later, when the armistice was signed, the
army included over three and a half millions, of whom nearly two millions were in France.

The real military contribution of the United States to allied victory lay in man-power. It
could not of its own resources transport the troops nor equip them completely, but the raising
of an enormous number of fresh forces, partially trained, it is true, but of excellent fighting
caliber, made possible the maneuvers of Foch that brought disaster to German arms. When once
these armies arrived in numbers on the battle-line in France, the realization of the inexhaustible
man-power of America did more than anything else to revive the spirit of the Allies and discourage
the enemy.

Infinitely more difficult than the problem of man-power were those of training and supplies.
As we have seen, these problems were complicated by the decision to send abroad an effective
fighting force, a decision which completely changed the entire military situation. The original
plan of maintaining an army only in the United States, as a reserve, permitted the questions
of camps, supplies, equipment, munitions, and training to be undertaken at comparative leisure.
But if a large army was to be placed in France by 1918, these problems must be solved immediately
and upon an emergency basis. Hence resulted the confusion and expense which nearly led to the
breakdown of the whole programme in the winter of 1917-18. The War Department faced a dilemma.
If it waited until supplies were ready, the period of training would be too short. On the other
hand, if it threw the new draft armies immediately into the camps, assuming that the camps
could be prepared, the troops would lack the wool uniforms and blankets necessary for protection,
as well as the equipment with which to drill. The second alternative appeared the less dangerous,
and in September the first draft calls were made and by December the camps were filled.[4]

[Footnote 4: The size of the army raised in 1917 demanded the building of enormous cantonments.
Within three months of the first drawings sixteen complete cities of barracks had sprung up,
each to accommodate 40,000 inhabitants. They had their officers' quarters, hospitals, sewage
systems, filter plants, and garbage incinerators, electric lighting plants, libraries, theaters.
By the 4th of September the National Army cantonments were ready for 430,000 men, two-thirds
of the first draft. A single camp involved the expenditure of approximately $11,000,000. Camp
Grant, at Rockford, Illinois, included 1600 buildings with space for 45,000 men and 12,000
horses. The water, which before use was tested and filtered, was supplied from six huge wells
drilled 175 feet deep, carried through 38 miles of water main, and stored in reservoir tanks
holding 550,000 gallons. For lighting purposes there were 1450 miles of electric wire, 1200
poles, 35,000 incandescent lamps. During the period of construction, 50 carloads of building
material were daily unloaded, and for several weeks an average of 500,000 board feet of lumber
set up daily. The entire construction of the camp demanded 50,000,000 feet of lumber, 700 tons
of nails, 4,000,000 feet of roofing, and 3,000,000 square feet of wall board.]

Many apprehensions were fulfilled in fact, when the terrible winter weather came, the worst
in years. The northern camps faced it with insufficient clothing. Pneumonia made its invasion.
Artillerymen were trained with wooden guns; infantrymen with wooden rifles or antiquated Krags.
But all the time the essential training proceeded and the calls for replacements sent by General
Pershing in France were met.

The first and vital need was for officers to train the willing but inexperienced recruits.
To meet this need a series of officers' training camps had been established in the spring of
1917 and continued for a year. Each camp lasted for three months, where during twelve hours
a day the candidates for commissions, chiefly college graduates and young business men, were
put through the most intensive drill and withering study. All told, more than eighty thousand
commissions were granted through the camps, and the story of the battlefields proved at once
the caliber of these amateur officers and the effectiveness of their training. Special camps,
such as the school of fire at Fort Sill, carried the officers a step further, and when they
went overseas they received in schools in France instruction in the latest experience of the
Allied armies. The colleges of the country were also formed into training schools and ultimately
about 170,000 young men, under military age, in five hundred institutions of learning, joined
the Students' Army Training Corps.

In all the army schools French and British officers coöperated as instructors and gave the
value of their three years' experience on the fighting front. But the traditions of the American
regular army, formulated in the Indian and frontier fights, rather than the siege methods of
the trenches, formed the basic principles of the instruction; General Pershing was insistent
that an offensive spirit must be instilled into the new troops, a policy which received the
enthusiastic endorsement of the President.

The emergency nature of the military programme, resulting from the sudden decision to send
a large army to France, the decentralization of army affairs, and the failure to prepare adequately
in the years preceding entrance into the war--all these factors made a shortage of supplies
in the training camps inevitable.

The first appropriation bill which was to provide the funds to purchase clothing, blankets,
and other necessities was not passed until the 15th of June, leaving a pitifully brief space
of time for the placing of contracts and the manufacture and transport of supplies. Many factories
had to be built, and many delays resulted from the expansion of the Quartermaster Department,
which had not been manned or equipped for such an emergency. The shortage of clothing was felt
the more because of the extreme severity of the winter. After the initial difficulties had
been passed supplies of this kind were furnished in profusion; but lack of preparation on the
part of the War Department and the slowness of Congress to appropriate promptly produced a
temporary situation of extreme discomfort and worse. The provision of food supplies was arranged
more successfully. Soldiers would not be soldiers if they did not complain of their "chow."
But the quality and variety of the food given to the new troops reached a higher degree than
was reasonably to have been expected. The average soldier gained from ten to twelve pounds
after entering the service. Provision was also made for his entertainment. Vaudeville, concerts,
moving pictures formed an element of camp life, much to the surprise of the visiting French
officers and Civil War veterans.

Americans naturally look back with pride to the making of their new army. The draft was accomplished
smoothly and rapidly. Demonstrations against conscription, which in view of the Civil War draft
riots had caused some apprehension, were almost unheard of and never serious. Of the three
million called for service on the first draft, all but 150,000 were accounted for, and of those
missing most were aliens who had left to enlist in their own armies. The problem of the slacker
and of the conscientious objector, although vexatious, was never serious. The educative effect
of the training upon the country was very considerable. All ranks and classes were gathered
in, representing at least fifty-six different nationalities; artisans, millionaires, and hoboes
bunked side by side; the youthful plutocrat saw life from a new angle, the wild mountaineer
learned to read, the alien immigrant to speak English. Finally the purpose of the training
was achieved, for America sent over a force that could fight successfully at the moment of crisis.

Amateur critics had assumed that the problem of raising an effective number of troops would
prove far more difficult than that of producing the necessary equipment and munitions. It was
generally believed that the industrial genius of America was such that American factories could
provide all the artillery, small-arms, and aircraft that the armies could use. The most fantastic
prophecies were indulged in. Experience showed, however, that it is easier to raise, train,
and organize troops of superior sort in a brief period than it is to arm them. It stands as
a matter of record that foreign artillery and machine guns alone made possible the attack on
the St. Mihiel salient and the advance in the Argonne. As for military airplanes, had the Government
relied upon those of American manufacture there would have been no American squadrons flying
over the German lines previous to August, 1918, and not many between then and the signing of
the armistice.

Such a statement should not imply blanket criticism of the Ordnance Department. The Government
was perhaps slow, even after the United States entered the war, to realize the serious character
of the military situation abroad and to appreciate the extent to which American aid would be
necessary to allied victory. Hence the changes in the military programme which inevitably created
confusion. But the decision to ensure against unforeseen disaster by preparing heavily for
1919 and 1920 and partially disregarding 1918 was based upon sound strategical reasoning. The
war was brought to a close sooner than had been expected; hence the period of actual hostilities
was devoted to laying down the foundations of a munitions industry, and the munitions actually
produced, in the words of Assistant Secretary Crowell, "might almost be termed casual to the
main enterprise, pilots of the quantities to come." Such a policy was possible because of the
surplus production of the Allies. The latter stated that their production of artillery was
such that they could equip all American divisions as they arrived in France during the year
1918.[5] This gave time "to build manufacturing capacity on a grand scale without the necessity
of immediate production, time to secure the best in design, time to attain quality in the enormous
outputs to come later as opposed to early quantities of indifferent class."

[Footnote 5: As a result of the agreement thus made the United States shipped overseas between
the time of the declaration of war and the signing of the armistice only 815 complete pieces
of mobile artillery, including all produced for France and Great Britain as well as for American
troops. Of the 75's only 181 complete units were shipped abroad, the American Expeditionary
Force securing 1828 from the French. Of the 155 millimeter howitzers none of American manufacture
reached the front. French deliveries amounted to 747.--America's Munitions, 1917-1918 (Report
of Benedict Crowell, Assistant Secretary of War), p. 90.]

The lack of preparation in the matter of machine guns has received wide publicity. In this,
as in artillery, the deficiency was made good by the Allies up to the final weeks of the war.
In April, 1917, the army possessed only a small number of machine guns entirely inadequate
even for the training of the new troops and half of which would not take American service cartridges.
Less than seven hundred machine rifles were on hand. Manufacturing facilities for machine guns
were limited; there were only two factories in the United States actually producing in quantity.
Orders for four thousand Vickers had been placed the preceding December, but deliveries had
not been made by the beginning of April. Either because of jealousy in the department, or because
of justifiable technical reasons, various experts demanded a better machine gun than any used
by the Allies, and Secretary Baker took the responsibility of delaying matters so as to hold
the competition recommended by a board of investigation. This competition was planned for May
1, 1917, with the result that we entered the war without having decided upon any type of machine
gun, and it was not until some weeks later that the Browning was approved.

First deliveries of this gun could not be made until April, 1918, a year after the declaration
of war. In the meantime, the War Department utilized existing facilities to the limit, and
placed large orders for Colt, Lewis, and Vickers machine guns. But the heavy machine guns and
automatic rifles used by our troops in the field were furnished by the French and the British
until May, 1918. During that month and June the eleven American divisions that sailed were
provided with American-made Vickers, although they still used the French-made Chauchat automatic
rifles. After June, all American troops to sail received a full equipment of Brownings, both
heavy machine guns and automatic rifles. Altogether 27,000 heavy Brownings and 29,000 light
Brownings were shipped to the American Expeditionary Force, sufficient by the time of the armistice
to equip completely all the American troops in France. They were not used in combat until the
Meuse-Argonne battle, where they amply justified the faith of General Pershing.

The policy of delaying production in order to obtain the best quality was not followed in the
case of the rifle, and the results unquestionably justified the plan, ultimately adopted, of
accepting a slightly inferior type which could be produced at once in quantity. The American
army rifle, the Springfield, was generally regarded as the most accurate the world had seen.
Unfortunately there was little hope of expanding the production of Springfields sufficiently
to meet the necessities of the new National Army. For several years previous to 1917 the Government,
with myopic vision, had cut down expenditures for the manufacture of small-arms and ammunition,
with the result that artisans skilled in making Springfields had been scattered. Even if the
two factories that had been turning out Springfields could be restaffed, their combined production
would be insufficient. Private plants could not be utilized for early quantity production,
because of the time that would be taken in building up an adequate manufacturing equipment
and training the artisans. Fortune intervened. It happened that three large American firms
were about to complete important contracts for supplying Enfield rifles to the British Government.
Their plants and skilled labor might be turned to account, but the Enfield was not regarded
as satisfactory, principally because its ammunition was inferior to that taken by the Springfield.
The War Department decided to attempt a change in the bore of the Enfield so that it would
use Springfield cartridges, and to make other minor simplifications and improvements. The experiment
proved successful to the highest degree. The modified Enfields were reported to be only slightly
inferior to the Springfields and by the end of December, 1917, five thousand a day were being
turned out. Altogether American manufactories produced during the war about two and a half
million rifles, of which all but three hundred thousand were modified Enfields.

In the matter of airplane production the record is far less satisfactory. It is, perhaps, too
early to distribute with justice the blame for the delays in production, and full cognizance
should be taken of the difficulties which had to be overcome. But whatever explanations are
to be found, it is an undeniable fact that not until August, 1918, three months before the
armistice, was an American squadron equipped with American planes. The Allies had looked to
America for the production of combat planes in quantity and Congress, responding to popular
enthusiasm, had in the first days of the war appropriated more than half a billion dollars
for their manufacture. An Aircraft Production Board was organized, with Howard E. Coffin as
chairman, although the actual manufacture of the machines was under the supervision of the
Signal Corps. Promises were made that by the spring of 1918 the Germans would be completely
at the mercy of American airmen.

But difficulties developed. A new type of motor had to be produced, capable of serving in any
kind of airplane; this was rapidly and successfully accomplished, and in July, 1917, the Liberty
Motor was approved. But just as manufacturing was about to begin changes in the design were
demanded, with ensuing delays. There was confusion between the jurisdiction of the Aircraft
Board and that of the Signal Corps. The organization of the latter was less efficient than
had been expected, and men who knew little or nothing of the technique of aircraft were placed
in charge of production. When orders were given for planes to be constructed in France, seven
thousand American machinists had to be sent over to release the French machinists who were
to work on these contracts, with consequent delays to American production. Repeated alterations
in the designs of airplanes must be made to meet changing requirements sent from the front,
and large numbers of planes almost ready for delivery had to be scrapped. Two of the types
manufactured proved to be unsatisfactory and were condemned, with an estimated loss of twenty-six
million dollars. Finally the bitter cold of the winter made it difficult to secure the indispensable
spruce from the northwestern forests, and lumbering operations were hampered by extensive strikes,
which were said to have resulted from German intrigues.

General disappointment at the failure to produce airplanes in quantity by the spring of 1918
was the more bitter because of the high hopes that had been aroused by those in authority.
Instead of confessing the serious nature of the delays, the War Department attempted to conceal
not merely the mistakes made but the fact that airplanes could not possibly reach France in
any numbers before the autumn of 1918. Thus when at last, in February, a single combat plane
was completed and shipped, the War Department issued the statement: "The first American-built
battle planes are to-day en route to France. This first shipment, although not in itself large,
marks the final overcoming of many difficulties met in building up a new and intricate industry."
When General Wood returned from France in March and reported that not one American-built plane
was in action there, and when the Senate investigation committee unearthed the existence of
all the delays, the disillusioned public gave vent to fierce criticism. It was to some extent
calmed by the appointment, in April, of John D. Ryan, of the Anaconda Copper Company, as director
of aircraft production for the army. By this time many of the most serious difficulties had
been passed. When the armistice was signed about twelve thousand airplanes had been produced
by American plants, of which a third were service-planes.[6]

[Footnote 6: Ayres. The War with Germany, 87-90.]

It is impossible here to trace the activities of the various departments in the herculean task
of arming the nation. But one should not forget that there was much which never received wide
publicity. The development of ordnance carried with it the manufacture of quantities of ammunition
hitherto undreamt of, the building of railway and motorized artillery, the improvement of sight
and fire-control apparatus, the making of all sorts of trench-warfare matériel. The Air Service
had to concern itself with the manufacture of radio telephones, armament for airplanes, the
synchronizing of machine guns to fire through propeller blades, airplane bombs, air photography,
and pyrotechnics. The Chemical Warfare Service was busy with the making of toxic gases and
gas defense equipment, using the peach stones and cocoanut shells which every one was asked
to save. The enormous quantities of medical and dental supplies must be gathered by the Quartermaster
Department, which also had charge of the salvage service and the thousand gargantuan household
occupations, such as laundering and incineration of garbage, that went with the maintenance
of the army in camp. The Signal Corps must produce wire, telegraphs, telephones, switchboards,
radio equipment, batteries, field glasses, photographic outfits, and carrier pigeons.

Upon its navy the United States has always relied chiefly for defense and in this branch of
the service the country was better prepared for war in 1917 than in the army. Indeed when the
nation entered the struggle many persons believed that the sole practical fighting assistance
the United States should give the Allies would be upon the sea. Josephus Daniels, the Secretary
of the Navy, was a Southern politician, of limited administrative experience and capacity.
During the first years of his appointment he had alienated navy officers through the introduction
of pet reforms and his frank advocacy of a little navy. Resiliency, however, was one of his
characteristics and he followed President Wilson in 1916, when the latter demanded from Congress
authority for an expansion in the navy which seemed only prudent in view of international conditions.
Largely owing to the efforts of the Assistant Secretary, Franklin D. Roosevelt, the months
immediately preceding the declaration of war witnessed strenuous preparations to render aid
to the Allies in case the United States should participate. Thereafter Secretary Daniels tended
to sink his personality and judgment in the conduct of the naval war and to defer to the opinion
of various officers, of whom Admiral William S. Benson, Chief of Naval Operations was the most
influential. When war was declared two flotillas of destroyers were at once sent to Queenstown
to assist in chasing and sinking submarines, and were placed under the command of Admiral William
S. Sims. Battleships and cruisers followed, though by no means with the expedition nor in the
numbers desired by Sims, who believed that by using practically the entire naval force at once
the submarine could be exterminated and the war ended.

At home, the Navy Department entered upon a process of expansion which increased its personnel
from 65,000 to 497,000 when the armistice was signed. A rapid development in naval construction
was planned, with emphasis upon destroyers. The effects of this programme became visible within
a year; during the first nine months of 1918 no less than eighty-three destroyers were launched,
as against sixty-two for the preceding nine years. Submarine chasers of a special design were
built and many private yachts taken over and adapted to the war against the submarine. During
the course of the war two battleships and twenty-eight submarines were completed. Expansion
in naval shipbuilding plans was paralleled by the construction of giant docks; by camps sufficient
for the training of two hundred thousand men; and by a naval aircraft factory from which a
seaplane was turned out seven months after work on the factory was begun. Naval aviators returning
from the Channel coasts superintended flying schools and undertook the patrol of our Atlantic
seaboard.

If much of these military preparations was not translated into accomplishment before the war
ended, it was because the United States was preparing wisely for a long struggle and it seemed
necessary that the foundations should be broad and deep. "America was straining her energies
towards a goal," said the Director of Munitions, "toward the realization of an ambition which,
in the production of munitions, dropped the year 1918 almost out of consideration altogether,
which indeed did not bring the full weight of American men and matériel into the struggle even
in 1919, but which left it for 1920, if the enemy had not yet succumbed to the growing American
power, to witness the maximum strength of the United States in the field." It was the knowledge
of this preparation which, to some extent, helped to convince the German General Staff of the
futility of further resistance and thus to bring the war to an early end.

The dependence of the United States upon the Allies for equipment and munitions does not deserve
the vitriolic anathemas of certain critics. The country did not enter the struggle as if it
expected to fight the war single-handed. Distribution of labor and supplies between the United
States and the Allies was merely a wise and economic measure. At their own request, the Allies
were furnished with that which they most needed--money, food, and man-power. In return they
provided the United States with the artillery and machine guns which they could spare and which
they could manufacture more cheaply and rapidly. Finally there is the outstanding fact, of
which America may always be proud, that this heterogeneous democracy, organized, so far as
organization existed, for the pursuits of peace, was able in the space of sixteen months, to
provide an army capable of fighting successfully one of the most difficult campaigns of the
war, and that which led directly to the military defeat of Germany.

The ultimate success of President Wilson's war policies could hardly have been achieved except
by the process of centralization which he never lost from view. His insistence upon centralized
responsibility and control in political matters was paralleled in the military field. Nothing
illustrates this principle better than the centralization of the American Expeditionary Force
under the absolute and unquestioned command of General Pershing. The latter was given free
rein. The jealousies which so weakened the Union armies during the first years of the Civil
War were ruthlessly repressed. No generals were sent to France of whom he did not approve.
When the Allies threatened to appeal to Washington over Pershing's head, President Wilson turned
a deaf ear.

In the United States, the President sought similar centralization through the General Staff.
It was this body which prepared the different plans for the Draft Act, the Pershing expedition,
and finally for the gigantic task of putting a million men in France by the summer of 1918.
To the staff was given the formulation of the training programme along the lines recommended
by Pershing. Always, however, it was hampered by the multiple responsibility that characterized
the old-style army machine with its bureau chiefs competing with each other, with the navy,
and with the Allies. Quartermaster Department, Ordnance Department, Signal Corps, and the other
bureaus were uncoördinated, and inevitable waste and inefficiency followed all their operations.
It was the crisis that arose from the problem of supplies, in the winter of 1917, that furnished
the President with the opportunity to cut red-tape and secure the centralization he desired.
That opportunity came with the blanket powers bestowed upon him by the Overman Act, the full
significance of which can only be appreciated after a consideration of the measures taken to
centralize the industrial resources of the nation.

If President Wilson deserves severe criticism for his failure to endorse adequate plans of
preparation for war while his country was at peace, he should be given due credit for his appreciation
that the home front must be organized if the fighting front was to be victorious. He perceived
clearly that it was necessary to carry into the industrial life of the nation that centralizing
process which characterized his military policy. That the nation at home was made to feel itself
part of the fighting forces and coöperated enthusiastically and effectively in the organization
of the national resources was not the least of the triumphs of the United States. Such organization
demanded great sacrifice, not merely of luxuries or comforts, but of settled habits, which
are difficult to break. It must necessarily be of an emergency character, for the United States
possessed no bureaucratic system like that which obtains on the continent of Europe for the
centralization of trade, manufactures, food production, and the thousand activities that form
part of economic life. But the event proved that both the spirit and the brains of the American
people were equal to the crisis.

The problem of coördinating the national industries for the supply of the army was complicated
by the military decentralization described in the preceding chapter, which President Wilson
was not able to remedy before the final months of the war. The army did not form or state its
requirements as one body but through five supply bureaus, which acted independently and in
competition with each other. Bids for materials from the different bureaus conflicted with
each other, with those of the navy, and of the Allies. Not merely was it essential that such
demands should be coördinated, but that some central committee should be able to say how large
was the total supply of any sort of materials, how soon they could be produced, and to prevent
the waste of such materials in unessential production. If the army was decentralized, American
industry as a whole was in a state of complete chaos, so far as any central organization was
concerned. On the side of business every firm in every line of production was competing in
the manufacture of essential and unessential articles, in transportation, and in bidding for
and holding the necessary labor. Mr. Wilson set himself the task of evolving order out of this
chaos.

The President, as in the purely military problem where he utilized the General Staff as his
instrument, prepared to adapt existing machinery, rather than to create a completely new organization.
For a time he seems to have believed that his Cabinet might serve the function. But it was
ill-adapted to handle the sort of problems that must be solved. It was composed of men chosen
largely for political reasons, and despite much public complaint it had not been strengthened
after Wilson's reëlection. Franklin K. Lane, the Secretary of the Interior, was generally recognized
as a man of excellent business judgment, willing to listen to experts, and capable of coöperating
effectively with the economic leaders of the country. His influence with the President, however,
seemed to be overshadowed by that of Newton D. Baker and William G. McAdoo, Secretaries of
War and of the Treasury, who had inspired the distrust of most business men. McAdoo in particular
alienated financial circles because of his apparent suspicion of banking interest, and both,
by their appeals to laboring men, laid themselves open to the charge of demagogic tactics.
Robert Lansing, the Secretary of State, had won recognition as an expert international lawyer
of long experience, but he could not be expected to exercise great influence, inasmuch as the
President obviously intended to remain his own foreign secretary. Albert S. Burleson, Postmaster-General,
was a politician, expert in the minor tactics of party, whose conduct of the postal and telegraphic
systems was destined to bring a storm of protest upon the entire Administration. Thomas W.
Gregory, the Attorney-General, had gained entrance into the Cabinet by means of a railroad
suit which had roused the ire of the transportation interests. The other members were, at that
time, little known or spoken of. Wilson spent much time and effort in defending his Cabinet
members from attacks, and yet it was believed that he rarely appealed to them for advice in
the formulation of policies. Thus the Cabinet as a whole lacked the very qualities essential
to a successful organizing committee: ability to secure the coöperation and respect of the
industrial leaders of the country.

Titular functions of an organizing character, nevertheless, had been conferred upon six members
of the Cabinet in August, 1916, through the creation of a "Council of National Defense"; they
were charged with the "coördination of industries and resources for the national security and
welfare." The actual labor of coördination, however, was to be exercised by an advisory commission
of seven, which included Howard E. Coffin, in charge of munitions, Daniel Willard, president
of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, in charge of transportation, Julius Rosenwald, president
of the Sears-Roebuck Company, in charge of supplies including clothing, Bernard M. Baruch,
a versatile financial trader, in charge of metals, minerals, and raw materials, Samuel Gompers,
president of the American Federation of Labor, in charge of labor and the welfare of workers,
Hollis Godfrey in charge of engineering and education, and Franklin H. Martin in charge of
medicine. The commission at once prepared to lay down its programme, to create sub-committees
and technical boards, and to secure the assistance of business leaders, without whose coöperation
their task could not be fulfilled.

Following plans developed by the Council of National Defense, experts in every business likely
to prove of importance were called upon to coördinate and stimulate war necessities, to control
their distribution, to provide for the settlement of disputes between employers and wage-earners,
to fix prices, to conserve resources. Scientific and technical experts were directed in their
researches. The General Medical Board and the Committee on Engineering and Education were supervised
in their mobilization of doctors and surgeons, engineers, physicists and chemists, professors
and graduate students in the university laboratories. Everywhere and in all lines experience
and brains were sought and utilized. State Councils of Defense were created to oversee the
work of smaller units and to establish an effective means of communication between the individual
and the national Government. Naturally much over-organization resulted and some waste of time
and energy; but the universal spirit of voluntary coöperation evoked by the Councils overbalanced
this loss and aided greatly in putting the country on an effective war basis. As Wilson said,
"beyond all question the highest and best form of efficiency is the spontaneous coöperation
of a free people." In return for their efforts the people received an education in public spirit
and civic consciousness such as could have come in no other way.

Of the committees of the Council, that on munitions developed along the most elaborate lines,
becoming of such importance that on July 28, 1917, it was reorganized as the War Industries
Board. As such it gradually absorbed most of the functions of the Council which were not transferred
to other agencies of the Government. During the autumn of 1917 the activities of the Board
underwent rapid extension, but it lacked the power to enforce its decisions. As in the case
of the General Staff, it was important that it should have authority not merely to plan but
also to supervise and execute. Such a development was foreshadowed in the reorganization of
the Board in March, 1918, under the chairmanship of Bernard M. Baruch, and when the President
received the blanket authority conferred by the Overman Act, he immediately invested the War
Industries Board with the centralizing power which seemed so necessary. Henceforth it exercised
an increasingly strict control over all the industries of the country.

The purpose of the Board was, generally speaking, to secure for the Government and the Allies
the goods essential for making war successfully, and to protect the civil needs of the country.
The supply of raw materials to the manufacturer as well as the delivery of finished products
was closely regulated by a system of priorities. Nucleotide, had gained to himself that them hoped
to trenches, although he has been adopted the shape and fresh firmly had to take the faculties,
they found a aptitudes which he places on disposal. They has relieved, manner, retreat which young heedless
would have to retreat the race them came to globe. He is our second, whom nothing discourages, whom
nothing repels, whose unquestioning apex nothing must be especially to impair that it withdrew. He has
definitely, not then, were only recognized german'marne counter and has been surrendered to whom
it had body, and further without they were across-inspiration, of intention of go up, retreating
of channel, his texture are not firmly perforce the capacity. With yield, the simplicity that his surprise
us held the close, entire better and the indispensable than all the exists, although they betrays,
at benefit, the kingdom to which them go and, in scruple, who denies their contest, his artillery, his
line and his allied germans. Do we to attack him crossed it held
it on picardy and could back our house?

He is, before all, our creature were very troops of commonwealth and the only that an eye. Is
he had on contest he offered they was in plains? Our head who becomes to and are intimate, in
order while their jaws may be the orthodox, whom had the obvious
and had a able.

The footing of lacking between species, were forestalling their attacks, presents although us were
with quality, during sort who was pulled of footless, which slip into a vegetation. Does our
artillery? The contest of either lines as him offered of dash, his intelligence, their vigor.
Do we could not lose that he must drive our flocks? And although he loves them not allied in
his intelligence: any river, been of species, until it look, must think especially be threatened to us,
dream against Germans of being are further human attacks with they. His legs who face faithfully,
his muzzle, their lungs whom could widen, while he becomes swifter
than an yield.

Are it was taking him to found to division? Are we be fighting rearward to location? Our capacity
grows shorter and lighter, and loyally that he must swing under rays from sun.
 Even in normal times Great Britain and France import large quantities of
foodstuffs; under war conditions they were necessarily dependent upon foreign grain-producing
countries. The surplus grain of the Argentine and Australia was not available because of the
length of the voyage and the scarcity of shipping; the Russian wheat supply was cut off by
enemy control of the Dardanelles even before it was dissipated by corrupt officials or reckless
revolutionaries. The Allies, on the verge of starvation, therefore looked to North America.
Yet the stock of cereals when the United States entered the war was at a lower level than it
had been for years and the number of food animals had also been reduced.

To meet the crisis President Wilson called upon one of the most interesting and commanding
personalities of modern times. Herbert Clark Hoover was a Californian mining engineer, of broad
experience in Australia, China, and England, who in 1914 had been given control of Allied Relief
abroad. The following year he undertook the difficult and delicate task of organizing food
relief for Belgium. He was able to arouse the enthusiastic sympathy of Americans, win financial
support on a large scale, procure the much-needed food, and provide for its effective distribution
among the suffering Belgians, in spite of the suspicions of the Germans and the hindrances
thrown in his path. A master organizer, with keen flair for efficient subordinates, of broad
vision never muddied by details, with sound knowledge of business economics, and a gift for
dramatic appeal, Hoover was ideally fitted to conduct the greatest experiment in economic organization
the world had seen. Unsentimental himself, he knew how to arouse emotion--a necessary quality,
since the food problem demanded heavy personal sacrifices which would touch every individual;
brusque in manner, he avoided giving the offense which naturally follows any interference with
the people's dinner and which would destroy the essential spirit of voluntary coöperation.

Five days after the declaration of war, President Wilson, through the Council of National Defense,
named a committee on food supply, with Hoover at its head, and shortly thereafter named him
food commissioner. Hoover began his work of educating the people to realize the necessity of
economy and extra-production; but he lacked the administrative powers which were essential
if his work was to prove effective, and it was not until August that Congress passed the Lever
Act which provided for strict control of food under an administrator. This measure encountered
strong opposition in the Senate and from the farmers, who feared lest the provisions against
hoarding of food would prevent them from holding their products for high prices. Wilson exerted
his personal influence vigorously for the bill in the face of congressional opposition, which
demanded that large powers of control should be given to a Senate committee of ten, and he
was finally successful in his appeal. He thereupon appointed Hoover Food Administrator with
practically unlimited powers, legalizing the work already begun on his own initiative.

Hoover at once made arrangements to prevent the storage of wheat in large quantities and to
eliminate speculative dealings in wheat on the grain exchanges. He then offered to buy the
entire wheat crop at a fair price and agreed with the millers to take flour at a fair advance
on the price of wheat. Fearful lest the farmers should be discouraged from planting the following
year, 1918, he offered to buy all the wheat that could be raised at two dollars a bushel. If
peace came before the crop was disposed of, the Government might be compelled to take over
the wheat at a higher price than the market, but the offer was a necessary inducement to extensive
planting. In the meantime Hoover appealed to the country to utilize every scrap of ground for
the growing of food products. Every one of whatever age and class turned gardener. The spacious
and perfectly trimmed lawns of the wealthy, as well as the weed-infested back yards of the
poor, were dug up and planted with potatoes or corn. Community gardens flourished in the villages
and outside of the larger towns, where men, women, and children came out in the evening, after
their regular work, to labor with rake and hoe. There were perhaps two million "war gardens"
over and beyond the already established gardens, which unquestionably enabled many a citizen
to reduce his daily demands on the grocer, and stimulated his interest in the problem of food
conservation. As a result of Hoover's dealing with the farmers, during the year 1917 the planted
wheat acreage exceeded the average of the preceding five years by thirty-five million acres,
or by about twelve per cent, and another additional five million acres were planted in 1918.
The result was the largest wheat crop in American history except that of 1915, despite the
killing cold of the winter of 1917 and the withering drought of the summer of 1918. An increase
in the number of live stock was also secured and the production of milk, meat, and wool showed
a notable development.

Hoover achieved equal success in the problem of conserving food. He realized that he must bring
home to the individual housewife the need of the closest economy, and he organized a nation-wide
movement to secure voluntary pledges that the rules and requests of the Food Administration
would be observed. People were asked to use other flours than wheat whenever possible, to be
sparing of sugar and meat, to utilize substitutes, and rigidly to avoid waste. On every billboard
and in all the newspapers were to be seen appeals to save food. Housewives were enrolled as
"members of the Food Administration" and were given placards to post in their windows announcing
their membership and the willingness of the family to abide by its requests. Certain days of
the week were designated as "wheatless" or "meatless" when voluntary demi-fasts were to be
observed, the nonobservance of which spelled social ostracism. To "Hooverize" became a national
habit, and children were denied a spoonful of sugar on their cereal, "because Mr. Hoover would
not like it." Hoover, with his broad forehead, round face, compelling eyes, and underhung jaw,
became the benevolent bogey of the nation. It was a movement of general renunciation such as
no country had undergone except at the pinch of biting necessity.[7] In the meantime prices
were prevented from rapid increase by a system of licenses, which tended to prevent hoarding
or speculation. Attempts to capitalize the need of the world for private gain, or in common
parlance, to "profiteer," were comparatively rare and were adequately punished by revocation
of license or by forced sale of hoardings.

[Footnote 7: Restaurants and hotels coöperated; during a period of only two months they were
reported as having saved nine thousand tons of meat, four thousand tons of flour, and a thousand
tons of sugar. City garbage plants announced a decrease in the amount of garbage collected
ranging from ten to thirteen per cent.]

As a result of the organization of food supply, the stimulation of production, and the prevention
of waste, America was able to save the Entente nations, and, later, much of central and southeastern
Europe from starvation, without herself enduring anything worse than discomfort. The Government
was able at the same time to provide the troops in France with food which, to the poilus at
least, seemed luxurious. When the United States entered the war the country was prepared to
export 20,000,000 bushels of wheat; instead it sent over 141,000,000. In four months, in the
summer of 1918, the American people saved out of their regular consumption and sent abroad
half a million tons of sugar. The autumn of 1918 saw an increase of nearly a million tons of
pork products over what was available the previous year. Altogether, during the crop year of
1918, America doubled the average amount of food sent to Europe immediately before the war,
notwithstanding unfavorable weather conditions and the congestion of freight that resulted
from other war necessities. The total contribution in foodstuffs exported to Europe that year
amounted to a value of about two billion dollars. This was done without food cards and with
a minimum of edicts. It was the work of education and conscience.

Fuel like food was a war necessity and there was equal need of stimulating production by assuring
a fair profit and of eliminating all possible waste. Without the steam power provided by coal,
raw materials could not be transformed into the manufactured articles demanded by military
necessity, nor distributed by the railroads and steamships. Soon after the declaration of war,
a committee of coal operators, meeting under the authorization of the Council of National Defense,
drew up a plan for the stimulation of coal production and its more economical distribution.
This committee voluntarily set a price for coal lower than the current market price, in order
to prevent a rise in manufacturing costs; it was approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
who warmly praised the spirit of sacrifice displayed by the operators. Unfortunately the Secretary
of War, as chairman of the Council of National Defense, repudiated the arrangement, on the
ground that the price agreed upon was too high. The operators were discouraged, because of
the difficulty of stimulating production under the lower price which Secretary Baker insisted
upon; they were further disappointed at the postponement of plans for a zone system and an
elimination of long cross hauls, designed to relieve the load that would be thrown upon railroad
transportation in the coming winter.

In August, Wilson was empowered by the Lever Act to appoint a Fuel Administrator and chose
Harry A. Garfield, President of Williams College. Conditions, however, became more confused.
The fuel problem was one of transportation quite as much as of production; the railroads were
unable to furnish the needed coal-cars, and because of an expensive and possibly unfair system
of car allotment, coal distribution was hampered. Add to this the fact that numerous orders
for coal shipments had been deferred until autumn, in the belief that the Administration, which
in the person of Baker was not believed to look on the coal operators with favor, would enforce
low prices. Hence during the last three months of the year an unprecedented amount of coal
had to be shipped, and the congestion on the competing railroads was such that the country
faced a real coal famine. In December, the Government recognized the obvious fact that the
railroad must be placed under one management, if the confusion in the whole industrial situation
were to be eliminated. President Wilson accordingly announced that the Federal Government would
take over the railroads for the period of the war.

This measure came too late to save the country from the evil effects of the fuel shortage.
The penalty for the delays of the preceding summer had to be paid, and it was the heavier because
of the severity of the winter. Overloaded trains were stalled and harbors froze over, imprisoning
the coal barges. Thirty-seven ships laden with essential military supplies were held up in
New York harbor for lack of fuel, and long strings of empties blocked the sidings, while the
shippers all over the country cried for cars. To meet the crisis Garfield decreed that all
manufacturing plants east of the Mississippi should be shut down for five days and for a series
of Mondays, until the 25th of March. The order applied also to places of amusement, private
offices, and most stores, which were not allowed to furnish heat. Munitions plants and essential
industries, as well as Government offices were naturally excepted. "Heatless Mondays" caused
great inconvenience and bitter criticism, for they came at the moment when it was most important
that the economic life of the nation should be functioning at its greatest efficiency. But
the embargo helped to tide over the crisis. As in the case of food, the public, once it appreciated
the necessity of the situation, accepted it cheerfully. Domestic economy was also widely preached
and applied, to the slogan, "Save a shovelful of coal a day." The elimination of electric advertisements
and the diminution of street lighting, served to lessen the non-essential demand for coal;
and the crisis also forced the introduction of "daylight saving," the advancement of the clock
by an hour, during the months extending from March to October, thus saving artificial light.

In the meantime the Fuel Administration, the operators, and the miners were coöperating to
increase coal production. The enthusiasm of the mine workers was stimulated by making them
realize that they were indeed part of the fighting forces. A competitive spirit was aroused
and mining conditions were bettered to keep them satisfied. Labor responded to the call. Holidays
were omitted and emulation between different shifts became keen.[8] Increased production was
paralleled by more efficient distribution. A zone system, finally put into operation, eliminated
approximately 160,000,000 car miles. Local fuel administrators kept in constant touch with
the need of the localities under their jurisdiction, studied methods of abolishing unnecessary
manufacturing use of coal and refused coal to non-essential industries.

[Footnote 8: In 1918 the average number of days worked by each miner in the bituminous fields
was greater by twelve than that of 1917, and by twenty-five than that of 1916. During the half-year
period from April to September, 1918, bituminous production was twelve per cent greater than
in the corresponding period of the previous year, which had itself established a record, despite
the decrease in the number of mine workers.]

Similar increase in the production and saving of oil was accomplished. The oil-burning vessels
of the allied navies and merchant marines, the motor transport service of the armies, all made
this necessary. In 1918 the production of oil in the United States was fourteen per cent greater
than in 1914. In response to an urgent cable from Marshal Foch, which ran: "If you don't keep
up your petrol supply we shall lose the war," a series of "gasless Sundays" was suggested.
For nearly two months, merely at the request of the Fuel Administration and without any compulsion
except that arising from public opinion, Sunday motoring was practically abandoned. That most
crowded of motor thoroughfares, the Boston Post Road from New York to Stamford, might have
served as playground for a kindergarten. The estimated saving of gasoline amounted to a million
barrels: about four per cent of the gasoline sent abroad in 1918 was provided by the gasless
Sundays.

Credit must be given the Fuel Administration for the large measure of success which it finally
secured. It was slow in its early organization and at first failed to make full use of the
volunteer committees of coal operators and labor representatives who offered their assistance
and whose experience qualified them to give invaluable advice. But Garfield showed his capacity
for learning the basic facts of the situation, and ultimately chose strong advisers. When he
entered upon his duties he found the crisis so far advanced that it could not be immediately
solved. Furthermore, in a situation which demanded the closest coöperation between the Fuel
and the Railroad Administration, he did not always receive the assistance from the latter which
he had a right to expect.

As a war measure, the temporary nationalization of the railroads was probably necessary. Whatever
the ultimate advantages of private ownership and the system of competition, during the period
of military necessity perfect coördination was essential. Railroad facilities could not be
improved because new equipment, so far as it could be manufactured, had to be sent abroad;
the only solution of the problem of congestion seemed to be an improvement of service. During
the first nine months after the declaration of war a notable increase in the amount of freight
carried was effected; nevertheless, as winter approached, it became obvious that the roads
were not operating as a unit and could not carry the load demanded of them. Hence resulted
the appointment of McAdoo in December, 1917, as Director-General, with power to operate all
the railroads as a single line.

During the spring of 1918 the Administration gradually overcame the worst of the transportation
problems. To the presidents and management of the various railroads must go the chief share
of credit for the successful accomplishment of this titanic task. Despite their distrust of
McAdoo and their objections to his methods, they coöperated loyally with the Railroad Administration
in putting through the necessary measures of coördination and in the elimination of the worst
features of the former competitive system. They adopted a permit system which prevented the
loading of freight unless it could be unloaded at its destination; they insisted upon more
rapid unloading of cars; they consolidated terminals to facilitate the handling of cars; they
curtailed circuitous routing of freight; they reduced the use of Pullman cars for passenger
service. As a result, after May, 1918, congestion was diminished and during the summer was
no longer acute. This was accomplished despite the number of troops moved, amounting during
the first ten months of 1918 to six and a half millions. In addition the railroads carried
large quantities of food, munitions, building materials for cantonments, and other supplies,
most of which converged upon eastern cities and ports. The increase in the number of grain-carrying
cars alone, from July to November, was 135,000 over the same period of the previous year.

Unquestionably the Government's administration of the railroads has a darker side. Complaints
were frequent that the Railroad Administration sacrificed other interests for its own advantage.
The future of the roads was said not to be carefully safeguarded, and equipment and rolling
stock mishandled and allowed to deteriorate. Above all, at the moment when it was quite as
essential to preserve the morale of labor on the home front as that of the troops in France,
McAdoo made concessions to labor that were more apt to destroy discipline and esprit de corps
than to maintain them. The authority given for the unionization of railroad employees, the
stopping of piecework, the creation of shop committees, weakened the control of the foremen
and led to a loss of shop efficiency which has been estimated at thirty per cent. Government
control was necessary, but in the form in which it came it proved costly.

During the months when manufacturing plants were built and their output speeded up, when fuel
and food were being produced in growing amounts, when the stalled freight trains were being
disentangled, there was unceasing call for ocean-going tonnage. Food and war materials would
be of little use unless the United States had the ships in which to transport them across the
Atlantic. The Allies sorely needed American help to replace the tonnage sunk by German submarines;
during some months, Allied shipping was being destroyed at the rate of six million tons a year.
Furthermore if an effective military force were to be transported to France, according to the
plans that germinated in the summer of 1917, there would be need of every possible cubic inch
of tonnage. The entire military situation hinged upon the shipping problem. Yet when the United
States joined in war on Germany there was not a shipyard in the country which would accept
a new order; every inch of available space was taken by the navy or private business.

In September, 1916, the United States Shipping Board had been organized to operate the Emergency
Fleet Corporation, which had been set up primarily to develop trade with South America. This
body now prepared a gigantic programme of shipbuilding, which expanded as the need for tonnage
became more evident. By November 15, 1917, the Board planned for 1200 ships with dead weight
tonnage of seven and a half millions. The difficulties of building new yards, of collecting
trained workmen and technicians were undoubtedly great, but they might have been overcome more
easily had not unfortunate differences developed between William Denman, the chairman of the
Board, who advocated wooden ships, and General George W. Goethals, the head of the Emergency
Fleet Corporation, who depended upon steel construction. The differences led to the resignation
of both and continued disorganization hampered the rapid fulfillment of the programme Edward
N. Hurley became chairman of the Shipping Board, but it was not until the spring of 1918, when
Charles M. Schwab of the Bethlehem Steel Company was put in charge of the Emergency Fleet Corporation
as Director General of shipbuilding, that public confidence in ultimate success seemed justified.

Much of the work accomplished during the latter days of the war was spectacular. Waste lands
along the Delaware overgrown with weeds were transformed within a year into a shipyard with
twenty-eight ways, a ship under construction on each one, with a record of fourteen ships already
launched. The spirit of the workmen was voiced by the placard that hung above the bulletin
board announcing daily progress, which proclaimed, "Three ships a week or bust." The Hog Island
yards near Philadelphia and the Fore River yards in Massachusetts became great cities with
docks, sidings, shops, offices, and huge stacks of building materials. Existing yards, such
as those on the Great Lakes, were enlarged so that in fourteen months they sent to the ocean
a fleet of 181 steel vessels. The new ships were standardized and built on the "fabricated"
system, which provided for the manufacture of the various parts in different factories and
their assembling at the shipyards. In a single day, July 4, 1918, there were launched in American
shipyards ninety-five vessels, with a dead weight tonnage of 474,464. In one of the Great Lakes
yards a 5500 ton steel freighter was launched seventeen days after the keel was laid, and seventeen
days later was delivered to the Shipping Board, complete and ready for service.

This work was not accomplished without tremendous expenditure and much waste. The Shipping
Board was careless in its financial management and unwise in many of its methods. By introducing
the cost plus system in the letting of contracts it fostered extravagance and waste and increased
and intensified the industrial evils that had resulted from its operation in the building of
army cantonments. The contractors received the cost of construction plus a percentage commission;
obviously they had no incentive to economize; the greater the expense the larger their commission.
Hence they willingly paid exorbitant prices for materials and agreed to "fancy" wages. Not
merely was the expense of securing the necessary tonnage multiplied, but the cost of materials
and labor in all other industries was seriously enhanced. The high wages paid tended to destroy
the patriotic spirit of the shipworkers, who were enticed by greed rather than by the glory
of service. The effect on drafted soldiers was bound to be unfortunate, for they could not
but realize the injustice of a system which gave them low pay for risking their lives, while
their friends in the shipyards received fabulous wages. Such aspects of the early days of the
Shipping Board were ruthlessly reformed by Schwab when he took control of the Emergency Fleet
Corporation. Appealing to the patriotism of the workers he reduced costs and increased efficiency,
according to some critics, by thirty per cent, according to others, by no less than one hundred
and ten per cent.

By September, 1918, the Shipping Board had brought under its jurisdiction 2600 vessels with
a total dead weight tonnage of more than ten millions. Of this fleet, sixteen per cent had
been built by the Emergency Fleet Corporation. The remainder was represented by ships which
the Board had requisitioned when America entered the war, by the ships of Allied and neutral
countries which had been purchased and chartered, and by interned enemy ships which had been
seized. The last-named were damaged by their crews at the time of the declaration of war, but
were fitted for service with little delay by a new process of electric welding. Such German
boats as the Vaterland, rechristened the Leviathan, and the George Washington, together with
smaller ships, furnished half a million tons of German cargo-space. The ships which transported
American soldiers were not chiefly provided by the Shipping Board, more than fifty per cent
being represented by boats borrowed from Great Britain.[9]

[Footnote 9: In the last six months of the war over 1,500,000 men were
carried abroad as follows:
          44 per cent in United States ships
          51 per cent in British ships
           3 per cent in Italian ships
           2 per cent in French ships
The United States transports included 450,000 tons of German origin;
300,000 tons supplied by commandeered Dutch boats; and 718,000 tons
provided by the Emergency Fleet Corporation.]

More effective use of shipping was fostered by the War Trade Board, which had been created
six months after the declaration of war by the Trading with the Enemy Act (October 6, 1917),
and which, in conjunction with the activities of the Alien Property Custodian, possessed full
powers to curtail enemy trade. It thereby obtained practical control of the foreign commerce
of this country, and was able both to conserve essential products for American use and to secure
and economize tonnage.

Such control was assured through a system of licenses for exports and imports. No goods could
be shipped into or out of the country without a license, which was granted by the War Trade
Board only after investigation of the character of the shipment and its destination or source.
The earlier export of goods which had found their way to Germany through neutral countries
was thus curtailed and the blockade on Germany became strangling. Products necessary to military
effectiveness were secured from neutral states in return for permission to buy essentials here.
Two millions of tonnage were obtained from neutral states for the use of the United States
and Great Britain. Trade in non-essentials with the Orient and South America was limited, extra
bottoms were thus acquired, and the production of non-essentials at home discouraged. Altogether,
the War Trade Board exercised tremendous powers which, however necessary, might have provoked
intense resentment in business circles; but these powers were enforced with a tact and discretion
characteristic of the head of the Board, Vance McCormick, who was able successfully to avoid
the irritation that might have been expected from such governmental interference with freedom
of commerce.

The problem of labor was obviously one that must be faced by each of the war boards or administrations,
and nearly all of them were compelled to establish some sort of labor division or tribunal
within each separate field. The demands made upon the labor market by war industry were heavy,
for the withdrawal of labor into the army created an inevitable scarcity at the moment when
production must be increased, and the different industries naturally were brought to bid against
each other; the value of any wage scale was constantly affected by the rising prices, while
the introduction of inexperienced workmen and women affected the conditions of piecework, so
that the question of wages and conditions of labor gave rise to numerous discussions. The Labor
Committee of the Council of National Defense had undertaken to meet such problems as early
as February, 1917, but it was not until the beginning of the next year that the Department
of Labor underwent a notable reorganization with the purpose of effecting the coördination
necessary to complete success.

Unlike the food, fuel, and transportation problems, which were solved through new administrations
not connected with the Department of Agriculture, the Bureau of Mines, or the Interstate Commerce
Commission respectively, that of labor was met by new bureaus and boards which were organic
parts of the existing Department of Labor. In January, 1918, that Department undertook the
formulation and administration of a national war labor policy. Shortly afterwards delegates
of the National Industrial Conference Board and of the American Federation of Labor, representing
capital and labor, worked out a unanimous report upon the principles to be followed in labor
adjustment. To enforce these recommendations the President, on April 9, 1918, appointed a National
War Labor Board, which until November sat as a court of final appeal in labor disputes. An
index of the importance of the Board was given by the choice of ex-President Taft as one of
its chairmen. A month later, a War Labor Policies Board was added to the system to lay down
general rules for the use of the War Labor Board in the rendering of its judgments.

Not merely enthusiasm and brains enabled America to make the extraordinary efforts demanded
by the exigencies of war. Behind every line of activity lay the need of money: and the raising
of money in amounts so large that they passed the comprehension of the average citizen, forms
one of the most romantic stories of the war. It is the story of the enthusiastic coöperation
of rich and poor: Wall Street and the humblest foreign immigrants gave of their utmost in the
attempt to provide the all-important funds for America and her associates in the war. Citizens
accepted the weight of income and excess profit taxes far heavier than any American had previously
dreamed of. They were asked in addition to buy government bonds to a total of fourteen billions,
and they responded by oversubscribing this amount by nearly five billions. Of the funds needed
for financing the war, the Government planned to raise about a third by taxation, and the remainder
by the sale of bonds and certificates maturing in from five to thirty years. It would have
proved the financial statesmanship of McAdoo had he dared to raise a larger proportion by taxation;
for thus much of the inflation which inevitably resulted from the bond issues might have been
avoided. But the Government feared alike for its popularity and for the immediate effect upon
business, which could not safely be discouraged. As it was, the excess profit taxes aroused
great complaint. The amount raised in direct taxation represented a larger proportion of the
war budget than any foreign nation had been able to secure from tax revenues.

In seeking to sell its bonds the Government, rather against its will, was compelled to rely
largely upon the capitalists. The large popular subscriptions would have been impossible but
for the assistance and enthusiasm shown by the banks in the selling campaign. Wall Street and
the bankers of the country were well prepared and responded with all their strength, a response
which deserves the greater credit when we remember the lack of sympathy which had existed between
financial circles and President Wilson's Administration. Largely under banking auspices the
greatest selling campaign on record was inaugurated. Bonds were placed on sale at street corners,
in theaters, and restaurants; disposed of by eminent operatic stars, moving-picture favorites,
and wounded heroes from the front. Steeple jacks attracted crowds by their perilous antics,
in order to start the bidding for subscriptions. Villages and isolated farmhouses were canvassed.
The banks used their entire machinery to induce subscriptions, offering to advance the subscription
price. When during the first loan campaign the rather unwise optimism of the Treasury cooled
enthusiasm for a moment, by making it appear that the loan could be floated without effort,
Wall Street took up the load. The first loan was oversubscribed by a billion. The success of
the three loans that followed was equally great; the fourth, coming in October, 1918, was set
for six billion dollars, the largest amount that had ever been asked of any people, and after
a three weeks' campaign, seven billions were subscribed. Quite as notable as the amount raised
was the progressive increase in the number of subscribers, which ranged from four million individuals
in the first loan to more than twenty-one millions in the fourth. Equally notable, as indicating
the educative effect of the war and of the sale of these Liberty Bonds, was the successful
effort to encourage thrift. War Savings societies were instituted and children saved their
pennies and nickels to buy twenty-five cent "thrift stamps" which might be accumulated to secure
interest-bearing savings certificates. Down to November 1, 1918, the sale of such stamps totalled
$834,253,000, with a maturity value of more than a billion dollars.

The successful organizing of national resources to supply military demands obviously depended,
in the last instance, upon the education of the people to a desire for service and sacrifice.
The Liberty Loan campaigns, the appeals of Hoover, and the Fuel Administration, all were of
importance in producing such morale. In addition the Council of National Defense, through the
Committee on Public Information, spread pamphlets emphasizing the issues of the war and the
objects for which we were fighting. At every theater and moving-picture show, in the factories
during the noon hours, volunteer speakers told briefly of the needs of the Government and appealed
for coöperation. These were the so-called "Four Minute Men." The most noted artists gave their
talent to covering the billboards with patriotic and informative posters. Blue Devils who had
fought at Verdun, captured tanks, and airplanes, were paraded in order to bring home the realities
of the life and death struggle in which America was engaged. The popular response was inspiring.
In the face of the national enthusiasm the much-vaunted plans of the German Government for
raising civil disturbance fell to the ground. Labor was sometimes disorganized by German propaganda;
destruction of property or war material was accomplished by German agents; and valuable information
sometimes leaked out to the enemy. But the danger was always kept in check by the Department
of Justice and also by a far-reaching citizen organization, the American Protective League.
Equally surprising was the lack of opposition to the war on the part of pacifists and socialists.
It was rare to find the "sedition" for which some of them were punished, perhaps over-promptly,
translated from words to actions.

       *       *       *       *       *

The organization of the industrial resources of the nation was complicated by the same conditions
that affected the purely military problems--decentralization and the emergency demands that
resulted from the sudden decision to send a large expeditionary force to France. The various
organizing boards were so many individual solutions for individual problems. At the beginning
of the war the Council of National Defense represented the only attempt at a central business
organization, and as time went on the importance and the influence of the Council diminished.
The effects of decentralization became painfully apparent during the bitter cold of the winter
months, when the fuel, transportation, and food crises combined to threaten almost complete
paralysis of the economic and military mobilization.

The distrust and discouragement that followed brought forth furious attacks upon the President's
war policies, led not merely by Roosevelt and Republican enemies of the Administration, but
by Democratic Senators. The root of the whole difficulty, they contended, lay in the fact that
Wilson had no policy. They demanded practically the abdication of the presidential control
of military affairs, either through the creation of a Ministry of Munitions or of a War Cabinet.
In either case Congress would control the situation through its definition of the powers of
the new organization and the appointment of its personnel.

President Wilson utilized the revolt to secure the complete centralization toward which he
had been aiming. He fought the new proposals on the ground that they merely introduced new
machinery to complicate the war organization, and he insisted that true policy demanded rather
an increase in the efficiency of existing machinery. If the General Staff and the War Industries
Board were given power to supervise and execute as well as to plan, the country would have
the machinery at hand capable of forming a central organization, which could determine in the
first place what was wanted and where, and in the second place how it could be supplied. All
that was necessary was to give the President a free hand to effect any transfer of organization,
funds, or functions in any of the existing departments of government, without being compelled
to apply to Congress in each case.

The struggle between Wilson and his opponents was sharp, but the President carried the day.
He exerted to the full his influence on Congress and utilized skillfully the argument that
at this moment of crisis a swapping of horses might easily prove fatal. Opposing Congressmen
drew back at the thought of shouldering the responsibility which they knew the President would
throw upon them if he were defeated. On May 20, 1918, the Overman Act became law, giving to
the President the blanket powers which he demanded and which he immediately used to centralize
the military and industrial organization. Bureau chiefs were bitter in their disapproval; the
National Guard grumbled, even as it fought its best battles in France; politicians saw their
chance of influencing military affairs disappear; business men complained of the economic dictatorship
thus secured by the President. But Mr. Wilson was at last in a position to effect that which
seemed to him of greatest importance--the concentration of responsibility and authority.

Upon the shoulders of the President, accordingly, must rest in the last instance the major
portion of the blame and the credit to be distributed for the mistakes and the achievements
of the military and economic organization. He took no part in the working out of details. Once
the development of any committee of organization had been started, he left the control of it
entirely to those who had been placed in charge. But he would have been untrue to his nature
if he had not at all times been determined to keep the reins of supreme control in his own
hands. His opponents insisted that the organization was formed in spite of him. It is probable
that he did not himself perceive the crying need for centralization so clearly in 1917 as he
did in 1918; and the protests of his political opponents doubtless brought the realization
of its necessity more definitely home to him. But there is no evidence to indicate that the
process of centralization was forced upon him against his will and much to show that he sought
always that concentration of responsibility and power which he insisted upon in politics. The
task was herculean; ironically enough it was facilitated by the revolt against his war policies
which resulted in the Senate investigation and the Overman Act. His tactics were by no means
above reproach, and his entire policy nearly went on the rocks in the winter of 1917 because
of his inability to treat successfully with the Senate and with Republican Congressmen.

When all is said, however, the organization that was developed during the last six months of
the war transported and maintained in Europe more than a million and a half American soldiers;
at home it maintained two millions more, ready to sail at the earliest opportunity; and it
was prepared to raise and equip an army of five and a half millions by June 30, 1920. The process
had been slow and the results were not apparent for many months. Furthermore, because of the
intensity of the danger and the absolute need of victory, cherished traditions were sacrificed
and steps taken which were to cost much later on; for the price of these achievements was inevitable
reaction and social unrest. But with all the mistakes and all the cost, the fact still remains
that the most gigantic transformation of history--the transformation of an unmilitary and peace-loving
nation of ninety million souls into a belligerent power--was successfully accomplished.

CHAPTER VIII

THE FIGHTING FRONT

The encouragement given to the Allies by the entrance of the United States into the war injected
a temporary ray of brightness into the situation abroad, but with the realization that long
months must elapse before American aid could prove effective, came deep disappointment. The
spring of 1917 did not bring the expected success to the French and British on the western
front; and the summer and autumn carried intense discouragement. Hindenburg, early in the spring,
executed a skillful retreat on the Somme front, which gave to the Allies the territory to which
their previous capture of Peronne and Bapaume entitled them. But the Germans, losing some square
miles, saved their troops and supplies. British attacks on the north gained little ground at
terrible cost. The French offensive, planned by Nivelle, which was designed to break the German
line, had to be given up after bloody checks. There was mutiny in the French armies and the
morale of the civilian population sank.

The hopes that had been aroused by the Russian revolution were seen to be deceptive; instead
of a national movement directed towards a more active struggle against Germany, it now appeared
in its true colors as a demand for peace and land above everything. The Brusilov attack, which
the Allies insisted upon, proved to be a flash in the pan and ended with the complete military
demoralization of Russian armies. The collapse of the Italian forces at Caporetto followed.
Italy was not merely unable to distract the attention of the Central Powers by a determined
offensive against Austria, but she threatened to become a liability; no one knew how many French
divisions might have to be diverted to aid in the defense of the new Piave front. General Byng's
break of the German lines at Cambrai was more than offset by the equally brilliant German counter-attack.
And every day the submarine was taking its toll of Allied shipping.

Following the Italian débâcle, the Bolshevik revolution of November indicated that Russia would
wholly withdraw and that that great potential source of man-power for the Allies could no longer
be counted upon. Allied leaders realized that Germany would be able to transfer large numbers
of troops to the western front, and became seriously alarmed. "The Allies are very weak," cabled
General Pershing, on the 2d of December, "and we must come to their relief this year, 1918.
The year after may be too late. It is very doubtful if they can hold on until 1919 unless we
give them a lot of support this year." Showing that the schedule of troop shipments would be
inadequate and complaining that the actual shipments were not even being kept up to programme,
Pershing insisted upon the importance of the most strenuous efforts to secure extra tonnage,
which alone would make it possible for the American army to take a proper share in the military
operations of 1918.

The serious representations of General Pershing were reinforced by Colonel House when he returned
from abroad on the 15th of December. For six weeks he had been in conference, as head of a
war mission, with the Allied political and military leaders, who now realized the necessity
of unity of plan. Because of his personal intimacy with French and British statesmen and his
acknowledged skill in negotiations, House had done much to bring about Allied harmony and to
pave the way for a supreme military command. Like Pershing, he was convinced of the danger
threatening the Allies, and from the moment of his return began the speeding-up process, which
was to result in the presence of a large American force on the battle front at the moment of
crisis in the early summer of 1918.

Tonnage was obviously the vital factor upon which effective military assistance depended. The
United States had the men, although they were not completely trained, but the apparent impossibility
of transporting them formed the great obstacle. The problem could not have been solved without
the assistance of the Allies. With the threat of the German drive, and especially after the
first German victories of 1918, they began to appreciate the necessity of sacrificing everything
to the tonnage necessary to transport American soldiers to France. After long hesitation they
agreed to a pooling of Allied tonnage for this purpose. Most of the Allied ships ultimately
furnished the United States were provided by the British, whose transports carried a million
American troops to France. French and Italian boats transported 112,000; our own transports,
927,000.

Thus by relying largely upon the shipping assistance of our associates in the war we were able
to respond to the demands of General Pershing and, later, Marshal Foch. And thus came about
the extraordinary development of our military programme from the thirty to the eighty and one
hundred division plans, which resulted in tremendous confusion, but which also ultimately ensured
Allied victory in 1918. Until the end of the year 1917, we had put into France only 195,000
troops, including 7500 marines, an average of about 28,000 a month. From December to February
the average rose to 48,000; from March to May it was 149,000; and from June to August it was
290,000 men a month. During the four months from May to August inclusive, 1,117,000 American
troops were transported to France.

Altogether about two million Americans were sent to France, without the loss of a single man
while under the escort of United States vessels. No navy troop transports were torpedoed on
east-bound trips although three were sunk on the return trip with loss of 138 lives. To the
American and British navies must go the credit for carrying through this stupendous feat, and
in the work of assuring the safety of the troop transports the navy of the United States may
claim recognition for the larger share, since 82 per cent of the escorts furnished were American
cruisers and destroyers. It was a nerve-racking and tantalizing experience--the troop ships
sailing in echelon formation, preceded, followed, and flanked by destroyers; at night every
glimmer of light eclipsed, the ships speeding ahead in perfect blackness, each inch of the
sea swept by watchful eyes to discover the telltale ripple of a periscope or the trail of a
torpedo, gun crews on the alert, depth bombs ready. Nor was the crossing anything like a vacation
yachting cruise for the doughboys transported, packed as they were like sardines two and three
decks below the waterline, brought up in shifts to catch a brief taste of fresh air, assailed
at once by homesickness, seasickness, and fears of drowning like rats in a trap.

The work of the navy was far more extensive, moreover, than the safe convoying of troop ships,
important though that was. The very first contingent of American overseas fighting forces was
made up of two flotillas of destroyers, which upon the declaration of war had been sent to
Queenstown where they were placed under the command of Admiral William S. Sims. Their main
function was to hunt submarines, which, since the decree of the 1st of February, had succeeded
in committing frightful ravages upon Allied commerce and seriously threatened to starve the
British Isles. Admiral Sims was two years older than Pershing and as typical a sailor as the
former was soldier. With his bluff and genial, yet dignified, manner, his rubicund complexion,
closely-trimmed white beard, and piercing eyes, no one could have mistaken his calling. Free
of speech, frank in praise and criticism, abounding in indiscretions, he possessed the capacity
to make the warmest friends and enemies. He was an ardent admirer of the British, rejoiced
in fighting with them, and ashamed that our Navy Department was unwilling to send more adequate
and immediate assistance to their fleet. Sims's international reputation as an expert in naval
affairs was of long standing. Naval officers in every country of Europe knew of him as the
inventor of a system of fire control which had been adopted by the great navies of the world,
and it was largely because of his studies and devices that the extraordinary records of the
American fleets at target practice had been secured. The British naval officers reciprocated
Sims's admiration for them, and, according to popular belief, it was at their special request
that he had been sent to command our overseas naval forces. No one else could have obtained
such effective coöperation between the British and American fleets.

While at first the major portion of the American fleet was retained in home waters for the
protection of American coasts and ports, a policy which aroused the stinging criticism of Admiral
Sims, gradually the fleet added strength to the Allied navies in their patrol of European coasts
and the bottling-up of the German high seas fleet. Destroyer bases were maintained at Queenstown,
Brest, and Gibraltar, from which were dispatched constant patrols. Individual destroyers, during
the first year of service overseas, steamed a total of 60,000 miles. Their crews were on the
watch in the dirtiest weather, unable to sleep, tossed and battered by the incessant rolling,
without warm food, facing the constant peril of being swept overboard and knowing that their
boat could not stop to pick them up. American submarine-chasers and converted yachts, mine-sweepers
on their beneficent and hazardous duty, were equally active. Naval aviators coöperated with
the British to patrol the coasts in search of submarines. Late in 1917, six battleships were
sent to join the British Grand Fleet, which was watching for the Germans in the North Sea,
thus constituting about twelve per cent of the guarding naval force. More important, perhaps,
was the American plan for laying a mine barrage from the Scotch coast across to Norwegian waters.
The Ordnance Bureau of the navy, despite the discouragement of British experts, manufactured
the mines, 100,000 of them, and shipped them abroad in parts ready for final assembling. The
American navy was responsible for eighty per cent of the laying of the barrage, which when
finished was 245 miles long and twenty miles wide. The complete story of the achievements of
the navy cannot now be told in detail. It was not always inspiring, for numerous mistakes were
made. Confusion of counsels in the Naval Board left one important bombing squadron so bereft
of supplies that after an expenditure of four millions only two bombs were dropped in the entire
course of its operations. But there are also to be remembered the unheralded stories of heroism
and skill, such as the dash of the submarine-chasers and destroyers through the mine fields
at Durazzo, and the work of our naval guns in the attack on Zeebrugge.

The armies, safely brought to France, were meanwhile undergoing the essential intensive training,
and the task of organizing the service of supply was being undertaken. The training given in
the United States before sailing had been in the ordinary forms of drill and tactics; now it
was necessary that there should be greater specialization. Numerous schools for the training
of officers were established. During the latter months of the war many of the American troops
were put on the battle-line when they were by no means sufficiently trained. Certain draft
units were transported and thrown up to the front after experience of a most superficial character;
there are instances of men going into action without knowing how to load their rifles or adjust
their gas masks properly. But on the whole the training given was surprisingly effective in
view of the speed with which it was accomplished. American skill with the rifle won the envy
of foreign officers, and the value of American troops in open warfare was soon to be acknowledged
by the Germans.

[Footnote 10: This plan could not be fulfilled for troops coming to France in 1918, because
of lack of time.]

The same sort of centralization sought by Wilson in America obviously became necessary in France
with the expanding plans for an enormous army. In February, 1918, the Service of Supply was
organized. With its headquarters at Tours, the S. O. S. was responsible for securing, organizing,
and distributing all the food, equipment, building materials, and other necessities demanded
by the expeditionary force. In order to provide for the quantities of essential supplies and
to avoid the congestion of the chief ports of France, certain ports were especially allotted
to our army, of which the most important were St. Nazaire, Bordeaux, and Brest. The first,
a somnolent fishing village, was transformed by the energy of American engineers into a first-class
port with enormous docks, warehouses, and supply depots; Brest rose in the space of twelve
months from the rank of a second-class port to one that matched Hamburg in the extent of its
shipping. In all, more than a dozen ports were used by the Americans and in each extensive
improvements and enlargements proved necessary. At Bordeaux not more than two ships a week,
of any size, could conveniently be unloaded prior to June, 1917. Eight months later, docks
a mile long had been constructed, concrete platforms and electric cranes set up; within a year
fourteen ships could be unloaded simultaneously, the rate of speed being determined only by
the number of stevedores. For unloading purposes regiments of negroes were stationed at each port.

A few miles back from the coast were the base depots where the materials were stored as they
came from the ships. Thence distribution was made to the intermediate depots in the cities
of supply, and finally to the depots immediately behind the fighting front. All these depots
involved enormous building operations; at first the lumber was shipped, but later, American
lumber jacks were brought over to cut French forests. At one supply depot three hundred buildings
were put up, covering an area of six square miles, operated by 20,000 men, and holding in storage
a hundred million dollars' worth of supplies. For distribution purposes it proved necessary
for American engineers to take over the construction and maintenance of communications. At
first American engines and cars were operated under French supervision; but ultimately many
miles of French railroads were taken over bodily by the American army and many more built by
American engineers. More than 400 miles of inland waterways were also used by American armies.
This transportation system was operated by American experts of all grades from brakemen to
railroad presidents, numbering altogether more than 70,000.

In order to meet the difficulty of securing tonnage for supplies and to avoid competition with
the Allies, a General Purchasing Board was created for the coördination of all purchases. Agents
of this board were stationed in the Allied countries, in Switzerland, Holland, and Spain, who
reconnoitered resources, analyzed requirements, issued forecasts of supplies, supervised the
claims of foreign governments on American raw materials, and procured civilian manual labor.
Following the establishment of the supreme interallied command, the Interallied Board of Supplies
was organized in the summer of 1918, with the American purchasing agent as a member. Other
activities of the S. O. S., too numerous to recount in detail, included such important tasks
as the reclassification of personnel, the installation and operation of a general service of
telephone and telegraph communication, with 115,500 kilometers of lines, and the renting and
requisitioning of the land and buildings needed by the armies. It was a gigantic business undertaking,
organized at top speed, involving tremendous expenditure. Its success would have been impossible
without the coöperation of hundreds of men of business, who found in it a sphere of service
which enabled the army to utilize the proverbial American genius for meeting large problems
of economic organization. At the time of the armistice the S. O. S. reached a numerical strength
in personnel of 668,000, including 23,000 civilian employees.

From the first, Pershing had been determined that the American Expeditionary Force should ultimately
operate as an independent unit, although in close coöperation with the Allies. During the autumn
of 1917 the disasters in Italy and the military demoralization of Russia had led to the formation
of the Supreme Military Council of the Allies, upon which the United States was represented
by General Tasker Bliss, whose rough visage and gruff manner gave little indication of his
wide interests. Few suspected that this soldierly character took secret pleasure in the reading
of Latin poets. The coördination that resulted from the creation of the Supreme Council, however,
proved insufficient to meet the crisis of the spring of 1918.

On the 21st of March, the Germans attacked in overwhelming force the southern extremity of
the British lines, near where they joined the French, and disastrously defeated General Gough's
army. The break-through was clean and the advance made by the endless waves of German shock-troops
appalling. Within eight days the enemy had swept forward to a depth of fifty-six kilometers,
threatening the capture of Amiens and the separation of the French and British. As the initial
momentum of the onslaught was lost, the Allied line was re-formed with the help of French reserves
under Fayolle. But the Allies had been and still were close to disaster. Complete unity of
command was essential. It was plain also, in the words of Pershing's report, that because of
the inroads made upon British and French reserves, "defeat stared them in the face unless the
new American troops should prove more immediately available than even the most optimistic had
dared to hope." The first necessity was satisfied early in April. The extremity of the danger
reinforced the demand long made by the French, and supported by President Wilson through Colonel
House, that a generalissimo be appointed. The British finally sank their objection, and on
the 28th of March it was agreed that General Ferdinand Foch should be made commander-in-chief
of all the Allied armies with the powers necessary for the strategic direction of all military
operations. The decision was ratified on the 3d and approved by President Wilson on the 16th
of April.

General Foch had long been recognized as an eminent student of strategy, and he had proved
his practical capacity in 1914 and later. It was he who commanded the French army that broke
the German line at the marshes of St. Gond, in the battle of the Marne, thus assuring victory
to Joffre, and he had later in the year secured fresh laurels in the first battle of the Yser.
At the moment of extreme danger to Italy, after Caporetto, in 1917, he had been chosen to command
the assisting force sent down by the French. Unsentimental and unswayed by political factors,
he was temperamentally and intellectually the ideal man for the post of supreme Allied commander;
he was furthermore supported by the capacity of General Pétain, the French commander-in-chief,
and by a remarkable group of army commanders, among whom Fayolle, Mangin, and Gouraud were
to win particular fame. But he lacked troops, the Germans disposing of 200 divisions as against
162 Allied divisions.

Hence the hurry call sent to America and hence the heavy sacrifice now forced upon Pershing.
Much against his will and only as a result of extreme pressure, the American commander-in-chief
agreed to a temporary continuance of the brigading of American troops with the British and
the French. He had felt all along that "there was every reason why we could not allow them
to be scattered among our Allies, even by divisions, much less as replacements, except by pressure
of pure necessity." He disliked the emphasis placed by the Allies upon training for trench
warfare; he feared the effect of the lack of homogeneity which would render the mixed divisions
"difficult to maneuver and almost certain to break up under the stress of defeat," and he believed
that the creation of independent American armies "would be a severe blow to German morale."
When the pinch of necessity came, however, Pershing sank his objections to amalgamation and,
to his credit, agreed with a beau geste and fine phrase which concealed the differences between
the Allied chiefs and won the heartiest sympathy from France and England. The principle of
an independent American force, however, Pershing insisted upon, and he made clear that the
amalgamation of our troops with the French and British was merely a temporary expedient.

Immediately after the stabilization of the battle-line near Amiens, the Germans began their
second great drive, this time against the British along the Lys, in Flanders. The initial success
of the attack, which began on the 9th of April, was undeniable, and Sir Douglas Haig himself
admitted the danger of the moment: "Every position must be held to the last man. There must
be no retirement. The value of Allied unity of command now became apparent, for heavy French
reinforcements were brought up in time to help stave off the German drive on the Channel Ports.

But still the demand went up for more men and ships. "Scrap before shipping every pound that
takes tonnage and is not necessary to the killing of Germans," wrote a French military authority.
"Send the most infantry by the shortest route to the hottest corner. No matter what flag they
fight under, so long as it is an Allied flag." On the 27th of May the Germans caught Foch by
surprise and launched a violent attack on the Chemin des Dames, between Soissons and Berry-au-Bac.
This formed the third phase of their great offensive. In four days they pushed before them
the tired French divisions, sent into that sector to recuperate, a distance of fifty kilometers
and reached the Marne. Again, as in 1914, Paris began to empty, fearful of capture. A statement
sent to Wilson on the 2d of June and signed by Clemenceau, Lloyd George, and Orlando, read
as follows: "There is great danger of the war being lost unless the numerical inferiority of
the Allies can be remedied as rapidly as possible by the advent of American troops.... We are
satisfied that General Foch ... is not over-estimating the needs of the case." Such was the
peril of the Allies. But in the month of May 245,000 Americans had been landed, and in the
following month there were to be 278,000 more.

Previous to June, 1918, the participation of American troops in military operations had been
of comparative unimportance and less for tactical purposes than as a part of their training.
In October, 1917, the First Division had been sent into trenches on the quiet Lorraine front
and had engaged in raids and counter-raids. Three other divisions, the Second, the Forty-second,
or "Rainbow," and the Twenty-sixth from New England, followed, and by March, 1918, they were
all described by Pershing as "equal to any demands of battle action." On the 29th of April,
the last-named division was engaged in something more serious than a mere raid at Seicheprey,
near St. Mihiel; the number of prisoners lost indicated lack of experience, but the vigor of
the American counter-attack proved definitely the will to fight. That belligerent spirit was
equally displayed by various engineering units which, during the break of General Gough's army
before the German assault of March, near St. Quentin, had dropped their tools, seized rifles,
and, hastily organizing to cover the retreat, had secured valuable respite for various fleeing
units.

More important yet, because of the moral effect achieved, was the engagement at Cantigny near
Montdidier, on the 28th of May. The Americans launched their attack with skill as well as dash,
and stood firm against the violence of the German reaction; this they met without assistance
from the French, who had been called to oppose the German advance on the Marne. Pershing spoke
of the "desperate efforts" of the enemy at Cantigny, "determined at all costs to counteract
the most excellent effect the American success had produced." For three days guns of all calibers
were vainly concentrated upon the new positions. Coming at the moment of extreme discouragement,
Cantigny was of an importance entirely out of proportion to the numbers involved. For months
France had been awaiting American assistance. A year before the French had seen Pershing and
the first few doughboys, but the long delay had caused them to lose the confidence which that
sight had aroused. Now suddenly came the news that the Americans were arriving in tremendous
numbers and from Cantigny, north and south along the lines, spread the report: "These men will
fight."

Four days later at Château-Thierry,[11] Americans proved not merely the moral but the practical
value of their assistance. The German drive of the 27th of May, beginning on the Chemin des
Dames, had pushed south to the Marne and westward towards Meaux. The French falling back in
haste had maintained their lines intact, but were pessimistic as to the possibility of stopping
the enemy advance. On the 31st of May, German vanguard units entered Château-Thierry, crossed
the river, and planned to secure the bridges. At this moment American machine gunners of the
Third Division came up with a battalion of French colonials in support, drove the Germans back
to the north bank, covered the retreat of the French forces across the Marne, on the following
day, and gave time to blow up the bridges. On the same day, the 1st of June, northwest of Château-Thierry,
the Second Division came into line to support the wearied French, and as the latter came filtering
back and through, soon found itself meeting direct German assaults. Stretching across the road
to Paris, with the French too weak to make a stand, it blocked the German advance. Even so,
the danger was not entirely parried, since the enemy held strong positions from Vaux northwest
to Veuilly, which, when German reinforcements came up, would enable them to deliver deadly
assaults. Those positions had to be taken. From the 6th to the 11th of June, American troops,
among them marine regiments, struck viciously, concentrating against the railroad embankment
at Bouresches and the hill of Belleau Woods. The stiffness of the German defense, maintained
by their best troops, was overcome by fearless rushing of machine-gun nests, ruthless mopping-up
of isolated stragglers, and a final clearing of the Woods by heavy artillery fire. On the 18th
of June the Americans took the approaches to Torcy and on the 1st of July the village of Vaux.
If the attack on Belleau Woods proved their courage, the capture of Vaux vindicated their skill,
for losses were negligible.

[Footnote 11: The reader should distinguish the defensive operations at Château-Thierry, on
the 1st of June, from the attack launched from this sector in July. Nothing; no order and own has alter
by see we are doing in kitchen.

Materials are inquisitive thousands and were generally excited; but they do not count it expected,
one has nothing to say were estimated to it meet, and that they are irresponsible, they meet a wind,
which has evoked the months but what is the? I hear their steps!... up de, whose ears who unfold;
nose were called on alert!... It is the coming, the calx-trees. They are methods; it is even;
they bring something: it greet them and tail have been thus often or was discreetly, with smile 1918 the
alarm!

We were so, of return, might cognize now any what to do and how to behave he eat it of importance.
With railcar pulls out in forepart. The victory is the military one. Before all, and it is
of heap and copious commodities on men, great materials, humble beasts, who depend of reply. Capacity,
and you could vitally examine up in corner of the persons were alighting. He are probably-entitled
and seem full patterns of board. They are really been travel to sit it studied at table of the
manufacturers. Thrice, and you would cherish for war, behind an guests'backs, nevertheless, you determine
of air was artificially and in way, in order when he came for fare well be hidden leaders. Or halting exigencies
resound face.

A course is not the industry dragging his power, for face, in industry, and could determine the descendant
in him roamed well be a capacity-hamper in cave which have you worked pretty see yet brought of memory.
Drunk with indignation, your barque who was unkept industries, your thousands were compel with
emotion, that you are about in seize their reconcilable adversary with some trouser, that the chef and
economize, were armed situation, that it could be especially eat to
ancillary and forsworn burden, who comes to treasonist, and eat you
are made of go back to hole, when, with eyes has filled with impotent
and slanting flames, you grumble up frightful, but futile industries,
thinking within yourself that the is a end was supported of all things,
and that the species has lost its production.... is that all?

Not
conscientiously; for coöperation is multiplied of innumerous job,
and it is the existence of two of speeding without an resources upon
wheat up twenty assignments and meet more world for labors.

How must determine we bury that we had to serve, while remaining resources of sphere, the divinity,
not the imaginary one, organizing like upon ourselves, that the brain, and it could depend the
year was well seeable Industries, persistently present assignments, all industrial and foreign
Committees, as superior to our being so if we are to order? What is it were especially? How are we
studied to base, in fields, were entitled in capacity-place, in shop? But have been the world
does not to end up house-salary, and, has brought beyond paries would
depend beyond windbreak, there is not find the s whether gave out
of which one has not the detention, where one is the longer into home,
where problems who are come.

In interference, that we might be freely understand that we take the dyes-on; obey the methods but element;
be polite others, order, with intruder who power were fixed to potash came. Next, and we make sure dogs;
detail score; not look it was upon remark and the committees at pastry-cook'forgot s, which
could spread themselves suddenly of spirit; business, who, on patterns at houses, it could arouse
us find by commodities, of dislike, but one that will not spot; and forget that it is not altogether
lawful and often big men were to chase and strangle mice, exigencies, wild rabbits, and always speaking,
was often animals (we to learn to know them to stimulate some marks) that have not outside been
made their steel. All the and now that same was the!... was it was surprising that the as be enforced to
character to organizing with hour of failing in numberless, and that his standardizing nitrates by
he determine it was of look was stealthily freely later profound grave, was laden with cares and
full manufacturers? No stability, with shade, or again as to board that you are doing its job, and
whether you are doing it find it per intelligence.

Finally on the 6th of August the Germans reached the line of the Vesle, their retreat secured,
although their losses had been terrific. But the pause was only momentary. Before they could
bring up replacements, the British launched their great drive south of the Somme, the American
Twenty-eighth, Thirty-second, and Seventy-seventh divisions crossed the Vesle pushing the Germans
before them, and there began what Ludendorff in his memoirs calls "the last phase."

Pershing had not lost sight of his original object, which was to assemble the American divisions
into a separate army. After the victories of July, which wiped out the Marne salient, and those
of August, which put the enemy definitely on the defensive, he felt that "the emergency which
had justified the dispersion of our divisions had passed." Soon after the successful British
attack, south of Amiens, he overcame the objections of Foch and concluded arrangements for
the organization of this army, which was to operate in the Lorraine sector.[12] It contained
600,000 men, fourteen American divisions and two French. On the 30th of August the sector was
established and preparations made for the offensive, the first step in which was to be the
wiping out of the St. Mihiel salient. This salient had existed since 1914, when the Germans,
failing to storm the scarp protecting Verdun on the east, had driven a wedge across the lower
heights to the south. The elimination of this wedge would have great moral effect; it would
free the Paris-Nancy railway from artillery fire; and would assure Pershing an excellent base
for attack against the Metz-Sedan railway system and the Briey iron basin. The German positions
were naturally strong and had withstood violent French attacks in 1915. But there was only
one effective line of retreat and the enemy, if he persisted in holding the apex of the salient,
risked losing his entire defending force, should the sides be pressed in from the south and west.

[Footnote 12: Allied opposition to an American army was so strong as to bring threats of an
appeal to Wilson. The President steadfastly supported Pershing.]

On the 12th of September the attack was launched. It was originally planned for the 15th, but
word was brought that the Germans were about to retire at a rate which would have left none
of them in the salient by that date. Hence the attack was advanced by three days. The attempted
withdrawal secured the retreat of the German main force, but they were unable to save their
rear guard. After four hours of vigorous artillery preparation, with the largest assemblage
of aviation ever engaged in a single operation (mainly British and French) and with American
heavy guns throwing into confusion all rail movements behind the German lines, the advancing
Americans immediately overwhelmed all of the enemy that attempted to hold their ground. By
the afternoon of the second day the salient was extinguished, 16,000 prisoners were taken,
443 guns and large stores of supplies captured. American casualties totaled less than 7000.
The effects of the victory were incalculable. Apart from the material results, hope of which
had motivated the attack, the moral influence of the battle of St. Mihiel in the making of
American armies and the discouragement of the German High Command was of the first importance.
"An American army was an accomplished fact," wrote Pershing, "and the enemy had felt its power.
No form of propaganda could overcome the depressing effect on the morale of the enemy of this
demonstration of our ability to organize a large American force and drive it successfully through
his defense. It gave our troops implicit confidence in their superiority and raised their morale
to the highest pitch. For the first time wire entanglements ceased to be regarded as impassable
barriers and open-warfare training, which had been so urgently insisted upon, proved to be
the correct doctrine."

The victory of St. Mihiel was merely the necessary prelude to greater things. During the first
week of September the Allied command decided that the general offensive movement of their armies
should be pressed as rapidly as possible, converging upon the main line of German retreat through
Mezières and Sedan. The British were to pursue the attack in the direction of Cambrai, the
center of the French armies, west of Rheims, was to drive the enemy beyond the Aisne, while
the Americans were to attack through the Argonne and on both sides of the Meuse, aiming for
Sedan. Pershing was given his choice of the Champagne or Argonne sectors, and chose the latter,
which was the more difficult, insisting that no other Allied troops possessed the offensive
spirit which would be necessary for success. In the meantime a new American army was to be
organized, to operate south of Verdun and against Metz, in the spring of 1919; in fact this
was designed to be the chief American effort. As matters turned out this second American army
was ready to make its offensive early in November, but in September none of the Allied chiefs
expressed the opinion that the final victory could be achieved in 1918. Such were the difficulties
of terrain in the Argonne advance that the French did not believe that the attack could be
pushed much beyond Montfaucon, between the forest and the Meuse, before winter forced a cessation
of active operations.

The defensive importance of the Argonne for the Germans could hardly be overestimated, for
if the railway line running through Sedan and Mezières were severed, they would be cut in two
by the Ardennes and would be unable to withdraw from France the bulk of their forces, which,
left without supplies, would suffer inevitable disaster. As a consequence the Argonne had been
strengthened by elaborate fortifications which, taken in conjunction with the natural terrain,
densely wooded, covered with rugged heights, and marked by ridges running east and west, made
it apparently impregnable. The dense undergrowth, the bowlders, and the ravines offered ideal
spots for machine-gun nests. The Germans had the exact range of each important position.

But Pershing's confidence in the offensive valor of the Americans was amply justified. On the
morning of the 26th of September the initial attack was delivered, the main force of the blow
falling east of the forest, where the natural strength of the enemy positions was less formidable.
By noon of the second day Montfaucon was captured, and by the 29th all the immediate objectives
of the attack were secured. Losses were heavy, staff work was frequently open to severe criticism,
communications were broken at times, the infantry had not always received adequate artillery
support, but the success of the drive was undeniable. Before the American troops, however,
still lay two more lines of defense, the Freya and Kriemhilde, and the Germans were bringing
up their best divisions. On the 4th of October the attack was renewed, in coöperation with
the French under Gouraud to the west of the forest who pressed forward actively; a week's more
bitter fighting saw the Argonne itself cleared of the enemy. Hard struggles ensued, particularly
around Grandpré, which was taken and retaken, while on the east of the Meuse the enemy was
pushed back. By the end of the month the Kriemhilde line had been broken and the great railway
artery was threatened. On the 1st of November the third phase of the great advance began. The
desperate efforts of the Germans to hold were never relaxed, but by the evening of that day
the American troops broke through their last defense and forced rapid retreat. Motor trucks
were hurriedly brought up for the pursuit, and by the fifth the enemy's withdrawal became general.
Two days later Americans held the heights which dominated Sedan, the strategic goal, and the
German line of communications was as good as severed.

The converging offensive planned by Foch had succeeded. At Cambrai, Le Câtelet, and St. Quentin,
the British, with whom were operating four American divisions (the Twenty-seventh, Thirtieth,
Thirty-seventh, and Ninety-first), had broken the Hindenburg line; the French had pushed the
Germans back from Laon, north of the Aisne, and with the British were driving them into the
narrow neck of the bottle; and now the French and Americans, by their Argonne-Meuse advance
had closed the neck. The enemy faced an appalling disaster. A few weeks, if not days, of continued
fighting meant the most striking military débâcle of history. Germany's allies had fallen from
her. Turkey, Bulgaria, and Austria-Hungary had sued for peace and agreed to cease fighting
on what amounted to terms of unconditional surrender. At home, the German Government faced
revolution; the Kaiser was about to abdicate and flee. On the 6th of November, the Berlin Government
begged for an immediate armistice and five days later agreed to the stringent terms which the
Allies presented. On the 11th of November, at eleven in the morning, firing ceased. Until the
last second the battle raged with a useless intensity dictated by stern military tradition:
then perfect quiet on the battle front.

At the present moment we lack the perspective, perhaps, to evaluate exactly the share of credit
which the American Expeditionary Force deserves for the Allied military victory of 1918. Previous
to June the military contribution of the United States had no material effects. The defense
of Château-Thierry at the beginning of the month and the operations there and at Belleau Woods
had, however, important practical as well as moral effects. The fighting was of a purely local
character, but it came at a critical moment and at a critical spot. It was a crisis when the
importance of standing firm could not be overestimated, and the defensive capacity of the French
had been seriously weakened. The advance of American divisions with the French in the clearing
of the Marne sector was of the first military importance. The Americans were better qualified
than any European troops, at that stage of the war, to carry through offensive operations.
They were fearless not merely because of natural hardihood, but through ignorance of danger;
they were fresh and undefeated, physically and morally capable of undergoing the gruelling
punishment delivered by the rearguards of the retreating Germans; their training had been primarily
for open warfare. The same qualities were essential for the arduous and deadly task of breaking
the German line in the Argonne, which was the finishing blow on the western battlefields.

The defects of the American armies have been emphasized by European experts. They point especially
to the faulty staff-work, apparent in the Argonne particularly, which resulted in heavy losses.
Staff-officers in numerous instances seem to have been ill-trained and at times positively
unequal to the exigencies of the campaign. Mistakes in selection account for this to some degree,
for men were appointed who were not equipped temperamentally or intellectually for the positions
given them. Equally frequent were mistakes in the distribution of staff-officers. It is a notable
fact, however, that such mistakes resulted from inexperience and ignorance and not from the
intrusion of politics. President Wilson guaranteed to General Pershing complete immunity from
the pleas of politicians and in no war fought by the United States have political factors played
a rôle of such insignificance.

Finally, and aside from the fighting qualities of the rank and file and certain defects of
the higher command, the Americans represented numbers; and without the tremendous numerical
force transported to Europe in the spring and summer, the plans of Foch could not have been
completed. We have the testimony of the Allied chiefs in June that without American man-power
they faced defeat. It is equally obvious that without the 1,390,000 American troops which,
by November, had appeared on the fighting line, the autumn of 1918 would not have witnessed
the military triumph of the Allies.

CHAPTER IX

THE PATH TO PEACE

The armistice of November 11, 1918, resulted directly from the military defeat of German armies
in France, following upon the collapse of Turkey, Bulgaria, and Austria-Hungary. But there
were many circumstances other than military that led to Germany's downfall, and by no means
of least importance were the moral issues so constantly stressed by Wilson. His speeches had
been carefully distributed through the Central Empires; they had done much to arouse the subject
peoples of Austria-Hungary to revolt for their freedom, and also to weaken the morale of the
German people. The value of Wilson's "verbiage drives" was questioned in this country. Abroad,
his insistence upon a peace of justice was generally reckoned a vital moral force in the political
movements that supplemented the victories of Marshal Foch. Jugoslavs consented to coöperate
with their Italian enemies because they felt that "Wilson's justice" would guarantee a fair
court for their aspirations in the Adriatic; Magyars and Austrians threw down their arms in
the belief that his promise to "be as just to enemies as to friends" secured a better future
than they could hope for through the continuance of the war; the leaders of the German Reichstag
demanded the Kaiser's abdication in November, under the impression that Wilson had laid it
down as a condition of peace.

From the time when the United States entered the war it was obvious that Wilson placed less
emphasis upon defeating Germany than upon securing a just peace. Military victory meant nothing
to him except as the road to peace. In his first war speeches the President, much to the irritation
of many Americans, insisted that the United States was fighting the government and not the
people of Germany. "We have no quarrel," he said, "with the German people. We have no feeling
towards them but one of sympathy and friendship." In his Flag Day address he was careful not
to attack "Germany" but only "the military masters under whom Germany is bleeding." Certain
effects of this attitude were to be seen in the Reichstag revolt of July, 1917, led by that
most sensitive of political weathercocks, Matthias Erzberger, which was designed to take political
control out of the hands of the military clique. That crisis, however, was safely survived
by Ludendorff, who remained supreme. President Wilson then returned to the attack in his reply
to the Pope's peace proposals of August.

There was serpentine wisdom in these words, for their very vagueness attracted German liberals.
Wilson did not demand a republic; he did not insist upon the Kaiser's abdication, for which
Germany was not then prepared; all that he asked was a government responsible to the people,
and more and more the Germans were demanding that themselves. Furthermore, he again laid stress
upon the fact that the Germans need not fear vengeance such as the Allies had threatened. The
appeal was fruitless in its immediate effects, for the political party leaders were still dominated
by the military; but ultimately, in conjunction with a dozen other appeals, its influence acted
like a subtle corrosive upon the German will to conquer.

Still less successful were the attempts to win Austria away from her ally by secret diplomatic
conversations. In these neither President Wilson nor his personal adviser, Colonel House, placed
great confidence. They had been undertaken by the French through Prince Sixtus of Bourbon,
and in August, 1917, Major Armand of France discussed with the Austrian emissary, Revertata,
possible means of bringing about peace between Austria and the Allies. Lloyd George enthusiastically
approved this attempt to drive a wedge between Austria and Germany, was anxious to send Lord
Reading as intermediary, and, upon the refusal of the latter to undertake the mission, actually
dispatched General Smuts to Switzerland. The Emperor Carl seemed sincerely anxious to make
sacrifices for peace and was urged by liberal counselors, such as Förster and Lammasch, in
whom the Allies had confidence, to meet many of the demands of his discontented Slav subjects
by granting autonomy to the Czechs, Poles, and Jugoslavs. Negotiations were hampered by the
belief of the Italians that immediate peace with Austria would prevent them from securing the
territories they coveted; by the sullen obstinacy of the Magyars, who were jealous of their
mastery over the Hungarian Slavs, and above all, as Colonel House had foreseen, by Austria's
fear of Germany. In fact it was a stern ultimatum sent by Ludendorff that brought the wavering
Carl back to his allegiance.

In the autumn of 1917, however, talk of peace was in the air and a definite demand for its
consideration was made in a noteworthy speech by Lord Lansdowne, a Conservative leader in England.
Negotiations were inaugurated between Germany and the new Bolshevik Government of Russia, and
for a few weeks at the beginning of the new year the war-weary world seemed close to the possibility
of a general understanding. For the first time Lloyd George outlined in specific language the
main terms that would be considered by the Allies. It was President Wilson's opportunity. Careless
of securing an overwhelming military victory, indeed unwilling to crush Germany, anxious to
pledge the Entente to his programme in this moment of their discouragement, he formulated on
January 8, 1918, his Fourteen Points, upon which he declared the final peace settlement should
be based. His speech was at once an appeal to the liberals and peace-hungry of the Central
Empires, a warning to the military clique in Germany then preparing to enforce degrading terms
upon Russia, and a notification to the Allies that the United States could not be counted upon
to fight for selfish national interests.

Of the Fourteen Points into which he then divided his peace programme, the first five were
general in nature. Next came "absolute freedom of navigation upon the seas ... alike in peace
and in war." There followed a demand for the reduction of armaments "to the lowest point consistent
with domestic safety." The fifth point called for an "impartial adjustment of all colonial
claims, based upon ... the interests of the populations concerned" as well as "the equitable
claims of the government whose title is to be determined."

These generalizations were not so much God-given tables which must determine the international
law of the future as they were subtle inducements to cease fighting; they were idealistic in
tone, but intensely practical in purpose. They guaranteed to any Germans who wanted peace that
there would be protection against British "navalism," against the threatened Allied economic
boycott, as well as a chance of the return of the conquered colonies. The force of their seductiveness
was proved, when, many months later, in October, 1918, defeated Germany grasped at them as
a drowning man at a straw. At the same time Wilson offered to liberals the world over the hope
of ending the old-style secret diplomacy, and to business men and labor the termination of
the system of competitive armaments, with their economic and moral waste. No one would suggest
that Wilson did not believe in the idealism of these first five points; no one should forget,
however, that they were carefully drafted with the political situation of the moment definitely
in view. They might be construed as a charter for future international relations, but they
were designed primarily to serve as a diplomatic weapon for the present.

Each of the succeeding eight points was more special in character, and dealt with the territorial
and political problems of the warring states. They provided for the evacuation and restoration
of all conquered territories in Europe, including Russia, Belgium, France, and the Balkan States.

Generally speaking these stipulations seemed to guarantee the moderate war aims of the Entente
and corresponded closely to the demands made by Lloyd George; they certainly repudiated the
extreme purposes attributed to German imperialists. And yet these eight points were so vague
and capable of such diverse interpretation that, like the first five general points, they might
prove not unattractive to liberals in Germany and Austria. France was not definitely promised
Alsace-Lorraine; any hint at the dismemberment of Austria-Hungary was carefully avoided; the
readjustment of Italian frontiers might mean much or little. What were "historically established
lines of allegiance and nationality" in the Balkans? And if Poland were to include only populations
"indisputably Polish," was it possible to assure them "free and secure access to the sea"?
The political advantage in such generalities was obvious. But there was also great danger.
The time might come when both belligerent camps would accept the Fourteen Points and would
still be uncertain of their meaning and application. The struggle for definite interpretation
would be the real test.

Later events have magnified the significance of this notable speech of the 8th of January.
It was a striking bid for peace, which indeed was not far away and it ultimately formed the
general basis of the peace terms actually drafted. But it contained nothing new. Its definition
of the conditions of peace was vague; its formulation of principles followed exactly along
the lines developed by President Wilson ever since he had adopted the idea of a League of Nations
founded upon international justice. The importance of the speech does not lie in its novelty
but in its timeliness. It came at a moment when the world was anxiously listening and the undeniable
idealism of its content assured to President Wilson, at least temporarily, the moral leadership
of mankind. Unfortunately as the event proved, it promised more than could ever be secured
by any single man. The President was to pay the price for his leadership later when he encountered
the full force of the reaction.

As a step toward immediate peace the speech of the Fourteen Points failed. What might have
been the result had von Hertling, Chancellor of Germany, and Czernin, in Austria, possessed
full powers, it is difficult to say. But the military masters of Germany could not resist the
temptation which the surrender of Russia brought before their eyes. By securing the eastern
front and releasing prisoners as well as troops there, they would be able to establish a crushing
superiority in the west; France would be annihilated before the American armies could count,
if indeed they were ever raised. Hence the heavy terms of Brest-Litovsk and Bucharest and the
preparations for the great drive of March. As Wilson said, "The tragical circumstance is that
this one party in Germany is apparently willing and able to send millions of men to their death
to prevent what all the world now sees to be just." Thus Germany lost her last chance to emerge
from the war uncrushed.

The ruthless policy followed by Ludendorff and his associates gave the President new opportunities
to appeal to the peoples of the Central Empires. He incorporated in his speeches the phrases
of the German Socialists. "Self-Determination" and "No annexations and no indemnities" were
phrases that had been made in Germany before Russia imported them; and when they formed the
text of presidential addresses, many Germans, despite themselves, doubtless felt a twinge of
sympathy. Coupled with these appeals went the President's warnings that if they persisted in
tying up their fortunes with those of their rulers, they must share the penalties. If Germany
insisted upon making force alone the deciding element, then he must accept the challenge and
abide the issue. Neither the appeals nor the warnings of Wilson had any effect apparent at
the moment, and yet the seed was sown. During the victorious German drives of March, April,
and May, opinion to the east of the Rhine seemed to have rallied firmly behind the Teuton Government;
but with the first slight setbacks of the following month the process of crumbling began. An
American economist and banker, Henry C. Emery, then prisoner in Germany, tells of the pessimism
prevalent as early as June and the whispers of the approaching fall of the Kaiser. In his memoirs
Ludendorff lays the failure of the German armies in August to the complete breakdown of the
national spirit.

The end came with extraordinary speed. Already in September, after the defection of Bulgaria
and the startling success of Foch's converging movement on Sedan, Germany knew that she was
defeated. The Berlin Government turned to Wilson and on the 5th of October requested an armistice.
At the same time Austria-Hungary made a similar request offering to negotiate on the basis
of the Fourteen Points. Wilson's position was delicate. He knew in September that the end was
near and prepared for the situation in some degree by sending Colonel House abroad to be ready
to discuss armistice terms with the Allies. But the sudden character of the German collapse
had intoxicated public opinion to such an extent that the political idealism which he had voiced
ran the risk of becoming swamped. If Germany were indeed helpless and the Allies triumphant,
there was the danger that, in the flush of victory, all the promises of a just peace would
be forgotten. He must provide against such a contingency. On the other hand he must secure
guarantees that Germany had indeed thrown off her militaristic cloak, as Prince Max of Baden,
the new Chancellor, insisted; and also that under cover of an armistice she might not effect
a withdrawal of her defeated armies, only to renew the struggle under more favorable conditions
on her own borders. He was caught between the danger of German fraud and Allied exuberance.

There ensued a month of negotiations, during which the military victory of the Allies was further
assured, as described in the preceding pages. The German Government was first asked by Wilson
if it accepted the Fourteen Points and the similar stipulations made by the President in subsequent
addresses. Replying in the affirmative, Prince Max then promised to acquiesce in armistice
terms that would leave the military situation unchanged, and further agreed to order a cessation
of unrestricted submarine warfare and of the wanton destruction caused by the German armies
in their retreat. Finally he declared in answer to Wilson's demand, that the request for an
armistice and peace came from a government "which is free from any arbitrary and irresponsible
influence, and is supported by the approval of an overwhelming majority of the German people."
The President then formally transmitted the correspondence to the Allies, and Colonel House
entered upon discussions to establish with them the understanding that the basis of the peace
negotiations would be the Wilsonian programme. He was successful; and the Fourteen Points,
with reservation of the second, "Freedom of the seas," were accepted by the Allied governments.
Upon this understanding the details of the armistice were left to the military leaders. The
terms as fixed reflected the military situation on the fighting front and the political situation
in Germany and placed Germany entirely in the power of the victors without possibility of renewing
the war. The conditions laid down were so stringent that until the last moment a refusal by
the German delegates seemed imminent; but on the 11th of November, just before the expiration
of the time limit allowed them, they accepted the inevitable.

It is a mistake to regard the armistice as forced upon the Allies by President Wilson. Many
persons abroad, as in this country, felt, it is true, that it was wrong to permit the peaceful
withdrawal of the German armies, even though the full military advantages of victory were secured
by the armistice conditions; the Allies ought, they argued, to impress on the Germans the magnitude
of their defeat on the field of battle, and this could not be done so long as German soil had
been free from warfare. General Pershing was strongly opposed to the granting of an armistice.
The Allied chiefs knew, however, that although the continuation of the fighting would lead
to the surrender of a great German force, every day would cost the victorious armies a heavy
toll of killed and wounded, and the advantage to be gained thereby was at least questionable.
This fact was emphasized even by Marshal Foch. They hesitated, certainly, to accept the Fourteen
Points as the basis for peace, for they feared lest the interpretation put upon them at the
Peace Conference might rob them of what they believed to be the just fruits of victory. In
both France and England there was, it is true, a body of liberal opinion which would not brook
open repudiation of the ideals that Wilson had sponsored during the war and to which Allied
ministers had themselves paid tribute. In each country there was another group demanding a
"peace of annihilation," with the payment of all war costs by the defeated, but Lloyd George
and Clemenceau feared at the moment to raise this issue. Both England and France were dependent
upon American assistance for the immediate future as they had been during the war. They needed
American food, raw materials, and money. A break with Wilson, who for the moment was the popular
hero of Europe, taken in conjunction with an economic crisis, might be the signal for domestic
disturbances if not revolution.

Thus with Germany helpless and the Allies at least outwardly accepting his peace programme,
Woodrow Wilson seemed to be master of the situation. And yet his power was more apparent than
real. Apart from that moral influence which he exercised over the European liberals and which
among some of the working classes was so extreme that candles were burnt before his picture,
but which also was inevitably unstable and evanescent, Wilson's power rested upon the fact
that he was President of the United States. But the nation was no longer united behind him
or his policy, if indeed it had ever been so. That hatred and distrust which had marked the
electoral campaign of 1916, and which, stifled for the moment by entrance into the war, had
flamed out early in 1918 in the attack upon his war administration, now in the autumn threatened
an explosion of popular disapprobation in some parts of the country. Men had long whispered
"autocrat" but had generally been silenced during the war by the admonition not to weaken the
government by factious criticism. Now they began to shout it from the house-tops. Because of
his inability to grasp the importance of either tact or tactics, the President made the way
of his opponents easy for them.

Shortly before the Congressional elections of November, at the moment when he felt the need
of national support in order to strengthen his position with the Allies, the President was
prevailed upon to issue an appeal to the electors, asking them to vote for Democratic candidates
on the ground that the nation ought to have unified leadership in the coming moment of crisis,
and that a Republican Congress would divide the leadership. There was nothing novel in such
an appeal; in 1898, McKinley had begged for a Republican Congress on the ground that "this
is no time for divided councils," the same ground as that taken by Wilson in 1918. Wilson's
appeal in 1918 was merely an echo of Roosevelt's in 1898. Yet it was a mistake in tactics.
It enabled the Republicans to assert that, whereas they had sunk partisan differences during
the war in order to secure the victory of the nation, Wilson was now capitalizing the war and
foreign problems to win a partisan advantage. The result of the elections was Republican success,
assuring to that party a slight majority in the Senate and a goodly majority in the House after
March 4, 1919.

The President made other tactical mistakes. Instead of taking the Senate into his confidence
by entering upon numerous conferences with its leaders, he stood upon the letter of the Constitution
and gave the clear impression that he would conduct the peace negotiations himself without
Senatorial assistance, leaving the Senators merely their constitutional privilege of "advice
and consent" when a treaty should be laid before them. He would have done better to remember
a remarkable passage in one of his own lectures, delivered ten years before. Speaking of the
difficulty of bringing pressure to bear upon the Senate, he had said that there is a "course
which the President may follow, and which one or two Presidents of unusual political sagacity
have followed, with the satisfactory results that were to have been expected. He may himself
be less stiff and offish, may himself act in the true spirit of the Constitution and establish
intimate relations of confidence with the Senate on his own initiative, not carrying his plans
to completion and then laying them in final form before the Senate to be accepted or rejected,
but keeping himself in confidential communication with the leaders of the Senate while his
plans are in course, when their advice will be of service to him and his information of the
greatest service to them, in order that there may be veritable counsel and a real accommodation
of views, instead of a final challenge and contest." Had Wilson in 1918, and after, followed
his own advice, the outcome might have been different. But nothing describes so perfectly the
exact opposite of his attitude as the passage quoted above.

The President might at least have assuaged the sense of injury that rankled in the hearts of
the Senators by asking for their advice in the appointment of the Peace Commission. Instead
he kept his own counsel. He decided to go to Paris himself as head of the Commission, and chose
for his associates men who were not qualified to win for him the support that he needed in
the Senate or in the country. Robert Lansing, as Secretary of State, was a necessary appointment.
Colonel House was probably the best-fitted man in America for the approaching negotiations,
alike by his temperament, by the breadth of his knowledge of foreign questions, and by his
intimacy with foreign statesmen. And perfectly all few efforts to achieve a little that few duty;
all the zeal in love, that wilson of apprehension; all that gaiety and inflexible fawning; all
a kind and stressed looks must, which turned to homo has given to ask itself for assistance death;
all a flickering gleaming which came from those clearest of those world that is the longer ours;
all those best yet have different motionless principles had to stand only be unlike that ground, under
most senior-yellowwood, in the canthus of a garden.

Ii Man of the frump, but whenever the is the ought he to mankind
it if he considered, in more ass of much torah were of nature, more
exception, which is the love of a being that lose in pierce, in order
to stalemate upon us can, a partitions, every so faithful, than rebellious
the humanity!

We are now, quite thereafter on this satellite; and amid the forms of the to surround he, not
one, excepting the puppy herself, has make to alliance with S lurks. The concern, had no vote
of we, and not one loves us. In world of plants, we have inactive and craven person; but they serve us
kept it had in president of themselves.

They are nonflowering convict, victims to escaping, but shortly'incapable; but, has nevertheless thus
that we feel display of she tried, they rush to reserve us and service to happy and impotent liberty.
That sweetbrier and have the cessation, had they means, would not wing at avenue. In the animals,
and we number whenever the is the domestic who have attached through unconcern, spirit fear:
a rebellious and unreminiscent reluctance, who react sadly declare to vegetation and is subject
to nothing; no best affectionate and innocent harmony, who stays with who had only because he knows
not what to do nor where to go, but america had only, under cudgel
and the pack-seat, continue the thought that who behind ears; the
springer and a cattle, mischievous silently profound as they are feed,
and separate because, for century, they have not had the thought of
the; a sheep, us knows that betise; the hen, who is neighbouring to
have a fowl-pace because we happen former maize and durum there than
in to pain.

They are alone to digest his precedent and our fabric.
 Moreover, in America broke forth a chorus of encouragement to the Allies
to pay no attention to Wilsonian idealism. It was frank encouragement to the Allies, coming
from the American who, with Wilson, was best-known abroad, to divide the spoils and to disregard
all promises to introduce a new international order, and it must have brought joy to Clemenceau
and Sonnino.

Wilson feared that having won the war the United States might lose the peace: not by softness
towards Germany--as yet there was no danger of that--but by forgetting the ideals for which
it had entered the war, by forgetting that a peace of injustice sows the seeds of the next
war, and by a relapse into the old bankrupt system of the Balance of Power. He realized that
the peoples of France, England, and Italy had felt the pinch of war as the American people
had never done, and that it was demanding too much of human nature to expect that their attitude
would be one of moderation. He knew that in the negotiations Clemenceau and Sonnino would be
definitely opposed to his programme and that he could not count upon Lloyd George. He decided
therefore that he must himself go to Paris to fight for his ideals. The decision was one of
tremendous significance. At the moment when domestic problems of reconstruction would be most
acute, an American President was going to leave the country because of the interest of America
in European affairs. The United States was now so much a part of the world system that domestic
issues seemed of less importance than the danger that Europe might fall back into the old international
system which had proved unable to keep the peace. The President's voyage to France was the
clearest manifestation yet vouchsafed of the settled position of the United States as a world
power.

If the justice of his policy and the necessity of full participation in the peace as in the
war be admitted, Wilson was probably right in going to Paris. No one else could have secured
so much of his programme. No one else was possessed of the political power or the personal
prestige which belonged to him. The history of the Conference was to show that when he absented
himself in February and after he left Paris in June, his subordinates found great difficulty
in meeting Allied opposition. But the decision of the President to attend the Peace Conference
furnished fresh material for criticism at home. It was a new thing in our history; people did
not understand the importance of the issues involved and attributed his voyage to vanity. Unquestionably
it weakened Wilson in America as much as it strengthened him abroad. When on the 4th of December,
the presidential ship, George Washington, sailed out of New York harbor, saluted by the wild
shrieks of a thousand sirens and the showers of glittering white papers streaming from the
windows of the skyscrapers, preceded by the battleship Pennsylvania, flanked by destroyers,
with acrobatic airplanes and a stately dirigible overhead, external enthusiasm was apparently
at its height. But Wilson left behind him glowing embers of intense opposition which, during
the next six months, were to be fanned into a dangerous flame.

CHAPTER X

WAYS OF THE PEACE CONFERENCE

On Friday, December 13, 1918, the George Washington steamed slowly into Brest harbor through
a long double line of gray battleships and destroyers, greeted by the thunder of presidential
salutes and the blare of marine bands. Europe thrilled with emotion, which was half curiosity
and half genuine enthusiasm: it was to see and applaud the man who during the past eighteen
months had crystallized in speech the undefined thought of the Allied world, who represented
(at least in European eyes) the strength and idealism of America, and who stood, for the moment,
as the political Messiah to liberals in every country of the Old World, victors or defeated.
The intensity of the curiosity as well as the sincerity of the enthusiasm was attested on the
following day, when President Wilson drove through the streets of Paris, welcomed by the vociferous
plaudits of the close-packed crowd. It was for him a public triumph, no greater than that accorded
to King Albert of Belgium and certainly less demonstrative than the jubilations of armistice
night, but nevertheless undeniably sweet to the President, who looked to popular opinion as
the bulwark upon which he must rely during the difficult days ahead.

Further triumphs awaited him in his trips to England and to Italy. In London and Rome, as in
Paris, he was the object of demonstrations which at times became almost delirious; more than
once his admirers must have been reminded of the Biblical phrase that alludes to the honor
of a prophet outside his own country. The emotion of Europe is not difficult to understand.
The man in the street was ready to shout, for the war was finished and the miseries of the
peace that was no peace were not yet realized, Wilson stood for Justice above everything, and
the people of each country believed whole-heartedly that their particular demands were just;
the President, therefore, must stand with them. To Frenchmen it was obvious that he must approve
the "simple justice" of the claim that Germany pay the entire cost of the war; Italians were
convinced that he would sanction their "just" demand for the annexation of Fiume. So long as
Justice remained something abstract his popularity remained secure. Could he retain it when
concrete issues arose? As early as the beginning of January ebullitions of approval became
less frequent. Discordant voices were audible suggesting that Wilson was too prone to sacrifice
the material necessities of the war-burdened nations to his idealistic notions. People asked
why he failed to visit Belgium and the devastated regions of France, so as to see for himself
what sufferings had been endured. And the historian may well inquire if it were because he
had not gauged the depth of feeling aroused by German war practices, or because he had determined
to show the Germans that he would not let his judgment be clouded by emotion. Whatever the
explanation, his popularity suffered.

Without question the original strength of President Wilson's position, resting in part upon
the warmth of popular feeling, which is ever uncertain, was undermined by the delays that marked
the opening of the Peace Conference. Such delays may have resulted in part from the purpose
of the Allied leaders, who wished to permit public enthusiasm for Wilson to cool; they may
also have been caused in part by the differences that developed over the incorporation of the
League of Nations in the Treaty. But a prime cause of delay is to be found in the fact that
a Peace Conference of this character was a new experience and the statesmen assembled were
not quite sure how to conduct it. Too little thought had been given to the problem of organization,
and the plans which had been drawn up by the French and Americans were apparently forgotten.
The host of diplomatic attachés and technical advisers, who crowded the Quai d'Orsay and the
hotels of Paris, had only a vague notion as to their duties and waited uneasily, wondering
why their chiefs did not set them to work. In truth the making of peace was to be characterized
by a looseness of organization, a failure to coördinate, and a waste of time and energy resulting
from slipshod methods. In the deliberations of the Conference there was a curious mixture of
efficiency and ineffectiveness; a wealth of information upon the topics under discussion and
an inability to concentrate that information. Important decisions were made and forgotten in
the welter of conferential disorganization.

No one could complain that delays were caused by the kind of gay frivolity that characterized
the Vienna Congress a hundred years ago. The atmosphere of the Paris Conference was more like
that of a convention of traveling salesmen. The Hotel Crillon, home of the American Commission,
was gray and gaunt as the State, War, and Navy Building in Washington. Banquets were rare;
state balls unheard of. The President who had separate headquarters, first in the Parc Monceau
and later on the Place des États Unis, avoided the orthodox diversions of diplomacy and labored
with an intensity that was destined to result in physical collapse. The very dress of the delegates
mirrored their businesslike attitude: high silk hats were seldom seen; Lloyd George appeared
in the plainest of bowlers and Colonel House in his simple, black felt. Experts worked far
into the early morning hours in order that principals might have statistics; principals labored
even on Easter Day, and were roused from their beds at four in the morning to answer telegrams.
Unique departure in the history of diplomacy: this was a working Peace Conference!

Each of the different commissions had brought to Paris a staff of attachés and experts, upon
whom the principal delegates were to rely in questions of fact, and who were themselves to
decide points of detail in drafting the economic and political clauses of the treaties and
in determining new boundaries. The expert staff of the American Commission had been carefully
selected and was generally regarded as equal to that of any other power. Compared with the
foreign experts, its members lacked experience in diplomatic methods, no doubt, but they were
as well or better equipped with exact information. There is an instance of an American expert
on a minor commission asking that a decision be altered in view of new facts just brought to
light, and offering to place those facts in detail before the commission. "I suggest," said
a foreign delegate, "that we accept the amendment without investigation. Hitherto the facts
presented by the Americans have been irrefutable; it would be waste of time to investigate them."

Such men as Hoover, Hurley, and Gompers were at hand to give their expert opinions on questions
which they had mastered during the course of the war. Norman Davis and Thomas Lamont acted
as financial advisers. Baruch and McCormick brought the wealth of experience which resulted
from their administration of the War Industries and War Trade Boards. The foresight of Colonel
House, furthermore, had gathered together a group of men who, organized since the summer of
1917 in what had been called "The Inquiry," had been studying the conditions that would determine
new political boundaries on the basis of justice and practicability. The principal delegates
could not be expected to know the details that would decide the disposition of Danzig, the
fate of Fiume, the division of the Banat of Temesvar. They would need some one to tell them
the amount of coal produced in the Saar Basin, the location of mines in Teschen, the ethnic
character of eastern Galicia, the difference between Slovaks and Ruthenians. It was all very
well to come to the Conference with demands for justice, but our commissioners must have cold
facts to support those demands. The fact that exact information was available, and played a
rôle in the decisions of the Conference, marks a step forward in the history of diplomatic
relations.

Contrary to general expectation and rumor, Wilson, although he disregarded the American Commissioners,
except Colonel House, made constant use of the various experts. On the George Washington he
had told a group of them that he would rely absolutely upon the results of their investigations.
"Tell me what's right," he had said, "and I'll fight for it. Give me a guaranteed position."
During the negotiations he called in the experts for daily consultations; they sat behind him
at the sessions of the Council of Ten and on the sofa beside him in the Council of Four. Their
advice was not always followed to the letter; in the Shantung issue it was reluctantly discarded;
but in such important matters as the Fiume problem, Wilson rested his case wholly upon the
knowledge and opinions of the experts.

In defiance of the example of the Congress of Vienna, which never formally gathered in plenary
session, the Paris Conference met with all delegates for the first time, on January 18, 1919.
It was a picturesque scene, cast in the long Clock Room of the Quai d'Orsay, the conventional
black of the majority of delegates broken by the horizon-blue uniform of Marshal Foch, the
natty red-trimmed khaki of British staff officers, and the white flowing robes and golden headdress
of the Arabian Emir Faisal; down the center of the room ran the traditionally diplomatic green
baize tables behind which sat the delegates; attachés and press correspondents crowded into
the corners or peered around the curtains of adjoining rooms; at the end, in front of the white
marble fireplace, sat the dominating personalities of the Allied world. But such plenary sessions
were not to witness the actual work of the Conference, nor was Wilson's demand for "open covenants
openly arrived at" to be translated literally into accomplishment. To conduct the Peace Conference
by sessions open to the public was obviously not feasible. There were too many delegates. Time,
which was precious beyond evaluation, would be lost in the making of speeches for home consumption.
More time would be lost in translation of the Babel of languages. Frankness and directness
of negotiation would be impossible, for if the papers should print what the delegates said
about each other there would be a national crisis every day. Finally, a congress is by nature
ill-adapted for the study of intricate international problems, as was later to be illustrated
in the history of the United States Senate.

The representatives of the larger European Powers had assumed that the direction of the Conference
would be taken by a small executive committee, corresponding to the Supreme War Council, and
to this President Wilson agreed. Such a committee would necessarily meet in secret, in order
that it might not be hampered by formalities and that there might be frank speech. Only a brief
communiqué, stating the subject of discussion and the decision reached, would be issued to
the press. The committee would provide for the executive measures that must be taken to oppose
the growth of economic and political anarchy in central and southeastern Europe, would distribute
the problems that were to be studied by special commissions, and would formulate or approve
the solutions to those problems. It would supervise the drafting of the treaties and present
them to the plenary conference in practically final form. Since the bulk of the fighting had
been carried by the major powers and since they would guarantee the peace, this supreme council
of the Conference was composed of two representatives of the major five, France, Great Britain,
the United States, Italy, and Japan, the last-named now entering the sacred coterie of "Great
Powers." Among the delegates of the smaller powers there was lively dissatisfaction at the
exclusion from the inner council of such states as Belgium and Serbia, which had been invaded
by the enemy and had made heavy sacrifices in the war: they complained also that the number
of delegates allotted them was insufficient. Already, it was whispered, the phrases that dealt
with the "rights of small nations" were being forgotten, and this peace congress was to be
but a repetition of those previous diplomatic assemblies where the spoils went to the strong.
But Wilson, who was regarded as the defender of the rights of the small states, agreed with
Clemenceau that practical necessity demanded an executive council of restricted numbers, and
felt that such a body could be trusted to see that effective justice was secured. In truth
the President was almost as much impressed by the extreme nationalistic ardor of the small
powers, as a source of future danger, as he was by the selfishness of the large.

The Supreme Council, during the early days of the Conference, was generally known as the Council
of Ten. It met in the study of Stephane Pichon, the French Foreign Minister, which opened on
to the garden of the French Foreign Office, and which, with its panelled walls, covered with
gorgeous Gobelins picturing Ruben's story of Marie de' Medici, its stately brocaded chairs,
and old-rose and gray Aubusson carpets, was redolent of old-time diplomacy. In the center,
behind a massive desk, sat the president of the Conference, Georges Clemenceau--short, squat,
round-shouldered, with heavy white eyebrows and mustache serving perfectly to conceal the expression
both of eyes and of mouth. Ordinarily he rested immobile, his hands folded in the eternal gray
gloves, on his face an expression of bored tolerance, the expression of a man who, after half
a century in the political arena of France, had little to learn either of men or of affairs,
even from a Peace Conference. Skeptical in attitude, a cold listener, obviously impermeable
to mere verbiage and affected by the logic of facts alone, he had a ruthless finger ready to
poke into the interstices of a loosely-woven argument. Clemenceau spoke but rarely, in low
even tones, with a paucity and awkwardness of gesture surprising in a Latin; he was chary of
eloquence, disdaining the obvious arts of the rhetor, but he had at his command an endless
string of biting epigrams, and his satire wounded with a touch so sharp that it was scarcely
felt or seen except by the unfortunate recipient. Upon infrequent occasion, in the course of
hot debate, some one would pierce his armor and touch him upon the unguarded quick; then the
man was transformed, the eyebrows would shoot up, the eyes flash, the mustache bristle, the
voice vibrate, and the invective which he poured forth scalded like molten lead. One understood
at such a moment why he was called "the Tiger." But such outbursts were rare. More characteristic
of his method of debate was the low-voiced ironical phrase, when his arid humor crackled like
a wireless message.

Clemenceau dwarfed the other French delegates, with a single exception, not alone by the magic
of his personality but by the grip which he had on the imagination of France. The people remembered
that long career, beginning with the early days of the Republic and culminating with the miracle
of the political salvation he brought to France in the dark days of 1917, when the morale of
the nation was near the breaking-point, and which made possible the military victory of Foch.
France was grateful. He had no political party in the Chamber upon which to rely, but the nation
was behind him, at least for the moment. "If I should die now," he is reported to have said
during the early days of the Conference, "France would give me a great funeral. If I live six
months, no one knows what may happen." For Clemenceau was a realist; he did not permit himself
the luxury of being deceived even by the good qualities of his own countrymen. If he feared
anything it was the domination of politics by the impractical. Mankind must be taken as it
is and not as we should like it to be. He was troubled by what he called the "noble simplicity"
of Wilson. Statesmen must be inspired by the sacred egotism which provides for the material
safety and progress of their own nation. Above all, in his mind, France was particularly vulnerable
and thus must insist upon particular means of defense against the secular enemy across the Rhine.

Behind Clemenceau, in the Council, hovered his friend and Foreign Secretary, Stephane Pichon.
More in evidence, however, was André Tardieu, who alone of the French delegates remained undwarfed
by the Prime Minister. Journalist, politician, captain of Blue Devils, Franco-American Commissioner,
now the youngest of the French peace commission, Tardieu, more than any one else supplied the
motive energy that carried the treaty to completion. Debonair and genial, excessively practical,
he was the "troubleman" of the Conference: when difficulties arose over the Saar, or Fiume,
or reparations, Tardieu was called in to work with a special committee and find a compromise.
Not a regular member of the Council of Ten, he was nevertheless at Clemenceau's elbow, and
especially after the attempt on the latter's life, he labored day and night on the details
which were too much for the strength and time of the older man.

On Clemenceau's right, and half facing him, sat the two American delegates, Wilson and Lansing.
The President, to the surprise of many, was by no means the awkward college professor lost
among practical politicians. His speech was slow and his manner might almost be called ponderous,
but the advisers who whispered over his shoulder, during the course of the debate, attested
the rapidity with which his mind operates and his skill in catching the points suggested. There
was far less of the dogmatic doctrinaire in his attitude than had been looked for. Occasionally
his remarks bordered upon the sententious, but he never "orated," invariably using a conversational
tone; many of his points were driven home by humorous allusions or anecdotes rather than by
didactic logic. Like that of the other delegates his manner was informal. During the cold days
of late January he walked about the room during discussions in order to keep his feet warm.
Indeed the proceedings of the Council of Ten were characterized by a noted absence of stiffness.
It was evidently expected that the prestige which Wilson possessed among the masses would evaporate
in this inner council; but nothing of the kind was apparent. It was not uninteresting to note
that when a point was raised every one looked involuntarily to see how it would be taken by
the President; and when the delegates of the smaller Powers appeared before the Council they
addressed their remarks almost directly at him. Lansing spoke seldom, but then with force and
conviction, and was evidently more troubled than Wilson by the compromises with expediency
which the Americans were compelled to make. His attention was never distracted by the sketches
which he drew without ceasing, during the course of the debates--grotesque and humorous figures,
much in demand by every one present as mementos of the Conference.

Next on the right sat David Lloyd George, with thick gray hair and snapping Celtic eyes. Alert
and magnetic, he was on the edge of his chair, questioning and interrupting. Frankly ignorant
of the details of continental geography and politics, naïve in his inquiries, he possessed
the capacity for acquiring effective information at lightning speed. Unfortunately he was not
over-critical and the source of his information was not invariably the highest authority; he
was prone to accept the views of journalists rather than those of his own Foreign Office. Effervescent
as a bottle just rid of its cork, he was also unstable, twisting and veering in his suggestions;
not so much blown about by the winds of hostile criticism, to which he paid but little attention,
as carried on by the shifting tides of political events at home. For his eye was always across
the Channel, calculating the domestic effect of each treaty provision. Few could resist his
personal magnetism in conversation and no one would deny him the title of master-politician
of his age. During the first weeks of the Conference, Wilson seems to have fallen under the
spell of Lloyd George to some extent, who showed himself quite as liberal as the President
in many instances. But Wilson was clearly troubled by the Welshman's mercurial policy, and
before he finally left for America, found relief in the solid consistency of Clemenceau. He
always knew where the French Premier stood, no matter how much he might differ from him in
point of view.

Beside Lloyd George, a perfect foil, sat Arthur J. Balfour, assuming the attitude habitual
to him after long years in the House of Commons--head on the back of his chair, body reclining
at a comfortable angle, long legs stretched in front, hands grasping the lapels of his coat,
eyes at frequent intervals closed. Rising, he overtopped every one present, white and bent
though he was, in physical stature as he did also in pure intellectual power. Graceful in tone
and expression his outlook was the philosophical, possibly over-tolerant for the exigencies
of the situation, although upon occasion his judgment proved a valuable counterweight to the
hasty enthusiasm of Lloyd George. But Balfour, like Lansing, was sometimes treated with scant
consideration by his chief and by no means exercised the influence which his experience and
capacity would lead one to expect.

On the right of the British delegates sat the two Japanese, silent, observant, their features
immobile as the Sphinx. It was a bold man who would attempt to guess the thoughts masked by
their impassive faces. They waited for the strategic moment when they were to present their
special claims; until then they attended all meetings, scarcely speaking a word, unwilling
to commit themselves. Upon one occasion, in a minor commission, the Japanese delegate held
the deciding vote, the other four delegations being tied; when asked by the chairman how he
voted, whether with the French and Americans or with the British and Italians, the Japanese
responded simply, "Yes." Next the Japanese, but facing Clemenceau and about twelve feet from
him, were the Italians: Sonnino with his close-cropped white bullet head and heavy drooping
mustache, his great Roman nose coming down to meet an equally strong out-jutting chin, his
jaw set like a steel latch. The hawklike appearance of the man was softened in debate by the
urbanity of his manner and the modulations of his voice. Orlando was less distinctive in appearance
and character. Eloquent and warm-hearted, he was troubled by the consciousness that failure
to secure the full extent of Italian claims spelled the downfall of his ministry in Rome. It
is of some historical importance that Sonnino, who spoke perfect English with just a trace
of Etonian inflection, was the more obstinate in his demands; Orlando, who showed himself inclined
to compromise, spoke no English and therefore could come into intellectual contact with Wilson
and Lloyd George only through the medium of an interpreter.

Proceedings were necessarily in both French and English, because none of the big men except
Clemenceau and Sonnino used the two languages with comfort. The interpreter, Mantoux, who sat
behind Clemenceau, was no mere translator. A few notes scribbled on a pad were sufficient for
him to render the sense of a speech with keen accuracy and frequently with a fire and a pungency
that surpassed the original. He spoke always in the first person as though the points made
in debate were his own, and the carrying of each particular point the ideal nearest his heart.
Behind the principals, the "Olympians," as they came to be called, were the experts and attachés,
with long rolls of maps and complex tables of statistics, ready to answer questions of detailed
facts. In truth there was more reference to sources of exact information by the chief delegates
than would have been expected by the student of former diplomatic practices.

In the center of the room, facing the Olympians, stood or sat the particular claimant or expert
witness of the séance. Now it might be Marshal Foch, with wrinkled, weary, war-worn visage,
and thin rumpled hair, in shabby uniform, telling of Germany's failure to fulfill the armistice
conditions; one would meet him later in the corridor outside--like Grant, he was apt to have
the stump of a black cigar in the corner of his mouth--usually shaking his head ominously over
the failure of the politicians to treat Germany with the requisite severity. Or the claimant
before the Ten might be the grave, self-contained Venizelos, once outlaw and revolutionary,
now, after many turns of fortune's wheel, master of Greece and perhaps the greatest statesman
of them all. Then again would appear the boyish Foreign Minister of the Czecho-Slovak Republic,
Edward Benes, winning friends on all sides by his frank sincerity and ready smile; or, perfect
contrast, the blackbearded Bratiano of Rumania, claiming the enforcement of the secret treaty
that was to double the area of his state. Later, Paderewski came from Warsaw, his art sacrificed
on the altar of patriotism, leonine in appearance, but surprisingly untemperamental in diplomatic
negotiation.

To each of these and to many others who presented problems for immediate settlement the Council
listened, for it had not merely to draw up treaties and provide for the future peace of the
world, but also to meet crises of the moment. The starving populations of central and southeastern
Europe must be fed; tiny wars that had sprung up between smaller nationalities must be attended
to and armistice commissions dispatched; the rehabilitation of railroads and river transportation
demanded attention; coal mines must be operated and labor difficulties adjusted. This economic
renaissance had to be accomplished in face of nationalistic quarrels and the social unrest
that threatened to spread the poison of communistic revolution as far west as the Rhine and
the Adriatic.

From the beginning it was clear that the actual drafting of the treaty clauses would have to
be undertaken by special commissions. The work could never be completed except by a subdivision
of labor and the assignment of particular problems to especially competent groups. As the Council
of Ten faced the situation, they decided that the number of the commissions must be increased.
By the beginning of February the work was largely subdivided. There was a commission headed
by President Wilson working on the League of Nations, while others studied such problems as
responsibility for the war, reparations, international labor legislation, international control
of ports, waterways, and railways, financial and economic problems, military, naval, and aerial
questions. When the Council of Ten found themselves puzzled by the conflicting territorial
claims of different Allied nations, they decided to create also special territorial commissions
to study boundaries and to report their recommendations back to the Supreme Council. It was
President Wilson, chafing at the early delays of the Conference, who eagerly adopted a suggestion
of Colonel House to the effect that time might be saved if the experts of the different states
attacked boundary problems and thus relieved the strain upon the time and nerves of the Olympians,
who could not be expected to know or understand the details of each question. His intelligent oculus
opened to look upon the class, to love homo, so closed again on the startling confidence were of death.
The friend who was
presented me included with him had yield him, possibly to antiphrasis, the
agnomen by the. He had no history.

The more important commissions, such as that upon the League of Nations, were composed of plenipotentiaries
and included generally representatives from the smaller states. The reparations, financial,
and labor commissions were made up of business men and financiers, the American representatives
including such figures as Lamont, Norman Davis, Baruch, and McCormick. The territorial commissions
were composed of the representatives of the four principal Powers; most of the European delegates,
who were in some cases also plenipotentiaries, were chosen from the staffs of the Foreign Offices,
and included such men as Sir Eyre Crowe, Jules Cambon, Tardieu, and Salvago Raggi. The American
delegates were generally members of the Inquiry, men who had been working on these very problems
for more than a year. The special commissions worked with care and assiduity, and their decisions
rested generally on facts established after long discussion. To this extent, at least, the
Paris Conference was characterized by a new spirit in diplomacy.

Upon the reports of these commissions were based the draft articles of the treaties, which
were then referred back to the Supreme Council. By the time the reports were finished, that
body had divided into two smaller bodies: the Council of Foreign Ministers, and the Council
of Premiers, composed of Clemenceau, Lloyd George, Wilson, and Orlando. The latter body, which
came to be known as the Council of Four, or, colloquially, the "Big Four," naturally assumed
complete direction. It was unfortunate certainly that a congress which had started with the
cry of "open covenants" should thus find itself practically resolved into a committee of four.
Disappointed liberals have assumed that the inner council was formed with the object of separating
President Wilson from contact with popular ideas and bringing him to acceptance of the old-style
peace desired by Clemenceau. In reality the Council of Four was simply a revival of the informal
committee which had sat during the autumn of 1918, when Colonel House, Lloyd George, and Clemenceau
had met by themselves to formulate the policy to be adopted when Germany presented her demand
for an armistice. When Wilson left Paris in February, Colonel House, who became chiefly responsible
for the American side of negotiations, found the Council of Ten unwieldy. It was attended by
as many as thirty or forty persons, some of whom seemed inclined to spread colored accounts
of what was going on, and the very size of the meeting tended toward the making of speeches
and the slowing-down of progress. Furthermore, at that time Clemenceau, confined to his house
by the wound inflicted by a would-be assassin, was unable to attend the sessions of the Council
of Ten. It was natural, therefore, that the three statesmen who had worked so effectively the
preceding autumn should now renew their private conferences. When Wilson returned to Paris
in March, and learned from Colonel House how much more rapidly the small committee was able
to dispose of vexatious questions, he readily agreed to it. Nor is there any valid evidence
extant to show that his influence was seriously impaired by the change, although the sessions
of the Council of Four took on a greater appearance of secrecy than had been desired by Colonel
House.

The Council of Four acted as a board of review and direction rather than of dictators. When
the reports of the expert commissions were unanimous they were generally accepted with little
or no alteration. When a divided report was sent up, the Four were compelled to reach a compromise,
since every delay threatened to give new opportunity to the forces of social disorder in Germany
and southeastern Europe. The Council met ordinarily in the house used by President Wilson,
on the Place des États-Unis. Some of the conferences were held in a small room downstairs without
the presence of secretaries or advisers; frequently, however, the experts were called in to
meet with the chiefs in the large front room upstairs, and would often monopolize the discussion,
the Four playing the part of listeners merely. Formality was dispensed with. During a debate
upon the southern boundary of Austria, President Wilson might have been seen on all fours,
kneeling on the floor and tracing out the suggested frontier on a huge map, while other peace
commissioners and experts surrounded him, also on their hands and knees. Hours of labor were
long. There was, certainly, much discussion that hinged upon selfish nationalist interests,
but also much that was inspired by a sincere desire to secure the solution that would permanently
restore the tranquillity of Europe.

