For the women of the farm the exhibit of domestic arts and products occupies the preëminent
place at the county fair. In this exhibit the display of patchwork is sure to arouse the liveliest
enthusiasm. A visitor at a fair in a western state very neatly describes this appreciation
shown to quilts: "We used to hear a great deal about the sad and lonely fate of the western
farmer's wife, but there was little evidence of loneliness in the appearance of these women
who surrounded the quilts and fancywork in the Domestic Arts Building."

In connection with the display of needlework at rural fairs, it is interesting to note how
ancient is this custom. In the "Social History of Ancient Ireland" is the following description
of an Irish fair held during the fourth century--long before the advent of St. Patrick and
Christianity: "The people of Leinster every three years during the first week of August held
the 'Fair of Carman.' Great ceremony and formality attended this event, the King of Leinster
and his court officiating. Music formed a prominent part of the amusement. One day was set
apart for recitation of poems and romantic tales, another for horse and chariot racing. In
another part of the Fair people indulged in uproarious fun, crowded around showmen, jugglers,
clowns with painted faces or hideously grotesqued masks. Prizes publicly presented by King
or dignitary were given to winners of various contests. Needlework was represented by 'the
slope of the embroidering women,' where women actually did their work in the presence of spectators."

A very important factor in the recent revival of interest in quilts has been the springing
up of impromptu exhibits as "benefits" for worthy causes, the raising of funds for which is
a matter of popular interest. Does a church need a new roof, a hospital some more furnishings,
or a college a new building? And have all the usual methods of raising money become hackneyed
and uninspiring to those interested in furthering the project? To those confronted with such
a money-raising problem the quilt exhibition offers a most welcome solution. For not only does
such an exhibition offer a new form of entertainment, but it also has sources of interesting
material from which to draw that are far richer than commonly supposed.

Not so very long ago "The Country Contributor" undertook the task of giving a quilt show, and
her description of it is distinctly worth while:

"My ideas were a bit vague. I had a mental picture of some beautiful quilts I knew of hung
against a wall somewhere for people to come and look at and wonder over. So we announced the
quilt show and then went on our way rejoicing. A good-natured school board allowed us to have
the auditorium at the high school building for the display and the quilt agitation began.

"A day or two before the show, which was to be on a Saturday, it began to dawn upon me that
I might be buried under an avalanche of quilts. The old ones were terribly large. They were
made to cover a fat feather bed or two and to hang down to hide the trundle bed underneath,
and, though the interlining of cotton was very thin and even, still the weight of a quilt made
by one's grandmother is considerable.

"We betook ourselves to the school building at an early hour on Saturday morning and the fun
began. We were to receive entries until one o'clock, when the exhibition was to begin.

"In looking back now at this little event, I wonder we could have been so benighted as to imagine
we could do it in a day! After about an hour, during which the quilts came in by the dozen,
I sent in a general alarm to friends and kindred for help. We engaged a carpenter, strung up
wires and ropes, and by some magic of desperation we got those quilts on display, 118 of them,
by one o'clock.

"One lovely feature of this quilt show was the reverence with which men brought to us the quilts
their mothers made. Plain farmers, busy workers, retired business men, came to us, their faces
softened to tenderness, handed us, with mingled pride and devotion, their big bundle containing
a contribution to the display, saying in softened accents, 'My mother made it.' And each and
every quilt brought thus was worthy of a price on its real merit--not for its hallowed association
alone.

"Time and space would fail if I should try to tell about the quilts that came in at our call
for an exhibition. There were so many prize quilts (fully two thirds of the quilts entered
deserved prizes) that it is difficult to say what finally decided the blue ribbon. However,
the quilt which finally carried it away was fairly typical of those of the early part of the
nineteenth century. A rose pattern was applied in coloured calicoes on each alternate block.
The geometrical calculation, the miraculous neatness of this work, can scarcely be exaggerated.
But this is not the wonder of the thing. The real wonder is the quilting. This consisted in
copying the design, petal for petal, leaf for leaf, in needlework upon every alternate block
of white muslin. How these workers accomplished the raised designs on plain white muslin is
the mystery. How raised flowers, leaves, plumes, baskets, bunches of fruit, even animal and
bird shapes, could be shown in bas-relief on these quilt blocks without hopelessly 'puckering'
the material, none of us can imagine."

No other inspiration that can equal our fairs has been offered to the quilters of our day.
Public recognition of good work and the premiums which accompany this recognition augment the
desire to excel in the art of quilt making. The keen competition engendered results in the
most exact and painstaking work possible being put upon quilts that are entered for the "blue
ribbon." The materials, designs, and colours chosen for these quilts are given the most careful
consideration, and the stitchery is as nearly perfect as it is possible to make it.

Some of the finest old quilts that have been preserved are repeatedly exhibited at county and
state fairs, and have more than held their own with those made in recent years. One shown at
an exhibition of quilts and coverlets, held in a city in southern Indiana in 1914, had been
awarded the first premium at thirty-seven different fairs. This renowned and venerable quilt
had been made more than seventy-five years before. Its design is the familiar one known as
the "Rose of Sharon"; both the needlework on the design and the quilting are exquisite, the
stitches being all but invisible.

A striking instance of the influence of fairs upon quilt making is shown in the number of beautiful
quilts that have been made expressly for display in exhibitions at state fairs in the Middle
West. One such collection, worthy of special notice, consists of seven quilts: three of elaborate
designs in patchwork and four made up of infinitesimal pieces. Every stitch, both on the handsome
tops and in the perfect quilting, was wrought with careful patience by an old-time quilt maker.
The aggregate amount of stitching upon these seven quilts seems enough to constitute the work
of a lifetime. The material in these quilts, except one which is of silk, is fine white muslin
and the reliable coloured calicoes of fifty years ago.

