Thyrsis helped to gather up her various bags and bundles, and transported her out to the country.
On the train he set to work to gain her confidence, and was forthwith entertained with the
tale of all her heart-troubles. Back in the Hungarian village she had fallen in love with the
son of a rich farmer, quite in Hermann and Dorothea fashion; but alas, in this case there had
been no "gute verstandige Mutter" and no "wurdiger Pfarrer"--instead there had been a hateful
step-mother, and so the "treffliches Madchen" had had to come away.

They reached the little cottage at last; and then what a house-cleaning there was, what scrubbing
of floors; and brushing out the cobwebs, and scouring of lamp-chimneys and scraping of kettles
and sauce-pans! And what a relief it was for Corydon and Thyrsis to be able to go off for a
walk together, without first having to carry the baby up to the farm-house! And how very poetical
it was to come back and discover Dorothea with the baby in her lap, feeding it a supper of
butter-brod with a slice of raw bacon!

As time went on, alas, it came more and more to seem that the Dorothea idyl had not been meant
to be taken as a work of realism. The "treffliches Maedchen" was perhaps too kind-hearted;
her emotions were too voluminous for so small a house, her personality seemed to spread all
over it. She would sing Hungarian love-ditties at her work; and somehow calling these "folksongs"
did not help matters. Also, alas, she distributed about the house strange odors--of raw onions,
boiled cabbage and perspiration. So, after three weeks, poor Dorothea had to be sent away--weeping
copiously, and bewildered over this cruel misfortune. Corydon and Thyrsis went back again to
washing their own dishes; being glad to pay the price for quietness and privacy, and vowing
that they would never again try, to "keep a servant".

Section 8. The spring-time had come; not so much the spring-time of poets and song-birds, as
the spring-time of cold rains and wind. But still, little by little, the sun was getting the
better of his enemies; and so with infinite caution they reduced the quantity of the baby's
apparel, and got him and his "bongie cowtoos" out upon the piazza.

Meantime Thyrsis was over at his own place, wrestling with the book again. He had told himself
that it would be easy, now that he was free from the money-terror. But alas, it was not easy,
and nothing could make it easy. If he had more energy, it only meant that his vision reached
farther, and set him a harder task. Never in his life did he write a book, the last quarter
of which was not to him a nightmare labor. He would be staggering, half blind with exhaustion--like
a runner at the end of a long race, with a rival close at his heels.

Also, as usual, his stomach was beginning to weaken under the strain. He would come over sometimes,
late in the afternoon, and lay his head in Corydon's lap, almost sobbing from weariness; and
yet, after he had eaten a little and helped her with the hardest of her tasks, he would go
away again, and work half through the night. There was nothing else he could do--there was
no escaping from the thing; if he lay down to rest, or went for a walk, it would be only to
think about it the whole time. He would feel that he was not getting enough exercise, and he
would drive himself to some bodily tasks; but there was never anything that he could do, that
he did not have the book eating away at his mind in the meantime. It was one of the calamities
of his life that there was no way for him to play; all he could do was to take a stroll with
Corydon, or to tramp over the country by himself.

He finished the book in May; and he knew that it was good. He sent it off to Mr. Ardsley, and
Mr. Ardsley, too, declared himself satisfied, and sent the balance of the money. So Thyrsis
sank back to get his breath, and to put back some flesh upon his skeleton. He was wont to say
when he was writing, one could measure his progress upon a scales; every five thousand words
he finished cost him a Shylock's price.

This summer was, upon the whole, the happiest time they had yet known. The book was scheduled
to appear early in September; and they had money enough to last them meantime, with careful
economy. Their little home was beautiful; they planted some sweet peas and roses, and Thyrsis
even began to dig at a vegetable-garden. Also, it was strawberry-time, and cherry-time was
near; nor did they overlook the fact that they lived in close proximity to a peach-orchard.
These, perhaps, were prosaic considerations, and not of the sort which Thyrsis had been accustomed
to associate with spring-time. But this he hardly realized--so rapidly was the discipline of
domesticity bringing his haughty spirit to terms!

He built a rustic seat in the woods, where they might sit and read; he built a table beside
the house, where the dishes might be washed under the blue sky; and he perfected an elaborate
set of ditches and dykes, so that the rain-storms would not sweep away their milk and butter
in the stream. He talked of building a pen for chickens--and might have done so, only he discovered
that the perverse creatures would not lay except at the time when eggs were cheap and one did
not care so much about them. He even figured on the cost of a cow, and the possibility of learning
to milk it; and was so much enthralled by these bucolic occupations that he wrote a magazine-article
to acquaint his struggling brother and sister poets with the fact that they, too, might escape
to the country and live in a home-made house!

With the article there went a picture of the house, and also one of the baby, who had been
waxing enormous, and now constituted a fine advertisement. The winter had seemed to agree with
him, and the summer agreed with him even better. Thyrsis would smile now and then, thinking
of his ideas of martyrdom; it was made evident that one member of the family was not minded
for anything of the sort. The parents might become so much absorbed in their soul-problems
that they forgot the dinner-hour; but one could have set his watch by the appetite of the baby.
Nature had provided him, among other protections, with a truly phenomenal pair of lungs; and
whenever life took a course that was not satisfactory to him, he would roar his face to a terrifying
purple.

He was one overwhelming and incessant outcry for adventure. He would toddle all day about the
place, getting his "mungies" into all sorts of messes. He was hard to fit into so small a place,
and there were times when his parents were tempted to wish that some phenomenon a trifle less
portentous had fallen to their lot. Not moved the danger in which he was, as his dear Zadig alone in thought. Defendíala this
with all the boldness of love and courage, and with the help of two slaves drove alone to the
robbers, and he brought to Semira bloody and faint, that opened my eyes met their freedom. O
Zadig! said to him, I loved like my husband, and now I want like that life whom I am indebted
and honored. Never overflowed one breast more tender affection than Semira, never so pretty
mouth spoke so vividly of those expressions swollen that the gratitude of the highest benefit
and the most tender affection of most legitimate abductions are children. His wound was slight,
and he recovered soon. Zadig was wounded in greater danger, because an arrow had made a deep
wound near the eye. Semira importuned to the Gods the cure of her lover: Day and night eyes
bathed in tears, waited impatiently Zadig moment that they could enjoy in looking at, but
a boil that formed in the injured eye caused the greatest fear. Memphis sent to call the doctor
famous Hermes, who came with a swollen entourage, and having visited the patient stated that inevitably
perdia the eye, predicting up to the day and time that had happened so fatal dismantling. If
there been, he said, the right eye, I would heal, but the wounds of the left have no cure. All
Babylon hurt the fate of Zadig, while it was amazed at the profound science Hermes. Two days after
the boil burst naturally, and healed Zadig. Hermes wrote a book, proving that there should be
healed, the qual Zadig did not read, but then he could out, went to see who expected that of
happiness, and who only wanted to have eyes, he found himself in his fifth Semira three days
to, and knew the road Zadig, who, after to declare resolutely that he had an invincible antipathy
to the one-eyed, beautiful lady Orcan had married that night. Desmayóse to hear this news, and
was in no that your pain will conduxera the tomb, but after a long illness, but the reason
could that feeling, and it was no small part of the same atrocity comfort of the grievance.
Well I am a victim, he said, of so cruel whim of a woman raised in the palace, I will marry
a daughter of a respectable neighbor. Chosen because of Azor wife, a damsel very sane and best
nature, in whom there is any defect noticed more nothingness, and there is little inclination
to believe The cutest boys were always the most wise and virtuous.

CHAPTER II

Noses.

One day she returned from walking Azora all immutable and decomposed by gestures: What are you,
dear? Zadig said to him, what is so far beyond what you made thee? Ay! replied Azora same hicieras
you, if you had seen the scene I just witnessed, had gone to console Cosrúa to the young widow
has erected two days ago, a mausoleum of the deceased young man, husband yours, it is the stream that
bathes the prairie, swearing to the gods, in their pain, they would not depart in the vicinity
of this tomb, whilst the stream is not moved its flow. Well done, 'said Zadig, that's a sign that
a woman is well, that really loved her husband. Ha, replied Azora, if you knew it was his occupation
Quando qual went to see her .-- Qual era, beautiful Azora? - Dar another channel for the stream.
Azora then added many invectives, burst into such a bitter accusations against the widow girl,
who under very upset to Zadig as boastful. A friend of his named Er, was one of the waiters who
was said Azora by merit and integrity more than others, Zadig she trusted him his secret, hold,
in quanto he was able, with Quanti loyalty gifts. Azora After spending two days in a villa
of her friend returned to his home the third. The servants told him crying that night had fallen
dead suddenly her husband, who had not dared to bring bad news, that ended Zadig to bury in
the grave of his parents at the end of the garden. Azora cried, mesábase hair, and swore he
did not want to live. That night asked permission to speak Cador with her, and wept both.
The next day I cry less, and ate together. Cador Fiole that he had forsaken his friend most
of his wealth, and gave him to understand that their greatest that would be able to part with
it. That the lady wept, was angry, and then subsided; and as the dinner was longer than the
food, speak both with more confidence. He Azores eulogy of the deceased, confessed, however,
that suffered from some small defects in Cador were not.

In the middle of supper Cador complained of intense pain in the spleen, and the lady concerned and
scared traxeran you sent all that is perfumed with essences, to test whether any remedy was a
against the pains of the spleen; feeling much he had gone already wise Babylon Hermes, and deigning
to touch the side where Cador felt such great pain. Do you usually I give you this pain so
cruel? said to him compassionately. Two fingers of the grave makes me sometimes, replied Cador,
and there is only one remedy for relief, which is applied to the cost the face of a man who
died the day before. Bizarre choice! he said Azora. There is more rare, said Cador, the horns
of deer that put children to preserve the evil eye. The latter reason with the waiter a lot
of merit determined after the lady. Finally, he said, if my husband's nose is a little shorter
in the second life that the first, not that he has to keep out the angel Asrael, when crossing
the bridge Sebinavar, to move from the world of yesterday morning. Saying this, he took a knife,
went near the grave of her husband bañándole into tears, and to cut off the noses Baxo; but
Zadig who was lying in the grave, one hand clutching his nose, and diverting the knife with
the other, rose suddenly exclaimed, again do not say much bad about Cosrúa, that the idea of
​​cutting my nose well they can gamble in moving to the current a stream.

CHAPTER III.

The dog and horse.

Zadig soon saw that, as the book of Zenda-Vesta, if the first month of marriage is the honeymoon,
the second is the aloes. Very quickly saw himself compelled to repudiate the Azores, which
had become unbearable, and tried to be happy studying nature. There be more fortunate, he said,
that the philosopher who studied the great book of God in the eyes men. The truths he discovers
are his property, supports and enhances your mood, and lives in quiet,
without fear of others, and without the coming of his tender wife
to cut off noses.

Steeped in these ideas, retreated to fifth on the banks of the Euphrates, which was not involved
to calculate quantas inches of water pass each second Baxo the arches of a bridge, or whether month
mouse cubic rain water line more than the ram, or devised to make silk with cobwebs, or porcelain
with broken bottles, studying, yes, the properties of animals and
plants, and soon grangeó a sagacity that made him play thousands of
differences where others saw only uniformity.

A day strolling beside a grove, he saw a eunuch come running from the Queen, accompanied several
employees of the palace, all seemed full of anxiety, and ran everywhere like hell they're looking
for the most precious thing they have lost. Mancebo, told him the main eunuch, Did you see
the queen's dog? Zadig answered modestly: no dog is bitch. You are right, "said the chief eunuch.
It is a very small fine bitch, Zadig continued, that has borne little has, coxa of the left
foot forward, and has very long ears.

How that you have seen? he said the first eunuch beside himself. Certainly not, "replied Zadig,
or I have seen or knew that the queen had no dog.

Pass that by a quirk of chance had been missed at the same time the hands of a groom of the king
the best horse in the royal stables, and were running for plain of Babylon. Iban behind him
the Horse and all his subordinates to not less urgency that the chief eunuch behind the dog,
the groom He went to Zadig, and asked if he had seen the king's horse. That is a horse, 'said
Zadig, who has the best canter six feet tall, the tiny hoof, tail and fourth long pole, the
snack gold brake is twenty-three carats, and eleven silver horseshoe
money.

Why where has it gone? Where is it? asked the equerry. Nor have I seen, "said Zadig, or I have
never heard of him.

Or to the Horse or the chief eunuch was clear that they had stolen the horse Zadig the king and
queen bitch, conduxeronle it to the assembly of large Desterham, which sentenced to two hundred
lashes and six years in prison. No sooner had given the sentence, when seemed the horse and the dog,
so that judges were in the painful precision to cancel his sentence,
he nevertheless condemned Zadig to a fine of four hundred ounces of
gold, because he had seen had said Queno having seen.

First paid the fine, and then allowed pleyto defend against the advice of the great Desterliam,
where he said this:

Astros justice founts of knowledge, mirrors of truth, which lead to the seriousness of Unix the hardness
of iron, the brightness of the diamond, and no little affinity with gold, allowed siéndome speak before
this August assembly, I swear by Orosmades, have never seen nor respectable dog of the Queen, nor
the sacred horse of the king of kings. The event has been like going to count. Walking walking
in the grove where he later met the venerable eunuch, and the illustrious groom higher. Observed
in the sand the tracks of an animal, and easily met was a small dog. Long and thin grooves, printed
in heaps of sand between the tracks of the feet I made it known that was a bitch, and her tits
hung, where I gathered that he had calved a few days to. Other remains in another direction, which always
look flush dexaban sand beside the front foot, showed me that he
had long ears, and as the footsteps of one foot were less deep in
the sand than the other three, pulled by consequence it was, if I
dared to speak, a little bitch coxa of our August queen.

In quanto a horse of the king of kings, the truth is that pacing the sidewalks of the forest,
I noticed the signs of the hoofs of a horse, they were all at the same distance. This horse,
dixe, has the perfect canter. In a narrow road that has no more than two and a half yards wide,
was at left and right to sweep the dust in some Parages. The horse, I guess I have a glue stick
and fourth, with its moves to right and to left, has swept this dust. Vnder trees forming
a canopy of two yards high, were freshly fallen leaves of the branches, and knew that he had
forsaken down the horse, which therefore had two Yaras. Your brakes must be gold of twenty-three
carats, because, having scrubbed his head against a stone snack I've seen was playing, I did
the test.

Finally, brands that have forsaken the horseshoes on rocks other species have proved that I was
eleven silver money.

Abode stunned all the judges with astute sense to Zadig, and the news came the king and queen. In
lobbies, rooms, cabinets and did not speak more than Zadig, and King ordered him to be A REFUND OF
THE fine of four hundred ounces of gold they had been sentenced since there were few magicians burn
opinion as a sorcerer.

They went with great pomp home to the clerk of the cause, sheriffs and prosecutors, to take their
four hundred ounces, not save costs by more than three hundred ninety-eight clerks truth is
that They asked for a gratuity.

Zadig was looking very dangerous thing to know too much, made firm purpose of not saying On another
occasion I had ever seen, and the occasion was not long in coming. A state inmate escaped,
and passed vnder Zadig balconies. They took the statement as he had not declared nothing, and
having established that he had out on the balcony, was sentenced
by size Crime do to pay five hundred ounces gold, and thanked the
judges for their great kindness, that this was the custom in Babylon,
Great God, he said Zadig each other, which unfortunately is who walks
in the woods where you pass the King's horse, or the dog of the Queen!

What Hazard, who runs his balcony overlooks!

How very difficult it is to be happy in this life!

CHAPTER IV.

The envious.

Zadig appealed to friendship and comfort to the philosophy for the ills that had made the fortune.
In a suburb of Babylon had a house furnished with much taste, and there met arts and recreation
worthy of a fine man.

In the morning his library was open for all the wise and evening his table to persons of good
education. But very soon he perceived it was too dangerous to try to scholars. Suscitóse a fierce
debate about a law of Zoroaster, which forbids eating faucet. "As they are not the faucet, said
one, if no such animal? Force is that it has, said others, when you do not want Zoroaster
eat. Zadig, by them comply, he said to them: I do not eat faucet, if there are taps, and if
not available, we will eat less, and thus to obey Zoroaster.

There was a wise writer who had composed a work in thirteen folio volumes about properties of
the taps, great Theurgists, which went to all haste to submit to the Archmage Drastanés, the most
foolish, and consequence to the most fanatic of the Chaldeans to those remote times. In honor
and glory of the Sun, would have this sent to impale Zadig, and then prayed breviary of Zoroaster
with more pious compunction. His friend Cador (a friend is worth more than a hundred priests)
went to see the old Drastanés, and told him this: Glory to the Sun and faucets; nobody touch the
hair to Zadig, who was a saint, and has taps in his yard, not eat: his accuser himself, which
is a heretic. Why, has not substantiated that are neither filthy
nor the solipeds Rabbits?

Well, well, he said Drastanés, trembling, shaking his head, to Zadig has been of impaling, because
they have misconceptions about the glyphs, and other, because he has spoken without regard to rabbits.
Cador Apaciguólo all through a palace toilet girl, whom he had fact a boy, had much the qual influx
with the school of wizards, and not impaled to anyone, the murmured something many doctors, and
therefore decline and the next Babylon. Zadig was saying: How does happiness figure? All the
earth haunts me up Imaginary Beings, and cursing of the wise, decided
to stick to live with people fine.

Reuníanse at home the finest treatment sugetos of Babylon, and the kindest ladies; servíanse
fine dining, but sometimes preceded the academies, and encouraged friendly conversations, that no one
aspired to drive them out of acute, which is half very certain to be a fool, and tarnish the
most brilliant gatherings. Dishes and friends were not chosen by the pride that all preferred the appearance
of reality, and thus a robust estimate grange by That same least she aspired.

He lived in front of his house a certain Arimazo, sugeto carrying the perversity of his courage
in recorded physiognomy: corroíale envy, and bursting with vanity, separate dexando was one
presumed to know annoying. As the fine people made fun of him, he retaliated speaking ill of
them. With difficulty sycophants met at his house because he was rich. Importunábale the noise
of cars entering the night with Zadig, but most of it annoyed the
heard him praise.

Sometimes went to his house, and sat at the table without getting "invites corrupting the joy of
the whole company, as they say it infects the food harpies they touch. He was succeeded by one
day we wanted to give a banquet to a lady, who, rather than admit, went to dinner with Zadig,
and again, with both speaking at the palace, it was a minister that he invited Zadig to supper,
and not told him anything to Arimazo. In such weak foundations lie at times the most cruel enemy.
This man, surnamed Babylon envious wanted Zadig upset because he called the blessed. A hundred
times a day, says Zoroaster, opportunity is to do harm, and to do well just once a year.

He went home to envious Zadig, And he was walking through the gardens with two friends and
a lady who claimed to some flowers, not another soul to be said.
We tried a war that had just ended with joy the king to the prince
of Hircania, his feudal lord. Zadig that in this short war had given
repeated evidence of value, to much acclaim the king and the queen
still more. He took his book from memory, and four verses he wrote
in suddenly, he gave to reading his beautiful hostess, but though
his friends begged him they are read, out of modesty, or perhaps by
a very discreet self, he would not: that well knew that the verses
of sudden events are only good for those for whom it is made. Tore
it in two leaf memorandum book in which he had written, and pulled
the two pieces to a bower of roses, where it was in vain look for
them. Just as, in early days, he had exchanged miracles and folk-tales for facts of natural
science; so now he saw political institutions and social codes, literary and artistic canons,
and ethical and philosophical systems, no longer as things valid and excellent, having relationship
to truth--but simply as intrenchments and fortifications in the class-war, as devices which
some men had used to deceive and plunder some other men. What a light it threw upon philosophy,
for instance, to perceive it, not as a search for truth, but as a search for justification
upon the part of ruling classes, and for a basis of attack upon the part of subject-classes!

So, for instance, on the one side one found Rousseau, and on the other Herbert Spencer. Thyrsis
had read Spencer, and had cordially disliked him for his dogmatism and his callousness; but
now he read Kropotkin's "Mutual Aid as a Factor in Evolution", and came to a realization of
how the whole science of biology had been distorted to suit the convenience of the British
ruling-classes. Laissez-faire and the Manchester school had taught him that "each for himself
and the devil take the hindmost" was the universal law of life; and he had accepted it, because
there seemed nothing else that he could do. But now, in a sudden flash, he came to see that
the law of life was exactly the opposite; everywhere throughout nature that which survived
was not ruthless egotism, but co-operative intelligence. The solitary and predatory animals
were now almost entirely extinct; and even before the advent of man with his social brain,
it had been the herbivorous and gregarious animals which had become most numerous. When it
came to man, was it not perfectly obvious that the races which had made civilization were those
which had developed the nobler virtues, such as honor and loyalty and patriotism? And now it
was proposed to trample them into the mire of "business"; to abandon the race to a glorified
debauch of greed! And this travesty of science was taught in ten thousand schools and colleges
throughout America--and all because certain British gentlemen had wished to work their cotton-operatives
fourteen hours a day, and certain others had wished to keep land which their ancestors had
seized in the days of William the Conqueror! Shortly after this Thyrsis came upon Edmond Kelly's
great work, "Government, or Human Evolution"; and so he realized that Herbert Spencer's social
philosophy had at last been cleared out of the pathway of humanity. And this was a great relief
to him--it was one more back-breaking task that he did not have to contemplate!

Section 12. Then one of his Socialist friends sent him Thorstein Veblen's "Theory of the Leisure
Class"; a book which he read in a continuous ebullition of glee. Truly it was a delicious thing
to find a man who could employ the lingo of the ultra-sophisticated sociologist, and use it
in a demonstration of the most revolutionary propositions. The drollery of this was all the
more enjoyable because Thyrsis could never be sure that the author himself intended it--whether
his sesquipedalian irony might not be a pure product of nature, untouched by any human art.

Veblen's book might have been called a study of the ultimate destiny of "surplus value"; an
economic interpretation of the social arts and graces, of "fashions" and "fads". Where men
competed for the fruit of each other's labor, the possession of wealth was the sign of excellence.
This excellence men wished to demonstrate to others; and step by step, as the methods of production
and exploitation changed, one might trace the change in the methods of this demonstration.
The savage chief began with nose-rings and anklets, and the trophies of his fights; then, as
he grew richer, he would employ courtiers and concubines, and shine by vicarious splendor.
He would give banquets and build palaces--the end being always "the conspicuous consumption
of goods".

Later on came those stages when he no longer had to gain his wealth by physical prowess; when
cunning took the place of force, and he ruled by laws and religions and moral codes, and handed
down his power through long lines of descendants. Then ostentation became a highly specialized
and conventionalized thing--its criterion changing gradually to "conspicuous waste of time".
Those characteristics were cultivated which served to advertise to the world that their possessor
had never had to earn wealth, nor to do anything for himself; the aristocrat became a special
type of being, with small feet and hands and a feeble body, with special ways of walking and
talking, of dressing and eating and playing. He developed a separate religion, a separate language,
separate literatures and arts, separate vices and virtues. And fantastic and preposterous as
some of these might seem, they were real things, they were the means whereby the leisure-class
individual took part in the competition of his own world, and secured his own prestige and
the survival of his line. Some philosopher had said that virtue is a product like vinegar;
and it was a pleasant thing to discover that French heels and "picture-hats" and course-dinners
were products also.

Thyrsis would read passages of this book aloud to Corydon, and they would chuckle over it together;
but the reading of it did not bring Corydon the same unalloyed delight. In the leisure-class
regime, the woman is a cherished possession--for it is through her that the ability to waste
both time and goods can best be shown. So came Veblen's grim and ironic exposition of the leisure-class
woman, an exposition which Corydon found almost too painful to be read. For Corydon's ancestors,
as far back as documents could trace, had been members of that class. They had left her the
frail and beautiful body, conspicuously useless and dependent; they had left her all the leisure-class
impulses and cravings, all the leisure-class impotences and futilities to contend with. They
had taught her nothing about cooking, nothing about sewing, nothing about babies, nothing about
money; they had taught her only the leisure-class dream of "love in a cottage"--and she had
run away with a poor poet to try it out!

The depth of these instincts in Corydon was amusingly illustrated by the fact that she always
woke up dull and discouraged, and was seldom really herself until afternoon; and that along
about ten o'clock at night, when for the sake of her health she should have been going to bed,
she would be laughing, talking, singing, ablaze with interest and excitement. Thyrsis would
point this out to her, and please himself by picturing the role which she should have been
filling--wearing an empire gown and a rope or two of rubies, and presiding in an opera-box
or a salon. Corydon would repudiate all this with indignation; but all the same she never escaped
from the phrases of Veblen--she remained his "leisure-class wife" from that day forth. Not
so very long afterwards they came upon Ibsen's "Hedda Gabler"; and Thyrsis shuddered to observe
that of all the heroines in the world's literature, that was the one which most appealed to
her. Nor did he fail to observe the working of the thing in himself; the subtle and deeply-buried
instinct which made him prefer to be wretched with a "leisure-class wife" rather than to be
contented with a plebeian one!

BOOK XIV

THE PRICE OF RANSOM

The faint grey of dawn was stealing across the lake; and still the spell was upon them.

   "There thou art gone, and me thou leavest here
        Sole in these fields! yet will I not despair."

So she whispered; and he answered her--

   "He loved his mates; but yet he could not keep,
    Here with the shepherds and the silly sheep.

Section 1. In the course of that summer there befell Corydon an adventure; Thyrsis had gone
off one day for a walk, and when he came back she told him about it--how a young lady had stopped
at the house to ask for a drink of water, and had sat upon the piazza to rest, and had talked
with her. Now Corydon was in a state of excitement over a discovery.

Whenever Thyrsis met a stranger, it was necessary for him to go through elaborate intellectual
processes, to find the person out by an exchange of ideas. And if by any chance the person
was insincere, and used ideas as a blind and a cover, then Thyrsis might never find him out
at all. In other words, he took people at the face-value of their cultural equipment; and only
after long and tragic blunderings could he by any chance get deeper. But with his wife it happened
quite otherwise; this case was the first which he witnessed, but the same thing happened many
times afterwards. With her there would be a strange flash of recognition; it was a sort of
intuition, perhaps a psychic thing--who could tell? By some unknown process in soul-chemistry,
she would divine things about a person that he might have been a life-time in finding out.

It might be a burst of passionate interest, or on the other hand, of repugnance and fear. And
long years of practice taught Thyrsis that this instinct of hers was never to be disregarded.
Not once in all her life did he know her to give her affection to a base person; and if ever
he disregarded her antipathies, he did it to his cost. Once they were sitting in a restaurant,
and a man was brought up to be introduced by a friend; he was a person of not unpleasant aspect,
courteous and apparently a gentleman, and yet Corydon flushed, and could scarcely keep her
seat at the table, and would not give the man her hand. Years after Thyrsis came upon the discovery
about this man, that he made a practice of unnatural vices.

He came home now to find Corydon flushed with excitement. "She has such a beautiful soul!"
she exclaimed. "I never met anyone like her. And we just took to each other; she told me all
about herself, and we are going to be friends."

"Who is she?" asked Thyrsis.

"She's visiting Mr. Harding, the clergyman at Bellevue," was the answer.

Bellevue was a town in the valley, on the other side from the university; it had a Presbyterian
church, whose young pastor Thyrsis had met once or twice in his tramps about the country. This
Miss Gordon, it seemed, was the niece of an elderly relative, his housekeeper; she was studying
trained nursing, and afterwards intended to go out as a missionary to Africa.

"She's so anxious to meet you," Corydon went on. "She's coming up to see me to-morrow, and
she's going to bring Mr. Harding. You won't mind, will you, Thyrsis?"

"I guess I can stand it if he can," said Thyrsis, grimly.

"You mustn't say anything to hurt their feelings," said Corydon, quickly. "She's terribly orthodox,
you know; and she takes it so seriously. I was surprised--I had never thought that I could
stand anybody like that."

Thyrsis merely grunted.

"I guess ideas don't matter so much after all," said Corydon. "It's a deep nature that I care
about. But just fancy--she was pained because the baby hadn't been baptized!"

"You ought to have hid the dreadful truth," said he.

"I couldn't hide things from her," laughed Corydon, "But she says I can make a Socialist out
of her, and she'll make a Christian out of me!"

His reply was, "Wait until she discovers the sensuous temperament!"

But Corydon answered that Delia Gordon had a sensuous temperament also. "She seemed to me like
a Joan of Arc. Just think of her going away from all her family, to a station on the Congo
River! She told me all about it--how wretched the people are, and what the women suffer. She
woke up in the middle of the night, and a voice told her to go--told her the name of the place.
And she'd never heard it before, and hadn't had the least idea of going away!"

Thyrsis was unmoved by this miracle. "I suppose," he said, "you'll be hearing voices yourself,
and going with her. Tell me, is she pretty?"

"You wouldn't call her pretty," said Corydon, after a little thought. "She's just--just dear.
Oh, Thyrsis, I simply fell in love with her!"

"You certainly chose an odd kind of an affinity," he said. "A Presbyterian missionary!"

"It's worse than that," confessed Corydon. "She's a Seventh-day Adventist."

"Good God! And what may that be?"

"Why, she keeps Saturday instead of Sunday. She calls it the Sabbath. And she thinks that 'evolution'
is wicked, and she believes in some kind of a hell! She's not just sure what kind, apparently."

"You watch out," said he, "or the first thing you know she'll be baptizing the baby behind
your back."

"Would that do any good?" asked Corydon, guilelessly.

He laughed as he answered, "It would, from her point of view."

To which she replied, "Well, if we didn't know it and the baby didn't, I guess it wouldn't
do any harm."

"And it might save him from some kind of a hell!" added Thyrsis.

Section 2. Miss Gordon came the next morning, Mr. Harding with her; and the four sat out under
the trees and talked. She was a girl some three years older than Corydon, but much more mature;
she was short, but athletic in build, and with a bright personality. Thyrsis could see at once
those fine qualities of idealism and fervor which had attracted Corydon; and to his surprise
he found that, in addition to her religious virtues, the Lord had generously added a sense
of humor. So Delia Gordon was really a person with whom one could have a good time.

The Lord had not been quite so generous with the Rev. Mr. Harding, apparently. Mr. Harding
was about thirty years of age, tall and finely-built, with a slight, fair moustache, and a
rather girlish complexion. He was evidently of a sentimental inclination, very sensitive, and
a lovable person; but the sense of humor Thyrsis judged was underdeveloped. He was inclined
towards social-reform, and had a club for working-boys in his town, of which he was very proud;
he asked Thyrsis to come and give a literary talk to these boys, and Thyrsis replied that his
views of things were hardly orthodox. When the clergyman asked for elucidation, Thyrsis added,
with a smile, "I don't believe that Jonah ever swallowed the whale". Whereupon Mr. Harding
proceeded with all gravity to correct his misapprehension of this legend.

The fires of friendship, thus suddenly lighted between the two girls, continued to burn. Delia
Gordon came nearly every day to see Corydon, and once or twice Corydon went down to the town
and had lunch with her. They told each other all the innermost secrets of their hearts, and
in the evening Corydon would retail these to Thyrsis, who was thus put in the way to acquire
that knowledge of human nature so essential to a novelist. Delia had never been in love, it
seemed--her only passion was for savage tribes along the Congo; but Mr. Harding had been involved
in a heart-tragedy some time ago, and was supposed to be still inconsolable. Incredible as
it might seem, he was apparently not in love with Delia.

Also, needless to say, the pair did not fail to thresh out problems of theology. Delia made
in due course the dreadful discovery of the sensuous temperament; and also she probed to the
depths the frightful ocean of unorthodoxy that was hid beneath the placid surface of Corydon.
But strange to say, this did not repel her, nor make any difference in their friendship. Thyrsis
took that for the sign of a liberal attitude, but Corydon corrected him with a shrewd observation--"She's
so sure of her own truth she can't believe in the reality of any other. She knows I'll come
to Jesus with her some day!"

It was a wonderful thing to Thyrsis to see his wife's happiness just then; she was like a flower
which has been wilting, and suddenly receives a generous shower of rain. It was just what he
had prayed for; having seen all along that her wretchedness was owing to her being shut up
alone with him. So now he did his best to repress his own opinions, and to let the two friends
work out their problem undisturbed.

"Oh, Thyrsis," Corydon exclaimed to him, one night, "if I could only have her with me, I'd
be happy always!"

"Then why don't you get her to stay with you?" asked Thyrsis, quickly.

"Ah, but she wouldn't think of it," said Corydon. "She doesn't really care about anything in
the world but her Congo savages!"

"We might try," said he. "When does she complete her course?"

"Not until the end of the year."

"Well, we can do a lot of arguing in that time. And when the book is out, we'll have money
enough, so that we can offer to pay her. She might become a sort of 'mother's helper.'"

Section 3. So Thyrsis began a struggle with Jesus and the Congo savages, for the possession
of Delia's soul. He set to work to interest her in his work; he gave her his first novel, which
contained no theology at all; and also "The Hearer of Truth"--the social radicalism of which
he was pleased to see did not alarm her. And then he gave her the war-novel, and saw with joy
how she was thrilled over that. He laid himself out to make his purpose and his vision clear
to her; and then, one afternoon, when Corydon had a headache and was taking a nap, he led her
off to a quiet place in the woods, and set before her all the bitter tragedy of their lives.

He pictured the work he had to do, and the loneliness to which this consigned Corydon; he told
her of the horrors they had so far endured, and what effect these had had upon his wife. He
showed her what her power was--how she could make life possible for both of them. For she had
that magic key which Thyrsis himself did not possess, she could unlock the treasure-chambers
of Corydon's soul.

But alas, Thyrsis soon perceived that his efforts had been in vain. Delia was stirred by his
eloquence, but the only effect was to move her to an equally eloquent account of the sufferings
of the natives of the Congo basin. It was important that he should get his books written; but
how much more important it was that some help should be carried to these unhappy wretches!
They never saw any books, they were altogether beyond his reach; and who was to take the light
to them? She told him harrowing tales of sick women, beaten and tortured and burned with fire
to drive the devils out of them.

Thyrsis met this by attempting to broaden the girl's social consciousness. He showed her how
the waves of intelligence, beginning at the top, spread to the lowest strata of society--changing
the character of all human activities, and affecting the humblest life. He showed her the capitalist
system, and explained how it worked; how it reached to the savage in the remotest corner of
the earth, and seized him and made him over according to its will. It was true, for instance--and
not in any poetic sense, but literally and demonstrably true--that the fate of the Congo native
was determined in Wall Street, and in the financial centres of London and Paris and Brussels
and Berlin. The essential thing about the natives was that they represented rubber and ivory.
And Delia might go there, and try to teach them and help them, but she would find that there
were forces engaged in beating them down and destroying them--forces in comparison with which
she was as helpless as a child. It was true of the Congo blacks, as it was true of the people
of the slums, of the proletariat of the whole earth, that there was no way to help them save
to overthrow the system which made of them, not human beings, but commodities, to be purchased
and passed through the profit-mill, and then flung into the scrap-heap.

But Thyrsis found to his pain that it was impossible to make these considerations of any real
import to Delia. She understood them, she assented to them; but that did not make them count.
Her impulses came from another part of her being. Her savages were naked and hungry and ignorant
and miserable; and they needed to be fed and clothed, and more important yet, to be baptized
and saved. She was all the more impelled to her task by the fact that all the forces of civilization
were arrayed against her. The fires of martyrdom were blazing in her soul. She meant to throw
herself over a precipice--and the higher the precipice, and the more jagged the rocks beneath,
the greater was the thrill which the prospect brought her.

Section 4. They went back to the house; as Delia had arranged to spend the night with them,
and as Corydon's headache was better, the controversy was continued far into the evening. Thyrsis
took no part in it, he listened while Corydon pleaded for herself, and pictured her loneliness
and despair.

Delia put her arms about her. "Don't you see, dear," she argued--"all that is because you are
without a faith! You cast out Jesus, and deny him; and so how can I help you? If you believed
what I do, you would not be lonely, even if you were in the heart of Africa."

"But how can I believe what isn't true?" cried Corydon; and so the skeletons of theology came
forth and rattled their bones once more.

A couple of hours must have passed, while Thyrsis said nothing, but listened to Delia and watched
her, probing deeply into the agonies and futilities of life. He had given up all hope of persuading
her to stay with them; he thought only of the tragedy, that this noble spirit should be tangled
up and blundering about in the mazes of a grotesque dogma. And the time came when he could
endure it no more; something rose up within him, something tremendous and terrible, and he
laid hold of Delia Gordon's soul to wrestle with it, as never before had he wrestled with any
human soul except Corydon's.

The truth of the matter was that Thyrsis loved the religious people; it was among them that
he had been brought up, and their ways were his ways. This was a fact that came to him rarely
now, for he was hard-driven and bitter; but it was true that when he sneered at the church
and taunted it, he was like a parent who whips a child he loves. Perhaps Paret had spoken truly
in one of his cruel jests--that when a man has been brought up religious, he can never really
get over it, he can never really be free.

So now Thyrsis spoke to Delia as one who was himself of the faith of Jesus; he cried out to
her that what she wanted was what he wanted, that all her attitudes and ways of working were
his. And here were monstrous evils alive upon the earth--here were all the forces of hell unleashed,
and ranging like savage beasts destroying the lives of men and women! And those who truly cared,
those who had the conscience and the faith of the world in their keeping--they were wasting
their time in disputations about barren formulas, questions which had no relationship to human
life! Questions of the meaning of old Hebrew texts that had often no meaning at all, and of
folk-tales and fairy-stories out of the nursery of the race--the problem of whether Jonah had
swallowed the whale, or the whale had swallowed Jonah--the problem of whether it was on Friday
or Saturday that the Lord had finished the earth. Because of such things as this, they drove
all thinking men from their ranks, they degraded and made ridiculous the very name of faith!
As he went on, the agony of this swept over Thyrsis--until it seemed to him as if he had the
whole Christian Church before him, and was pleading with it in the voice of Jesus. Here was
a new crucifixion--a crucifixion of civilization! Thyrsis cried out in the words, "Oh ye of
little faith!" Truly, was it not the supreme act of infidelity, to make the spirit of religion,
which was one with the impulse of all life--the force that made the flower bloom and oak-tree
tower and the infant cry for its food--to make it dependent upon Hebrew texts and Assyrian
folk-tales! Delia preached to him about "faith"; but what was her faith in comparison with
his, which was a faith in all life--which trusted the soul of man, and reason as part of the
soul of man, a thing which God had put in man to be used, and not to be feared and outraged.

Then came Delia. She would not admit that her faith depended upon texts and legends; it was
a faith in the living God. She was not afraid of reason--she did not outrage it--

"But you do, you do!" cried Thyrsis. "Your whole attitude is an outrage to it! You never speak
of 'science' except as an evil thing. You told Corydon that 'evolution' was wicked!"

"I don't see how evolution can help my faith"--began the other.

"That's just it!" cried Thyrsis again. "That is exactly what I mean! You do not pay homage
to truth, you do not seek it for its own sake! You require that it should fit into certain
formulas that you have set up--in other words that it should not interfere with your texts
and your legends! And what is the result of that--you have paralyzed all your activities, you
have condemned your intellectual life to sterility! For we live in an age of science, we cannot
solve our problems except by means of it; the forces of evil are using it, and you are not
using it, and so you are like a child in their hands! Not one of the social wrongs but could
be put an end to--child-labor, poverty and disease, prostitution and drunkenness, crime and
war! But you don't know how, and you can't find out how--simply because you have thrown away
the sharp tools of the intellect, and filled your mind with formulas that mean nothing! How
can you understand modern problems, when you know nothing about economics? You have rejected
'evolution'--so how can you comprehend the evolution of society? How can you know that civilization
at this hour is going down into the abyss--dragging you and your churches and your Congo savages
with it? I who do understand these things--I have to go out and fight alone, while you are
shut up in your churches, mumbling your spells and incantations, and poring over your Hebrew
texts! And think of what I must suffer, knowing as I do that the spirit that animates you--the
fervor and devotion, the 'hunger and thirst after righteousness'--would banish horror from
the earth forever, if only it could be guided by intelligence!"

Section 5. All this, of course, was effort utterly wasted. Thyrsis poured out his pleadings
and exhortations, his longing and his pain; and when he had finished, the girl was exactly
where she had been before--just as distrustful of "science", and just as blindly bent upon
getting away to her savages and binding up their wounds and baptizing them. And so at last
he gave up in despair, and left Delia to go to bed, and went out and sat alone in the moonlight.

Afterwards, though it was long after midnight, Corydon came out and joined him. He saw that
she was flushed and trembling with excitement.

"Thyrsis!" she whispered. "That was a marvellous thing!"

He pressed her hand.

"And all thrown away!" she cried.

"You realized that, did you?" he asked.

"I realized many things. Why you set so much store by ideas, for instance! I see that you are
right--one has to think straight!"

"It's like a steam-engine," said Thyrsis. "It doesn't matter how much power you get up, or
how fast you make the wheels go--unless the switches are set right, you don't reach your destination."

"You only land in the ditch!" added Corydon. "And that's just the way I felt to-night--she'd
take your argument every time, and dump it into a ditch. And she'd see it there, and not care."

"She doesn't care about facts at all, Corydon. And notice this also--she doesn't care about
succeeding. That's the thing you must get straight--her religion is a religion of failure!
It comes back to that criticism of Nietzsche's--it's a slave-morality. The world belongs to
the devil; and the idea of taking it away from the devil seems to be presumptuous. Even if
it could be done, the attempt would be "unspiritual'; for the 'world' is something corrupt--something
that ought not to be saved. So you see, she's perfectly willing for the Belgians to have the
rubber."

"'Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's'!" quoted Corydon.

"Yes, and let Caesar spend them on Cleo de Merode. What she wants is to save the souls of her
savages--to baptize them, and to perish gloriously at the work, and then be transported to
some future life that is worth while. So you see what the immortality-mongers do with our morality!"

"Ah!" cried Corydon, swiftly. "But that need not be so!"

"But it is so!" he answered.

"No, no!" she protested. "You must not say that! That is giving up--and I felt such a different
mood in you to-night! I wanted to tell you--we must do something about it, Thyrsis! It made
me ashamed of my own life. Here I am, failing miserably--and all that work crying out to be
done! I don't think I ever had such a sense of your power before--the things you might do,
if only you could get free, if only I didn't stand in your way! Oh, can't we cast the old mistakes
behind us, and go out into the world and preach that message?"

"But, my dear," said Thyrsis, "that wouldn't appeal to you always. Your temperament--"

"Never mind my temperament!" she cried. "I am sick of it, ashamed of it; I want the world to
hear that trumpet-call! I want you to break your way into the churches--to make them listen
to you, and realize their blasphemy of life!"

She caught hold of him and clung to him; he could feel, like an electric shock, the thrill
of her excitement. He marvelled at the effect his words had produced upon her--realizing all
the more keenly, in contrast with Delia, what a power of mind he had here to deal with. "Dearest,"
he said, "I must put these things into my books. You must stand by me and help me to put them
into my books!"

Section 6. Delia Gordon went away to take up her work in the city; but for many months thereafter
that missionary impulse stayed with them. They would find themselves seized with the longing
to throw aside everything else, and to go out and preach Socialism with the living voice. They
were still immersed in its literature; they read Bellamy's "Looking Backward", and Blatchford's
"Merrie England", and Kropotkin's "Appeal to the Young". They read another book about England
that moved them even more--a volume of sketches called "The People of the Abyss", by a young
writer who was then just forging to the front--Jack London. He was the most vital among the
younger writers of the time, and Thyrsis watched his career with eager interest. There was
also not a little of wistful hunger in his attitude--he had visions of being the next to be
caught up and transported to those far-off heights of popularity and power.

Also, they were kept in a state of excitement by the Socialist papers and magazines that came
to them. There was a great strike that summer, and they followed the progress of it, reading
accounts of the distress of the people. Every now and then the pain of these things would prove
more than Thyrsis could bear, and he would blaze out in some fiery protest, which, of course,
the Socialist papers published gladly. So little by little Thyrsis was coming to be known in
"the movement". Some of his friends among the editors and publishers made strenuous protests
against this course, but little dreaming how deeply the new faith had impressed him.

In truth it was all that Thyrsis could do to hold himself in; it seemed to him that he no longer
cared about anything save this fight of the working-class for justice. He was frightened by
the prospect, when he stopped to realize it; for he could not write anything but what he believed,
and one could not live by writing about Socialism. He thought of his war-book, for instance.
It was but two or three months since he had finished it, and it was his one hope for success
and freedom; and yet already he had outgrown it utterly. He realized that if he had had to
go back and do it over, he could not; he could never believe in any war again, never be interested
in any war again. Wars were struggles among ruling-classes, and whoever won them, the people
always lost. Thyrsis was now girding up his loins for a war upon war.

So there were times when it seemed that a literary career would no longer be possible to him;
that he would have to cast his lot altogether with the people, and find his work as an agitator
of the Revolution. One day a marvellous plan flashed over him, and he came to Corydon with
it, and for nearly a week they threshed it over, tingling with excitement. They would sell
their home, and raise what money they could, and get themselves a travelling van and a team
of horses and go out upon the road on a Socialist campaign!

It was a perfectly feasible thing, Thyrsis declared: they would carry a supply of literature,
and would get a commission upon subscriptions to Socialist papers. He pictured them drawing
up on the main street of some country town, and ringing a dinner-bell to gather the people,
and beginning a Socialist meeting. He would make a speech, and Corydon would sell pamphlets
and books; they had animated discussions as to whether she might not learn to make a speech
also. At least, he argued, she might sing Socialist songs!

Thyrsis was forever evolving plans of this sort; plans for doing something concrete, for coming
into contact with the world of every day. The pursuit of literature was something so cold and
aloof, so comfortable and conventional; one never pressed the hand of a person in distress,
one never saw the light of hope and inspiration kindling in another's eyes. So he would dream
of running a publishing-house or a magazine, of founding a library or staging a play, of starting
a colony or a new religion. And then, after he had made himself drunk upon the imagining, he
would take himself back to his real job. For that summer his only indiscretions were to buy
several thousand copies of the "Appeal to Reason", and hire the old horse and buggy, and distribute
them over some thirty square miles of country; also to help to organize a club for the study
of Socialism at the university; and finally, when he was in the city, to make a fiery speech
at a meeting of some "Christian Socialists." Because of this the newspaper reporters dug out
the accounts of his earlier adventures, and "wrote him up" with malicious bantering. And this,
alas--as the publisher pointed out--was a poor sort of preparation for the launching of the
war-novel.

Needless to add, the two did not fail to wrestle with those individuals whom they met. Thyrsis
got a collection of pamphlets, judiciously selected, and gave them to the butcher and the grocer,
the store-clerks and the hack-drivers in the town. But a college-town was a poor place for
Socialist propaganda, as he realized with sinking heart; its population was made up of masters
and servants, and there was even more snobbery among the servants than among the masters. The
main architectural features of the place were fraternity-houses and "eating-clubs", where the
sons of the idle rich disported themselves; once or twice Thyrsis passed through the town after
midnight, and saw these young fellows reeling home, singing and screaming in various stages
of intoxication. Then he would think of little children shut up in cotton-mills and coal-mines,
of women dying in pottery-works and lead-factories; and on his way home he would compose a
screed for the "Appeal to Reason".

Section 7. Another victim of their fervor was the Rev. Mr. Harding, who stopped in to see them
several times upon his tramps. Thyrsis would never have dreamed of troubling Mr. Harding, but
Corydon found "something in him", and would go at him hammer and tongs whenever he appeared.
It must have been a novel experience for the clergyman; it seemed to fascinate him, for he
came again and again, and soon quite a friendship sprang up between the two. She would tell
Thyrsis about it at great length, and so, of course, he had to change his ideas about Mr. Harding.

"Don't you see how fine and sensitive he is?" she would plead.

"No doubt, my dear," said Thyrsis. "But don't you think he's maybe just a bit timid?"

"Timid," she replied. "But then think of his training! And think what you are!"

"Yes, I suppose I'm pretty bad," he admitted.

This discussion took place after he and Mr. Harding had had an argument, in which Thyrsis had
remarked casually that modern civilization was "crucifying Jesus all over again." And when
Mr. Harding asked for enlightenment, Thyrsis answered, "My dear man, we crucify him according
to the constitution. We teach the profession of crucifying him. We invest our capital in the
business of crucifying him. We build churches and crucify him in his own name!"

After which explosion Corydon said, "You let me attend to Mr. Harding. I understand him, and
how he feels about things."

"All right, my dear," assented Thyrsis. "When I see him coming, I'll disappear."

But that would not do either, it appeared, for Mr. Harding was a conventional person, and it
was necessary that he should feel he was calling on the head of the family.

"Then," said Thyrsis, "I'm supposed to sit by and serve as a chaperon?"

"You're to answer questions when I ask you to," replied Corydon.

Through Mr. Harding they made other acquaintances in Bellevue. There was a Mrs. Jennings, the
wife of the young principal of the High School; they were simple and kindly people, who became
fond of Corydon, and would beg her to visit them. The girl was craving for companionship, and
she would plead with Thyrsis to accompany her, and subject himself to the agonies of "ping-pong"
and croquet; and once or twice he submitted--and so one might have beheld them, at a lawn-party,
hotly pressed by half a dozen disputants, in a debate concerning the nature of American institutions,
and the future of religion and the home!

Thyrsis seldom took human relationships seriously enough to get excited in such arguments;
but Corydon, with her intense and personal temperament, made an eager and uncomfortable propagandist.
How could anyone fail to see what was so plain to her? And so she would bring books and pamphlets,
and lend them about. There was a young man named Harry Stuart, a fine, handsome fellow, who
taught drawing at the High School. In him, also, Cordon discovered possibilities; and she repudiated
indignantly the idea that his soulful eyes and waving brown hair had anything to do with it.
Harry Stuart was a guileless and enthusiastic member of the State militia; but in spite of
this sinister fact, Corydon went at him. She soon had her victim burning the midnight oil over
Kautsky and Hyndman; and behold, before the autumn had passed, the ill-fated drawing-teacher
had resigned from the State militia, and was doing cartoons for the "Appeal to Reason"!

Section 8. Corydon's excitement over these questions was all the greater because she was just
then making the discovery of the relationship of Socialism to the problems of her own sex.
Some one sent her a copy of Charlotte Gilman's "Women and Economics"; she read it at a sitting,
and brought it to Thyrsis, who thus came to understand the scientific basis of yet another
article of his faith. He went on to other books--to Lester Ward's "Sociology", and to Bebel's
"Woman", and to the works of Havelock Ellis. So he realized that women had not always been
clinging vines and frail flowers and other uncomfortable things; and the hope that they might
some day be interested in other matters than fashion and sentiment and the pursuit of the male,
was not a vain fantasy and a Utopian dream, but was rooted in the vital facts of life.

Throughout nature, it appeared, the female was often the equal of the male; and even in human
history there had been periods when woman had held her own with man--when the bearing of children
had not been a cause of degradation. Such had been the case with our racial ancestors, the
Germans; as one found them in Tacitus, their women were strong and free, speaking with the
men in the council-halls, and even going into battle if the need was great. It was only when
they came under the Roman influence, and met slavery and its consequent luxury, that the Teutonic
woman had started upon the downward path. Christianity also had had a great deal to do with
it; or rather the dogmas which a Roman fanatic had imposed upon the message of Jesus.

It was interesting to note how one might trace the enslavement of woman, step by step with
the enslavement of labor; the two things went hand in hand, and stood or fell together. So
long as life was primitive, woman filled an economic function, and held her own with her mate.
But with slavery and exploitation, the heaping up of wealth and the advent of the leisure-class
regime, one saw the woman becoming definitely the appendage of the man, a household ornament
and a piece of property; securing her survival, not by useful labor, but by sexual charm, and
so becoming specialized as a sex-creature. For generations and ages the male had selected and
bred in her those qualities which were most stimulating to his own desires, which increased
in him the sense of his own dominance; and for generations and ages he taught the doctrine
that the proper sphere of woman was the home. If he happened to be a German emperor, he summed
it up in the sneer of "Kuche, Kinder, Kirche". So the woman became frail and impotent physically,
and won her success by the only method that was open to her--by finding some male whom she
could ensnare.

Such had been the conditions. But now, in the present century, had come machinery, and the
development of woman's labor; and also had come intelligence, and woman's discovery of her
chains. So there was the suffrage movement and the Socialist movement. After the overthrow
of the competitive wage-system and of the leisure-class tradition, woman would no longer sell
her sex-functions, whether in marriage or prostitution; and so the sex might cease to survive
by its vices, and to infect the whole race with its intellectual and moral impotence. So would
be set free the enormous force that was locked up in the soul of woman; and human life would
be transformed by the impulse of emotions that were fundamental and primal. So Thyrsis perceived
the two great causes in which the progress of humanity was bound up--the emancipation of labor
and the emancipation of woman; to educate and agitate and organize for which became the one
service that was worth while in life.

Section 9. The nights were beginning to grow chilly, and they realized that autumn was at hand,
and faced the prospect of another winter in that lonely cabin. Paret, who had come down to
visit them, had given it a name--"the soap-box in a marsh." Thyrsis saw clearly that he could
not settle down to hard work while they were shut up there. Corydon's headaches and prostrations
seemed to be growing worse, and she could simply not get through the winter without some help.
As the book was ready, they had some money in prospect, and their idea was that they would
buy a farm with a good house. So they might keep a horse and a cow and some chickens; and there
might be some outdoor work for Thyrsis to do, instead of trudging aimlessly over the country.

They utilized their spare time by getting the old horse and buggy, and inspecting and discussing
all the farms within five miles of them; an occupation which put a great strain upon their
diverse temperaments. Thyrsis would be thinking of such matters as roads and fruit-trees and
barns--and above all of prices; while Corydon would be concerned with--alas, Corydon never
dared to formulate her vision, even to herself. She had vague memories of dilettante country-places
with great open fire-places, and exposed beams, and a broad staircase, and a deep piazza, and
above all, a view of the sunset. Whenever she came upon any vague suggestion of these luxuries,
her heart would leap up--and would then be crushed by some reference to ten or fifteen thousand
dollars.

Corydon was a poor sort of person to take an inspection-trip. She would gaze about and say,
"There might be a piazza here"; and then she would look across the fields and add, "There'd
be a good view if it weren't for those woods"--and wave the woods away with the gesture of
a duchess. So, of course, the observant farmer would add a thousand dollars to the asking-price
of his property.

On the other hand, when Thyrsis with his remorseless thoroughness would insist on getting out
and inspecting some dilapidated and forlorn-looking place--then what agonies would come! Corydon
would pass through the rooms, suffering all the horrors which she might have suffered in years
of occupancy of them. And there was no use pleading with her to be reserved in her attitude--she
took houses in the same way that she took people, either loving them or hating them. So, from
an afternoon's driving-trip, she would come home in a state of exhaustion and despair; and
Thyrsis would have to pledge himself upon oath not to think of this or that horrible place
for a single instant again.

There were times when Thyrsis, too, in spite of his lack of intuition, felt the atmosphere
of evil which hung about some of these old farms. Having lived for a year and a half in the
neighborhood, and been favored with the gossip of the washerwoman, and of the farmer's wife,
and of the girl who came to clean house now and then, they had come to know the affairs of
their neighbors--they had got a cross-section of an American small-farming community. It was
in amusing accord with Thyrsis' social theories that the only two decent families in the neighborhood
inhabited farms of over a hundred acres. There were several farms of fifty or sixty acres occupied
by tenants, who were engaged, in plundering them as fast as they could; and then a host of
little places, of from one to twenty acres, on which families were struggling pitifully to
keep alive. And with scarcely a single exception, these homes of poverty were also homes of
degradation. Across the way from Thyrsis was an idiot man; upon the next place lived an old
man who was a hopeless drunkard, and had one son insane, and another tubercular; and then down
in the meadows below the woods lived the Hodges--a name of direful portent. The father would
work as a laborer in town for a day or two, and buy vinegar and make himself half insane, and
then come home and beat his wife and children. There were eleven of these latter, and a new
one came each year; the eldest were thieves, and the youngest might be seen in midwinter, playing
half-naked before the house. The Hodges were known to all the neighbors for miles about, and
the amount of energy which each farmer expended in fighting them would have maintained the
whole family in comfort for their lives.

Thyrsis had travelled enough about the New England and Middle Atlantic states to know that
these conditions were typical of the small-farming industry in all the remoter parts. The people
with enterprise had moved West, and those who stayed behind divided and mortgaged their farms,
and sunk lower and lower into misery and degradation. This was one more aspect of that noble
system of laissez faire; this was the independent small-farmer, whose happiness was the theme
of all orthodox economists! He was, according to the newspaper editorials, the backbone of
American civilization; and once every two years, in November, he might be counted upon to hitch
up his buggy and drive to town, and pocket his two-dollar bill, and roll up a glorious majority
for the Grand Old Party of Protection and Prosperity.

Section 10. The date of publication of the book had come at last. It was being generously advertised,
under the imprint of a leading house; and Thyrsis' heart warmed to see the advertisements.
This at last, he felt, was success; and then the reviews began to come in, and his heart warmed
still more. Here was a new note in current fiction, said the critics; here were power and passion,
a broad sweep and a genuine poetic impulse. American history had never been treated like this
before, American ideals had never been voiced like this before. And these, Thyrsis noted, were
the opinions of the representative reviews--not those of obscure provincial newspapers. Victory,
it seemed, had come to him at last!

He came up to the metropolis on the strength of these triumphs; for he had observed that when
one had a new book coming out was the psychological moment to attack the magazine-editors.
One was a personality then, and could command attention. It was the height of a presidential
campaign, and the Socialists were making an impression which was astonishing every one. The
idea had occurred to Thyrsis that some magazine might judge it worth while to tell its readers
about this new and picturesque movement.

To his great delight the editor of "Macintyre's Monthly" looked with favor upon the suggestion,
and asked to see an article at once. So Thyrsis shut himself up in a hotel-room and wrote it
over night. It proved to be so full of "ginger" that the editorial staff of Macintyre's was
delighted, and made suggestions as to another article; at which point Thyrsis made a desperate
effort and summoned up his courage, and insinuated politely that his stuff was worth five cents
a word. The editor-in-chief replied promptly that that seemed to him proper.

Two hundred dollars for an article! Here indeed was fame! The author went home, and thought
out another one, and after a week came up to the city with it.

In this new article Thyrsis cited a presidential candidate before the bar of public opinion,
and propounded troublesome questions to him. Here was the capital of the country, heaping itself
up at compound interest, and demanding dividends; here were the people, scraping and struggling
to furnish the necessary profits. Would they always be able to furnish enough; and what would
happen when they could no longer furnish them? Here were franchises obtained by bribery, and
capitalized for hundreds of millions of dollars; and these millions, too, were heaping up automatically.
Were they to draw their interest and dividends forever? Here were the machines of production,
increasing by leaps and bounds, and the product increasing still faster, and all counting upon
foreign markets. What would happen when Japan had its own machines, and India had its own machines,
and China had its own machines? Again, the processes of production were being perfected, and
displacing men; here were panics and crises, displacing--yet more men. Already, in England,
a good fourth of the population had been displaced; and what were these displaced populations
to do? They had finished making over the earth for the capitalists; and now that the work was
done, there seemed to be no longer any place on the earth for them!

Such were the problems of our time, according to Thyrsis; and why did the statesmen of the
time have nothing to say about them? When this article had been read and discussed, young "Billy"
Macintyre himself sent for Thyrsis. This was the "real thing", said he, with his genial bonhomie;
the five hundred thousand subscribers of Macintyre's must surely have these mirth-provoking
meditations. Also, the editors themselves needed badly to be stirred up by such live ideas;
therefore would Thyrsis come to dinner next Friday evening, and, as "Billy" phrased it, "throw
a little Socialism at them"?

Section 11. So Thyrsis moved one step higher yet up the ladder of success. The younger Macintyre
occupied half a block of mansion up on Riverside Drive--just across the street from the town-house
of Barry Creston's father. Thyrsis found himself in an entrance-hall where wonderful pictures
loomed vaguely in a dim, religious light; and a silent footman took his cap, and then escorted
him by a soft, plush-covered stairway to the apartments of "Billy", who was being helped into
a dress-suit by his valet. Thyrsis, alas, had no dress-suit, and no valet to help him into
it, but he sat on the edge of a big leather chair and proceeded to "throw a little Socialism"
at his host. Then they went down stairs, and there were Morris and Hemingway, of the editorial
staff, and "Buddie" Comings, most popular of novelists, and "Bob" Desmond, most famous of illustrators.
And a little later on came Macintyre the elder, who had also been judged to stand in need of
some Socialism.

Macintyre the elder was white-haired and rosy-cheeked. He had begun life as an emigrant-boy,
running errands for a book-shop. In course of time he had become a partner, and then had started
a cheap magazine for the printing of advertisements. From this had come the reprinting of cheap
books for premiums; until now, after forty years, Macintyre's was one of the leading publishing-concerns
of the country. Recently the important discovery had been made that the printing of half-inch
advertisements headed "FITS" and "OBESITY" prevented the securing of full-page advertisements
about automobiles. The former kind was therefore being diverted to the religious papers of
the country, whose subscribers were now getting the "blood of the lamb" diluted with twenty-five
per cent. alcohol and one and three-fourths per cent. opium. But such facts were not allowed
to interfere with the optimistic philosophy of "Macintyre's Monthly".

The elder Macintyre seemed to Thyrsis the most naive and lovable old soul he had encountered
in many a year. When he espied Thyrsis, he waited for no preliminaries, but went up to him
as he stood by the fire-place, and put an arm about him, and led him off to a seat by the window.
"I want to talk to you," said he.

"My boy," he went on, "I read that article of yours."

"Which one?" asked Thyrsis.

"The last one. And you know, Billy's got to stop putting things like that in the magazine!"

"What!" cried Thyrsis, alarmed.

"I won't have it! He must not print that article!"

"But he's accepted it!"

"I know. But he should have consulted me."

"But--but I wrote it at his order. And he promised to pay me--"

"Oh, that's all right," said the old gentleman, with a genial smile. "We'll pay for it, of course."

There was a moment's pause, while Thyrsis caught his breath.

"My boy," continued the other, "that's a terrible article!"

"Um," said the author--"possibly."

"Why do you write such things?"

"But isn't it true, sir?"

Mr. Macintyre pondered. "You know," he said, "I think you are a very clever fellow, and you
know a lot; much more than I do, I've no doubt. But what I don't understand is, why don't you
put it into a book?"

"Into a book?" echoed Thyrsis, perplexed.

"Yes," explained the other--"then it won't hurt anybody but yourself. Why should you try to
get it into my magazine, and scare away my half-million subscribers?"

Section 12. They went in to dinner, which was served upon silver-plate, by the light of softly-shaded
candles; and while the velvet-footed waiters caused their food to appear and disappear by magic,
Thyrsis fulfilled his mission and "threw Socialism" at the company.

The company had its guns loaded, and they went at it hot and heavy. The editors wanted to know
about "the home" under Socialism; to which Thyrsis made retort by picturing "the home" under
capitalism. They wanted to know about liberty and individuality under Socialism; and so Thyrsis
discussed the liberty and individuality of the hundred thousand wage-slaves of the Steel Trust.
They sought to tangle him in discussions as to the desirability of competition, and the impossibility
of escaping it; but Thyrsis would bring them back again and again to the central fact of exploitation,
which was the one fact that counted. They insisted upon knowing how this, that, and the other
thing would be done in the Cooperative Commonwealth; to which Thyrsis answered, "Do you ask
for a map of heaven before you join the Church?"

It was "Billy" Macintyre who brought up a somewhat delicate question; how would such an institution
as "Macintyre's Monthly" be run under Socialism? Thyrsis replied by quoting Kautsky's formula:
"Communism in material production, Anarchism in intellectual". He showed how the state might
print and bind and distribute, while men in "free associations" might edit and publish. But
one could not get very far in this exposition, because of the excitement of the elder Macintyre.
For the old gentleman was like a small boy who is being robbed of his marbles; if there had
been a mob outside his publishing-house, he could not have been more agitated. He took occasion
to state, with the utmost solemnity, that he disapproved of such discussions; and "Billy",
who sat between him and Thyrsis, had to interfere now and then and soothe the "pater" down.

Mr. Macintyre's views on the subject of capitalism were simple and easy to understand. There
could be nothing really wrong with a system which had brought so many great and good men into
control of the country's affairs. Mr. Macintyre knew this, because he had played golf with
them all and gone yachting with them all. And this was a perfectly genuine conviction; if there
had been the slightest touch of sham in it, the old gentleman would have been more cautious
in the examples he chose. He would name man after man who was among the most notorious of the
country's "malefactors of great wealth"--men whose financial crimes had been proven beyond
any possibility of doubting. He would name them in a voice overflowing with affection and admiration,
as benefactors of humanity upon a cosmic scale; and of course that would end the argument in
a gale of laughter. When the elder Macintyre entered the discussion, all the rest of the company
moved forthwith to Thyrsis' side, and there were six Socialists confronting one business-man.
And this was a very puzzling and alarming thing to the old gentleman--his son and his magazine
were getting away from him, and he did not know what to make of the phenomenon!

Section 13. Thyrsis judged that the tidings must have got about that there was a new "lion"
in town; for a couple of days after this he was called up by Comings, most popular of novelists,
who asked him to have luncheon at the "Thistle" club. And when Thyrsis went, Comings explained
that Mrs. Parmley Fatten had read his book, and was anxious to meet him, and requested that
he be brought round to tea. The other was tactless enough to let it transpire that he knew
nothing about Mrs. Patton; but Comings was too tactful to show his surprise. Mrs. Patton, he
explained, was socially prominent--was looked upon as the leader of a set that went in for
intellectual things. She was interested in social reform and woman's suffrage, and was worth
helping along; and besides that, she was a charming woman--Thyrsis would surely find the adventure
worth while. Then suddenly, while he was listening, it flashed over Thyrsis that he had heard
of Mrs. Patton before; the lady was in mourning for her brother, and Corydon had recently handed
him a "society" item, which told of some unique and striking "mourning-hosiery" which she was
introducing from Paris.

Thyrsis in former days might have been shy of this phenomenon; but at present he was a collecting
economist on the look-out for specimens, and so he said he would go. He met Comings again at
five o'clock, and they strolled out Fifth Avenue together to Mrs. Patton's brown-stone palace.
Thyrsis observed that his friend had been considerate enough to omit his afternoon change of
costume, and for this he was grateful.

Mrs. Patton was still in mourning, a filmy and diaphanous kind of mourning, beautiful enough
to placate the angel Azrael himself. A filmy and diaphanous creature was Mrs. Patton also--one
could never have dreamed of so exquisite a black butterfly. She was very sweet and sympathetic,
and told Thyrsis how much she had liked his book--so that Thyrsis concluded she was not half
so bad as he had expected. After all, she might not have been to blame for the hosiery story--it
might even have been a lie. He reflected that the yellow journals no doubt lied as freely about
young leaders of intellectual sets in "society" as they did about starving authors.

Mrs. Patton wanted to know about Socialism, and sighed because it seemed so far away. She made
several remarks that showed real intelligence--and this was startling to Thyrsis, who would
as soon have expected intelligence from a real butterfly. He got a strange impression of a
personality struggling to get into contact with life from behind a wall some ten million dollars
high. Mrs. Patton had three young children, and her husband was one of the "Standard Oil crowd";
she complained to Thyrsis that "Parmy"--so she referred to the gentleman--was always in terror
over her vagaries.

It was a new discovery to the author that the very rich might live under the shadow of fear,
quite as much as the very poor. Their wealth made them a target for newspaper satire, so that
they dared not depart from convention in the slightest detail. Mrs. Patton told how once she
had ventured to romp for a few minutes with some children on the grounds of the "Casino", and
the next day all the world had read that she was introducing "tag" as a diversion for the Newport
colony.

There came other callers, both women and men; Percy Ambler, man of fashion and dilettante poet;
and with him little Murray Symington, who wrote the literary chat for "Knickerbocker's Weekly",
and was therefore a power to be propitiated. There came Blanchard, the young and progressive
publisher of the "Beau Monde", a weekly whose circulation rivalled that of "Macintyre's". There
came also young Macklin, Mrs. Patton's nephew, with his monocle and his killing drawl. Macklin
came by these honestly, having been brought up in England; but Thyrsis did not know that--he
only heard the young gentleman's passing reference to his yacht, and to his passion for the
poetry of Stephane Mallarme; and so he had it in for Macklin. Thyrsis had got involved in a
serious discussion with Mrs. Patton and Symington, and was in the act of saying that the social
problem could not be much longer left unsolved; and then he chanced to turn, and discovered
young Macklin, surveying him with elaborate superciliousness, and asking with his British drawl,
"Aw--I beg pawdon--but what do you mean by the social problem?" And Thyrsis, with a quick glance
at him, answered, "I mean you." So Macklin subsided; and Thyrsis learned afterwards that his
remark was going the rounds, being considered to be a mot. It appeared the next week in the
columns of a paper devoted to "society" gossip; and many a literary reputation had been made
by a lesser triumph than that.

Thyrsis got new light upon the making of reputations, when he looked into the next issue of
"Knickerbocker's Weekly". There he found that Murray Symington had devoted no less than three
paragraphs to his personality and his book. It was all "sprightly"--that was Murray's tone--but
also it was cordial; and it referred to Thyrsis' earlier novel, "The Hearer of Truth", as "that
brilliant piece of work". Thyrsis read this with consternation--recalling that when the book
had come out, not two years ago, "Knickerbocker's Weekly" had referred to it as a "preposterous
concoction". Could it be true that an author's work was "preposterous" while he was starving
in a garret, and became "brilliant" when he was found in the drawing- room of Mrs. "Parmy" Patton?

Section 14. Thyrsis went on to penetrate yet deeper into these mysteries; there came a call
from Murray Symington, to say that Mrs. Jesse Dyckman wanted him to dinner. Jesse Dyckman he
recognized as the name of one of the most popular contributors to the magazines --his short
stories of Fifth Avenue life were the delight of the readers of the "Beau Monde".

"But I can't go to dinner-parties with women!" protested Thyrsis. "I don't dress!"

Murray took that message; but in a few minutes he called up again. "She says she doesn't care
whether you dress or not."

"But then, I don't eat!" protested Thyrsis, who had recently discovered Horace Fletcher.

"I know that won't count," said the other, laughing. "She doesn't want you to eat--she wants
you to talk."

Mrs. Jesse Dyckman inhabited an apartment in a "studio-building" not far from Central Park;
and here was more luxury and charm--a dining-room done in dark red, with furniture of some
black wood, and candles and silver and cut glass, quite after the fashion of the Macintyres.
Thyrsis was admitted by a French maid-servant; and there was Mrs. Dyckman, resplendent in white
shoulders and a necklace of pearls; and there was Dyckman himself, even more prosperous and
contented-looking than his pictures, and even more brilliant and cynical than his tales. Also
there was his sister, Mrs. Partridge, the writer of musical comedies; and a Miss Taylor, who
filled the odd corners of the magazines with verses, which Corydon had once described as "cheap
cheer-up stuff".

So here was the cream of the "literary world"; and Thyrsis, as he watched and listened to it,
was working out the formula of magazine success. Mrs. Dyckman sat next to him, displaying her
shoulders and her culture; it seemed to him that she must have spent all her spare time picking
up phrases about the books and pictures and plays and music of the hour, so as to be ready
for possible mention of them at her dinner-parties. She had opinions on tap about everything;
opinions just enough "advanced" to be striking and original, and yet not too far "advanced"
for good form. Jesse Dyckman's short stories were the sort in which you read how the hero handled
his cigarette, and were told that the heroine was clad in "dimity en princesse". You learned
the names of the latest fashionable drinks, and the technicalities of automobiles, and met
with references to far-off and intricate standards of social excellence.

To Thyrsis it appeared that he could see before him the whole career of such a man. He had
trained himself by years of apprenticeship in snobbery; he had studied the fashions not only
in costume and manners, but also in books and opinions. He had been educated in a "fraternity",
and had chosen a wife who had been educated in a "sorority"; they had set up in this apartment,
with silver service and three French servants, and proceeded to give dinners, and cultivate
people who "counted." And so had come the pleasant berth with the "Beau Monde"; one or two
stories every month, and one thousand dollars for each story--as one might read in all newspaper
accounts of the "earnings of authors". 

I would not, therefore, alter the truth of my story and go against this law of human progress
becoming a monster Alhedín Count. Let's stick to the truth.

The Condesito, as I said already, was a great guy, light, fun friend,
very tempted to laugh, but better than bread.

His mother, the Dowager Countess, idolized him and pampered him forever,
but the pampering, far to pervert the good natures, make them better
and sweeter the gall to make syrup. In its advertising-columns one read of the latest things in cigarettes and highballs
and haberdashery and candies and autos; and in its reading-matter one found the leisure-class
world, and the leisure-class idea of all other worlds. Young Blanchard himself was in the most
"exclusive" society; and if one stayed close to him, one might worm his way past the warders.
Among the regular contributors to the "Beau Monde" and to "Macintyre's", there were a dozen
men who had risen by this method; and some of them had been real writers at the outset--had
started with a fund of vigor, at least. But now they spent their evenings at dinner-parties,
and their days lounging about in two or three expensive cafes, reading the afternoon papers,
exchanging gossip, and acquiring the necessary stock of cynicism for their next picture of
leisure-class life.

It was what might have been described as the "court method" of literary achievement. The centre
of it was the young prince who held the purse-strings; and the court was a coterie of bookish
men of fashion and rich women whose husbands were occupied in the stock-market. They set the
tone and dispensed the favors; one who stood in their good graces would be practically immune
to criticism, no matter how seedy his work might come to be. Nobody liked to "roast" a man
with whom he had played golf at a week-end party; and who could be so impolite as to slight
the work of a lady-poetess whom he had taken in to dinner?

