When we say that the real name of Lover's Leap in Mackinac is Mechenemockenungoqua, we trust
that it will not be repeated. It has its legend, however, as well as its name, for an Ojibway
girl stood on this spire of rock, watching for her lover after a battle had been fought and
her people were returning. Eagerly she scanned the faces of the braves as their war-canoes
swept by, but the face she looked for was not among them. Her lover was at that moment tied
to a tree, with an arrow in his heart. As she looked at the boats a vision of his fate revealed
itself, and the dead man, floating toward her, beckoned. Her death-song sounded in the ears
of the men, but before they could reach her she had gone swiftly to the verge, her hands extended,
her eyes on vacancy, and her spirit had met her lover's.

From this very rock, in olden time, leaped the red Eve when the red Adam had been driven away
by a devil who had fallen in love with her. Adam, who was paddling by the shore, saw she was
about to fall, rushed forward, caught her, and saved her life. The law of gravitation in those
days did not act with such distressing promptitude as now. In 1423 it was attempted again, with
a considerable
very force and powerful artillery, two pieces in which now stand at
the main gate: one has a stone ball of it of about fifteen inches diameter.
In 1418 the english made a fruitless attack upon it.

On the same island of Mackinac the English had a fort, the garrison of which was massacred
in 1763. A sole survivor--a young officer named Robinson--owed his life to a pretty half-breed
who gave him hiding in a secluded wigwam. As the spot assured him of safety, and the girl was
his only companion, they lived together as man and wife, rather happily, for several years.
When the fort had been built again, Robinson re-entered the service, and appeared at head-quarters
with a wife of his own color. His Indian consort showed no jealousy. On the contrary, she consented
to live apart in a little house belonging to the station, on the cliff, called Robinson's Folly.
She did ask her lover to go there and sit with her for an hour before they separated forever,
and he granted this request. While they stood at the edge of the rock she embraced him; then,
stepping back, with her arms still around his neck, she fell from the cliff, dragging him with
her, and both were killed. The edge of the rock fell shortly after, carrying the house with it.

Matiwana, daughter of the chief of the Omahas, whose village was near the mouth of Omaha Creek,
married a faithless trader from St. Louis, who had one wife already, and who returned to her,
after an absence among his own people, with a third, a woman of his own color. He coldly repelled
the Indian woman, though he promised to send her boy--and his--to the settlements to be educated.
She turned away with only a look, and a few days later was found dead at the foot of a bluff
near her home.

White Rocks, one hundred and fifty feet above Cheat River, in Fayette County, Pennsylvania,
were the favorite tryst of a handsome girl, the daughter of a well-to-do farmer of that region,
and a dashing fellow who had gone into that country to hunt. They had many happy days there
on the hill together, but after making arrangements for the wedding they quarrelled, nobody
knew for what. One evening they met by accident on the rocks, and appeared to be in formal
talk when night came on and they could no longer be seen. The girl did not return, and her
father set off with a search party to look for her. They found her, dead and mangled, at the
foot of the rocks. Her lover, in a fit of impatience, had pushed her and she had staggered
and fallen over. He fled at once, and, under a changed name and changed appearance, eluded
pursuit. When the War of the Rebellion broke out, he entered the army and fought recklessly,
for by that time he had tired of life and hoped to die. But it was of no use. He was only made
captain for a bravery that he was not conscious of showing, and the old remorse still preyed
on him. It was after the war that something took him back to Fayette County, and on a pleasant
day he climbed the rocks to take a last look at the scenes that had been brightened by love
and saddened by regret. He had not been long on its summit when an irresistible impulse came
upon him to leap down where the girl had fallen, and atone with his own blood for the shedding
of hers. He gave way to this prompting, and the fall was fatal.

Some years before the outbreak of the Civil War a man with his wife and daughter took up their
residence in a log cabin at the foot of Sunrise Rock, near Chattanooga, Tennessee. It seemed
probable that they had known better days, for the head of the household was notoriously useless
in the eyes of his neighbors, and was believed to get his living through "writin' or book-larnin',"
but he was so quiet and gentle that they never upbraided him, and would sometimes, after making
a call, wander into his garden and casually weed it for him for an hour or so. The girl, Stella,
was a well-schooled, quick-witted, rosy-cheeked lass, whom all the shaggy, big-jointed farmer
lads of the neighborhood regarded with hopeless admiration. A year or two after the settlement
of the family it began to be noticed that she was losing color and had an anxious look, and
when a friendly old farmer saw her talking in the lane with a lawyer from Chattanooga, who
wore broadcloth and had a gold watch, he was puzzled that the "city chap" did not go home with
her, but kissed his hand to her as he turned away. Afterward the farmer met the pair again,
and while the girl smiled and said, "Howdy, Uncle Joe?" the lawyer turned away and looked down
the river. It was the last time that a smile was seen on Stella's face. A few evenings later
she was seen standing on Sunrise Rock, with her look bent on Chattanooga. The shadow of night
crept up the cliff until only her figure stood in sunlight, with her hair like a golden halo
about her face. At that moment came on the wind the sound of bells-wedding-bells. Pressing
her hands to her ears, the girl walked to the edge of the rock, and a few seconds later her
lifeless form rolled through the bushes at its foot into the road. At her funeral the people
came from far and near to offer sympathy to the mother, garbed in black, and the father, with
his hair turned white, but the lawyer from Chattanooga was not there.

The name of Indian Maiden's Cliff--applied to a precipice that hangs above the wild ravine
of Stony Clove, in the Catskills--commemorates the sequel to an elopement from her tribe of
an Indian girl and her lover. The parents and relatives had opposed the match with that fatal
fatuity that appears to be characteristic of story-book Indians, and as soon as word of her
flight came to the village they set off in chase. While hurrying through the tangled wood the
young couple were separated and the girl found herself on the edge of the cliff. Farther advance
was impossible. Her pursuers were close behind. She must yield or die. She chose not to yield,
and, with a despairing cry, flung herself into the shadows.

Similar to this is the tale of Lover's Leap in the dells of the Sioux, among the Black Hills
of South Dakota.

