From a quaint platform of evergreens you see a blue gleam of Windermere over the grove-tops--close
at hand are Rydal-hall and its ancient woods--right opposite the Loughrigg-fells, ferny, rocky,
and sylvan, but the chief breadth of breast pastoral--and to the right Rydal-mere, seen, and
scarcely seen, through embowering trees, and mountain-masses bathed in the morning light, and
the white-wreathed mists for a little while longer shrouding their summits. A lately erected
private chapel lifts its little tower from below, surrounded by a green, on which there are
yet no graves--nor do we know if it be intended for a place of burial. A few houses are sleeping
beyond the chapel by the river-side; and the people beginning to set them in order, here and
there a pillar of smoke ascends into the air, giving cheerfulness and animation to the scene.

The Lake-Poets! ay, their day is come. The lakes are worthy of the poets, and the poets of
the lakes. That poets should love and live among lakes, once seemed most absurd to critics
whose domiciles were on the Nor-Loch, in which there was not sufficient water for a tolerable
quagmire. Edinburgh Castle is a noble rock--so are the Salisbury Craigs noble craigs--and Arthur's
seat a noble lion couchant, who, were he to leap down on Auld Reekie, would break her backbone
and bury her in the Cowgate. But place them by Pavey-ark, or Red-scaur, or the glamour of Glaramara,
and they would look about as magnificent as an upset pack of cards. Who, pray, are the Nor-Loch
poets? Not the Minstrel--he holds by the tenure of the Tweed. Not Campbell--"he heard in dreams
the music of the Clyde." Not Joanna Baillie--her inspiration was nursed on the Calder's sylvan
banks and the moors of Strathaven. Stream-loving Coila nurtured Burns; and the Shepherd's grave
is close to the cot in which he was born--within hearing of the Ettrick's mournful voice on
its way to meet the Yarrow. Skiddaw overshadows, and Greta freshens the bower of him who framed,

    "Of Thalaba, the wild and wondrous song."

Here the woods, mountains, and waters of Rydal imparadise the abode of the wisest of nature's
bards, with whom poetry is religion. And where was he ever so happy as in that region, he who
created "Christabelle," "beautiful exceedingly;" and sent the "Auncient Mariner" on the wildest
of all voyagings, and brought him back with the ghastliest of all crews, and the strangest
of all curses that ever haunted crime?

Of all Poets that ever lived Wordsworth has been at once the most truthful and the most idealising;
external nature from him has received a soul, and becomes our teacher; while he has so filled
our minds with images from her, that every mood finds some fine affinities there, and thus
we all hang for sustenance and delight on the bosom of our mighty Mother. We believe that there
are many who have an eye for Nature, and even a sense of the beautiful, without any very profound
feeling; and to them Wordsworth's finest descriptive passages seem often languid or diffuse,
and not to present to their eyes any distinct picture. Perhaps sometimes this objection may
be just; but to paint to the eye is easier than to the imagination--and Wordsworth, taking
it for granted that people can now see and hear, desires to make them feel and understand;
of his pupil it must not be said,

    "A primrose by the river's brim
    A yellow primrose is to him,
    And it is nothing more;"

the poet gives the something more till we start at the disclosure as at a lovely apparition--yet
an apparition of beauty not foreign to the flower, but exhaling from its petals, which till
that moment seemed to us but an ordinary bunch of leaves. In these lines is a humbler example
of how recondite may be the spirit of beauty in any most familiar thing belonging to the kingdom
of nature; one higher far--but of the same kind--is couched in two immortal verses--

    "To me the humblest flower that blows, can give
    Thoughts that too often lie too deep for tears."

In what would the poet differ from the worthy man of prose, if his imagination possessed not
a beautifying and transmuting power over the objects of the inanimate world? Nay, even the
naked truth itself is seen clearly but by poetic eyes; and were a sumph all at once to become
a poet, he would all at once be stark-staring mad. Yonder ass licking his lips at a thistle,
sees but water for him to drink in Windermere a-glow with the golden lights of setting suns.
The ostler or the boots at Lowood-inn takes a somewhat higher flight, and for a moment, pausing
with curry-comb or blacking-brush in his suspended hand, calls on Sally Chambermaid for gracious
sake to look at Pull-wyke. The waiter, who has cultivated his taste from conversation with
Lakers, learns their phraseology, and declares the sunset to be exceedingly handsome. The Laker,
who sometimes has a soul, feels it rise within him as the rim of the orb disappears in the
glow of softened fire.

Compare any one page, or any twenty pages, with the character given of Wordsworth's poetry
in the obsolete criticism that sought to send it to oblivion. The poet now sits on his throne
in the blue serene--and no voice from below dares deny his supremacy in his own calm dominions.
And was it of him, whom devout imagination, dreaming of ages to come, now sees, placed in his
immortality between Milton and Spenser, that the whole land once rang with ridicule, while
her wise men wiped their eyes "of tears that sacred pity had engendered," and then relieved
their hearts by joining in the laughter "of the universal British nation?" All the ineffable
absurdities of the bard are now embodied in Seven Volumes--the sense of the ridiculous still
survives among us--our men of wit and power are not all dead--we have yet our satirists, great
and small--editors in thousands, and contributors in tens of thousands--yet not a whisper is
heard to breathe detraction from the genius of the high-priest of nature; while the voice of
the awakened and enlightened land declares it to be divine--using towards him not the language
merely of admiration but of reverence--of love and gratitude due to the benefactor of humanity,
who has purified its passions by loftiest thoughts and noblest sentiments, stilling their turbulence
by the same processes that magnify their power, and showing how the soul, in ebb and flow,
and when its tide is at full, may be at once as strong and as serene as the sea.

Is thy life disturbed by guilty or sinful passions? Have they gained a mastery of thee--and
art thou indeed their slave? Then the poetry of Wordsworth must be to thee

    "As is a picture to a blind man's eye;"

or if thine eyes yet see the light in which it is enveloped, and thy heart yet feels the beauty
it reveals, in spite of the clouds that overhang and the storms that trouble them, that beauty
will be unbearable, till regret become remorse, and remorse penitence, and penitence restore
thee to those intuitions of the truth that illumine his sacred pages, and thou knowest and
feelest once more that

    "The primal duties shine aloft--like stars,"

that life's best pleasures grow like flowers all around and beneath thy feet.

Nor are we not privileged to cherish a better feeling than pride in the belief, or rather knowledge,
that WE have helped to diffuse Wordsworth's poetry not only over this Island, but the furthest
dependencies of the British empire, and throughout the United States of America. Many thousands
have owed to us their emancipation from the prejudices against it, under which they had wilfully
remained ignorant of it during many years; and we have instructed as many more, whose hearts
were free, how to look on it with those eyes of love which alone can discover the Beautiful.
Communications have been made to us from across the Atlantic, and from the heart of India--from
the Occident and the Orient--thanking us for having vindicated and extended the fame of the
best of our living bards, till the name of Wordsworth has become a household word on the banks
of the Mississippi and the Ganges. It would have been so had we never lived, but not so soon;
and many a noble nature has worshipped his genius, as displayed in our pages, not in fragments
but in perfect poems, accompanied with our comments, who had no means in those distant regions
of possessing his volumes, whereas Maga flies on wings to the uttermost parts of the earth.

As for our own dear Scotland--for whose sake, with all her faults, the light of day is sweet
to our eyes--twenty years ago there were not twenty copies--we question if there were ten--of
the "Lyrical Ballads" in all the land of the mountain and the flood. Now Wordsworth is studied
all Scotland over--and Scotland is proud and happy to know, from his Memorials of the Tours
he has made through her brown heaths and shaggy woods, that the Bard's heart overflows with
kindness towards her children--that his songs have celebrated the simple and heroic character
of her olden times, nor left unhonoured the virtues that yet survive in her national character.
All her generous youth regard him now as a great Poet; and we have been more affected than
we should choose to confess, by the grateful acknowledgment of many a gifted spirit, that to
us it was owing that they had opened their eyes and their hearts to the ineffable beauty of
that poetry in which they had, under our instructions, found not a vain visionary delight,
but a strength and succour and consolation, breathed as from a shrine in the silence and solitude
of nature, in which stood their father's hut, sanctifying their humble birthplace with pious
thoughts that made the very weekdays to them like Sabbaths--nor on the evening of the Sabbath
might they not blamelessly be blended with those breathed from the Bible, enlarging their souls
to religion by those meditative moods which such pure poetry inspires, and by those habits
of reflection which its study forms, when pursued under the influence of thoughtful peace.

Why, if it were not for that everlasting--we beg pardon--immortal Wordsworth--the LAKES, and
all that belong to them, would be our own--jure divino--for we are the heir-apparent to the

    "Sole King of rocky Cumberland."

But Wordsworth never will--never can die; and so we are in danger of being cheated out of our
due dominion. We cannot think this fatherly treatment of such a son--and yet in our loftiest
moods of filial reverence we have heard ourselves exclaiming, while

            "The Cataract of Lodore
    Peal'd to our orisons,"

O King! live for ever!

Therefore, with the fear of "The Excursion" before our eyes, we took to prose--to numerous
prose--ay, though we say it that should not say it, to prose as numerous as any verse--and
showed such scenes

    "As savage Rosa dash'd, or learned Poussin drew."

Here an English Lake--there a Scottish loch--till Turner grew jealous, and Thomson flung his
brush at one of his own unfinished mountains--when lo! a miracle! Creative of grandeur in his
very despair, he stood astonished at the cliff that came prerupt from his canvass, and christened
itself "the Eagle's Eyrie," as it frowned serenely upon the sea, maddening in a foamy circle
at its inaccessible feet.

Only in such prose as ours can the heart pour forth its effusions like a strong spring discharging
ever so many gallons in a minute, either into pipes that conduct it through some great Metropolitan
city, or into a water-course that soon becomes a rivulet, then a stream, then a river, then
a lake, and then a sea. Would Fancy luxuriate? Then let her expand wings of prose. In verse,
however irregular, her flight is lime-twigged, and she soon takes to hopping on the ground.
Would Imagination dive? Let the bell in which she sinks be constructed on the prose principle,
and deeper than ever plummet sunk, it will startle monsters at the roots of the coral caves,
yet be impervious to the strokes of the most tremendous of tails. Would she soar? In a prose
balloon she seeks the stars. There is room and power of ascension for any quantity of ballast--fling
it out, and up she goes! Let some gas escape, and she descends far more gingerly than Mrs Graham
and his Serene Highness; the grapnel catches a stile, and she steps "like a dreadless angel
unpursued" once more upon terra firma, and may then celebrate her aerial voyage, if she choose,
in an Ode which will be sure near the end to rise--into prose.

Prose, we believe, is destined to drive what is called Poetry out of the world. Here is a fair
challenge. Let any Poet send us a poem of five hundred lines--blanks or not--on any subject;
and we shall write on that subject a passage of the same number of words in prose; and the
Editors of the Quarterly, Edinburgh, and Westminster, shall decide which deserves the prize.
Milton was woefully wrong in speaking of "prose or numerous verse." Prose is a million times
more numerous than verse. Then prose improves the more poetical it becomes; but verse, the
moment it becomes prosaic, goes to the dogs. Then, the connecting links between two fine passages
in verse, it is enjoined, shall be as little like verse as possible; nay, whole passages, critics
say, should be of that sort; and why, pray, not prose at once? Why clip the King's English,
or the Emperor's German, or the Sublime Porte's Turkish, into bits of dull jingle--pretending
to be verses merely because of the proper number of syllables--some of them imprisoned perhaps
in parentheses, where they sit helplessly protruding the bare soles of their feet, like folks
that have got muzzy, in the stocks?

Wordsworth says well, that the language of common people, when giving utterance to passionate
emotions, is highly figurative; and hence he concludes not so well fit for a lyrical ballad.
Their volubility is great, nor few their flowers of speech. But who ever heard them, but by
the merest accident, spout verses? Rhyme do they never--the utmost they reach is occasional
blanks. But their prose! Ye gods! how they do talk! The washerwoman absolutely froths like
her own tub; and you never dream of asking her "how she is off for soap?" Paradise Lost! The
Excursion! The Task indeed! No man of woman born, no woman by man begotten, ever yet in his
or her senses spoke like the authors of those poems. Hamlet, in his sublimest moods, speaks
in prose--Lady Macbeth talks prose in her sleep--and so it should be printed. "Out damned spot!"
are three words of prose; and who that beheld Siddons wringing her hands to wash them of murder,
did not feel that they were the most dreadful ever extorted by remorse from guilt?

A green old age is the most loving season of life, for almost all the other passions are then
dead or dying--or the mind, no more at the mercy of a troubled heart, compares the little pleasure
their gratification can ever yield now with what it could at any time long ago, and lets them
rest. Envy is the worst disturber or embitterer of man's declining years; but it does not deserve
the name of a passion--and is a disease, not of the poor in spirit--for they are blessed--but
of the mean, and then they indeed are cursed. For our own parts, we know Envy but as we have
studied it in others--and never felt it except towards the wise and good; and then 'twas a
longing desire to be like them--painful only when we thought that might never be, and that
all our loftiest aspirations might be in vain. Our envy of Genius is of a nature so noble,
that it knows no happiness like that of guarding from mildew the laurels on the brows of the
Muses' Sons. What a dear kind soul of a critic is old Christopher North! Watering the flowers
of poetry, and removing the weeds that might choke them--letting in the sunshine upon them,
and fencing them from the blast--proclaiming where the gardens grow, and leading boys and virgins
into the pleasant alleys--teaching hearts to love and eyes to see their beauty, and classifying,
by the attributes it has pleased nature to bestow on the various orders, the plants of Paradise--This
is our occupation--and the happiness of witnessing them all growing in the light of admiration
is our reward.

Finding our way back as we choose to Ivy-cottage, we cross the wooden bridge, and away along
the western shore of Rydal-mere. Hence you see the mountains in magnificent composition, and
craggy coppices with intervening green fields shelving down to the lake margin. It is a small
lake, not much more than a mile round, and of a very peculiar character. One memorable cottage
only, as far as we remember, peeps on its shore from a grove of sycamores, a statesman's pleasant
dwelling; and there are the ruins of another on a slope near the upper end, the circle of the
garden still visible. Everything has a quiet but wildish pastoral and sylvan look, and the
bleating of sheep fills the hollow of the hills. The lake has a reedy inlet and outlet, and
the angler thinks of pike when he looks upon such harbours. There is a single boat-house, where
the Lady of the Hall has a padlocked and painted barge for pleasure parties; and the heronry
on the high pine-trees of the only island connects the scene with the ancient park of Rydal,
whose oak woods, though thinned and decayed, still preserve the majestic and venerable character
of antiquity and baronial state.

Having taken a lingering farewell of Rydal-mere, and of the new Chapel-tower, that seems among
the groves already to be an antique, we may either sink down to the stream that flows out of
Grassmere and connects the two lakes, crossing a wooden bridge, and then joining the new road
that sweeps along to the Village, or we may keep up on the face of the hill, and by a terrace-path
reach the Loughrigg-road, a few hundred yards above Tail-end, a pretty cottage-ornée which
you will observe crowning a wooded eminence, and looking cheerfully abroad over all the vale.
There is one Mount in particular, whence we see to advantage the delightful panorama--encircling
mountains--Grassmere Lake far down below your feet, with its one green pastoral isle, sylvan
shores, and emerald meadows--huts and houses sprinkled up and down in all directions--the village
partly embowered in groves, and partly open below the shadow of large single trees--and the
Church-tower, almost always a fine feature in the scenery of the north of England, standing
in stately simplicity among the clustering tenements, nor dwindled even by the great height
of the hills.

It is pleasant to lose sight entirely of a beautiful scene, and to plod along for a few hundred
yards in almost objectless shadow. Our conceptions and feelings are bright and strong from
the nearness of their objects, yet the dream is somewhat different from the reality. All at
once, at a turning of the road, the splendour reappears like an unfurled banner, and the heart
leaps in the joy of the senses. This sort of enjoyment comes upon you before you reach the
Village of Grassmere from the point of vision above described, and a stranger sometimes is
apt to doubt if it be really the same Lake--that one island, and those few promontories, shifting
into such varied combinations with the varying mountain-ridges and ranges, that show top over
top in bewildering succession, and give hints of other valleys beyond, and of Tarns rarely
visited, among the moorland wastes. A single long dim shadow, falling across the water, alters
the whole physiognomy of the scene--nor less a single bright streak of sunshine, brightening
up some feature formerly hidden, and giving animation and expression to the whole face of the Lake.

About a short mile from the Village Inn, you will pass by without seeing it--unless warned
not to do so--one of the most singularly beautiful habitations in the world. It belongs to
a gentleman of the name of Barber, and, we believe, has been almost entirely built by him--the
original hut on which his taste has worked having been a mere shell. The spirit of the place
seems to us to be that of Shadowy Silence. Its bounds are small; but it is an indivisible part
of a hill-side so secret and sylvan, that it might be the haunt of the roe. You hear the tinkle
of a rill, invisible among the hazels--a bird sings or flutters--a bee hums his way through
the bewildering wood--but no louder sound. Some fine old forest-trees extend widely their cool
and glimmering shade; and a few stumps or armless trunks, whose bulk is increased by a load
of ivy that hides the hollow wherein the owls have their domicile, give an air of antiquity
to the spot, that, but for other accompaniments, would almost be melancholy. As it is, the
scene has a pensive character. As yet you have seen no house, and wonder whither the gravel-walks
are to conduct you, winding fancifully and fantastically through the smooth-shaven lawn, bestrewed
by a few large leaves of the horse-chestnut or sycamore. But there are clustered verandas where
the nightingale might woo the rose, and lattice-windows reaching from eaves to ground-sill,
so sheltered that they might stand open in storm and rain, and tall circular chimneys, shaped
almost like the stems of the trees that overshadow the roof irregular, and over all a gleam
of blue sky and a few motionless clouds. The noisy world ceases to be, and the tranquil heart,
delighted with the sweet seclusion, breathes, "Oh! that this were my cell, and that I were
a hermit!"

But you soon see that the proprietor is not a hermit; for everywhere you discern unostentatious
traces of that elegance and refinement that belong to social and cultivated life; nothing rude
and rough-hewn, yet nothing prim and precise. Snails and spiders are taught to keep their own
places; and among the flowers of that hanging garden on a sunny slope, not a weed is to be
seen, for weeds are beautiful only by the wayside, in the matting of hedge-roots, by the mossy
stone, and the brink of the well in the brae--and are offensive only when they intrude into
society above their own rank, and where they have the air and accent of aliens. By pretty pebbled
steps of stairs you mount up from platform to platform of the sloping woodland banks--the prospect
widening as you ascend, till from a bridge that spans a leaping rivulet, you behold in full
blow all Grassmere Vale, Village, Church-tower, and Lake, the whole of the mountains, and a
noble arch of sky, the circumference of that little world of peace.

Circumscribed as are the boundaries of this place, yet the grounds are so artfully, while one
thinks so artlessly, laid out, that, wandering through their labyrinthine recesses, you might
believe yourself in an extensive wilderness. Here you come out upon a green open glade (you
see by the sun-dial it is past seven o'clock)--there the arms of an immense tree overshadow
what is in itself a scene--yonder you have an alley that serpentises into gloom and obscurity--and
from that cliff you doubtless would see over the tree-tops into the outer and airy world. With
all its natural beauties is intermingled an agreeable quaintness, that shows the owner has
occasionally been working in the spirit of fancy, almost caprice; the tool-house in the garden
is not without its ornaments--the barn seems habitable, and the byre has somewhat the appearance
of a chapel. You see at once that the man who lives here, instead of being sick of the world,
is attached to all elegant socialities and amities; that he uses silver cups instead of maple
bowls, shows his scallop-shell among other curiosities in his cabinet, and will treat the passing
pilgrim with pure water from the spring, if he insists upon that beverage, but will first offer
him a glass of the yellow cowslip-wine, the cooling claret, or the sparkling champagne.

Perhaps we are all beginning to get a little hungry, but it is too soon to breakfast; so, leaving
the village of Grassmere on the right, keep your eye on Helm-crag, while we are finding, without
seeking, our way up Easdale. Easdale is an arm of Grassmere, and in the words of Mr Green the
artist, "it is in places profusely wooded, and charmingly sequestered among the mountains."
Here you may hunt the waterfalls, in rainy weather easily run down, but difficult of detection
in a drought. Several pretty rustic bridges cross and recross the main stream and its tributaries;
the cottages, in nook and on hill-side, are among the most picturesque and engaging in the
whole country; the vale widens into spacious and noble meadow-grounds, on which might suitably
stand the mansion of any nobleman in England--as you near its head, everything gets wild and
broken, with a slight touch of dreariness, and by no very difficult ascent we might reach Easdale-tarn
in less than an hour's walking from Grassmere--a lonely and impressive scene, and the haunt
of the angler almost as frequently as of the shepherd.

How far can we enjoy the beauty of external nature under a sharp appetite for breakfast or
dinner? On our imagination the effect of hunger is somewhat singular. We no longer regard sheep,
for instance, as the fleecy or the bleating flock. Their wool or their baaing is nothing to
us--we think of necks, and jigots, and saddles of mutton; and even the lamb frisking on the
sunny bank is eaten by us in the shape of steaks and fry. If it is in the morning, we see no
part of the cow but her udder, distilling richest milkiness. Instead of ascending to heaven
on the smoke of a cottage chimney, we put our arms round the column, and descend on the lid
of the great pan preparing the family breakfast. Every interesting object in the landscape
seems edible--our mouth waters all over the vale--as the village clock tolls eight, we involuntarily
say grace, and Price on the Picturesque gives way to Meg Dods's Cookery.

Mrs Bell of the Red Lion Inn, Grassmere, can give a breakfast with any woman in England. She
bakes incomparable bread--firm, close, compact, and white, thin-crusted, and admirably raised.
Her yeast always works well. What butter! Before it a primrose must hide its unyellowed head.
Then jam of the finest quality, goose, rasp, and strawberry! and as the jam is, so are her
jellies. Hens cackle that the eggs are fresh--and these shrimps were scraping the sand last
night in the Whitehaven sea. What glorious bannocks of barley-meal! Crisp wheaten cakes, too,
no thicker than a wafer. Do not, our good sir, appropriate that cut of pickled salmon; it is
heavier than it looks, and will weigh about four pounds. One might live a thousand years, yet
never weary of such mutton-ham. Virgin honey, indeed! Let us hope that the bees were not smothered,
but by some gracious disciple of Bonar or Huber decoyed from a full hive into an empty one,
with half the summer and all the autumn before them to build and saturate their new Comb-Palace.
No bad thing is a cold pigeon-pie, especially of cushats. To hear them cooing in the centre
of a wood is one thing, and to see them lying at the bottom of a pie is another--which is the
better, depends entirely on time, place, and circumstance. Well, a beef-steak at breakfast
is rather startling--but let us try a bit with these fine ingenuous youthful potatoes, from
a light sandy soil on a warm slope. Next to the country clergy, smugglers are the most spiritual
of characters; and we verily believe that to be "sma' still." Our dear sir--you are in orders,
we believe--will you have the goodness to return thanks? Yes, now you may ring the bell for
the bill. Moderate indeed! With a day's work before one, there is nothing like the deep broad
basis of breakfast.

STROLL TO GRASSMERE.

SECOND SAUNTER.

It is yet only ten o'clock--and what a multitude of thoughts and feelings, sights and sounds,
lights and shadows, have been ours since sunrise! Had we been in bed, all would have remained
unfelt and unknown. But, to be sure, one dream might have been worth them all. Dreams, however,
when they are over, are gone, be they of bliss or bale, heaven or the shades. No one weeps
over a dream. With such tears no one would sympathise. Give us reality, "the sober certainty
of waking bliss," and to it memory shall cling. Let the object of our sorrow belong to the
living world, and, transient though it be, its power may be immortal. Away then, as of little
worth, all the unsubstantial and wavering world of dreams, and in their place give us the very
humblest humanities, so much the better if enjoyed in some beautiful scene of nature like this,
where all is steadfast but the clouds, whose very being is change, and the flow of waters that
have been in motion since the Flood.

Ha! a splendid equipage with a coronet. And out steps, handed by her elated husband, a high-born
beautiful and graceful bride. They are making a tour of the Lakes, and the honeymoon hath not
yet filled her horns. If there be indeed such a thing as happiness on this earth, here it is--youth,
elegance, health, rank, riches, and love--all united in ties that death alone can sunder. How
they hang towards each other--the blissful pair! Blind in their passion to all the scenery
they came to admire, or beholding it but by fits and snatches, with eyes that can see only
one object. She hath already learnt to forget father and mother, and sister and brother, and
all the young creatures like herself--every one--that shared the pastimes and the confidence
of her virgin youthhood.

And will this holy state of the spirit endure? No--it will fade, and fade, and fade away, so
imperceptibly, so unconsciously (so like the shortening of the long summer-days, that lose
minute after minute of the light, till again we hear the yellow leaves rustling in autumnal
twilight), that the heart within that snow-drifted bosom will know not how great has been the
change, till at last it shall be told the truth, and know that all mortal emotion, however
paradisiacal, is born to die.

What profound powers of affection, grief, pity, sympathy, delight, and religion belong, by
its constitution, to the frame of every human soul! And if the courses of life have not greatly
thwarted the divine dispensations of nature, will they not all rise into genial play within
bosoms consecrated to each other's happiness, till comes between them the cold hand of death?
It would seem that everything fair and good must flourish under that holy necessity--everything
foul and bad fade away; and that no quarrel or unkindness could ever be between pilgrims travelling
together through time to eternity, whether their path lead through an Eden or a waste. Habit
itself comes with humble hearts to be gracious and benign; they who have once loved, will not,
for that very reason, cease to love; memory shall brighten when hope decays; and if the present
be not now so blissful, so thrilling, so steeped in rapture as it was in the golden prime,
yet shall it without repining suffice to them whose thoughts borrow unconsciously sweet comforts
from the past and future, and have been taught by mutual cares and sorrows to indulge tempered
expectations of the best earthly felicity. And is it not so? How much tranquillity and contentment
in human homes! Calm onflowings of life shaded in domestic privacy, and seen but at times coming
out into the open light! What brave patience under poverty! What beautiful resignation in grief!
Riches take wings to themselves and flee away--yet without and within the door there is the
decency of a changed, not an unhappy lot--The clouds of adversity darken men's characters even
as if they were the shadows of dishonour, but conscience quails not in the gloom--The well
out of which humility hath her daily drink, is nearly dried up to the very spring, but she
upbraideth not Heaven--Children, those flowers that make the hovel's earthen floor delightful
as the glades of Paradise, wither in a day, but there is holy comfort in the mother's tears;
nor are the groans of the father altogether without relief--for they have gone whither they
came, and are blooming now in the bowers of heaven.

Reverse the picture--and tremble for the fate of those whom God hath made one, and whom no
one man must put asunder. In common natures, what hot and sensual passions, whose gratification
ends in indifference, disgust, loathing, or hatred! What a power of misery, from fretting to
madness, lies in that mean but mighty word--Temper! The face, to whose meek beauty smiles seemed
native during the days of virgin love, shows now but a sneer, a scowl, a frown, or a glare
of scorn. The shape of those features is still fine--the eye of the gazelle--the Grecian nose
and forehead--the ivory teeth, so small and regular--and thin line of ruby lips breathing Circassian
luxury--the snow-drifts of the bosom still heave there--a lovelier waist Apollo never encircled
stepping from the chariot of the sun--nor limbs more graceful did ever Diana veil beneath the
shadows of Mount Latmos. But she is a fiend--a devil incarnate, and the sovereign beauty of
three counties has made your house a hell.

But suppose that you have had the sense and sagacity to marry a homely wife--or one comely
at the best--nay, even that you have sought to secure your peace by admitted ugliness--or wedded
a woman whom all tongues call--plain; then may an insurance-ticket, indeed, flame like the
sun in miniature on the front of your house--but what Joint-Stock Company can undertake to
repay the loss incurred by the perpetual singeing of the smouldering flames of strife, that
blaze up without warning at bed and board, and keep you in an everlasting alarm of fire? We
defy you to utter the most glaring truth that shall not be instantly contradicted. The most
rational proposals for a day or hour of pleasure, at home or abroad, are on the nail negatived
as absurd. If you dine at home every day for a month, she wonders why nobody asks you out,
and fears you take no trouble to make yourself agreeable. If you dine from home one day in
a month, then are you charged with being addicted to tavern-clubs. Children are perpetual bones
of contention--there is hatred and sorrow in house-bills--rent and taxes are productive of
endless grievances; and although education be an excellent thing--indeed quite a fortune in
itself--especially to a poor Scotsman going to England, where all the people are barbarous--yet
is it irritatingly expensive when a great Northern Nursery sends out its hordes, and gawky
hoydens and hobbletehoys are getting themselves accomplished in the foreign languages, music,
drawing, geography, the use of the globes, and the dumb-bells.

    "Let observation, with extensive view,
    Survey mankind from China to Peru,"

(two bad lines, by the way, though written by Dr Johnson)--and observation will find the literature
of all countries filled with sarcasms against the marriage-life. Our old Scottish songs and
ballads especially, delight in representing it as a state of ludicrous misery and discomfort.
There is little or no talk of horns--the dilemma of English wit; but every individual moment
of every individual minute, of every individual hour of every individual day, and so on, has
its peculiar, appropriate, characteristic, and incurable wretchedness. Yet the delightful thing
is, that in spite of all this jeering and gibing, and grinning and hissing, and pointing with
the finger--marrying and giving in marriage, births and christenings, continue their career
of prosperity; and the legitimate population doubles itself somewhere about every thirty-five
years. Single houses rise out of the earth--double houses become villages--villages towns--towns
cities--and our Metropolis is itself a world!

While the lyrical poetry of Scotland is thus rife with reproach against wedlock, it is equally
rife with panegyric on the tender passion that leads into its toils. In one page you shudder
in a cold sweat over the mean miseries of the poor "gudeman;" in the next you see, unconscious
of the same approaching destiny, the enamoured youth lying on his Mary's bosom beneath the
milk-white thorn. The pastoral pipe is tuned under a fate that hurries on all living creatures
to love; and not one lawful embrace is shunned from any other fears than those which of themselves
spring up in the poor man's thoughtful heart. The wicked betray, and the weak fall--bitter
tears are shed at midnight from eyes once bright as the day--fair faces never smile again,
and many a hut has its broken heart--hope comes and goes, finally vanquishing, or yielding
to despair--crowned passion dies the sated death, or, with increase of appetite, grows by what
it feeds on--wide, but unseen, over all the regions of the land, are cheated hopes, vain desires,
gnawing jealousy, dispirited fear, and swarthy-souled revenge--beseechings, seductions, suicides,
and insanities--and all, all spring from the root of Love; yet all the nations of the earth
call the Tree blest, and long as time endures, will continue to flock thither panting to devour
the fruitage, of which every other golden globe is poison and death.

Smile away then, with all thy most irresistible blandishments, thou young and happy Bride!
What business have we to prophesy bedimming tears to those resplendent eyes? or that the talisman
of that witching smile can ever lose its magic? Are not the high-born daughters of England
also the high-souled? And have not honour and virtue, and charity and religion, guarded for
centuries the lofty line of thy pure and unpolluted blood? Joyful, therefore, mayst thou be,
as the dove in the sunshine on the Tower-top--and as the dove serene, when she sitteth on her
nest within the yew-tree's gloom, far within the wood!

Passing from our episode, let us say that we are too well acquainted with your taste, feeling,
and judgment, to tell you on what objects to gaze or glance, in such a scene as the vale and
village of Grassmere. Of yourselves you will find out the nooks and corners from which the
pretty white-washed and flowering cottages do most picturesquely combine with each other, and
with the hills, and groves, and old church-tower. Without our guiding hand will you ascend
knoll and eminence, be there pathway or no pathway, and discover for yourselves new Lake-Landscapes.
Led by your own sweet and idle, chaste and noble fancies, you will disappear, single, or in
pairs and parties, into little woody wildernesses, where you will see nothing but ground-flowers
and a glimmering contiguity of shade. Solitude sometimes, you know, is best society, and short
retirement urges sweet return. Various travels or voyages of discovery may be undertaken, and
their grand object attained in little more than an hour. The sudden whirr of a cushat is an
incident, or the leaping of a lamb among the broom. In the quiet of nature, matchless seems
the music of the milkmaid's song--and of the hearty laugh of the haymakers, crossing the meadow
in rows, how sweet the cheerful echo from Helm-crag! Grassmere appears by far the most beautiful
place in all the Lake-country. You buy a field--build a cottage--and in imagination lie (for
they are too short to enable you to sit) beneath the shadow of your own trees!

In an English village--highland or lowland--seldom is there any spot so beautiful as the churchyard.
That of Grassmere is especially so, with the pensive shadows of the old church-tower settling
over its cheerful graves. Ay, its cheerful graves! Startle not at the word as too strong--for
the pigeons are cooing in the belfry, the stream is murmuring round the mossy churchyard wall,
a few lambs are lying on the mounds, and flowers laughing in the sunshine over the cells of
the dead. But hark! the bell tolls--one--one--one--a funeral knell, speaking not of time, but
of eternity! To-day there is to be a burial--and close to the wall of the Tower you see the
new-dug grave.

Hush! The sound of singing voices in yonder wood, deadened by the weight of umbrage! Now it
issues forth into the clear air, and now all is silence--but the pause speaks of death. Again
the melancholy swell ascends the sky--and then comes slowly along the funeral procession, the
coffin borne aloft, and the mourners all in white; for it is a virgin who is carried to her
last home. Let every head be reverently uncovered while the psalm enters the gate, and the
bier is borne for holy rites along the chancel of the church, and laid down close to the altar.
A smothered sobbing disturbeth not the service--'tis a human spirit breathing in accordance
with the divine. Mortals weeping for the immortal--Earth's passions cleaving to one who is
now in heaven.

Was she one flower of many, and singled out by death's unsparing finger from a wreath of beauty,
whose remaining blossoms seem now to have lost all their fragrance and all their brightness?
Or was she the sole delight of her greyhaired parents' eyes, and is the voice of joy extinguished
in their low-roofed home for ever? Had her loveliness been beloved, and had her innocent hopes
anticipated the bridal-day, nor her heart, whose beatings were numbered, ever feared that narrow
bed? All that we know is her name and age--you see them glittering on her coffin--"Anabella
Irvine, aged xix years"!

The day seems something dim, now that we are all on our way back to Ambleside; and although
the clouds are neither heavier nor more numerous than before, somehow or other the sun is a
little obscured. We must not indulge too long in a mournful mood--yet let us all sit down under
the shadow of this grove of sycamores, overshadowing this reedy bay of Rydal-mere, and listen
to a Tale of Tears.

Many a tame tradition, embalmed in a few pathetic verses, lives for ages, while the memory
of the most affecting incidents, to which genius has allied no general emotion, fades like
the mist, and leaves heart-rending griefs undeplored. Elegies and dirges might indeed have
well been sung amidst the green ruins of yonder Cottage, that looks now almost like a fallen
wall--at best, the remnants of a cattle-shed shaken down by the storm.

Thirty years ago--how short a time in national history--how long in that of private sorrows!--all
tongues were speaking of the death that there befell; and to have seen the weeping, you would
have thought that the funeral could never have been forgotten. But stop now the shepherd on
the hill, and ask him who lived in that nook, and chance is he knows not even their name, much
less the story of their afflictions. It was inhabited by Allan Fleming, his wife, and an only
child, known familiarly in her own small world by the name of LUCY OF THE FOLD. In almost every
district among the mountains, there is its peculiar pride--some one creature to whom nature
has been especially kind, and whose personal beauty, sweetness of disposition, and felt superiority
of mind and manner, single her out, unconsciously, as an object of attraction and praise, making
her the May-day Queen of the unending year. Such a darling was Lucy Fleming ere she had finished
her thirteenth year; and strangers, who had heard tell of her loveliness, often dropt in, as
if by accident, to see the Beauty of Rydal-mere. Her parents rejoiced in their child; nor was
there any reason why they should dislike the expression of delight and wonder with which so
many regarded her. Shy was she as a woodland bird, but as fond too of her nest; and when there
was nothing near to disturb her, her life was almost a perpetual hymn. From joy to sadness,
and from sadness to joy; from silence to song, and from song to silence; from stillness like
that of the butterfly on the flower, to motion like that of the same creature wavering in the
sunshine over the wood-top--was to Lucy as welcome a change as the change of lights and shadows,
breezes and calms, in the mountain-country of her birth.

One summer day, a youthful stranger appeared at the door of the house, and after an hour's
stay, during which Lucy was from home, asked if they would let him have lodging with them for
a few months--a single room for bed and books, and that he would take his meals with the family.
Enthusiastic boy! to him poetry had been the light of life, nor did ever creature of poetry
belong more entirely than he to the world of imagination. He had come into the free mountain
region from the confinement of college walls, and his spirit expanded within him like a rainbow.
No eyes had he for realities--all nature was seen in the light of genius--not a single object
at sunrise and sunset the same. All was beautiful within the circle of the green hill-tops,
whether shrouded in the soft mists or clearly outlined in a cloudless sky. Home, friends, colleges,
cities--all sunk away into oblivion, and HARRY HOWARD felt as if wafted off on the wings of
a spirit, and set down in a land beyond the sea, foreign to all he had before experienced,
yet in its perfect and endless beauty appealing every hour more tenderly and strongly to a
spirit awakened to new power, and revelling in new emotion. In that cottage he took up his
abode. In a few weeks came a library of books in all languages; and there was much wondering
talk over all the countryside about the mysterious young stranger who now lived at the Fold.

Every day--and, when he chose to absent himself from his haunts among the hills, every hour
was Lucy before the young poet's eyes--and every hour did her beauty wax more beautiful in
his imagination. Who Mr Howard was, or even if that were indeed his real name, no one knew;
but none doubted that he was of gentle birth, and all with whom he had ever conversed in his
elegant amenity, could have sworn that a youth so bland and free, and with such a voice, and
such eyes, would not have injured the humblest of God's creatures, much less such a creature
as Lucy of the Fold. It was indeed even so--for, before the long summer days were gone, he
who had never had a sister, loved her even as if she had slept on the same maternal bosom.
Father or mother he now had none--indeed, scarcely one near relation--although he was rich
in this world's riches, but in them poor in comparison with the noble endowments that nature
had lavished upon his mind. His guardians took little heed of the splendid but wayward youth--and
knew not now whither his fancies had carried him, were it even to some savage land. Thus the
Fold became to him the one dearest roof under the roof of heaven. All the simple ongoings of
that humble home, love and imagination beautified into poetry; and all the rough or coarser
edges of lowly life were softened away in the light of genius that transmuted everything on
which it fell; while all the silent intimations which nature gave there of her primal sympathies,
in the hut as fine and forceful as in the hall, showed to his excited spirit pre-eminently
lovely, and chained it to the hearth, around which was read the morning and the evening prayer.

What wild schemes does not love imagine, and in the face of very impossibility achieve! "I
will take Lucy to myself, if it should be in place of all the world. I will myself shed light
over her being, till in a new spring it shall be adorned with living flowers that fade not
away, perennial and self-renewed. In a few years the bright docile creature will have the soul
of a very angel--and then, before God and at His holy altar, mine shall she become for ever--here
and hereafter--in this paradise of earth, and, if more celestial be, in the paradise of heaven."

Thus two summers and two winters wheeled away into the past; and in the change, imperceptible
from day to day, but glorious at last, wrought on Lucy's nature by communication with one so
prodigally endowed, scarcely could her parents believe it was their same child, except that
she was dutiful as before, as affectionate, and as fond of all the familiar objects, dead or
living, round and about her birthplace. She had now grown to woman's stature--tall, though
she scarcely seemed so except when among her playmates; and in her maturing loveliness, fulfilling,
and far more than fulfilling, the fair promise of her childhood. Never once had the young stranger--stranger
no more--spoken to daughter, father, or mother, of his love. Indeed, for all that he felt towards
Lucy there must have been some other word than love. Tenderness, which was almost pity--an
affection that was often sad--wonder at her surpassing beauty, nor less at her unconsciousness
of its power--admiration of her spiritual qualities, that ever rose up to meet instruction
as if already formed--and that heart-throbbing that stirs the blood of youth when the innocent
eyes it loves are beaming in the twilight through smiles or through tears,--these, and a thousand
other feelings, and above all, the creative faculty of a poet's soul, now constituted his very
being when Lucy was in presence, nor forsook him when he was alone among the mountains.

At last it was known through the country that Mr Howard--the stranger, the scholar, the poet,
the elegant gentleman, of whom nobody knew much, but whom everybody loved, and whose father
must at the least have been a lord, was going--in a year or less--to marry the daughter of
Allan Fleming--Lucy of the Fold. O, grief and shame to the parents--if still living--of the
noble Boy! O, sorrow for himself when his passion dies--when the dream is dissolved--and when,
in place of the angel of light who now moves before him, he sees only a child of earth, lowly
born, and long rudely bred--a being only fair as many others are fair, sister in her simplicity
to maidens no less pleasing than she, and partaking of many weaknesses, frailties, and faults
now unknown to herself in her happiness, and to him in his love! Was there no one to rescue
them from such a fate--from a few months of imaginary bliss, and from many years of real bale?
How could such a man as Allan Fleming be so infatuated as sell his child to fickle youth, who
would soon desert her broken-hearted? Yet kind thoughts, wishes, hopes, and beliefs prevailed;
nor were there wanting stories of the olden time, of low-born maidens married to youths of
high estate, and raised from hut to hall, becoming mothers of a lordly line of sons, that were
counsellors to Kings and Princes.

In Spring, Mr Howard went away for a few months--it was said to the great city--and on his
return at midsummer, Lucy was to be his bride. They parted with a few peaceful tears, and though
absent were still together. And now a letter came, saying that before another Sabbath he would
be at the Fold. A few fields in Easdale, long mortgaged beyond their fee-simple by the hard-working
statesman from whom they reluctantly were passing away, had meanwhile been purchased by Mr
Howard, and in that cottage they were to abide, till they had built for themselves a house
a little further up the side of the sylvan hill, below the shadow of Helm-crag. Lucy saw the
Sabbath of his return and its golden sun, but it was in her mind's eye only; for ere it was
to descend behind the hills, she was not to be among the number of living things.

Up Forest-Ullswater the youth had come by the light of the setting sun; and as he crossed the
mountains to Grassmere by the majestic pass of the Hawse, still as every new star arose in
heaven, with it arose as lustrous a new emotion from the bosom of his betrothed. The midnight
hour had been fixed for his return to the Fold; and as he reached the cliffs above White-moss,
according to agreement a light was burning in the low window, the very planet of love. It seemed
to shed a bright serenity over all the vale, and the moon-glittering waters of Rydal-mere were
as an image of life, pure, lonely, undisturbed, and at the pensive hour how profound! "Blessing
and praise be to the gracious God! who framed my spirit so to delight in His beautiful and
glorious creation--blessing and praise to the Holy One, for the boon of my Lucy's innocent
and religious love!" Prayers crowded fast into his soul, and tears of joy fell from his eyes,
as he stood at the threshold, almost afraid, in the trembling of life-deep affection, to meet
her first embrace.

In the silence, sobs and sighs, and one or two long deep groans! Then in another moment, he
saw, through the open door of the room where Lucy used to sleep, several figures moving to
and fro in the light, and one figure upon its knees--who else could it be but her father! Unnoticed
he became one of the pale-faced company--and there he beheld her on her bed, mute and motionless,
her face covered with a deplorable beauty--eyes closed, and her hands clasped upon her breast!
"Dead, dead, dead!" muttered in his ringing ears a voice from the tombs, and he fell down in
the midst of them with great violence upon the floor.

Encircled with arms that lay round him softer and silkier far than flower-wreaths on the neck
of a child who has laid him down from play, was he when he awoke from that fit--lying even
on his own maiden's bed, and within her very bosom, that beat yet, although soon about to beat
no more. At that blest awakening moment, he might have thought he saw the first glimpse of
light of the morning after his marriage-day; for her face was turned towards his breast, and
with her faint breathings he felt the touch of tears. Not tears alone now bedimmed those eyes,
for tears he could have kissed away; but the blue lids were heavy with something that was not
slumber--the orbs themselves were scarcely visible--and her voice--it was gone, to be heard
never again, till in the choir of white-robed spirits that sing at the right hand of God.

Yet no one doubted that she knew him--him who had dropt down, like a superior being, from another
sphere, on the innocence of her simple childhood--had taught her to know so much of her own
soul--to love her parents with a profounder and more holy love--to see, in characters more
divine, Heaven's promises of forgiveness to every contrite heart--and a life of perfect blessedness
beyond death and the grave. A smile that shone over her face the moment that she had been brought
to know that he had come at last, and was nigh at hand--and that never left it while her bosom
moved--no--not for all the three days and nights that he continued to sit beside the corpse,
when father and mother were forgetting their cares in sleep--that smile told all who stood
around, watching her departure, neighbour, friend, priest, parent, and him the suddenly distracted
and desolate, that in the very moment of expiration she knew him well, and was recommending
him and his afflictions to the pity of One who died to save sinners.

Three days and three nights, we have said, did he sit beside her who so soon was to have been
his bride; and come or go who would into the room, he saw them not--his sight was fixed on
the winding-sheet, eyeing it, without a single tear, from feet to forehead, and sometimes looking
up to heaven. As men forgotten in dungeons have lived miserably long without food, so did he--and
so he would have done, on and on to the most far-off funeral day. From that one chair, close
to the bedside, he never rose. Night after night, when all the vale was hushed, he never slept.
Through one of the midnights there had been a great thunderstorm, the lightning smiting a cliff
close to the cottage; but it seemed that he heard it not--and during the floods of next day,
to him the roaring vale was silent. On the morning of the funeral, the old people--for now
they seemed to be old--wept to see him sitting still beside their dead child; for each of the
few remaining hours had now its own sad office, and a man had come to nail down the coffin.
Three black specks suddenly alighted on the face of the corpse--and then off--and on--and away--and
returning--was heard the buzzing of large flies, attracted by beauty in its corruption. "Ha--ha!"
starting up, he cried in horror--"What birds of prey are these, whom Satan has sent to devour
the corpse?" He became stricken with a sort of palsy--and, being led out to the open air, was
laid down, seemingly as dead as her within, on the green daisied turf, where, beneath the shadow
of the sycamore, they had so often sat, building up beautiful visions of a long blissful life.

The company assembled--but not before his eyes--the bier was lifted up and moved away down
the sylvan slope, and away round the head of the Lake, and over the wooden bridge, accompanied,
here and there, as it passed the wayside houses on the road to Grassmere, by the sound of psalms--but
he saw--he heard not;--when the last sound of the spade rebounded from the smooth arch of the
grave, he was not by--but all the while he was lying where they left him, with one or two pitying
dalesmen at his head and feet. When he awoke again and rose up, the cottage of the Fold was
as if she had never been born--for she had vanished for ever and aye, and her sixteen years'
smiling life was all extinguished in the dust.

Weeks and months passed on, and still there was a vacant wildness in his eyes, and a mortal
ghastliness all over his face, inexpressive of a reasonable soul. It scarcely seemed that he
knew where he was, or in what part of the earth, yet, when left by himself, he never sought
to move beyond the boundaries of the Fold. During the first faint glimmerings of returning
reason, he would utter her name, over and over many times, with a mournful voice, but still
he knew not that she was dead--then he began to caution them all to tread softly, for that
sleep had fallen upon her, and her fever in its blessed balm might abate--then with groans
too affecting to be borne by those who heard them, he would ask why, since she was dead, God
had the cruelty to keep him, her husband, in life; and finally, and last of all, he imagined
himself in Grassmere Churchyard, and clasping a little mound on the green, which it was evident
he thought was her grave, he wept over it for hours and hours, and kissed it, and placed a
stone at its head, and sometimes all at once broke out into fits of laughter, till the hideous
fainting-fits returned, and after long convulsions left him lying as if stone-dead. As for
his bodily frame, when Lucy's father lifted it up in his arms, little heavier was it than a
bundle of withered fern. Nobody supposed that one so miserably attenuated and ghost-like could
for many days be alive--yet not till the earth had thrice revolved round the sun did that body
die, and then it was buried far away from the Fold, the banks of Rydal-water, and the sweet
mountains of Westmoreland; for after passing like a shadow through many foreign lands, he ceased
his pilgrimage in Palestine, even beneath the shadow of Mount Sion, and was laid, with a lock
of hair--which, from the place it held, strangers knew to have belonged to one dearly beloved--close
to his heart, on which it had lain so long, and was to moulder away in darkness together, by
Christian hands and in a Christian sepulchre.

L'ENVOY.

Periodical literature is a type of many of the most beautiful things and interesting events
in nature; or say, rather, that they are types of it--the Flowers and the Stars. As to Flowers,
they are the prettiest periodicals ever published in folio--the leaves are wire-wove and hot-pressed
by Nature's self; their circulation is wide over all the land; from castle to cottage they
are regularly taken in; as old age bends over them, his youth is renewed; and you see childhood
poring upon them pressed close to its very bosom. Some of them are ephemeral--their contents
are exhaled between the rising and setting sun. Once a-week others break through their green,
pink, or crimson cover; and how delightful, on the seventh day, smiles in the sunshine the
Sabbath Flower--a Sunday publication perused without blame by the most religious--even before
morning prayer! Each month, indeed, throughout the whole year, has its own Flower periodical.
Some are annual, some biennial, some triennial, and there are perennials that seem to live
for ever--and yet are still periodical--though our love will not allow us to know when they
die, and phoenix-like reappear from their own ashes. So much for Flowers--typifying or typified;--leaves
emblematical of pages--buds of binding--dew-veils of covers--and the wafting away of bloom
and fragrance like the dissemination of fine feelings, bright fancies, and winged thoughts.

The Flowers are the periodicals of the earth--the Stars are the periodicals of heaven. With
what unfailing regularity do the numbers issue forth! Hesperus and Lucifer! ye are one concern.
The Pole-star is studied by all nations. How popular the poetry of the Moon! On what subject
does not the Sun throw light? No fear of hurting your eyes by reading that fine clear large
type on that softened page. As you turn them over, one blue, another yellow, and another green,
all are alike delightful to the pupil, dear as the very apple of his eye. Yes, the great Periodical
Press of heaven is unceasingly at work--night and day; the only free power all over the world--'tis
indeed like the air we breathe--if we have it not, we die.

Look, then, at all paper periodicals with pleasure, for sake of the Flowers and the Stars.
Suppose them all extinct, and life would be like a flowerless earth, a starless heaven. We
should soon forget the Seasons. The periodicals of the External would soon all lose their meaning,
were there no longer any periodicals of the Internal. These are the lights and shadows of life,
merrily dancing or gravely stealing over the dial; remembrancers of the past--teachers of the
present--prophets of the future hours. Were they all dead, Spring would in vain renew her promise--wearisome
would be the interminable summer days--the fruits of autumn tasteless--the winter ingle blink
mournfully round the hearth. What are the blessed Seasons themselves, in nature and in Thomson,
but periodicals of a larger growth? We should doubt the goodness of that man's heart, who loved
not the periodical literature of earth and sky--who would not weep to see one of its flowers
wither--one of its stars fall--one beauty die on its humble bed--one glory drop from its lofty
sphere. Let them bloom and burn on--flowers in which there is no poison, stars in which there
is no disease--whose blossoms are all sweet, and whose rays are all sanative--both alike steeped
in dew, and both, to the fine ear of nature's worshipper, bathed in music.

Pomposo never reads Magazine poetry--nor, we presume, ever looks at a field or wayside flower.
He studies only the standard authors. He walks only in gardens with high brick walls--and then
admires only at a hint from the head-gardener. Pomposo does not know that many of the finest
poems of our day first appeared in magazines--or, worse still, in newspapers; and that in our
periodicals, daily and weekly, equally with the monthlies and quarterlies, is to be found the
best criticism of poetry anywhere extant, superior far, in that unpretending form, to nine-tenths
of the learned lucubrations of Germany--though some of it, too, is good--almost as one's heart
could desire. What is the circulation even of a popular volume of verses--if any such there
be--to that of a number of Maga? Hundreds of thousands at home peruse it before it is a week
old--as many abroad ere the moon has thrice renewed her horns; and the Series ceases not--regular
as the Seasons that make up the perfect year. Our periodical literature--say of it what you
will--gives light to the heads and heat to the hearts of millions of our race. The greatest
and best men of the age have not disdained to belong to the brotherhood; and thus the hovel
holds what must not be missing in the hall--the furniture of the cot is the same as that of
the palace--and duke and ditcher read their lessons from the same page.

Good people have said, and it would be misanthropical to disbelieve or discredit their judgment,
that our Prose is original--nay, has created a new era in the history of Periodical Literature.
Only think of that, Christopher, and up with your Tail like a Peacock! Why, there is some comfort
in that reflection, while we sit rubbing our withered hands up and down on these shrivelled
shanks. Our feet are on the fender, and that fire is felt on our face; but we verily believe
our ice-cold shanks would not shrink from the application of the red-hot poker. Peter has a
notion that but for that red-hot poker the fire would go out; so to humour him we let it remain
in the ribs, and occasionally brandish it round our head in moments of enthusiasm when the
Crutch looks tame, and the Knout a silken leash for Italian Greyhound.

Old Simonides--old Mimnermus--old Theognis--old Solon-old Anacreon--old Sophocles--old Pindar--old
Hesiod--old Homer--and old Methuselah! What mean we by the word old? All these men are old
in three lights--they lived to a raven age--long long ago--and we heard tell of them in our
youth. Their glory dawned on us in a dream of life's golden prime--and far away seems now that
dawn, as if in another world beyond a million seas! In that use of the word "old," far from
us is all thought of dotage or decay. Old are those great personages as the stars are old;
a heaven there is in which are seen shining, for ever young, all the most ancient spiritual
"orbs of Song."

In our delight, too, we love to speak of old Venus and of old Cupid--of old Eve and of old
Cleopatra--of old Helen and of old Dalilah; yea, of old Psyche, though her aerial wings are
as rainbow bright as the first hour she waved them in the eye of the youthful Sun.

How full of endearment "old boy!"--"old girl!" "Old Christopher North!"--"old Maga!" To our
simplest sayings age seems to give a consecration which youth reveres. And why may not our
hand, withered somewhat though it be, but yet unpalsied, point out aloft to heedless eyes single
light or constellation, or lily by herself or in groups unsuspected along the waysides of our
mortal pilgrimage?

Age like ours is even more lovable than venerable; and, thinking on ourselves, were we a young
woman, we should assuredly marry an old man. Indeed, no man ought to marry before thirty, forty,
fifty, or sixty; and, were it not that life is so short, soon enough at threescore and ten.
At seventy you are sager than ever, though scarcely so strong. You and life love each other
as well as ever; yet 'tis unpleasant, when sailing on Windermere or Lochlomond with your bride,
to observe the Man in the Honeymoon looking at you with a congratulatory grin of condolence,
to fear that the old villain will smile over your grave in the Season of Kirns and Harvest
Homes, when the fiddle is heard in every farmhouse, and the bagpipes are lowing like cattle
on a thousand hills. Fain would he insure his life on the Tipperary Tables. But the enamoured
annuitant is haunted with visions of his own Funeral deploying in a long line of chariots--one
at the head of all armed with scythes--through the city, into the wide gates of the Greyfriars.
Lovely is his bride in white, nor less so his widow in black--more so in grey, portentous of
a great change. Sad, too, to the Sage the thought of leaving his first-born as yet unborn--or
if born, haply an elfish Creature with a precocious countenance, looking as if he had begun
life with borrowing ten years at least from his own father--auld-farrant as a Fairy, and gash
as the Last of the Lairds.

Dearly do we love the young--yea, the young of all animals--the young swallows twittering from
their straw-built shed--the young lambs bleating on the lea--the young bees, God bless them!
on their first flight away off to the heather--the young butterflies, who, born in the morning,
will die of old age ere night--the young salmon-fry glorying in the gravel at the first feeling
of their fins--the young adders basking, ere they can bite, in the sun, as yet unconscious,
like sucking satirists, of their stings--young pigs, pretty dears! all a-squeak with their
curled tails after prolific grumphie--young lions and tigers, charming cubs! like very Christian
children nuzzling in their nurse's breast--young devils, ere Satan has sent them to Sin, who
keeps a fashionable boarding-school in Hades, and sends up into the world above-ground only
her finished scholars.

Oh! lad of the lightsome forehead! Thou art smiling at Us; and for the sake of our own Past
we enjoy thy Present, and pardon the contumely with which thou silently insultest our thin
grey hairs. Just such another "were we at Ravensburg." "Carpe Diem" was then our motto, as
now it is yours; "no fear that dinner cool," for we fed then, as you feed now, on flowers and
fruits of Eden. We lived then under the reign of the Seven Senses; Imagination was Prime Minister,
and Reason, as Lord-Chancellor, had the keeping of the Royal Conscience; and they were kings,
not tyrants--we subjects, not slaves. Supercilious as thou art, Puer, art thou as well read
in Greek as we were at thy flowering age? Come close that we may whisper in thine ear--while
we lean our left shoulder on thine--our right on the Crutch. The time will come when thou wilt
be, O Son of the Morning! even like unto the shadow by thy side! Was he not once a mountaineer?
If he be a vainglorious boaster, give him the lie, Ben-y-glo and thy brotherhood--ye who so
often heard our shouts mixed with the red-deer's belling--tossed back in exultation by Echo,
Omnipresent Auditress on youth's golden hills.

Know, all ye Neophytes, that three lovely Sisters often visit the old man's solitude--Memory,
Imagination, Hope. It would be hard to say which is the most beautiful. Memory has deep, dark,
quiet eyes, and when she closes their light, the long eyelashes lie like shadows on her pensive
cheeks, that smile faintly as if the dreamer were half asleep--a visionary slumber, which sometimes
the dewdrop melting on the leaf will break, sometimes not the thunder-peal with all its echoes.
Imagination is a brighter and bolder Beauty, with large lamping eyes of uncertain colour, as
if fluctuating with rainbow light, and with features fine as those which Grecian genius gave
to the Muses in the Parian Marble, yet in their daring delicacy defined like the face of Apollo.
As for Hope--divinest of the divine--Collins, in one long line of light, has painted the picture
of the angel,--

    "And Hope enchanted smiled, and waved her golden hair."

All our great prose-writers owe the glory of their power to our great poets. Even Hobbes translated
Homer as well--that is as ill--as Thucidydes; the Epic in his prime after eighty; the History
in his youth at forty; and it is fearful to dream what the brainful and heartless metaphysician
would have been, had he never heard of the Iliad and the Odyssey. What is the greatest of prose-writers
in comparison with a great poet? Nay--we shall not be deterred by the fear of self-contradiction
(see our "Stroll to Grassmere") from asking who is a great prose-writer? We cannot name one;
they all sink in Shakespeare. Campbell finely asks and answers--

    "Without the smile from partial beauty won,
    Oh! what were man? a world without a sun."

Suppose the world without poetry--how absurd would seem the Sun! Strip the word "phenomena"
of its poetical meaning, and forthwith the whole human race, "moving about in worlds realised,"
would lose their powers of speech. But, thank Heaven! we are Makers all. Inhabiting, we verily
believe, a real, and substantial, and palpable outer world, which nevertheless shall one day
perish like a scroll, we build our bowers of joy in the Apparent, and lie down to rest in a
drapery of Dreams.

Thus we often love to dream our silent way even through the noisy world. And dreamers are with
dreamers spiritually, though in the body apart; nor wandering at will think they whence they
come, or whither they are going, assured by delight that they will reach their journey's end--like
a bee, that in many a musical gyration goes humming round men's heads and tree-tops, aimlessly
curious in his joy, yet knowing instinctively the straight line that intersects all those airy
circles, leading to and fro between his hive in the garden and the honey-dew on the heather hills.

What can it be that now recalls to our remembrance a few lines of Esop, the delightful old
Fabulist, the Merry and Wise, who set our souls a-thinking and our hearts a-feeling in boyhood,
by moral lessons read to them in almost every incident befalling in life's common walks--solemn
as Simonides in this his sole surviving elegiac strain?

    "What weary woe, what endless strife
    Bring'st thou to mortal men, O Life!
      Each hour they draw their breath.
    Alas! the wretches all despair
    To flee the ills they cannot bear,
      But through the gates of Death.

    And yet how beautiful art Thou
    On Earth and Sea--and on the brow
      Of starry Heaven! The Night
    Sends forth the moon Thee to adorn;
    And thee to glorify the Morn
      Restores the Orb of Light.

    Yet all is full of Pain and Dread;
    Bedrench'd in tears for ever shed;
      The darkness render'd worse
    By gleams of joy--and if by Heaven
    A Blessing seemeth to be given,
      It changes to a curse."

Even in our paraphrase are not these lines very impressive? In the original they are much more
solemn. They are not querulous, yet full of lamentation. We see in them not a weak spirit quarrelling
with fate, but a strong spirit subdued by a sense of the conditions on which life has been
given; conditions against which it is vain to contend, to which it is hard to submit, but which
may yet be borne by a will deriving strength from necessity, and in itself noble by nature.
Nor, dark as the doctrine is, can we say it is false. Intellect and Imagination may from doleful
experiences have too much generalised their inductions, so as to seem to themselves to have
established the Law of Misery as the Law of Life. But perhaps it is only thus that the Truth
can be made available to man, as it regards the necessity of Endurance. All is not wretchedness;
but the soul seeks to support itself by the belief that it is really so. Holding that creed,
it has no excuse for itself, if at any time it is stung to madness by misery, or grovels in
the dust in a passion of grief; none, if at any time it delivers itself wholly up, abandoning
itself to joy, and acts as if it trusted to the permanence of any blessing under the law of
Mutability. The Poet, in the hour of profound emotion, declares that every blessing sent from
heaven is a Nemesis. That oracular response inspires awe. A salutary fear is kept alive in
the foolish by such sayings of the wise. Even to us--now--they sound like a knell. Religion
has instructed Philosophy; and for Fate we substitute God. But all men feel that the foundations
of Faith are laid in the dark depths of their being, and that all human happiness is mysteriously
allied with pain and sorrow. The most perfect bliss is ever awful, as if we enjoyed it under
the shadow of some great and gracious wing that would not long be detained from heaven.

It is not for ordinary minds to attempt giving utterance to such simplicities. On their tongues
truths become truisms. Sentiments, that seem always fresh, falling from the lips of moral wisdom,
are stale in the mouths of men uninitiated in the greater mysteries. Genius colours common
words with an impressive light, that makes them moral to all eyes--breathes into them an affecting
music, that steals into all hearts like a revelation and a religion. They become memorable.
They pass, as maxims, from generation to generation; and all because the divinity that is in
every man's bosom responds to the truthful strain it had of yore itself inspired. Just so with
the men we meet on our life-journey. One man is impressive in all his looks and words, on all
serious or solemn occasions; and we carry away with us moral impressions from his eyes or lips.
Another man says the same things, or nearly so, and perhaps with more fervour, and his locks
are silver. But we forget his person in an hour; nor does his voice ever haunt our solitude.
Simonides--Solon--Esop!--why do such lines of theirs as those assure us they were Sages? The
same sentiments are the staple of many a sermon that has soothed sinners into snoring sleep.

Men take refuge even in ocular deception from despair. Over buried beauty, that once glowed
with the same passion that consumes themselves, they build a white marble tomb, or a green
grass grave, and forget much they ought to remember--all profounder thoughts--while gazing
on the epitaph of letters or flowers. 'Tis a vision to their senses, with which Imagination
would fain seek to delude Love. And 'tis well that the deception prospers; for what if Love
could bid the burial-ground give up or disclose its dead? Or if Love's eyes saw through dust
as through air? What if this planet--which men call Earth--were at all times seen and felt
to be a cemetery circling round the sun that feeds it with death, and not a globe of green
animated with life--even as the dewdrop on the rose's leaf is animated with millions of invisible
creatures, wantoning in bliss born of the sunshine and the vernal prime.

Are we sermonising overmuch in this our L'ENVOY to these our misnamed RECREATIONS? Even a sermon
is not always useless; the few concluding sentences are sometimes luminous, like stars rising
on a dull twilight; the little flower that attracted Park's eyes when he was fainting in the
desert, was to him beauteous as the rose of Sharon; there is solemnity in the shadow of quiet
trees on a noisy road; a churchyard may be felt even in a village fair; a face of sorrow passes
by us in our gaiety, neither unfelt nor unremembered in its uncomplaining calm; and sweet from
some still house in the city stir is

    "The voice of psalms, the simple song of praise."

We daresay you are a very modest person; but we are all given to self-glorification, private
men and public, individuals and nations; and every one Era and Ego has been prouder than another
of its respective achievements. To hear the Present Generation speak, such an elderly gentleman
as the Past Generation begins to suspect that his personal origin lies hid in the darkness
of antiquity; and worse--that he is of the Pechs. Now, we offer to back the Past Generation
against the Present Generation, at any feat the Present Generation chooses, and give the long
odds. Say Poetry. Well, we bring to the scratch a few champions--such as, Beattie, Cowper,
Crabbe, Rogers, Bowles, Burns, Baillie, Campbell, Graham, Montgomery, Scott, Southey, Coleridge,
Wordsworth, Hunt, Hogg, Shelley, Keates, Pollok, Cunningham, Bloomfield, Clare, and risum teneatis
amici--Ourselves.

    "All with waistcoats of red and breeches of blue,
    And mighty long tails that come swingeing through."

And at sight of the cavalcade--for each poet is on his Pegasus--the champions of the Present
Generation, accoutred in corduroy kilts and top-boots, and on animals which, "well do we know,
but dare not name," wheel to the right-about with "one dismal universal bray," brandishing
their wooden sabres, till, frenzied by their own trumpeters, they charge madly a palisade in
their own rear, and as dismounted cavalry make good their retreat. This in their strategies
is called a drawn battle.

Heroes, alive or dead, of the Past Generation, we bid you hail! Exceeding happiness to have
been born among such Births--to have lived among such Lives--to be buried among such Graves.
O great glory to have seen such Stars rising one after another larger and more lustrous--at
times, when dilated with delight, more like Moons than Stars--like Seraphs hovering over the
earth they loved, though seeming so high up in heaven!

To whom now may the young enthusiast turn as to Beings of the same kind with himself, but of
a higher order, and therefore with a love that fears no sin in its idolatry? The young enthusiast
may turn to some of the living, but he will think more of others who are gone. The dead know
not of his love, and he can hold no communion with the grave. But Poets never die--immortal
in their works, the Library is the world of spirits; there they dwell, the same as in the flesh,
when by meditation most cleansed and purified--yet with some holy change it seems--a change
not in them but in us, who are stilled by the stillness, and attribute something supernatural
to the Living Dead.

Since first this Golden Pen of ours--given us by One who meant it but for a memorial--began,
many years ago, to let drop on paper a few careless words, what quires so distained--some pages,
let us hope, with durable ink--have accumulated on our hands! Some haughty ones have chosen
to say rather, how many leaves have been wafted away to wither? But not a few of the gifted--near
and afar--have called on us with other voices--reminding us that long ago we were elected,
on sight of our credentials--not indeed without a few black balls--into the Brotherhood. The
shelf marked with our initials exhibits some half-dozen volumes only, and has room for scores.
It may not be easily found in that vast Library; but, humble member as we are, we feel it now
to be a point of honour to make an occasional contribution to the Club. So here is the FIRST
SERIES of what we have chosen to call our RECREATIONS. There have been much recasting and remoulding--many
alterations, believed by us to have been wrought with no unskilful spirit of change--cruel,
we confess, to our feelings, rejections of numerous lucubrations to their father dear--and
if we may use such words, not a few new creations, in the same genial spirit in which we worked
of old--not always unrewarded by sympathy, which is better than praise.

For kindness shown when kindness was most needed--for sympathy and affection--yea, love itself--for
grief and pity not misplaced, though bestowed in a mistaken belief of our condition, forlorn
indeed, but not wholly forlorn--for solace and encouragement sent to us from afar, from cities
and solitudes, and from beyond seas and oceans, from brethren who never saw our face, and never
may see it, we owe a debt of everlasting gratitude; and life itself must leave our heart, that
beats not now as it used to beat, but with dismal trepidation, before it forget, or cease to
remember as clearly as now it hears them, every one of the many words that came sweetly and
solemnly to us from the Great and Good. Joy and sorrow make up the lot of our mortal estate,
and by sympathy with them, we acknowledge our brotherhood with all our kind. We do far more.
The strength that is untasked, lends itself to divide the load under which another is bowed;
and the calamity that lies on the heads of men is lightened, while those who at the time are
not called to bear, are yet willing to involve themselves in the sorrow of a brother. So soothed
by such sympathy may a poor mortal be, that the wretch almost upbraids himself for transient
gleams of gladness, as if he were false to the sorrow which he sighs to think he ought to have
cherished more sacredly within his miserable heart.

One word embraces all these pages of ours--Memorials. Friends are lost to us by removal--for
then even the dearest are often utterly forgotten. But let something that once was theirs suddenly
meet our eyes, and in a moment, returning from the region of the rising or the setting sun,
the friend of our youth seems at our side, unchanged his voice and his smile; or dearer to
our eyes than ever, because of some affecting change wrought on face and figure by climate
and by years. Let it be but his name written with his own hand on the title-page of a book;
or a few syllables on the margin of a favourite passage which long ago we may have read together,
"when life itself was new," and poetry overflowed the whole world; or a lock of her hair in
whose eyes we first knew the meaning of the word "depth." And if death hath stretched out the
absence into the dim arms of eternity--and removed the distance away into that bourne from
which no traveller returns--the absence and the distance of her on whose forehead once hung
the relic we adore--what heart may abide the beauty of the ghost that doth sometimes at midnight
appear at our sleepless bed, and with pale uplifted arms waft over us at once a blessing and
a farewell!

Why so sad a word--Farewell? We should not weep in wishing welfare, nor sully felicity with
tears. But we do weep because evil lies lurking in wait over all the earth for the innocent
and the good, the happy and the beautiful; and, when guarded no more by our eyes, it seems
as if the demon would leap out upon his prey. Or is it because we are so selfish that we cannot
bear the thought of losing the sight of the happiness of a beloved object, and are troubled
with a strange jealousy of beings unknown to us, and for ever to be unknown, about to be taken
into the very heart, perhaps, of the friend from whom we are parting, and to whom in that fear
we give almost a sullen farewell? Or does the shadow of death pass over us while we stand for
the last time together on the sea-shore, and see the ship with all her sails about to voyage
away to the uttermost parts of the earth? Or do we shudder at the thought of mutability in
all created things--and know that ere a few suns shall have brightened the path of the swift
vessel on the sea, we shall be dimly remembered--at last forgotten--and all those days, months,
and years that once seemed eternal, swallowed up in everlasting oblivion?

With us all ambitious desires some years ago expired. Far rather would we read than write nowadays--far
rather than read, sit with shut eyes and no book in the room--far rather than so sit, walk
about alone anywhere

    "Beneath the umbrage deep
    That shades the silent world of memory."

Shall we live? or "like beasts and common people die?" There is something harsh and grating
in the collocation of these words of the "Melancholy Cowley;" yet he meant no harm, for he
was a kind, good creature as ever was born, and a true genius. He there has expressed concisely,
but too abruptly, the mere fact of their falling alike and together into oblivion. Far better
Gray's exquisite words,

    "On some fond breast the parting soul relies!"

The reliance is firm and sure; the "fond breast" is faithful to its trust, and dying, transmits
it to another; till after two or three transmissions--holy all, but fainter and dimmer--the
pious tradition dies, and all memorial of the love and the delight, the pity and the sorrow,
is swallowed up in vacant night.

Posthumous Fame! Proud words--yet may they be uttered in a humble spirit. The common lot of
man is, after death--oblivion. Yet genius, however small its sphere, if conversant with the
conditions of the human heart, may vivify with indestructible life some happy delineations,
that shall continue to be held dear by successive sorrowers in this vale of tears. If the name
of the delineator continue to have something sacred in its sound--obscure to the many as it
may be, or non-existent--the hope of such posthumous fame is sufficient to one who overrates
not his own endowments. And as the hope has its root in love and sympathy, he who by his writings
has inspired towards himself when in life, some of these feelings in the hearts of not a few
who never saw his face, seems to be justified in believing that even after final obliteration
of Hic jacet from his tombstone, his memory will be regarded with something of the same affection
in his REMAINS.

REMARKS

ON THE

SCENERY OF THE HIGHLANDS.

REMARKS

ON THE

SCENERY OF THE HIGHLANDS.

     [Professor Wilson's "Remarks on the Scenery of the Highlands" were
     first published as a Preface to Swan's Select Views of the Lakes
     of Scotland, 2d edition, 1836. They were not included originally
     in the "Recreations of Christopher North;" but the harmony of their
     tone and spirit seemed to recommend them as an appropriate sequel
     to that work; and accordingly they are now reprinted as such. The
     thanks of the Editor and Publishers of Professor Wilson's writings
     are due to the Messrs Fullarton, the proprietors of "Swan's Views,"
     for the liberal manner in which they have placed this valuable
     article at their disposal.]

       *       *       *       *       *

In no other country does nature exhibit herself in more various forms of beauty and sublimity,
than in the North of England and the Highlands of Scotland. This is acknowledged by all who,
having studied their character, and become familiar with the feelings it inspires, have compared
the effects produced on their minds by our own mountainous regions, with what they have experienced
among the scenery of the Alps. There, indeed, all objects are on so vast a scale, that we are
for a while astonished as we gaze on the gigantic; and all other emotions are sunk in an overwhelming
sense of awe that prostrates the imagination. But on recovering from its subjection to the
prodigious, that faculty everywhere recognises in those mighty mountains of dark forests, glittering
glaciers, and regions of eternal snow--infinite all--the power and dominion of the Sublime.
True that all these are but materials for the mind to work on, and that to its creative energy
nature owes much of that grandeur which seems to be inherent in her own forms; yet surely she
in herself is great, and there is a regality belonging of divine right to such a monarch as
Mont Blanc.

Those are the very regions of sublimity, and if brought into immediate comparison with them
in their immense magnitude, the most magnificent scenery of our own country would no doubt
seem to lose its character of greatness. But such is not the process of the imagination in
her intercourse with Nature. To her sufficient for the day is the good thereof; and on each
new glorious sight being shown to her eyes, she employs her God-given power to magnify or irradiate
what she beholds, without diminishing or obscuring what she remembers. Thus, to her all things
in nature hold their own due place, and retain for ever their own due impressions, aggrandised
and beautified by mutual reaction in those visionary worlds, which by a thought she can create,
and which as they arise are all shadowy representations of realities--new compositions in which
the image of the earth we tread is reflected fairer or greater than any realities, but not
therefore less, but more true to the spirit of nature. It is thus that Poets and Painters at
once obey and control their own inspirations. They visit all the regions of the earth, but
to love, admire, and adore; and the greatest of them all, native to our soil, from their travel
or sojourn in foreign lands, have always brought home a clearer insight into the character
of the scenery of their own, a profounder affection for it all, and a higher power of imaging
its attributes in colours or in words. In our poetry, more than in any other, nature sees herself
reflected in a magic mirror; and though many a various show passes processionally along its
lustre, displaying the scenery of "lands and seas, whatever clime the sun's bright circle warms,"
among them all there are none more delightful or elevating to behold, than those which genius,
inspired by love, has framed of the imagery, which in all her pomp and prodigality heaven has
been pleased to shower, through all seasons, on our own beautiful island. It is not for us
to say whether our native Painters, or the "old masters," have shown the greatest genius in
landscape; but if the palm must be yielded to them whose works have been consecrated by a reverence,
as often, perhaps, superstitious as religious, we do not fear to say that their superiority
is not to be attributed in any degree to the scenery on which they exercised the art its beauty
had inspired. Whatever may be the associations connected with the subjects of their landscapes--and
we know not why they should be higher or holier than those belonging to innumerable places
in our own land--assuredly in themselves they are not more interesting or impressive; nay,
though none who have shared with us the spirit of the few imperfect sentences we have now written,
will, for a moment, suppose us capable of instituting an invidious comparison between our own
scenery and that of any other country, why should we hesitate to assert that our own storm-loving
Northern Isle is equally rich in all kinds of beauty as the sunny South, and richer far in
all kinds of grandeur, whether we regard the forms or colouring of nature--earth, sea, or air,--

    "Or all the dread magnificence of heaven."

What other region in all the world like that of the Lakes in the North of England! And yet
how the true lover of nature, while he carries along with him its delightful character in his
heart, and can so revive any spot of especial beauty in his imagination, as that it shall seem
in an instant to be again before his very eyes, can deliver himself up, after the lapse of
a day, to the genius of some savage scene in the Highlands of Scotland, rent and riven by the
fury of some wild sea-loch! Not that the regions do not resemble one another, but surely the
prevailing spirit of the one--not so of the other--is a spirit of joy and of peace. Her mountains,
invested, though they often be, in gloom--and we have been more than once benighted during
day, as a thunder-cloud thickened the shadows that for ever sleep in the deepest dungeons of
Helvellyn--are yet--so it seems to us--such mountains as in nature ought to belong to "merry
England." They boldly meet the storms, and seen in storms, you might think they loved the trouble;
but pitch your tent among them, and you will feel that theirs is a grandeur that is congenial
with the sunshine, and that their spirit fully rejoices in the brightness of light. In clear
weather, verdant from base to summit, how majestic their repose! And as mists slowly withdraw
themselves in thickening folds up along their sides, the revelation made is still of more and
more of the beautiful--arable fields below--then coppice woods studded with standard trees--enclosed
pastures above and among the woods--broad breasts of close-nibbled herbage here and there adorned
by rich dyed rocks, that do not break the expanse--till the whole veil has disappeared, and,
lo! the long lofty range, with its wavy line, rising and sinking so softly in the blue serenity
perhaps of an almost cloudless sky. Yet though we have thus characterised the mountains by
what we have always felt to be the pervading spirit of the region, chasms and ravines, and
cliffs and precipices, are there; in some places you see such assemblages as inspire the fear
that quakes at the heart, when suddenly struck in the solitude with a sense of the sublime;
and though we have called the mountains green--and during Spring and Summer, in spite of frost
or drought, they are green as emerald--yet in Autumn they are many-coloured, and are girdled
with a glow of variegated light, that at sunset sometimes seems like fire kindled in the woods.

The larger Vales are all serene and cheerful, and among the sylvan knolls with which their
wide levels highly cultivated are interspersed, cottages, single or in groups, are frequent,
of an architecture always admirably suited to the scenery, because in a style suggested not
by taste or fancy, which so often disfigure nature to produce the picturesque, but resorted
to for sake of the uses and conveniences of in-door life, to weather-fend it in storms, and
in calm to give it the enjoyment of sunshine. Many of these dwellings are not what are properly
called cottages, but Statesmen's houses, of ample front, with their many roofs, overshadowed
by a stately grove, and inhabited by the same race for many generations. All alike have their
suitable gardens, and the porches of the poorest are often clustered with roses; for everywhere
among these hills, even in minds the most rude and uncultivated, there is a natural love of
flowers. The villages, though somewhat too much modernised in those days of improvement, and
indeed not a few of them with hardly any remains now of their original architecture--nothing
old about them but the church tower, perhaps the parsonage--are nevertheless generally of a
pleasing character, and accordant, if not with the great features of nature, which are unchanged
and unchangeable, with the increased cultivation of the country, and the many villas and ornamented
cottages that have risen and are rising by every lake and river side. Rivers indeed, properly
so called, there are none among these mountains; but every vale, great and small, has at all
times its pure and undefiled stream or rivulet; every hill has its hundreds of evanescent rills,
almost every one its own perennial torrent flowing from spring, marsh, or tarn; and the whole
region is often alive with waterfalls, of many of which, in its exquisite loveliness, the scenery
is fit for fairy festivals--and of many, in its horrid gloom, for gatherings of gnomes revisiting
the glimpses of the moon from their subterraneous prisons. One lake there is which has been
called "wooded Winandermere, the river lake;" and there is another--Ulswater--which you might
imagine to be a river too, and to have come flowing from afar: the one excelling in isles,
and bays, and promontories, serene and gentle all, and perfectly beautiful; the other, matchless
in its majesty of cliff and mountain, and in its old forests, among whose hoary gloom is for
ever breaking out the green light of young generations, and perpetual renovation triumphing
over perpetual decay. Of the other lakes--not river-like--the character may be imagined even
from that we have faintly described of the mountains:--almost every vale has its lake, or a
series of lakes--and though some of them have at times a stern aspect, and have scenes to show
almost of desolation, descending sheer to the water's edge, or overhanging the depth that looks
profounder in the gloom, yet even these, to eyes and hearts familiar with their spirit, wear
a sweet smile which seldom passes away: witness Wastwater--with its huge single mountains,
and hugest of all the mountains of England, Scawfell, with its terrific precipices--which,
in the accidents of storm, gloom, or mist, has seemed, to the lonely passer-by, savage in the
extreme--a howling or dreary wilderness--but in its enduring character, is surrounded with
all quiet pastoral imagery, the deep glen in which it is imbedded being, in good truth, the
abode of Sabbath peace. That hugest mountain is indeed the centre from which all the vales
irregularly diverge; the whole circumjacent region may be traversed in a week; and though no
other district of equal extent contains such variety of the sublime and beautiful, yet the
beautiful is so prevalent, that we feel its presence, even in places where it is overpowered;
and on leaving "The Lakes," our imagination is haunted and possessed with images, not of dread,
but of delight.

We have sometimes been asked, whether the North of England or the Highlands of Scotland should
be visited first; but, simple as the question seems, it is really one which it is impossible
to answer; though we suspect it would equally puzzle Scotchman or Englishman to give a sufficient
reason for his wishing to see any part of any other country before he had seen what was best
worth seeing in his own. His own country ought to be, and generally is, dearest to every man.
There, if nothing forbid, he should not only begin his study of nature, but continue his education
in her school, wherever it may happen to be situated, till he has taken his first degree. We
believe that the love of nature is strong in the hearts of the inhabitants of our Island. And
how wide and profound may that knowledge of nature be, which the loving heart has acquired,
without having studied her anywhere but within the Four Seas! The impulses that make us desire
to widen the circle of our observation, are all impulses of delight and love; and it would
be strange indeed, did they not move us, first of all, towards whatever is most beautiful belonging
to our own land. Were it otherwise, it would seem as if the heart were faithless to the home-affections,
out of which, in their strength, spring all others that are good; and it is essential, we do
not doubt, to the full growth of the Love of Country, that we should all have our earliest
imaginative delights associated with our native soil. Such associations will for ever keep
it loveliest to our eyes; nor is it possible that we can ever as perfectly understand the character
of any other; but we can afterwards transfer and transfuse our feelings in imagination kindled
by our own will; and the beauty, born before our eyes, among the banks and braes of our childhood,
and then believed to be but there, and nothing like it anywhere else in all the world, becomes
a golden light, "whose home is everywhere," which if we do not darken it, will shine unshadowed
in the dreariest places, till "the desert blossom like the rose."

For our own parts, before we beheld one of "the beautiful fields of England," we had walked
all Scotland thorough, and had seen many a secret place, which now, in the confusion of our
crowded memory, seem often to shift their uncertain ground; but still, wherever they glimmeringly
reappear, invested with the same heavenly light in which, long ago, they took possession of
our soul. And now, that we are almost as familiar with the fair sister-land, and love her almost
as well as Scotland's self, not all the charms in which she is arrayed, and they are at once
graceful and glorious, have ever for a day withdrawn our deeper dreams from the regions where,

    "In life's morning march, when our spirit was young,"

unaccompanied but by our own shadow in the wilderness, we first heard the belling of the red-deer
and the eagle's cry.

In those days there was some difficulty, if not a little danger, in getting in among some of
the noblest regions of our Alps. They could not be traversed without strong personal exertion;
and a solitary pedestrian excursion through the Grampians was seldom achieved without a few
incidents that might almost have been called adventures. It is very different now; yet the
Genius Loci, though tamed, is not subdued; and they who would become acquainted with the heart
of the Highlands, will have need of some endurance still, and must care nothing about the condition
of earth or sky. Formerly, it was not possible to survey more than a district or division in
a single season, except to those unenviable persons who had no other pursuit but that of amusement,
and waged a weary war with time. The industrious dwellers in cities, who sought those solitudes,
for a while to relieve their hearts from worldly anxieties, and gratify that love of nature
which is inextinguishable in every bosom that in youth has beat with its noble inspirations,
were contented with a week or two of such intercommunion with the spirit of the mountains,
and thus continued to extend their acquaintance with the glorious wildernesses, visit after
visit, for years. Now the whole Highlands, western and northern, may be commanded in a month.
Not that any one who knows what they are, will imagine that they can be exhausted in a lifetime.
The man does not live who knows all worth knowing there; and were they who made the Trigonometrical
Survey to be questioned on their experiences, they would be found ignorant of thousands of
sights, any one of which would be worth a journey for its own sake. But now steam has bridged
the Great Glen, and connected the two seas. Salt-water lochs the most remote and inaccessible,
it has brought within reach of a summer-day's voyage. In a week a joyous company can gather
all the mainland shores, leaving not one magnificent bay uncircled; and, having rounded St
Kilda and

                      "the Hebride Isles,
    Placed far amid the melancholy main,"

and heard the pealing anthem of waves in the cave-cathedral of Staffa, may bless the bells
of St Mungo's tolling on the first Sabbath. Thousands and tens of thousands, who, but for those
smoking sea-horses, had never been beyond view of the city spires, have seen sights which,
though passing by almost like dreams, are not like dreams forgotten, but revive of themselves
in memory and imagination; and, when the heart is weary with the work of the hand, quicken
its pulses with a sudden pleasure that is felt like a renovation of youth.

All through the interior, too, how many hundreds of miles of roads now intersect regions not
long ago deemed impracticable!--firm on the fen, in safety flung across the chasm--and winding
smoothly amidst shatterings of rocks, round the huge mountain bases, and down the glens once
felt as if interminable, now travelled almost with the speed of the raven's wing!

In the Highlands now, there is no Terra Incognita. But there are many places yet well worth
seeing, which it is not easy for all men to find, and to which every man must be his own guide.
It is somewhat of a selfish feeling, indeed, but the pride is not a mean one, with which the
solitary pedestrian sits down to contemplate some strange, or wild, or savage scene, or some
view of surpassing sweetness and serenity, so far removed from the track of men that he can
well believe for a time that his eyes have been the first to behold it, and that for them alone
it has now become a visible revelation. The memory of such places is sometimes kept as a secret
which we would not communicate but to a congenial friend. They are hallowed by those mysterious
"thoughts that, like phantoms, trackless come and go;" no words can tell another how to find
his way thither; and were we ourselves to seek to return, we should have to trust to some consciousness
mysterious as the instinct of a bird that carries it through the blind night to the place of
its desire.

It is well to have in our mind the conception of a route: but without being utterly departed
from--nay, without ceasing to control us within certain bounds--it admits of almost any degrees
of deviation. We have known persons apparently travelling for pleasure, who were afraid to
turn a few miles to the right or the left, for fear of subjecting themselves to the reproach
of their own conscience for infirmity of purpose. They had "chalked out a route," and acted
as if they had sworn a solemn oath to follow it. This is to be a slave among the boundless
dominions of nature, where all are free. As the wind bloweth wherever it listeth, so move the
moods of men's minds, when there is nought to shackle them, and when the burden of their cares
has been dropt, that for a while they may walk on air, and feel that they too have wings.

    "A voice calls on me from the mountain depths,
    And it must be obeyed."

The voice was our own--and yet though but a whisper from the heart, it seemed to come from
the front of yon distant precipice--sweet and wild as an echo.

On rising at dawn in the shieling, why think, much less determine, where at night we are to
lay down our head? Let this be our thought:

    "Among the hills a hundred homes have I;
      My table in the wilderness is spread;
    In these lone spots one honest smile can buy
      Plain fare, warm welcome, and a rushy bed."

If we obey any powers external to our own minds, let them be the powers of Nature--the rains,
the winds, the atmosphere, sun moon, and stars. We must keep a look-out--

    "To see the deep fermenting tempest brew'd,
    In the grim evening sky;"

that next day we may cross the red rivers by bridges, not by fords; and if they roll along
unbridged, that we may set our face to the mountain, and wind our way round his shoulder by
sheep-tracks, unwet with the heather, till we behold some great strath, which we had not visited
but for that storm, with its dark blue river streaked with golden light,--for its source is
in a loch among the Eastern Range; and there, during the silent hours, heather, bracken, and
greensward rejoiced in the trembling dews.

There is no such climate for all kinds of beauty and grandeur, as the climate of the Highlands.
Here and there you meet with an old shepherd or herdsman, who has beguiled himself into a belief,
in spite of many a night's unforeseen imprisonment in the mists, that he can presage its changes
from fair to foul, and can tell the hour when the long-threatening thunder will begin to mutter.
The weather-wise have often perished in their plaids. Yet among a thousand uncertain symptoms,
there are a few certain, which the ranger will do well to study, and he will often exult on
the mountain to feel that "knowledge is power." Many a glorious hour has been won from the
tempest by him before whose instructed eye--beyond the gloom that wide around blackened all
the purple heather--"far off its coming shone." Leagues of continuous magnificence have gradually
unveiled themselves on either side to him, as he has slowly paced, midway between, along the
banks of the River of Waterfalls; having been assured by the light struggling through the mist,
that it would not be long till there was a break-up of all that ghastly dreariment, and that
the sun would call on him to come forth from his cave of shelter, and behold in all its pride
the Glen affronting the sea.

Some Tourists--as they call themselves--are provided with map and compass; and we hope they
find them of avail in extremities, though we fear few such understand their use. No map can
tell--except very vaguely--how the aspect of the localities, looked at on its lines, is likely
to be affected by sun-rise, meridian, or sun-set. Yet, true it is, that every region has its
own happy hours, which the fortunate often find unawares, and know them at once to be so the
moment they lift up their eyes. At such times, while "our hearts rejoice in Nature's joy,"
we feel the presence of a spirit that brings out the essential character of the place, be it
of beauty or of grandeur. Harmonious as music is then the composition of colours and of forms.
It becomes a perfect picture in memory, more and more idealised by imagination, every moment
the veil is withdrawn before it; its aerial lineaments never fade; yet they too, though their
being be but in the soul, are mellowed by the touch, of time--and every glimpse of such a vision,
the longer we live, and the more we suffer, seems suffused with a mournful light, as if seen
through tears.

It would serve no good purpose, supposing we had the power, to analyse the composition of that
scenery, which in the aggregate so moves even the most sluggish faculties, as to make "the
dullest wight a poet." It rises before the mind in imagination, as it does before the eyes
in nature; and we can no more speak of it than look at it, but--as a whole. We can indeed fix
our mental or our visual gaze on scene after scene to the exclusion of all beside, and picture
it even in words that shall be more than shadows. But how shall any succession of such pictures,
however clear and complete, give an idea of that picture which comprehends them all, and infinite
as are its manifestations, nevertheless is imbued with one spirit?

Try to forget that in the Highlands there are any Lochs. Then the sole power is that of the
Mountains. We speak of a sea of mountains; but that image has never more than momentary possession
of us, because, but for a moment, in nature it has no truth. Tumultuary movements envelope
them; but they themselves are for ever steadfast and for ever still. Their power is that of
an enduring calm no storms can disturb--and is often felt to be more majestical, the more furious
are the storms. As the tempest-driven clouds are franticly hurrying to and fro, how serene
the summits in the sky! Or if they be hidden, how peaceful the glimpses of some great mountain's
breast! They disregard the hurricane that goes crashing through their old woods; the cloud-thunder
disturbs not them any more than that of their own cataracts, and the lightnings play for their
pastime. All minds under any excitation, more or less personify mountains. When much moved,
that natural process affects all our feelings, as the language of passion awakened by such
objects vividly declares; and then we do assuredly conceive of mountains as endued with life--however
dim and vague the conception may be--and feel their character in their very names. Utterly
strip our ideas of them of all that is attached to them as impersonations, and their power
is gone. But while we are creatures of imagination as well as of reason, will those monarchs
remain invested with the purple and seated on thrones.

In such imaginative moods as these must every one be, far more frequently than he is conscious
of, and in far higher degrees, who, with a cultivated mind and a heart open to the influences
of nature, finds himself, it matters not whether for the first or the hundredth time, in the
Highlands. We fancy the Neophyte wandering, all by himself, on the "Longest Day;" rejoicing
to think that the light will not fail him, when at last the sun must go down, for that a starry
gloaming will continue its gentle reign till morn. He thinks but of what he sees, and that
is--the mountains. All memories of any other world but that which encloses him with its still
sublimities, are not excluded merely, but obliterated: his whole being is there! And now he
stands on table-land, and with his eyes sweeps the horizon, bewildered for a while, for it
seems chaos all. But soon the mighty masses begin arranging themselves into order; the confusion
insensibly subsides as he comprehends more and more of their magnificent combinations; he discovers
centres round which are associated altitudes towering afar off; and finally, he feels, and
blesses himself on his felicity, that his good genius has placed him on the very centre of
those wondrous assemblages altogether, from which alone he could command an empire of realities,
more glorious far than was ever empire of dreams.

It is a cloudy, but not a stormy day; the clouds occupy but portions of the sky,--and are they
all in slow motion together, or are they all at rest? Huge shadows stalking along the earth,
tell that there are changes going on in heaven; but to the upward gaze, all seems hanging there
in the same repose; and with the same soft illumination the sun to continue shining, a concentration
rather than an orb of light. All above is beautiful, and the clouds themselves are like celestial
mountains; but the eye forsakes them, though it sees them still, and more quietly now it moves
along the pageantry below that endures for ever--till chained on a sudden by that range of
cliffs. 'Tis along them that the giant shadows are stalking--but now they have passed by--and
the long line of precipice seems to come forward in the light. To look down from the brink
might be terrible--to look up from the base would be sublime--but fronting the eye thus, horrid
though it be, the sight is most beautiful; for weather-stains, and mosses, and lichens, and
flowering plants--conspicuous most the broom and the heather--and shrubs that, among their
leaves of light, have no need of flowers--and hollies, and birks, and hazels, and many a slender
tree beside with pensile tresses, besprinkle all the cliffs, that in no gloom could ever lose
their lustre; but now the day though not bright is fair, and brings out the whole beauty of
the precipice--call it the hanging garden of the wilderness.

The Highlands have been said to be a gloomy region, and worse gloom than theirs might well
be borne, if not unfrequently illumined with such sights as these; but that is not the character
of the mountains, though the purple light in which, for usual, they are so richly steeped,
is often for a season tamed, or for a short while extinguished, while a strange night-like
day lets fall over them all a something like a shroud. Such days we have seen--but now in fancy
we are with the pilgrim, and see preparation making for a sun-set. It is drawing towards evening,
and the clouds that have all this time been moving, though we knew it not, have assuredly settled
now, and taken up their rest. The sun has gone down, and all that unspeakable glory has left
the sky. Evening has come and gone without our knowing that she had been here; but there is
no gloom on any place in the whole of this vast wilderness, and the mountains, as they wax
dimmer and dimmer, look as if they were surrendering themselves to a repose like sleep. Day
had no voice here audible to human ear--but night is murmuring--and gentle though the murmur
be, it filleth the great void, and we imagine that ever and anon it awakens echoes. And now
it is darker than we thought, for lo! one soft-burning star! And we see that there are many
stars; but not theirs the light that begins again to reveal object after object as gradually
as they had disappeared; the moon is about to rise--is rising--has arisen--has taken her place
high in heaven; and as the glorious world again expands around us, faintly tinged, clearly
illumined, softly shadowed, and deeply begloomed, we say within our hearts,

    "How beautiful is night!"

There are many such table-lands as the one we have now been imagining, and it requires but
a slight acquaintance with the country to conjecture rightly where they lie. Independently
of the panoramas they display, they are in themselves always impressive; perhaps a bare level
that shows but bleached bent, and scatterings of stones, with here and there an unaccountable
rock; or hundreds of fairy greensward knolls, fringed with tiny forests of fern that have almost
displaced the heather; or a wild withered moor or moss intersected with pits dug not by men's
hands; and, strange to see! a huge log lying half exposed, and as if blackened by fire. High
as such places are, on one of them a young gorcock was stricken down by a hawk close to our
feet. Indeed, hawks seem to haunt such places, and we have rarely crossed one of them, without
either seeing the creature's stealthy flight, or hearing, whether he be alarmed or preying,
his ever-angry cry.

From a few such stations, you get an insight into the configuration of the whole Western Highlands.
By the dip of the mountains, you discover at a glance all the openings in the panorama around
you into other regions. Follow your fancies fearlessly wherever they may lead; and if the blue
aerial haze that hangs over a pass winding eastward, tempt you from your line of march due
north, forthwith descend in that direction, and haply an omen will confirm you--an eagle rising
on the left, and sailing away before you into that very spot of sky.

No man, however well read, should travel by book. In books you find descriptions, and often
good ones, of the most celebrated scenes, but seldom a word about the vast tracts between;
and it would seem as if many Tourists had used their eyes only in those places where they had
been told by common fame there was something greatly to admire. Travel in the faith, that go
where you will, the cravings of your heart will be satisfied, and you will find it so, if you
be a true lover of nature. You hope to be inspired by her spirit, that you may may read aright
her works. But such inspiration comes not from one object or another, however great or fair,
but from the whole "mighty world of eye and ear," and it must be supported continuously, or
it perishes. You may see a thousand sights never before seen by human eye, at every step you
take, wherever be your path; for no steps but yours have ever walked along that same level;
and moreover, never on the same spot twice rested the same lights or shadows. Then there may
be something in the air, and more in your own heart, that invests every ordinary object with
extraordinary beauty; old images affect you with a new delight; a grandeur grows upon your
eyes in the undulations of the simplest hills; and you feel there is sublimity in the common
skies. It is thus that all the stores of imagery are insensibly gathered, with which the minds
of men are filled, who from youth have communed with nature. And it is thus that all those
feelings have flowed into their hearts by which that imagery is sanctified; and these are the
Poets.

It is in this way that we become familiar with the mountains. Far more than we were aware of
have we trusted to the strong spirit of delight within us, to prompt and to guide. And in such
a country as the Highlands, thus led, we cannot err. Therefore, if your desire be for the summits,
set your face thitherwards, and wind a way of your own, still ascending and ascending, along
some vast brow, that seems almost a whole day's journey, and where it is lost from your sight,
not to end, but to go sweeping round, with undiminished grandeur into another region. You are
not yet half-way up the mountain, but you care not for the summit now; for you find yourself
among a number of green knolls--all of them sprinkled, and some of them crowned with trees--as
large almost as our lowland hills--surrounded close to the brink with the purple heather--and
without impairing the majesty of the immense expanse, imbuing it with pastoral and sylvan beauty;--and
there, lying in a small forest glade of the lady-fern, ambitious no longer of a throne on Benlomond
or Ben-nevis, you dream away the still hours till sunset, yet then have no reason to weep that
you have lost a day.

But the best way to view the mountains is to trace the Glens. To find out the glens you must
often scale the shoulders of mountains, and in such journeys of discovery, you have for ever
going on before your eyes glorious transfigurations. Sometimes for a whole day one mighty mass
lowers before you unchanged; look at it after the interval of hours, and still the giant is
one and the same. It rules the region, subjecting all other altitudes to its sway, though many
of them range away to a great distance; and at sunset retains it supremacy, blazing almost
like a volcano with fiery clouds. Your line of journey lies, perhaps, some two thousand feet
above the level of the sea, and seldom dips down to one thousand; and these are the heights
from which all above and all below you looks most magnificent, for both regions have their
full power over you--the unscaleable cliffs, the unfathomable abysses--and you know not which
is the more sublime. The sublimity indeed is one. It is then that you may do well to ascend
to the very mountain-top. For it may happen to be one of those heavenly days indeed, when the
whole Highlands seem to be reposing in the cloudless sky.

But we were about to speak of the Glens. And some of them are best entered by such descents
as these--perhaps at their very head--where all at once you are in another world, how still,
how gloomy, how profound! An hour ago and the eye of the eagle had not wider command of earth,
sea, and sky, than yours--almost blinded now by the superincumbent precipices that imprison
you, and seem to shut you out from life.

    "Such the grim desolation, where Ben-Hun
    And Craig-na-Torr, by earthquake shatterings
    Disjoined with horrid chasms prerupt, enclose
    What superstition calls the Glen of Ghosts."

Or you may enter some great glen from the foot, where it widens into vale or strath--and there
are many such--and some into which you can sail up an arm of the sea. For a while it partakes
of the cultivated beauty of the lowlands, and glen and vale seem almost one and the same; but
gradually it undergoes a strange wild change of character, and in a few miles that similitude
is lost. There is little or no arable ground here; but the pasture is rich on the unenclosed
plain--and here and there are enclosures, near the few houses or huts standing, some of them
in the middle of the glen, quite exposed, on eminences above reach of the floods--some more
happily placed on the edge of the coppices, that sprinkle the steep sides of the hills, yet
barely mountains. But mountains they soon become; and leaving behind you those few barren habitations,
you see before you a wide black moor. Beautiful hitherto had been the river, for a river you
had inclined to think it, long after it had narrowed into a stream, with many a waterfall,
and in one chasm a cataract. But the torrent now has a wild mountain cry, and though there
is still beauty on its banks, they are bare of all trees, now swelling into multitudes of low
green knolls among the heather, now composed but of heather and rocks. Through the very middle
of the black moor it flows, yet are its waters clear, for all is not moss, and it seems to
wind its way where there is nothing to pollute its purity, or tame its lustre. 'Tis a solitary
scene, but still sweet; the mountains are of great magnitude, but they are not precipitous;
vast herds of cattle are browsing there, on heights from which fire has cleared the heather,
and wide ranges of greensward upon the lofty gloom seem to lie in perpetual light.

The moor is crossed, and you prepare to scale the mountain in front, for you imagine the torrent
by your side flows from a tarn in yonder cove, and forms that series of waterfalls. You have
been all along well pleased with the glen, and here at the head, though there is a want of
cliffs of the highest class, you feel nevertheless that it has a character of grandeur. Looking
westward, you are astounded to see them ranging away on either side of another reach of the
glen, terrific in their height, but in their formation beautiful, for like the walls of some
vast temple they stand, roofed with sky. Yet are they but as a portal or gateway of the glen.
For entering in with awe, that deepens, as you advance, almost into dread, you behold, beyond,
mountains that carry their cliffs up into the clouds, seamed with chasms, and hollowed out
into coves, where night dwells visibly by the side of day; and still the glen seems winding
on beneath a purple light, that almost looks like gloom; such vast forms and such prodigious
colours, and such utter stillness, become oppressive to your very life, and you wish that some
human being were by, to relieve, by his mere presence, the insupportable weight of such a solitude.

But we should never have done were we to attempt to sketch, however slightly, the character
of all the different kinds of glens. Some are sublime in their prodigious depth and vast extent,
and would be felt to be so, even were the mountains that enclose them of no great majesty;
but these are all of the highest order, and sometimes are seen from below to the very cairns
on their summits. Now we walk along a reach, between astonishing ranges of cliffs, among large
heaps of rocks--not a tree--scarcely a shrub--no herbage--the very heather blasted--all lifelessness
and desolation. The glen gradually grows less and less horrid, and though its sides are seamed
with clefts and chasms, in the gloom there are places for the sunshine, and there is felt to
be even beauty in the repose. Descends suddenly on either side a steep slope of hanging wood,
and we find ourselves among verdant mounds, and knolls, and waterfalls. We come then into what
seems of old to have been a forest. Here and there a stately pine survives, but the rest are
all skeletons; and now the glen widens, and widens, yet ceases not to be profound, for several
high mountains enclose a plain on which armies might encamp, and castellated clouds hang round
the heights of the glorious amphitheatre, while the sky-roof is clear, and as if in its centre,
the refulgent sun. 'Tis the plain called "The Meeting of the Glens." From the east and the
west, the north and the south, they come like rivers into the sea.

Other glens there are, as long, but not so profound, nor so grandly composed; yet they too
conduct us nobly in among the mountains, and up their sides, and on even to their very summits.
Such are the glens of Atholl, in the neighbourhood of Ben-y-gloe. From them the heather is
not wholly banished, and the fire has left a green light without quenching the purple colour
native to the hills. We think that we almost remember the time when those glens were in many
places sprinkled with huts, and all animated with human life. Now they are solitary; and you
may walk from sunrise till sunset without seeing a single soul. For a hundred thousand acres
have there been changed into a forest, for sake of the pastime, indeed, which was dear of old
to chieftains and kings. Vast herds of red-deer are there, for they herd in thousands--yet
may you wander for days over the boundless waste, nor once be startled by one stag bounding
by. Yet may a herd, a thousand strong, be drawn up, as in battle array, on the cliffs above
your head. For they will long stand motionless, at gaze, when danger is in the wind--and then
their antlers to unpractised eyes seem but boughs grotesque, or are invisible; and when all
at once, with one accord, at signal from the stag, whom they obey, they wheel off towards the
Corries, you think it but thunder, and look up to the clouds. Fortunate if you see such a sight
once in your life. Once only have we seen it; and it was, of a sudden, all by ourselves,

    "Ere yet the hunter's startling horn was heard
    Upon the golden hills."

Almost within rifle-shot, the herd occupied a position, high up indeed, but below several ridges
of rocks, running parallel for a long distance, with slopes between of sward and heather. Standing
still, they seemed to extend about a quarter of a mile, and as with a loud clattering of hoofs
and antlers, they took more open order, the line at least doubled its length, and the whole
mountain-side seemed alive. They might not be going at full speed, but the pace was equal to
that of any charge of cavalry; and once and again the flight passed before us, till it overcame
the ridges, and then deploying round the shoulder of the mountain, disappeared, without dust
or noise, into the blue light of another glen.

We question, if there be in the Highlands any one glen comparable with Borrowdale in Cumberland.
But there are several that approach it, in that combination of beauty and grandeur, which perhaps
no other scene equals in all the world. The "Gorge" of that Dale exhibits the finest imaginable
assemblage of rocks and rocky hills, all wildly wooded; beyond them, yet before we have entered
into the Dale, the Pass widens, with noble cliffs on one side, and on the other a sylvan stream,
not without its abysses; and we see before us some lovely hills, on which--

    "The smiling power of cultivation lies,"

yet leaves, with lines defined by the steeps that defy the ploughshare, copses and groves;
and thus we are brought into the Dale itself, and soon have a vision of the whole--green and
golden fields--for though most are in pasture, almost all seem arable--sprinkled with fine
single trees--and lying in flats and levels, or swelling into mounds and knolls, and all diversified
with every kind of woods; single cottages, with their out-buildings, standing everywhere they
should stand, and coloured like the rocks from which in some lights they are hardly to be distinguished--strong-roofed
and undilapidated, though many of them very old; villages, apart from one another a mile--and
there are three--yet on their sites, distant and different in much though they be, all associated
together by the same spirit of beauty that pervades all the Dale. Half way up, and in some
places more, the enclosing hills and even mountains are sylvan indeed, and though there be
a few inoffensive aliens, they are all adorned with their native trees. The mountains are not
so high as in our Highlands, but they are very majestic; and the Passes over into Langdale,
and Wastdalehead, and Buttermere, are magnificent, and show precipices in which the Golden
Eagle himself might rejoice.

No--there is no glen in all the Highlands comparable with Borrowdale. Yet we know of some that
are felt to be kindred places, and their beauty though less, almost as much affects us, because
though contending, as it were, with the darker spirit of the mountain, it is not overcome,
but prevails; and their beauty will increase with years. For while the rocks continue to frown
aloft for ever, and the cliffs to range along the corries, unbroken by trees, which there the
tempest will not suffer to rise, the woods and groves below, preserved from the axe, for sake
of their needful shelter, shall become statelier, till the birch equal the pine; reclaimed
from the waste, shall many a fresh field recline among the heather, tempering the gloom; and
houses arise where now there are but huts, and every house have its garden:--such changes are
now going on, and we have been glad to observe their progress, even though sometimes they had
removed, or were removing, objects dear from old associations, and which, had it been possible,
but it was not, we should have loved to see preserved.

And one word on those sweet pastoral seclusions into which one often drops unexpectedly, it
may be at the close of day, and finds a night's lodging in the only hut. Yet they lie, sometimes,
embosomed in their own green hills, among the most rugged mountains, and even among the wildest
moors. They have no features by which you can describe them; it is their serenity that charms
you, and their cheerful peace; perhaps it is wrong to call them glens, and they are but dells.
Yet one thinks of a dell as deep, however small it may be; but these are not deep, for the
hills slope down gently upon them, and leave room perhaps between for a little shallow loch.
Often they have not any visible water at all, only a few springs and rivulets, and you wonder
to see them so very green; there is no herbage like theirs; and to such spots of old, and sometimes
yet, the kine are led in summer, and there the lonely family live in their shieling till the
harvest moon.

We have all along used the same word, and called the places we have spoken of--glens. A fine
observer--the Editor of Gilpin's Forest Scenery--has said: "The gradation from extreme width
downwards should be thus arranged,--strath, vale, dale, valley, glen, dell, ravine, chasm.
In the strath, vale, and dale, we may expect to find the large, majestic, gently flowing river,
or even the deeper or smaller lake. In the glen, if the river be large, it flows more rapidly,
and with greater variety. In the dell the stream is smaller. In the ravine, we find the mountain
torrent and the waterfall. In the chasm, we find the roaring cataract, or the rill, bursting
from its haunted fountain. The chasm discharges its small tribute into the ravine, while the
ravine is tributary to the dell, and thence to the glen; and the glen to the dale."

These distinctions are admirably expressed, and perfectly true to nature; yet we doubt if it
would be possible to preserve them in describing a country, and assuredly they are very often
indeed confused by common use in the naming of places. We have said nothing about Straths--nor
shall we try to describe one--but suggest to your own imagination--as specimens--Strath-Spey,
Strath-Tay, Strath-Earn. The dominion claimed by each of those rivers, within the mountain
ranges that environ their courses, is a strath; and three noble straths they are, from source
to sea.

And now we are brought to speak of the Highland Rivers, Streams, and Torrents; but we shall
let them rush or flow, murmur or thunder in your own ears, for you cannot fail to imagine what
the waters must be in a land of such glens and such mountains. The chief rivers possess all
the attributes essential to greatness--width--depth--clearness--rapidity--in one word power.
And some of them have long courses--rising in the central heights, and winding round many a
huge projection, against which in flood we have seen them dashing like the sea. Highland droughts
are not of long duration; the supplies are seldom withheld at once by all the tributaries;
and one wild night among the mountains converts a calm into a commotion--the many-murmuring
voice into one roar. In flood they are terrible to look at; and every whirlpool seems a place
of torment. Winds can make a mighty noise in swinging woods, but there is something to our
ears more appalling in that of the fall of waters. Let them be united--and add thunder from
the clouds--and we have heard in the Highlands all three in one--and the auditor need not care
that he has never stood by Niagara. But when "though not o'erflowing full," a Highland river
is in perfection; far better do we love to see and hear him rejoicing than raging; his attributes
appear more his own in calm and majestic manifestations, and as he glides or rolls on, without
any disturbance, we behold in him an image at once of power and peace.

Of rivers--comparatively speaking--of the second and third order--the Highlands are full--and
on some of them the sylvan scenery is beyond compare. No need there to go hunting the waterfalls.
Hundreds of them--some tiny indeed, but others tall--are for ever dinning in the woods; yet,
at a distance from the cataract, how sweet and quiet is the sound! It hinders you not from
listening to the cushat's voice; clear amidst the mellow murmur comes the bleating from the
mountain; and all other sound ceases, as you hearken in the sky to the bark of the eagle--rare
indeed anywhere, but sometimes to be heard as you thread the "glimmer or the gloom" of the
umbrage overhanging the Garry or the Tummel--for he used to build in the cliffs of Ben-Brackie,
and if he has shifted his eyrie, a few minutes' waftage will bear him to Cairn-Gower.

In speaking of the glens, we but alluded to the rivers or streams, and some of them, indeed,
even the great ones, have but rivulets; while in the greatest, the waters often flow on without
a single tree, shadowed but by rocks and clouds. Wade them, and you find they are larger than
they seem to be; for looked at along the bottom of those profound hollows, they are but mere
slips of sinuous light in the sunshine, and in the gloom you see them not at all. We do not
remember any very impressive glen, without a stream, that would not suffer some diminution
of its power by our fancying it to have one; we may not be aware, at the time, that the conformation
of the glen prevents its having any water-flow, but if we feel its character aright, that want
is among the causes of our feeling; just as there are some scenes of which the beauty would
not be so touching were there a single tree.

Thousands and tens of thousands there are of nameless perennial torrents, and "in number without
number numberless" those that seldom live a week--perhaps not a day. Up among the loftiest
regions you hear nothing, even when they are all allow; yet, there is music in the sight, and
the thought of the "general dance and minstrelsy" enlivens the air, where no insect hums. As
on your descent you come within hearing of the "liquid lapses," your heart leaps within you,
so merrily do they sing; the first torrent-rill you meet with you take for your guide, and
it leads you perhaps into some fairy dell, where it wantons awhile in waterfalls, and then
gliding along a little dale of its own with "banks o' green bracken," finishes its short course
in a stream--one of many that meet and mingle before the current takes the name of river, which
in a mile or less becomes a small woodland lake. There are many such of rememberable beauty;
living lakes indeed, for they are but pausings of expanded rivers, which again soon pursue
their way, and the water-lilies have ever a gentle motion there as if touched by a tide.

It used, not very long ago, to be pretty generally believed by our southern brethren, that
there were few trees in the Lowlands of Scotland, and none at all in the Highlands. They had
an obscure notion that trees either could not or would not grow in such a soil and climate--cold
and bleak enough at times and places, heaven knows--yet not altogether unproductive of diverse
stately plants. They know better now; nor were we ever angry with their ignorance, which was
nothing more than what was to be expected in persons living perpetually at home so far remote.
They rejoice now to visit, and sojourn, and travel here among us, foreigners and a foreign
land no more; and we rejoice to see and receive them not as strangers, but friends, and are
proud to know they are well pleased to behold our habitation. They do us and our country justice
now, and we have sometimes thought even more than justice; for they are lost in admiration
of our cities--above all, of Edinburgh--and speak with such raptures of our scenery, that they
would appear to prefer it even to their own. They are charmed with our bare green hills, with
our shaggy brown mountains they are astonished, our lochs are their delight, our woods their
wonder, and they hold up their hands and clap them at our cliffs. This is generous, for we
are not blind to the fact of England being the most beautiful land on all the earth. What are
our woods to hers! To hers, what are our single trees! We have no such glorious standards to
show as her indomitable and everlasting oaks. She is all over sylvan--Scotland but here and
there; look on England from any point in any place, and you see she is rich, from almost any
point in any place in Scotland, and you feel that comparatively she is poor. Yet our Lowlands
have long been beautifying themselves into a resemblance of hers; as for our Highlands, though
many changes have been going on there too, and most we believe for good, they are in their
great features, and in their spirit unalterable by art, stamped and inspired by enduring Nature.

We have spoken, slightly, of the sylvan scenery of the Highlands. In Perthshire, especially,
it is of rare and extraordinary beauty, and we are always glad to hear of Englishmen travelling
up the Tay and the Earn. We desire that eyes familiar with all that is umbrageous should receive
their first impressions of our Scottish trees at Duneira and Dunkeld. Nor will those impressions
be weakened as they proceed towards Blair Atholl. In that famous Pass, they will feel the power
possessed by the sweet wild monotony of the universal birch woods--broken but by grey crags
in every shape--grotesque, fantastical, majestic, magnificent, and sublime--on the many-ridged
mountains, that are loth to lose the green light of their beloved forests, retain it as long
as they can, and on the masses of living lustre seem to look down with pride from their skies.

An English forest, meaning thereby any one wide continuous scene of all kinds of old English
trees, with glades of pasture, and it may be of heath between, with dells dipping down into
the gloom, and hillocks undulating in the light--ravines and chasms too, rills, and rivulets,
and a haunted stream, and not without some melancholy old ruins, and here and there a cheerful
cottage that feels not the touch of time--such a forest there is not, and hardly can be imagined
to be in Scotland. But in the Highlands, there once were, and are still other forests of quite
a different character, and of equal grandeur. In his "Forest Scenery," Gilpin shows that he
understood it well; all the knowledge, which as a stranger, almost of necessity he wanted,
Lauder has supplied in his annotations; and the book should now be in the hands of every one
who cares about the woods. "The English Forest," says Gilpin, "is commonly composed of woodland
views, interspersed with extensive heaths and lawns. Its trees are oak and beech, whose lively
green corresponds better than the gloomy pine with the nature of the scene, which seldom assumes
the dignity of a mountain one, but generally exhibits a cheerful landscape. It aspires, indeed,
to grandeur; but its grandeur does not depend, like that of the Scottish forest, on the sublimity
of the objects, but on the vastness of the whole--the extent of its woods and the wideness
of its plains. In its inhabitants also the English forest differs from the Scottish; instead
of the stag and the roebuck, it is frequented by cattle and fallow-deer, and exchanges the
scream of the eagle and the falcon for the crowing of pheasants, and the melody of the nightingale.
The Scottish forest, no doubt, is the sublimer scene, and speaks to the imagination in a loftier
language than the English forest can reach. The latter, indeed, often rouses the imagination,
but seldom in so great a degree, being generally content with captivating the eye. The scenery,
too, of the Scottish forest is better calculated to last through ages than that of the English.
The woods of both are almost destroyed. But while the English forest hath lost all its beauty
with its oaks, and becomes only a desolate waste, the rocks and the mountains, the lakes and
the torrents of the Scottish forest make it still an interesting scene."

The Tree of the Highlands is the Pine. There are Scotch firs, indeed, well worth looking at,
in the Lowlands, and in England, but to learn their true character you must see them in the
glen, among rooks, by the river-side and on the mountain. "We for our parts," says Lauder very
finely, "confess that when we have seen it towering in full majesty in the midst of some appropriate
Highland scene, and sending its limbs abroad with all the unrestrained freedom of a hardy mountaineer,
as if it claimed dominion over the savage region round it, we have looked upon it as a very
sublime object. People who have not seen it in its native climate and soil, and who judge of
it from the wretched abortions which are swaddled and suffocated in English plantations, among
dark, heavy, and eternally wet clays, may well call it a wretched tree; but when its foot is
among its own Highland heather, and when it stands freely in its native knoll of dry gravel,
or thinly covered rock, over which its roots wander afar in the wildest reticulation, whilst
its tall, furrowed, and often gracefully sweeping red and grey trunk, of enormous circumference,
rears aloft its high umbrageous canopy, then would the greatest sceptic on this point be compelled
to prostrate his mind before it with a veneration which perhaps was never before excited in
him by any other tree." The colour of the pine has been objected to as murky--and murky it
often is, or seems to be; and so then is the colour of the heather, and of the river, and of
the loch, and of the sky itself thunder-laden, and murkiest of all are the clouds. But a stream
of sunshine is let loose, and the gloom is confounded with glory; over all that night-like
reign the jocund day goes dancing, and the forest revels in green or in golden light. Thousands
and tens of thousands of pines are there, and as you gaze upon the whole mighty array, you
fear, lest it might break the spell, to fix your gaze on any one single tree. But there are
trees there that will force you to look on themselves alone, and they grow before your eyes
into the kings of the forest. Straight stand their stems in the sunshine, and you feel that
as straight have they stood in the storm. As yet you look not up, for your heart is awed, and
you see but the stately columns reddening away into the gloom. But all the while you feel the
power of the umbrage aloft, and when thitherwards you lift your eyes, what a roof to such a
cathedral! A cone drops at your feet--nor other sound nor other stir--but afar off you think
you hear a cataract. Then it is true that you can indeed hear the beating of your own heart;
you fear, but know not what you fear; and being the only living creature there, you are impressed
with a thought of death. But soon to that severe silence you are more than reconciled; the
solitude, without ceasing to be sublime, is felt to be solemn and not awful, and ere long,
utter as it is, serene. Seen from afar, the forest was one black mass; but as you advance,
it opens up into spacious glades, beautiful as gardens, with appropriate trees of gentler tribes,
and ground-flowering in the sun. But there is no murmur of bee--no song of bird. In the air
a thin whisper of insects--intermittent--and wafted quite away by a breath. For we are now
in the very centre of the forest, and even the cushat haunts not here. Hither the red-deer
may come--but not now--for at this season they love the hill. To such places the stricken stag
might steal to lie down and die.

And thus for hours may you be lost in the forest, nor all the while have wasted one thought
on the outer-world, till with no other warning but an uncertain glimmer and a strange noise,
you all at once issue forth into the open day, and are standing on the brink of a precipice
above a flood. It comes tumbling down with a succession of falls, in a mile-long course, right
opposite your stance--rocks, cliffs, and trees, all the way up on either side, majestically
retiring back to afford ample channel, and showing an unobstructed vista, closed up by the
purple mountain, that seems to send forth the river from a cavern in its breast. 'Tis the Glen
of Pines. Nor ash nor oak is suffered to intrude on their dominion. Since the earthquake first
shattered it out, this great chasm, with all its chasms, has been held by one race of trees.
No other seed could there spring to life; for from the rocks has all soil, ages ago, been washed
and swept by the tempests. But there they stand with glossy boles, spreading arms, and glittering
crest; and those two by themselves on the summit, known all over Badenoch as "the Giants"--their
"statures reach the sky."

We have been indulging in a dream of old. Before our day the immemorial gloom of Glenmore had
perished, and it ceased to be a forest. But there bordered on it another region of night or
twilight, and in its vast depths we first felt the sublimity of lonesome fear. Rothiemurchus!
The very word blackens before our eyes with necromantic characters--again we plunge into its
gulfs desirous of what we dread--again, "in pleasure high and turbulent," we climb the cliffs
of Cairngorm.

Would you wish to know what is now the look of Glenmore? One now dead and gone--a man of wayward
temper, but of genius--shall tell you--and think not the picture exaggerated--for you would
not, if you were there. "It is the wreck of the ancient forest which arrests all the attention,
and which renders Glenmore a melancholy, more than a melancholy, a terrific spectacle. Trees
of enormous height, which have escaped alike the axe and the tempest, are still standing, stripped
by the winds, even of the bark, and, like gigantic skeletons, throwing far and wide their white
and bleached bones to the storms and rains of heaven; while others, broken by the violence
of the gales, lift up their split and fractured trunks in a thousand shapes of resistance and
of destruction, or still display some knotted and tortuous branches, stretched out, in sturdy
and fantastic forms of defiance, to the whirlwind and the winter. Noble trunks also, which
had long resisted, but resisted in vain, strew the ground; some lying on the declivity where
they have fallen, others still adhering to the precipice where they were rooted, many upturned,
with their twisted and entangled roots high in air; while not a few astonish us by the space
which they cover, and by dimensions which we could not otherwise have estimated. It is one
wide image of death, as if the angel of destruction had passed over the valley. The sight even
of a felled tree is painful; still more is that of the fallen forest, with all its green branches
on the ground, withering, silent, and at rest, where once they glittered in the dew and the
sun, and trembled in the breeze. Yet this is but an image of vegetable death. It is familiar,
and the impression passes away. It is the naked skeleton bleaching in the winds, the gigantic
bones of the forest still erect, the speaking records of former life, and of strength still
unsubdued, vigorous even in death, which renders Glenmore one enormous charnel-house."

What happened of old to the aboriginal Forests of Scotland, that long before these later destructions
they had almost all perished, leaving, to bear witness what they were, such survivors? They
were chiefly destroyed by fire. What power could extinguish chance-kindled conflagrations,
when sailing before the wind? And no doubt fire was set to clear the country at once of Scotch
firs, wolves, wild-boars, and outlaws. Tradition yet tells of such burnings; and, if we mistake
not, the pines found in the Scottish mosses, the logs and the stocks, all show that they were
destroyed by Vulcan, though Neptune buried them in the quagmires. Storms no doubt often levelled
them by thousands; but had millions so fallen they had never been missed, and one Element only--which
has been often fearfully commissioned--could achieve the work. In our own day the axe has indeed
done wonders--and sixteen square miles of the Forest of Rothiemurchus "went to the ground."
John of Ghent, Gilpin tells us, to avenge an inroad, set twenty-four thousand axes at work
in the Caledonian Forest.

Yet Scotland has perhaps sufficient forests at this day. For more has been planted than cut
down; Glenmore will soon be populous as ever with self-sown pines, and Rothiemurchus may revive;
the shades are yet deep of Loch Arkaig, Glengarry, Glenmoriston, Strathglass, Glen-Strathfarrar,
and Loch-Shiel; deeper still on the Findhorn--and deepest of all on the Dee, rejoicing in the
magnificent pine-woods of Invercauld and Braemar.

We feel that we have spoken feebly of our Highland forests. Some, perhaps, who have never been
off the high-roads, may accuse us of exaggeration too; but they contain wondrous beauties of
which we have said not a word; and no imagination can conceive what they may be in another
hundred years. But, apparently far apart from the forests, though still belonging to them,
for they hold in fancy by the tenure of the olden time, how many woods, and groves, and sprinklings
of fair trees, rise up during a day's journey, in almost every region of the North! And among
them all, it may be, scarcely a pine. For the oak, and the ash, and the elm, are also all native
trees; nowhere else does the rowan flush with more dazzling lustre; in spring, the alder with
its vivid green stands well beside the birk--the yew was not neglected of yore, though the
bow of the Celt was weak to that of the Saxon; and the holly, in winter emulating the brightness
of the pine, flourished, and still flourishes on many a mountain-side. There is sufficient
sylvan scenery for beauty in a land of mountains. More may be needed for shelter--but let the
young plants and seedlings have time to grow--and as for the old trees, may they live for ever!
Too many millions of larches are perhaps growing now behind the Tay and the Tilt; yet why should
the hills of Perthshire be thought to be disfigured by what ennobles the Alps and the Apennines?

Hitherto we have hardly said a word about Lochs, and have been doing our best to forget them,
while imagining scenes that were chiefly characterised by other great features of Highland
Landscape. A country thus constituted, and with such an aspect, even if we could suppose it
without lochs, would still be a glorious region; but its lochs are indeed its greatest glory:
by them its glens, its mountains, and its woods, are all illumined, and its rivers made to
sing aloud for joy.

The first that takes possession of the imagination, dreaming of the Highlands as the region
of Lochs, is the Queen of them all, Loch Lomond.

We shall not be suspected of an inclination to dissent, on light grounds, from any sentiments
of Wordsworth. But finely felt and expressed as all this is, we do not hesitate to say that
it is not applicable to Loch Lomond. Far be it from us to criticise this passage sentence by
sentence; for we have quoted it not in a captious, but a reverent spirit, as we have ever done
with the works of this illustrious man. He has studied nature more widely and profoundly than
we have; but it is out of our power to look on Loch Lomond without a feeling of perfection.
The "diffusion of water" is indeed great; but in what a world it floats! At first sight of
it, how our soul expands! The sudden revelation of such majestic beauty, wide as it is and
extending afar, inspires us with a power of comprehending it all. Sea-like indeed it is--a
Mediterranean Sea--enclosed with lofty hills and as lofty mountains--and these indeed are the
Fortunate Isles! We shall not dwell on the feeling which all must have experienced on the first
sight of such a vision--the feeling of a lovely and a mighty calm; it is manifest that the
spacious "diffusion of water" more than conspires with the other components of such a scene
to produce the feeling; that to it belongs the spell that makes our spirit serene, still, and
bright, as its own. Nor when such feeling ceases so entirely to possess, and so deeply to affect
us, does the softened and subdued charm of the scene before us depend less on the expanse of
the "diffusion of water." The islands, that before had lain we knew not how--or we had only
felt that they were all most lovely--begin to show themselves in the order of their relation
to one another and to the shores. The eye rests on the largest, and with them the lesser combine;
or we look at one or two of the least, away by themselves, or remote from all a tufted rock;
and many as they are, they break not the breadth of the liquid plain, for it is ample as the
sky. They show its amplitude, as masses and sprinklings of clouds, and single clouds, show
the amplitude of the cerulean vault. And then the long promontories--stretching out from opposite
mainlands, and enclosing bays that in themselves are lakes--they too magnify the empire of
water; for long as they are, they seem so only as our eye attends them with their cliffs and
woods from the retiring shores, and far distant are their shadows from the central light. Then
what shores! On one side, where the lake is widest, low-lying they seem, and therefore lovelier--undulating
with fields and groves, where many a pleasant dwelling is embowered, into lines of hills that
gradually soften away into another land. On the other side, sloping back, or overhanging, mounts
beautiful in their bareness, for they are green as emerald; others, scarcely more beautiful,
studded with fair trees--some altogether woods. They soon form into mountains--and the mountains
become more and more majestical, yet beauty never deserts them, and her spirit continues to
tame that of the frowning cliffs. Far off as they are, Benlomond and Benvorlich are seen to
be giants; magnificent is their retinue, but they two are supreme, each in his own dominion;
and clear as the day is here, they are diadem'd with clouds. We have travelled along them in
all weathers and never felt such a wish. For there they all are--all but the "sparkling stream
to run by our side," and we see not how that well could be in nature. "Streams that sparkle
as they run," cross our path on their own; and brighter never issued from the woods. Along
the margin of the water, as far as Luss--ay, and much farther--the variations of the foreground
are incessant; "had it no other beauties," it has been truly said, "but those of its shores,
it would still be an object of prime attraction; whether from the bright-green meadows sprinkled
with luxuriant ash-trees, that sometimes skirt its margin, or its white pebbled shores on which
its gentle billows murmur, like a miniature ocean, or its bold rocky promontories rising from
the dark water, rich in wildflowers and ferns, and tangled with wild roses and honeysuckles,
or its retired bays where the waves dash, reflecting, like a mirror, the trees which hang over
them, an inverted landscape." The islands are for ever arranging themselves into new forms,
every one more and more beautiful; at least so they seem to be, perpetually occurring, yet
always unexpected, and there is a pleasure even in such a series of slight surprises that enhances
the delight of admiration. And alongside, or behind us, all the while, are the sylvan mountains,
"laden with beauty;" and ever and anon open glens widen down upon us from chasms; or forest-glades
lead our hearts away into the inner gloom--perhaps our feet; and there, in a field that looks
not as if it had been cleared by his own hands, but left clear by nature, a woodsman's hut.

Half-way between Luss and Tarbet the water narrows, but it is still wide; the new road, we
believe, winds round the point of Firkin, the old road boldly scaled the height, as all old
roads loved to do; ascend it, and bid the many-isled vision, in all its greatest glory, farewell.
Thence upwards prevails the spirit of the mountains. The lake is felt to belong to them--to
be subjected to their will--and that is capricious; for sometimes they suddenly blacken it
when at its brightest, and sometimes when its gloom is like that of the grave, as if at their
biding, all is light. We cannot help attributing the "skyey influences" which occasion such
wonderful effects on the water, to prodigious mountains; for we cannot look on them without
feeling that they reign over the solitude they compose; the lights and shadows flung by the
sun and the clouds imagination assuredly regards as put forth by the vast objects which they
colour; and we are inclined to think some such belief is essential in the profound awe, often
amounting to dread, with which we are inspired by the presences of mere material forms. But
be this as it may, the upper portion of Loch Lomond is felt by all to be most sublime. Near
the head, all the manifold impressions of the beautiful which for hours our mind had been receiving,
begin to fade; if some gloomy change has taken place in the air, there is a total obliteration,
and the mighty scene before us is felt to possess not the hour merely, but the day. Yet should
sunshine come, and abide a while, beauty will glimpse upon us even here, for green pastures
will smile vividly high up among the rocks; the sylvan spirit is serene the moment it is touched
with light, and here there is not only many a fair tree by the water-side, but yon old oak-wood
will look joyful on the mountain, and the gloom become glimmer in the profound abyss. The Highlands
have them of all sizes--and that surely is best. But here is one which, it has been truly said,
is not only "incomparable in its beauty as in its dimensions, exceeding all others in variety
as it does in extent and splendour, but unites in itself every style of scenery which is found
in the other lakes of the Highlands." He who has studied, and understood, and felt all Loch
Lomond, will be prepared at once to enjoy any other fine lake he looks on; nor will he admire
nor love it the less, though its chief character should consist in what forms but one part
of that of the Wonder in which all kinds of beauty and sublimity are combined.

We feel that it would be idle, and worse than idle, to describe any number of the Highland
lochs, for so many of the finest have been seen by so many eyes that few persons probably will
ever read these pages to whom such descriptions would be, at the best, more than shadowings
of scenery that their own imaginations can more vividly re-create. There are other reasons
for not saying a single word about some of the most beautiful; for genius has pictured and
peopled them and the surrounding regions in colours that will never fade. Besides, in the volumes
to which these "Remarks" are a preface--contributed with pleasure, somewhat impaired indeed
by the consciousness of their many defects and imperfections--views of them all are submitted
to the eye; and it is not to be thought that we could by words add to the effect of the works
of such artists. These objections do not apply to what we have written respecting the character
of the Scenery of the Highlands, apart, as far as that may be, from their lochs; and it may
have in some measure illustrated them also, if it has at all truly characterised the mountains,
the glens, the rivers, the forests, and the woods.

We may be allowed, however, to say, that there cannot be a greater mistake than to think, as
many, we believe, do who have only heard of the Highland Lochs, that, with the exception of
those famous for their beauty as well as their grandeur, beauty is not only not the quality
by which they are distinguished, but that it is rarely found in them at all. There are few,
possessing any very marked character, in which beauty is not either an ingredient or an accompaniment;
and there are many "beautiful exceedingly," which, lying out of the way even of somewhat adventurous
travellers, or very remote, are known, if even by that, only by name. It does not, indeed,
require much, in some situations, to give a very touching beauty to water. A few trees, a few
knolls, a few tufted rocks, will do it, where all around and above is stern or sterile; and
how strong may be the gentle charm, if the torrent that feeds the little loch chance to flow
into it from a lucid pool formed by a waterfall, and to flow out of it in a rivulet that enlivens
the dark heather with a vale of verdure over which a stag might bound--and more especially
if there be two or three huts in which it is perceived there is human life! We believe we slightly
touched before on such scenes; but any little repetition will be excused for the sake of a
very picturesque passage, which we have much pleasure in quoting from the very valuable "Guide
to the Highlands and Islands of Scotland," by the brothers Anderson. We well remember walking
into the scene here so well painted, many long years ago, and have indeed, somewhere or other,
described it. The Fall of Foyers is the most magnificent cataract, out of all sight and hearing,
in Britain. The din is quite loud enough in ordinary weather--and it is only in ordinary weather
that you can approach the place from which you have a full view of all its grandeur. When the
Fall is in flood--to say nothing of being drenched to the skin--you are so blinded by the sharp
spray-smoke, and so deafened by the dashing and clashing, and tumbling and rumbling thunder,
that your condition is far from enviable, as you cling, "lonely lover of nature," to a shelf
by no means eminent for safety, above the horrid gulf. Nor in former times was there any likelihood
of your being comforted by the accommodations of the General's Hut. In ordinary Highland weather--meaning
thereby weather neither very wet nor very dry--it is worth walking a thousand miles for one
hour to behold the Fall of Foyers. The spacious cavity is enclosed by "complicated cliffs and
perpendicular precipices" of immense height, and though for a while it wears to the eye a savage
aspect, yet beauty fears not to dwell even there, and the horror is softened by what appears
to be masses of tall shrubs, or single shrubs almost like trees. And they are trees, which
on the level plain would look even stately; but as they ascend ledge above ledge the walls
of that awful chasm, it takes the eye time to see them as they really are, while on our first
discernment of their character, serenely standing among the tumult, they are felt on such sites
to be sublime.

"Between the Falls and the Strath of Stratherrik," says the Book we were about to quote, "a
space of three or four miles, the river Foyers flows through a series of low rocky hills clothed
with birch. They present various quiet glades and open spaces, where little patches of cultivated
ground are encircled by wooded hillocks, whose surface is pleasingly diversified by nodding
trees, bare rocks, empurpled heath, and bracken bearing herbage." It was the excessive loveliness
of some of the scenery there that suggested to us the thought of going to look what kind of
a stream the Foyers was above the Fall. We went, and in the quiet of a summer evening, found it

    "Was even the gentlest of all gentle things."

But here is the promised description of it. "Before pursuing our way westward, we would wish
to direct the traveller's attention to a sequestered spot of peculiar beauty on the river Foyers.
This is a secluded vale, called Killean, which, besides its natural attractions--and these
are many--is distinguished as one of the few places where the old practice of resorting to
the 'shieling' for summer grazing of cattle is still observed. It is encompassed on all sides
by steep mountains; but at the north end there is a small lake, about a mile and a half in
length, and from one-third to half a mile in breadth. The remainder of the bottom of the glen
is a perfectly level tract, of the same width with the lake, and about two miles and a half
in length, covered with the richest herbage, and traversed by a small meandering river flowing
through it into the lake. The surface of this flat is bedecked with the little huts or bothies
which afford temporary accommodation to the herdsmen and others in charge of the cattle. This
portion of the glen is bordered on the west by continuous hills rising abruptly in a uniformly
steep acclivity, and passing above into a perpendicular range of precipices, the whole covered
with a scanty verdure sprouted with heath. At a bend of the lake near its middle, where it
inclines from a northernly course towards the west, a magnificent rounded precipice, which,
like the continuous ranges, may be about 1200 feet in height, rises immediately out of the
water; and a few narrow and inclined verdant stripes alone preserve it from exhibiting a perfectly
mural character. To this noble rock succeeds, along the rest of the lake, a beautiful, lofty,
and nearly vertical hill-side, clothed with birch, intermingled with hanging mossy banks, shaded
over with the deeper-tinted bracken. The eastern side of the plain, and the adjoining portion
of the lake, are lined by mountains corresponding in height with those opposed to them; but
their lower extremities are, to a considerable extent, strewed with broken fragments of rock,
to which succeeds an uninterrupted zone of birch and alder, which is again overtopped in its
turn by naked cliffs. An elevated terrace occupies the remainder of this side of the lake;
above the wooded face of which is seen a sloping expanse of mingled heath and herbage. About
half a mile from the south end, Mr Fraser of Lovat, the proprietor, has erected a shooting-lodge;
viewed from which, or from either end, or from the top of the platform on the north-east side
of the lake, fancy could scarcely picture a more attractive and fairy landscape than is unfolded
by this sequestered vale, to which Dr Johnson's description of the 'Happy Valley' not inaptly
applies. The milch cows, to the number of several hundreds, are generally kept here from the
beginning of June to the middle of August, when they are replaced by the yeld cattle. The river
sweeps to the northward from Loch Killean through richly birch-clad hills, which rise in swelling
slopes from its banks. A large tarn which immediately joins it from the east is crossed at
its mouth by a rustic bridge, from which a single footpath conducts across the brow of the
hill to Whitebridge, a small public-house or inn, four miles distant."

There is a loch of a very different character from Killean, almost as little known (one view
of it is given in the book), equal to anything in the Highlands, only two miles distant from
Loch Lochy, in the Great Glen--Loch Arkaig. We first visited it many years since, having been
induced to do so by a passage in John Stoddart's "Remarks on the Local Scenery and Manners
of Scotland;" and it was then a very noble oak and pine forest loch. The axe went to work and
kept steadily at it; and a great change was wrought; but it is still a grand scene, with a
larger infusion of beauty than it possessed of old. The scenery of the valley separating it
from Loch Lochy is very similar to that of the Trossachs; through it there are two approaches
to the loch, and the Mile-Dubh, or the Dark Mile, according to our feeling, is more impressive
than any part of the approach to Loch Katrine. The woods and rocks are very solemn, and yet
very sweet; for though many old pines and oaks and ashes are there, and the wall of rocks is
immense, young trees prevail now on many places, as well along the heights as among the knolls
and hillocks below, where alders and hawthorns are thick; almost everywhere the young are intermingled
with the old, and look cheerful under their protection, without danger of being chilled by
their shade. The loch, more or less sylvan from end to end, shows on its nearer shores some
magnificent remains of the ancient forest, and makes a noble sweep like some great river. There
may be more, but we remember but one island--not large, but wooded as it should be--the burying-place
of the family of Lochiel. What rest! It is a long journey from Loch Lochy to Kinloch Arkaig--and
by the silent waters we walked or sat all a summer's day. There was nothing like a road that
we observed, but the shores are easily travelled, and there it is you may be almost sure of
seeing some red-deer. They are no better worth looking at from a window than Fallow--no offence
to Fallow, who are fine creatures; indeed, we had rather not see them so at all; but on the
shores or steeps of Loch Arkaig, with hardly a human habitation within many, many miles, and
these few rather known than seen to be there, the huts of Highlanders contented to cultivate
here and there some spot that seems cultivatable, but probably is found not to be so after
some laborious years--there they are at home; and you, if young, looking on them, feel at home
too, and go bounding, like one of themselves, over what, did you choose, were an evitable steep.
Roe, too, frequent the copses, but to be seen they must be started; grouse spring up before
you oftener than you might expect in a deer forest; but, to be sure, it is a rough and shaggy
one, though lovelier lines of verdure never lay in the sunshine than we think we see now lying
for miles along the margin of that loch. The numerous mountains towards the head of the loch
are very lofty, and glens diverge in grand style into opposite and distant regions. Glen Dessary,
with its beautiful pastures, opens on the loch, and leads to Loch Nevish on the coast of Knoidart--Glen
Pæan to Oben-a-Cave on Loch Morer, Glen Canagorie into Glenfinnan and Loch Shiel; and Glen
Kingie to Glengarry and Loch Quoich. There is a choice! We chose Glen Kingie, and after a long
climb found a torrent that took us down to Glengarry before sunset. It is a loch little known,
and in grandeur not equal to Loch Arkaig; but at the close of such a day's journey, the mind,
elevated by the long contemplation of the great objects of nature, cannot fail to feel aright,
whatever it may be, the spirit of the scene, that seems to usher in the grateful hour of rest.
It is surpassing fair--and having lain all night long on its gentle banks, sleeping or waking
we know not, we have never remembered it since but as the Land of Dreams.

Which is the dreariest, most desolate, and dismal of the Highland Lochs? We should say Loch
Ericht. It lies in a prodigious wilderness, with which perhaps no man alive is conversant,
and in which you may travel for days without seeing even any symptoms of human life. We speak
of the regions comprehended between the Forest of Atholl and Ben-nevis, the Moor of Rannoch
and Glen Spean. There are many lochs--and Loch Ericht is their griesly Queen. Herdsmen, shepherds,
hunters, fowlers, anglers, traverse its borders, but few have been far in the interior, and
we never knew anybody who had crossed it from south to north, from east to west. We have ourselves
seen more of it, perhaps, than any other Lowlander; and had traversed many of its vast glens
and moors, before we found our way to the southern solitude of Loch Ericht. We came into the
western gloom of Ben Auler from Loch Ouchan, and up and down for hours dismal but not dangerous
precipices that opened out into what might almost be called passes--but we had frequently to
go back, for they were blind--contrived to clamber to the edge of one of the mountains that
rose from the water a few miles down the loch. All was vast, shapeless, savage, black, and
wrathfully grim; for it was one of those days that keep frowning and lowering, yet will not
thunder; such as one conceives of on the eve of an earthquake. At first the sight was dreadful,
but there was no reason for dread; imagination remains not longer than she chooses the slave
of her own eyes, and we soon began to enjoy the gloom, and to feel how congenial it was in
nature with the character of all those lifeless cliffs. Silence and darkness suit well together
in solitude at noonday, and settled on huge objects make them sublime. And they were huge;
all ranged together, and stretching away to a great distance, with the pitchy water, still
as if frozen, covering their feet.

Loch Ericht is many miles long--nearly twenty; but there is a loch among the Grampians not
more than two miles round, if so much, which is sublimer far--Loch Aven. You come upon the
sight of it at once, a short way down from the summit of Cairngorm, and then it is some two
thousand feet below you, itself being as many above the level of the sea. But to come upon
it so as to feel best its transcendent grandeur, you should approach it up Glenaven--and from
as far down as Inch-Rouran, which is about half-way between Loch Aven and Tomantoul. Between
Inch-Rouran and Tomantoul the glen is wild, but it is inhabited; above that house there is
but one other; and for about a dozen miles--we have heard it called far more--there is utter
solitude. But never was there a solitude at once so wild, so solemn, so serene, so sweet! The
glen is narrow; but on one side there are openings into several wider glens, that show you
mighty coves as you pass on; on the other side the mountains are without a break, and the only
variation with them is from smooth to shaggy, from dark to bright; but their prevailing character
is that of pastoral or of forest peace. The mountains that show the coves belong to the bases
of Ben-Aven and Ben-y-buird. The heads of those giants are not seen--but it sublimes the long
glen to know that it belongs to their dominion, and that it is leading us on to an elevation
that ere long will be on a level with the roots of their topmost cliffs. The Aven is so clear--on
account of the nature of its channel--that you see the fishes hanging in every pool; and 'tis
not possible to imagine how beautiful in such transparencies are the reflections of its green
ferny banks. For miles they are composed of knolls, seldom interspersed with rocks, and there
cease to be any trees. But ever and anon we walk for a while on a level floor, and the voice
of the stream is mute. Hitherto sheep have been noticed on the hill, but not many, and red
and black cattle grazing on the lower pastures; but they disappear, and we find ourselves all
at once in a desert. So it is felt to be, coming so suddenly with its black heather on that
greenest grass; but 'tis such a desert as the red-deer love. We are now high up on the breast
of the mountain, which appears to be Cairngorm; but such heights are deceptive, and it is not
till we again see the bed of the Aven that we are assured we are still in the glen. Prodigious
precipices, belonging to several different mountains, for between mass and mass there is blue
sky, suddenly arise, forming themselves more and more regularly into circular order, as we
near; and now we have sight of the whole magnificence; yet vast as it is, we know not yet how
vast; it grows as we gaze, till in a while we feel that sublimer it may not be; and then so
quiet in all its horrid grandeur we feel too that it is beautiful, and think of the Maker.

This is Loch Aven. How different the whole region round from that enclosing Loch Ericht! There,
vast wildernesses of more than melancholy moors--huge hollows hating their own gloom that keeps
them herbless--disconsolate glens left far away by themselves, without any sign of life--cliffs
that frown back the sunshine--and mountains, as if they were all dead, insensible to the heavens.
Is this all mere imagination--or the truth? We deceive ourselves in what we call a desert.
For we have so associated our own being with the appearances of outward things, that we attribute
to them, with an uninquiring faith, the very feelings and the very thoughts, of which we have
chosen to make them emblems. But here the sources of the Dee seem to lie in a region as happy
as it is high; for the bases of the mountains are all such as the soul has chosen to make sublime--the
colouring of the mountains all such, as the soul has chosen to make beautiful; and the whole
region, thus imbued with a power to inspire elevation and delight, is felt to be indeed one
of the very noblest in nature.

We have now nearly reached the limits assigned to our "Remarks on the Character of the Scenery
of the Highlands;" and we feel that the sketches we have drawn of its component qualities--occasionally
filled up with some details--must be very imperfect indeed without comprehending some parts
of the coast, and some of the sea-arms that stretch into the interior. But even had our limits
allowed, we do not think we could have ventured on such an attempt; for though we have sailed
along most of the western shores, and through some of its sounds, and into many of its bays,
and up not a few of its reaches, yet they contain such an endless variety of all the fairest
and greatest objects of nature, that we feel it would be far beyond our powers to give anything
like an adequate idea of the beauty and the grandeur that for ever kept unfolding themselves
around our summer voyagings in calm or storm. Who can say that he knows a thousandth part of
the wonders of "the marine" between the Mull of Cantire and Cape Wrath? He may have gathered
many an extensive shore--threaded many a mazy multitude of isles--sailed up many a spacious
bay--and cast anchor at the head of many a haven land-locked so as no more to seem to belong
to the sea--yet other voyagers shall speak to him of innumerable sights which he has never
witnessed; and they who are most conversant with those coasts, best know how much they have
left and must leave for ever unexplored.

Look now only at the Linnhe Loch--how it gladdens Argyll! Without it and the Sound of Mull
how sad would be the shadows of Morvern! Eclipsed the splendours of Lorn! Ascend one of the
heights of Appin, and as the waves roll in light, you will see how the mountains are beautified
by the sea. There is a majestic rolling onwards there that belongs to no land-loch--only to
the world of waves. There is no nobler image of ordered power than the tide, whether in flow
or in ebb; and on all now it is felt to be beneficent, coming and going daily, to enrich and
adorn. Or in fancy will you embark, and let the Amethyst bound away "at her own sweet will,"
accordant with yours, till she reach the distant and long-desired loch.

    "Loch-Sunart! who, when tides and tempests roar,
    Comes in among these mountains from the main,
    'Twixt wooded Ardnamurchan's rocky cape
    And Ardmore's shingly beach of hissing spray;
    And while his thunders bid the sound of Mull
    Be dumb, sweeps onwards past a hundred bays
    Hill-shelter'd from the wrath that foams along
    The mad mid-channel,--All as quiet they
    As little separate worlds of summer dreams,--
    And by storm-loving birds attended up
    The mountain-hollow, white in their career
    As are the breaking billows, spurns the Isles
    Of craggy Carnich, and green Oronsay
    Drench'd in that sea-horn shower o'er tree-tops driven,
    And ivied stones of what was once a tower,
    Now hardly known from rocks--and gathering might
    In the long reach between Dungallan caves
    And point of Arderinis ever fair
    With her Elysian groves, bursts through that strait
    Into another ampler inland sea;
    Till lo! subdued by some sweet influence,--
    And potent is she, though so meek the Eve,--
    Down sinketh wearied the old Ocean
    Insensibly into a solemn calm,--
    And all along that ancient burial-ground
    (Its kirk is gone), that seemeth now to lend
    Its own eternal quiet to the waves,
    Restless no more, into a perfect peace
    Lulling and lull'd at last, while drop the airs
    Away as they were dead, the first-risen star
    Beholds that lovely Archipelago,
    All shadow'd there as in a spiritual world,
    Where time's mutations shall come never more!"

These lines describe but one of innumerable lochs that owe their greatest charm to the sea.
It is indeed one of those on which nature has lavished all her infinite varieties of loveliness;
but Loch Leven is scarcely less fair, and perhaps grander; and there is matchless magnificence
above Loch Etive. All round about Ballahulish and Inverco the scenery of Loch Leven is the
sweetest ever seen overshadowed by such mountains; the deeper their gloom, the brighter its
lustre; in all weathers it wears a cheerful smile; and often while tip among the rocks the
tall trees are tossing in the storm, the heart of the woods beneath is calm, and the vivid
fields they shelter look as if they still enjoyed the sun. Nor closes the beauty there, but
even animates the entrance into that dreadful glen--Glencoe. All the way up its river, Loch
Leven would be fair, were it only for her hanging woods. But though the glen narrows, it still
continues broad, and there are green plains between her waters and the mountains, on which
stately trees stand single, and there is ample room for groves. The returning tide tells us,
should we forget it, that this is no inland loch, for it hurries away back to the sea, not
turbulent, but fast as a river in flood. The river Leven is one of the finest in the Highlands,
and there is no other such series of waterfalls, all seen at once, one above the other, along
an immense vista; and all the way up to the furthest there are noble assemblages of rocks--nowhere
any want of wood--and in places, trees that seem to have belonged to some old forest. Beyond,
the opening in the sky seems to lead into another region, and it does so; for we have gone
that way, past some small lochs, across a wide wilderness, with mountains on all sides, and
descended on Loch Treag,

    "A loch whom there are none to praise,
    And very few to love,"

but overflowing in our memory with all pleasantest images of pastoral contentment and peace.

Loch Etive, between the ferries of Connel and Bunawe, has been seen by almost all who have
visited the Highlands--but very imperfectly; to know what it is, you must row or sail up it,
for the banks on both sides are often richly wooded, assume many fine forms, and are frequently
well embayed, while the expanse of water is sufficiently wide to allow you from its centre
to command a view of many of the distant heights. But above Bunawe it is not like the same
loch. For a couple of miles it is not wide, and it is so darkened by enormous shadows that
it looks even less like a strait than a gulf--huge overhanging rocks on both sides ascending
high, and yet felt to belong but to the bases of mountains that sloping far back have their
summits among clouds of their own in another region of the sky. Yet are they not all horrid;
for nowhere else is there such lofty heather--it seems a wild sort of brushwood; tall trees
flourish, single or in groves, chiefly birches, with now and then an oak--and they are in their
youth or their prime--and even the prodigious trunks, some of which have been dead for centuries,
are not all dead, but shoot from their knotted rind symptoms of life inextinguishable by time
and tempest. Out of this gulf we emerge into the Upper Loch, and its amplitude sustains the
majesty of the mountains, all of the highest order, and seen from their feet to their crests.
Cruachan wears the crown, and reigns over them all--king at once of Loch Etive and of Loch
Awe. But Buachaille Etive, though afar off, is still a giant, and in some lights comes forwards,
bringing with him the Black Mount and its dependents, so that they all seem to belong to this
most magnificent of all Highland lochs. "I know not," says Macculloch, "that Loch Etive could
bear an ornament without an infringement on that aspect of solitary vastness which it presents
throughout. Nor is there one. The rocks and bays on the shore, which might elsewhere attract
attention, are here swallowed up in the enormous dimensions of the surrounding mountains, and
the wide and ample expanse of the lake. A solitary house, here fearfully solitary, situated
far up in Glen Etive, is only visible when at the upper extremity; and if there be a tree,
as there are in a few places on the shore, it is unseen; extinguished as if it were a humble
mountain flower, by the universal magnitude around." This is finely felt and expressed; but
even on the shores of Loch Etive there is much of the beautiful; Ardmatty smiles with its meadows,
and woods, and bay, and sylvan stream; other sunny nooks repose among the grey granite masses;
the colouring of the banks and braes is often bright; several houses or huts become visible
no long way up the glen; and though that long hollow--half a day's journey--till you reach
the wild road between Inveruran and King's House--lies in gloom, yet the hillsides are cheerful,
and you delight in the greensward, wide and rock-broken, should you ascend the passes that
lead into Glencreran or Glencoe. But to feel the full power of Glen Etive you must walk up
it till it ceases to be a glen. When in the middle of the moor, you see far off a solitary
dwelling indeed--perhaps the loneliest house in all the Highlands--and the solitude is made
profounder, as you pass by, by the voice of a cataract, hidden in an awful chasm, bridged by
two or three stems of trees, along which the red-deer might fear to venture--but we have seen
them and the deer-hounds glide over it, followed by other fearless feet, when far and wide
the Forest of Dalness was echoing to the hunter's horn.

We have now brought our Remarks on the Scenery of the Highlands to a close, and would fain
have said a few words on the character and life of the people; but are precluded from even
touching on that most interesting subject. It is impossible that the minds of travellers through
those wonderful regions, can be so occupied with the contemplation of mere inanimate nature,
as not to give many a thought to their inhabitants, now and in the olden time. Indeed, without
such thoughts, they would often seem to be but blank and barren wildernesses, in which the
heart would languish, and imagination itself recoil; but they cannot long be so looked at,
for houseless as are many extensive tracts, and therefore at times felt to be too dreary even
for moods that for a while enjoyed the absence of all that might tell of human life, yet symptoms
and traces of human life are noticeable to the instructed eye almost everywhere, and in them
often lies the spell that charms us, even while we think that we are wholly delivered up to
the influence of "dead insensate things." None will visit the Highlands without having some
knowledge of their history; and the changes that have long been taking place in the condition
of the people will be affectingly recognised wherever they go, in spite even of what might
have appeared the insuperable barriers of nature.

                                  "Time and Tide
    Have washed away, like weeds upon the sands,
    Crowds of the olden life's memorials;
    And 'mid the mountains you as well might seek
    For the lone site of fancy's filmy dreams.
    Towers have decay'd and moulder'd from the cliffs,
    Or their green age, or grey, has help'd to build
    New dwellings sending up their household smoke
    From treeless places once inhabited
    But by the secret sylvans. On the moors
    The pillar-stone, reared to perpetuate
    The fame of some great battle, or the power
    Of storied necromancer in the wild,
    Among the wide change on the heather-bloom
    By power more wondrous wrought than his, its name
    Has lost, or fallen itself has disappear'd;
    No broken fragment suffer'd to impede
    The glancing ploughshare. All the ancient woods
    Are thinn'd and let in floods of daylight now,
    Then dark and dern as when the Druids lived.
    Narrow'd is now the red-deer's forest reign;
    The royal race of eagles is extinct.
    But other changes than on moor and cliff
    Have tamed the aspect of the wilderness;
    The simple system of primeval life,
    Simple but stately, hath been broken down;
    The clans are scatter'd, and the chieftain's power
    Is dead, or dying--but a name--though yet
    It sometimes stirs the desert; to the winds
    The tall plumes wave no more--the tartan green
    With fiery streaks among the heather-bells
    Now glows unfrequent; and the echoes mourn
    The silence of the music that of old
    Kept war-thoughts stern amid the calm of peace.
    Yet to far battle plains still Morven sends
    Her heroes, and still glittering in the sun,
    Or blood-dimm'd, her dread line of bayonets
    Marches with loud shouts straight to victory.
    A soften'd radiance now floats o'er her glens;
    No rare sight now upon her sea-arm lochs
    The sail oft-veering up the solitude;
    And from afar the noise of life is brought
    Within the thunders of her cataracts.
    These will flow on for ever; and the crests,
    Gold-tipt by rising and by setting suns,
    Of her old mountains inaccessible
    Glance down their scorn for ever on the toils
    That load with harvests now the humbler hills,
    Now shorn of all their heather bloom, and green
    Or yellow as the gleam of lowland fields.
    And bold hearts in broad bosoms still are there,
    Living and dying peacefully; the huts
    Abodes are still of high-soul'd poverty;
    And underneath their lintels beauty stoops
    Her silken-snooded head, when singing goes
    The maiden to her father at his work
    Among the woods, or joins the scanty line
    Of barley-reapers on their narrow ridge,
    In some small field among the pastoral braes.
    Still fragments dim of ancient poetry
    In melancholy music down the glens
    Go floating; and from shieling roof'd with boughs,
    And turf-wall'd, high up in some lonely place
    Where flocks of sheep are nibbling the sweet grass
    Of mid-summer, and browsing on the plants
    On the cliff mosses a few goats are seen
    Among their kids, you hear sweet melodies
    Attuned to some traditionary tale,
    By young wife sitting all alone, aware
    From shadow on the mountain horologe
    Of the glad hour that brings her husband home
    Before the gloaming, from the far-off moor
    Where the black cattle feed; there all alone
    She sits and sings, except that on her knees
    Sleeps the sweet offspring of their faithful loves."

We love the people too well to praise them--we have had too heartfelt experience of their virtues.
In castle, hall, house, manse, hut, hovel, shieling--on mountain and moor, we have known, without
having to study their character. It manifests itself in their manners, and in their whole frame
of life. They are now, as they ever were, affectionate, faithful, and fearless; and far more
delightful surely it is to see such qualities in all their pristine strength--for civilisation
has not weakened, nor ever will weaken them--without that alloy of fierceness and ferocity
which was inseparable from them in the turbulence of feudal times. They are now indeed a peaceful
people; severe as are the hardships of their condition, they are, in the main, contented with
it; and nothing short of necessity can dissever them from their dear mountains. We devoutly
trust that there need be no more forced emigration--that henceforth it will be free--at the
option of the adventurous--and that all who will, when the day cometh, may be gathered to their
fathers in the land that gave them birth. Much remains to be done not only to relieve but enlighten;
yet Christian benevolence has not been forgetful of their wants; schools and churches are arising
in remote places; and that they are in good truth a religious as well as a moral people is
proved by the passionate earnestness with which, in their worst destitution, they embrace every
offer of instruction in the knowledge that leads to everlasting life. The blessing of Heaven
will lie on all such missions as these; and the time will come when we shall be able to contemplate,
without any pain, the condition of a race who, to use the noble language of one, though often
scornful and sarcastic overmuch, yet at heart their friend, "almost in an hour subsided into
peace and virtue, retaining their places, their possessions, their chiefs, their songs, their
traditions, their superstitions and peculiar usages--even that language and those recollections
which still separate them from the rest of the nation. They retained even their pride, and
they retained their contempt of those who imposed that order on them, and still they settled
into a state of obedience to that government, of which the world produces no other instance!
It is a splendid moral phenomenon, and reflects a lustre on the Highland character, whether
of the chiefs or the people, which extinguishes all past faults, and which atones for what
little remains to be amended. A peculiar political situation was the cause of their faults;
and that which swept away the cause, has rendered the effects a tale of other times."

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS, EDINBURGH.