'Clumsy boy!' Mrs. Sales exclaimed playfully.

Rose laughed. 'It's like the old see-saw. I was always in the air and you on the ground. Is
it there still--near the pigsties?'

'Yes, still there.' But this threatened to become too exclusive a conversation, and Rose tried
to do her share in more general topics.

Caroline, talking of the advantage of Radstowe, regretting the greater gaiety of the past,
when Sophia and she were belles, was adding gratuitous advice on the management of husbands
and some information on the ways of men. Mrs. Sales laughed and glanced now and then at Francis,
but whether he responded Rose could not see, unless she turned her head. He ought certainly
to have been smiling at so pretty a person, wrinkling his eyes in the way he had and straightening
the mouth which was sullen in repose. Yet she was almost sure he was doing the minimum demanded
of politeness, almost sure he was thinking of herself and was conscious of her nearness, just
as she, for the first time, was physically conscious of his.

She rose, saying, 'May I look out of the window? I always liked this view of the garden.' And
having gazed out and made the necessary remarks, she sat down, separated from him by the width
of the room and with her back to the light, a strategical position she ought to have taken
up before. But here she was at the disadvantage of facing him and a scrutiny of which she had
not thought him capable. With his legs stretched out, his hands in his pockets, his eyes apparently
half shut but unquestionably fixed on her, he was really behaving rather badly. She had never
been stared at like this before and she told herself that under the shelter of his marriage
he had grown daring, if not insolent; but at the same time she knew she was not telling herself
the truth: he was simply in the position of a thirsty man who has at last found a stream. It
appeared, then, that his wife did not sufficiently quench his thirst.

Rose carefully did not look his way, but she experienced an altogether new excitement, the
very ancient one of desiring to taste forbidden fruit simply because it was forbidden; this
particular fruit, as such, had no special charm; but she was born a Mallett and the half-sister
of Reginald. She had, however, as he had not, a substantial basis of personal pride and a love
of beauty which was at least as effectual as a moral principle and she had not Francis's excuse
for his behaviour. She believed he did not know what he was doing; but she was entirely clear-sighted
as to herself and she refused to encourage the silent intercourse which had established itself
between them.

Caroline was in the midst of a piece of gossip, Sophia was interjecting exclamations of moderation
and reproach, and Mrs. Sales was manifestly amused. Her chromatic giggle was as punctual as
Sophia's reproof, and Rose drew closer to the group made by the three, and said, 'I'm missing
Caroline's story. Which one is it?' And now it was Francis who laughed.

'It's finished,' Caroline said. 'Don't tell your husband, at least till we have gone--and we
ought to go at once.'

But the coachman was not on the box. He had been invited to take tea in the kitchen.

'We won't disturb him,' Sophia said. 'No, Caroline, let him have his tea. We ought to encourage
teetotal drinking in his class. Perhaps Mrs. Sales will let us go round the garden. I am so
fond of flowers.'

'Come and look at the pigsties,' Francis said to Rose, but, assuring him she had grown too
old for pigs, she followed the rest.

The walled garden had a beautiful disorder. A grey kitten and a white puppy sat together on
the grass, enjoying the sunshine and each other's company and pretending to be asleep; and
though the kitten displayed no interest in the visitors, holding its personality of more importance
than anything else, the puppy jumped up, barked, and rushed at each person in turn. Caroline,
picking up her skirts and showing the famous Mallett ankle, said, 'Go away, dog!' in a severe
tone, and the puppy rolled on the grass to show that he did not care and could not by any possibility
be snubbed. Under an apple-tree on which the fruit was ripening were two cane chairs, a table,
a newspaper and a work-basket.

'This is my favourite place,' Mrs. Sales said to Rose. 'I hate that drawing-room, and Francis
won't have it touched. But I've got a boudoir that's lovely. He sent an order to the best shop
and had it ready for a surprise, so if I'm not out of doors I sit there. Would you like to see it?'

'I should, very much,' Rose said.

'Then come quickly while the others are eating those plums off the wall.'

Rose looked back. 'I can't think what Sophia will do with the stone,' she murmured, smiling
her faint smile.

Mrs. Sales was puzzled by this remark. 'Oh, she'll manage, won't she? You don't want to help
her, do you?'

'No, I don't want to help her.'

'Come along, then.'

Rose saw the boudoir, a little room half-way up the stairs. 'It's Louis something,' said Mrs.
Sales, 'but all the same, I think it's sweet, and pink's my favourite colour. Francis thought
of that. I was wearing pink when I first met him.'

'I see,' Rose said. 'Was that long ago?'

'Only three months. I think we both fell in love at the same minute, and that's nice, isn't
it? I know I'm going to be happy, but I do hope I shan't be dull. We're a big family at home.
I'm English,' she added a little anxiously, 'but my father settled there.'

'I don't think you should be dull,' Rose said. 'Everybody in Radstowe will call on you, and
there are lots of parties. And then there's hunting.'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Sales. Her eyes left Rose's face, to return a little wider, a little warier.
'Do you hunt too?'

'As often as I can. I only have one horse.'

'Francis says I am to have two.'

'And they will be good ones. He likes hunting and horses better than anything else, I suppose.'

'But he mustn't neglect the farm,' his wife said firmly, and she added slowly, 'I don't know
that I need two horses, really. I haven't ridden much, and there's a lot to do in the house.
I don't believe in people being out all day.'

'Well, you can't hunt all the year round, you know.'

Mrs. Sales let out a sigh so faint that most people would have missed it. 'It will be beginning
soon, won't it?'

'It feels a long way off in weather like this,' Rose said. 'But they are getting into the carriage.
I must go.'

Mrs. Sales lingered for an instant. 'I do hope we're going to be friends.' This was more than
a statement, it was a request, and Rose shrank from it; but she said lightly, 'We shall be
meeting often. You will see more of us than you will care for, I'm afraid. The Malletts are
rather ubiquitous in Radstowe. It's fortunate for us, or Caroline would die of boredom, but
I don't know how it appears to other people.'

She was going down the shallow stairs and the voice of Mrs. Sales followed her sadly: 'He hasn't
told me anything about any of his friends.'

'In three months? He hasn't had time, with you to think about!'  A laugh, pleased and self-conscious,
reached her ears. 'No, but it's rather lonely in this old house. We're a big family at home--and
so lively. There was always something going on. I wished we lived nearer Radstowe.'

'And I envy you here. It's peaceful.'

'Yes, it's that,' Mrs. Sales agreed.

'I'm a good deal older than you, you see,' Rose elaborated.

'That's just it,' said Mrs. Sales.

Rose laughed, and Francis, standing at the door, turned at the sound in time to catch the end
of Rose's smile.

'What are you laughing at?'

'Mrs. Sales's candour.'

'Oh, was I rude?'

'No. Good-bye. I liked it.' Yet, as she settled herself in her place, she was not more than
half pleased. She liked her superior age only because it marked a difference between her and
the wife of Francis Sales.

'H'm!' Caroline said when the carriage had turned into the road and the figures in the doorway
had disappeared. 'Pretty, but unformed.'

'They seem very happy,' Sophia said, 'but I do think she ought to have been wearing black.
Her father-in-law has only been dead six months, and even Francis was not wearing a black tie.'

But if Caroline condemned men in general, she supported them in particular. 'Quite right, too.
Men don't think of these things--and a black tie with those tweeds! Sophia, don't be silly
and sentimental; but you always were, you always will be.'

'She might have had a white frock with a black ribbon,' Sophia persisted. 'Why, Rose looked
more like our old friend's daughter-in-law.'

'But hardly like a bride,' Rose said. 'And you see, pink is her colour.'

'So it is, dear. One could see that. Pink and blue, just as they were mine.' She corrected
herself. 'Are mine. Our complexions are very much alike; in fact, she reminded me a little
of myself.'

'Nonsense, Sophia! If you had been like that I should have disowned you. However, she will
do well enough for Sales Hall.'

Rose bent forward slightly. 'I like her,' she said distinctly. 'And she's lonely.'

'Well, my dear, she'll soon have half a dozen children to keep her lively.'

'Hush, Caroline! The man will hear you.'

Caroline addressed Rose. 'Sophia's modesty is indecent. I've done what I could for her.'

'Please listen to me,' Rose said. 'You are not to belittle Mrs. Sales to people, Caroline.
You can be a powerful friend, if you choose, and if you sing her praises there will be a mighty
chorus.'

'That's true,' Caroline said.

'Yes, that's true, dear Caroline,' Sophia echoed. 'And I think you're taking this very sweetly,
Rose.'

'Sweetly? Why?'

Caroline pricked up her ears. 'What's this? I'm out of this. Oh, that old rubbish! She will
have it you and Francis should have married. My dear Sophia, Rose could have married anybody
if she'd wanted to. You'll admit that? Yes? Then can't you see'--she tapped Sophia's knee--'then
can't you see that Rose didn't want him? That's logic--and something you lack.'

'Yes, dear,' Sophia said with the meekness of the unconvinced. 'And of course it's wrong to
think of it now that he's married to another.'

Caroline guffawed her loudest, and the astonished horse quickened his pace. The driver cast
a look over his shoulder to see that all was well, for he had a sister who made strange noises
in her fits; and Sophia, sitting in her drooping fashion, as though her head with its great
knob of fair hair, in which the silver was just beginning to show, were too heavy for her body,
had to listen to the old gibes which had never made and never would make any impression on
her, though she would have felt forlorn without them. She was the only puritanical Mallett
in history, Caroline said. Oh, yes, the General had been great at family prayers, but he was
trying to make up for lost time. It was difficult to believe that Sophia and Reginald were
the same flesh and blood.

Sophia interrupted. She was fond of Reginald, but she had no desire to be like him, and Caroline
knew he was a disgrace. They argued for some time, and Rose closed her eyes until the talk,
never really acrimonious, drifted into reminiscences of their childhood and Reginald's.

It was strange that they should have chosen that day to speak so much of him, for when they
reached home they found a letter addressed in an unfamiliar hand.

'What's this?' Caroline said.

It was a thin, cheap envelope bearing a London postmark, and Caroline drew out a flimsy sheet
of paper.

'I must get my glasses,' she said. Her voice was agitated. 'No, no, I can manage without them.
The writing is immense, but faint. It's from that woman.' She looked up, showing a face drawn
and blotched with ugly colour. 'It's to say that Reginald is dead.'

Mrs. Reginald Mallett had written the letter on the day of her husband's funeral, and Caroline's
tears for her brother were stemmed by her indignation with his wife. She had purposely made
it impossible for his relatives to attend the ceremony.

'No,' Sophia said, 'the poor thing was distressed. We mustn't blame her.'

'And such a letter!' Caroline flicked it with a disdainful finger.

Rose picked up the sheet. 'I don't see what else she could have said. I think it's dignified--a
plain statement. Why should you expect more? You have never taken any notice of her.'

'Certainly not! And Reginald never suggested it. Of course he was ashamed, poor boy. However,
I am now going to write to her, asking if she is in need, and enclosing a cheque. I feel some
responsibility for the child. She is half a Mallett, and the Malletts have always been loyal
to the family.'

'Yes, dear, we'll send a cheque, and--shouldn't we?--a few kind words. She will value them.'

'She'll value the money more,' Caroline said grimly.

Here she was wrong, for the cheque was immediately returned. Mrs. Mallett and her daughter
were able to support themselves without help.

'Then we need think no more about them,' Caroline said, concealing her annoyance, 'and I shall
be able to afford a new dinner dress. Black sequins, I thought, Sophia--and we must give a
dinner for the Sales.'

'Caroline, no, you forget. We mustn't entertain for a little while.'

'Upon my word, I did forget. But it's no use pretending. It really isn't quite like a death
in the family, is it? Poor dear Reginald! I was very fond of him, but half our friends believe
he has been dead for years. I shall wear black for three months, of course, but a little dinner
to the Sales would not be out of place. We have a duty to the living as well as to the dead.'

Leaving her stepsisters to argue this point, Rose went upstairs and looked into Reginald's
old room. She had known very little of him, but she was sorry he was dead, sorry there was
no longer a chance of his presence in the house, of meeting him on the stairs, very late for
breakfast and quite oblivious of the inconvenience he was causing, and on his lips some remark
which no one else would have made.

His room had not been occupied for some time, but it seemed emptier than before; the mirror
gave back a reflection of polished furniture and vacancy; the bed looked smooth and cold enough
for a corpse. No personal possessions were strewn about, and the room itself felt chilly.

She was glad to enter her own, where beauty and luxury lived together. The carpet was soft
to her feet, a small wood fire burned in the grate, for the evening promised to be cold, and
the severe lines of the furniture were clean and exquisite against the white walls. A pale
soft dressing-gown hung across a chair, a little handkerchief, as fine as lace, lay crumpled
on a table, there was a discreet gleam of silver and tortoiseshell. This, at least, was the
room of a living person. Yet, as she stood before the cheval-glass, studying herself after
the habit of the Malletts, she thought perhaps she was less truly living than Reginald in his
grave. He left a memory of animation, of sin, of charm; he had injured other people all his
life, but they regretted him and, presumably, he had had his pleasure out of their pain. And
what was she, standing there? A negatively virtuous young woman, without enough desire of any
kind to impel her to trample over feelings, creeds and codes. If she died that moment, it would
be said of her that she was beautiful, and that was all. Reginald, with his greed, his heartlessness,
his indifference to all that did not serve him, would not be forgotten: people would sigh and
smile at the mention of his name, hate him and wish him back. She envied him; she wished she
could feel in swift, passionate gusts as he had done, with the force and the forgetfulness
of a passing wind. His life, flecked with disgrace, must also have been rich with temporary
but memorable beauty. The exterior of her own was all beauty, of person and surroundings, but
within there seemed to be only a cold waste.

She had been tempted the other afternoon, and she had resisted with what seemed to her a despicable
ease: she had not really cared, and she felt that the necessity to struggle, even the collapse
of her resistance, would have argued better for her than her self-possession. And for a moment
she wished she had married Francis Sales. She would at least have had some definite work in
the world; she could have kept him to his farming, as Mrs. Sales had set herself to do; she
would have had a home to see to and daily interviews with the cook! She laughed at this decline
in her ambition; she no longer expected the advent of the colossal figure of her young dreams;
and she knew this was the hour when she ought to strike out a new way for herself, to leave
this place which offered her nothing but ease and a continuous, foredoomed effort after enjoyment;
but she also knew that she would not go. She had not the energy nor the desire. She would drift
on, never submerged by any passion, keeping her head calmly above water, looking coldly at
the interminable sea. This was her conviction, but she was not without a secret hope that she
might at last be carried to some unknown island, odorous, surprising and her own, where she
would, for the first time, experience some kind of excess.

4

The little dinner was duly given to the Sales. The Sales returned the compliment; and Mrs.
Batty, not to be outdone, offered what could only adequately be described as a banquet in honour
of the bride; there was a general revival of hospitality, and the Malletts were at every function.
This was Caroline's reward for her instructed enthusiasm for Christabel Sales, and before long
the black sequin dress gave way to a grey brocade and a purple satin, and the period of mourning
was at an end. For Rose, these entertainments were only interesting because the Sales were
there, and she hardly knew at what moment annoyance began to mingle definitely with her pity
for the little lady with the wary eyes, or when the annoyance almost overcame the pity.

It might have been at a dinner-party when Christabel, seated at the right hand of a particularly
facetious host, let out her high chromatic laughter incessantly, and the hostess, leaning towards
Francis, told him with the tenderness of an elderly woman whose own romance lies far behind
her, that it was a pleasure to see Mrs. Sales so happy. He murmured something in response and,
as he looked up and met the gaze of Rose, she smiled at him and saw his eyes darken with feeling,
or with thought.

After dinner he sought her out. She had known that would happen: she had been avoiding it for
weeks, but it was useless to play at hide-and-seek with the inevitable, and she calmly watched
him approach.

'Why did you laugh?' he asked at once, in his old, angry fashion. 'You were laughing at me.'

'No, I smiled.'

'Ah, you're not so free with your smiles that they have no meaning.'

'Perhaps not, but I don't know what the meaning was.'

'I believe you've been laughing at me ever since I came back.'

'Indeed, I haven't. Why should I?'

'God knows,' he answered with a shrug; 'I never do understand what people laugh at.'

'You're too self-conscious, Francis.'

'Only with you,' he said.

