I sat waiting, and finally she went on, "I won't repeat all his protests. When he found that
I was really going, he offered to take me in the yacht, but I wouldn't go in the yacht. I had
got to be really afraid of him--sometimes, you know, his obstinacy seems to be abnormal, almost
insane. So then he decided he would have to go in the steamer with me to preserve appearances.
I had a letter saying that papa was not well, and he said that would serve for an excuse. He
is going to Castleman County, and after he has stayed a week or so, he is going off on a hunting-trip,
and not return." 

"And will he do it?" 

"I don't think he expects to do it at present. I feel sure he has the idea of starting mamma
to quoting the Bible to me, and dragging me down with her tears. But I have done all I can
to make clear to him that it will make no difference. I told him I would not say a word about
my intentions at home until he had gone away, and that I expected the same silence from him.
But, of course--" She stopped abruptly, and after a moment she asked: "What do you think of
it, Mary?" 

I leaned forward and took her two hands in mine. "Only," I said, "that I'm glad you fought
it out alone! I knew it had to come--and I didn't want to have to help you to decide!" 

10. She sat for a while absorbed in her own thoughts. Knowing her as I did, I understood what
intense emotions were seething within her, what a terrific struggle her decision must have
represented. 

"Dear Friend," she said, suddenly, "don't think I haven't seen his side of the case. I try
to tell myself that I dealt with him frankly from the beginning. But then I ask was there ever
a man I dealt with frankly? There was coquetry in the very clothes I wore! And now that we
are so entangled, now that he loves me, what is my duty? I find I can't respect his love for
me. A part of it is because my beauty fascinates him, but more of it seems to me just wounded
vanity. I was the only woman who ever flouted him, and he has a kind of snobbery that made
him think I must be something remarkable because of it. I talked that all out with him--yes,
I've dragged him through all that humiliation. I wanted to make him see that he didn't really
love me, that he only wanted to conquer me, to force me to admire him and submit to him. I
want to be myself, and he wants to be himself--that has always been the issue between us." 

"That is the issue in many unhappy marriages," I said. 

"I've done a lot of thinking in the last year," she resumed--"about things generally, I mean.
We American women think we are so free. That is because our husbands indulge us, give us money,
and let us run about. But when it comes to real freedom--freedom of intellect and of character,
English women are simply another kind of being from us. I met a cabinet minister's wife--he's
a Conservative in everything, and she's an ardent suffragist; she not merely gives money, she
makes speeches and has a public name. Yet they are friends, and have a happy home-life. Do
you suppose my husband would consider such an arrangement?" 

"I thought he admired English ways," I said. 

"There was the Honorable Betty Annersley--the sister of a chum of his. She was friendly with
the militants, and I wanted to talk to her to understand what such women thought. Yet my husband
tried to stop me from going to see her. And it's the same way with everything I try to do,
that threatens to take me out of his power. He wanted me to accept the authority of the doctors
as to any possible danger from venereal disease. When I got the books, and showed him what
the doctors admitted about the question--the narrow margin of safety they allowed, the terrible
chances they took--he was angry again." 

