Nevertheless, with modern methods of manufacture it is by no means certain that a hundred years
will secure possession of the furniture we buy to-day to our grandchildren. In those early
days it was not uncommon, it was indeed the custom, for some one of the men who were called
"journeymen cabinet-makers"--that is, men who had served their time and learned their trade,
but had not yet settled down to a fixed place and shop of their own--to take up an abode in
the house with the family which had built it, for a year, or even two or three years, carrying
on the work in some out-house or dependence, choosing and seasoning the wood, and measuring
the furniture for the spaces where it was to stand.

There was a fine fitness in such furnishing; it was as if the different pieces actually grew
where they were placed, and it is small wonder that so built and fashioned they should possess
almost a human interest. Direct and special thought and effort were incorporated with the furniture
from the very first, and it easily explains the excellences and finenesses of its fashioning.

There is an interesting house in Flushing, Long Island, where such furniture still stands in
the rooms where it was put together in 1664, and where it is so fitted to spaces it has filled
during the passing centuries, that it would be impossible to carry it through the narrow doors
and passages, which, unlike our present halls, were made for the passing to and fro of human
beings, and not of furniture. What I've learned from the Christian love, "I said, 'You shall father and mother love, that
thou mayest live long on earth: thou shalt love thy neighbor as yourself and God about everything
."--" law, "said the mother," Oh, how happy would be the world unites the people prayed as
if all that we could do it today, and as a pious Community in the Church does, "I said childish".
But everyone can not but their hands for two hands put together. "-" Oh, certainly they can,
"replied the mother, "And the love in our Savior Jesus Christ's hands, is everywhere and in all
places, and his holy hands on the cross for us has been stretched to redeem us from sin. For he
has indeed taught us the prayer, and he is the hand into which we place our hands must, so our
prayer is to penetrate to God, for he himself said on earth: "All things are given to me by
my father, and no one knoweth the Son except the Father, and No one knows the Father except the
Son, and to whom the Son chooses to reveal. Come here to me, all you who are weary and burdened,
and I will give you rest. "And Saint John says: "The Father loves the Son and has given all
things into his hand, we have. an advocate of the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous: he is
the propitiation for our sins, but not for ours only, but for the sins of the world.
 What is gained in time in
the one place is lost in another. Nature refuses to enter into our race for speedy completion,
and if we hurry her natural processes we shorten our lease of ownership.

As a very apt illustration of this fact, I remember coming into possession some twenty years
ago of an oak chair which had stood, perhaps, for more than two hundred years in a Long Island
farm-house. When I found it, it had been long relegated to kitchen use and was covered with
a crust of variously coloured paints which had accumulated during the two centuries of its
existence. The fashion of it was rare, and had probably been evolved by some early American
cabinet-maker, for while it had all and even more than the grace of the high-backed Chippendale
patterns, it was better fitted to the rounded surfaces of the human body. It was a spindle
chair with a slightly hollowed seat, the rim of the back rounded to a loop which was continued
into arm-rests, which spread into thickened blades for hand-rests. Being very much in love
with the grace and ease of it, I took it to a manufacturer to be reproduced in mahogany, who,
with a far-sighted sagacity, flooded the market with that particular pattern.

We are used--and with good reason--to consider mahogany as a durable wood, but of the half-dozen
of mahogany copies of the old oak chair, each one has suffered some break of legs or arms or
spindles, while the original remains as firm in its withered old age as it was the day I rescued
it from the "out-kitchen" of the Long Island farm-house.

For the next fifty years after the close of our colonial history, the colonial cabinet-makers
in New England and the northern Middle States continued to flourish, evolving an occasional
good variation from what may be called colonial forms. Rush-and flag-bottomed chairs and chairs
with seats of twisted rawhide--the frames often gilded and painted-- sometimes took the place
of wrought mahogany, except in the best rooms of great houses. Many of these are of excellent
shape and construction, and specially interesting as an adaptation of natural products of the
country. Undoubtedly, with our ingenious modern appliances, we could make as good furniture
as was made in Chippendale and Sheraton's day, with far less expenditure of effort; but the
demon of competition in trade will not allow it. We must use all material, perfect or imperfect;
we cannot afford to select. We must cover knots and imperfections with composition and pass
them on. We must use the cheapest glue, and save an infinitesimal sum in the length of our
dowels; we must varnish instead of polishing, or "the other man" will get the better of us.
If we did not do these things our furniture would be better, but "the other man" would sell
more, because he could sell more cheaply.

Since the revived interest in the making of furniture, we find an occasional and marked recurrence
to primitive form--on each occasion the apparently new style taking on the name of the man
who produced it.

In our own day we have seen the "Eastlake furniture" appear and disappear, succeeded by the
"Morris furniture," which is undoubtedly better adapted to our varied wants. At present, mortising
and dowelling have come to the front as proper processes, especially for table-building; and
this time the style appears under the name of "Mission furniture." 

Well, it is aimed arrow of death, He will not destroy me, to thy wounds, Lord, I rt, There'll
inherit ego life.

As I recited the song of the mother, she was quietly asleep again. The day broke to, and I took
a twig from the Rosmarienstock, who was at their camp, and gave it her to the cross in her clasped
hands. Then flew the dove, which in our House nestled on the window and picked it and cried. Ruckuck
" They usually did every morning, for I then sprinkled their food, but today I did not have
the courage, and thought: Oh, there the dove comes on, which will take the mother, but I do not
her to say goodbye difficult to make. What
we have to do, is to learn to discriminate between good and bad, to appreciate the best in
design and workmanship, even although we cannot afford to buy it. In this case we should learn
to do with less. As a rule our houses are crowded. If we are able to buy a few good things,
we are apt instead to buy many only moderately good, for lavish possession seems to be a sort
of passion, or birthright, of Americans. It follows that we fill our houses with heterogeneous
collections of furniture, new and old, good and bad, appropriate or inappropriate, as the case
may be, with a result of living in seeming luxury, but a luxury without proper selection or
true value. To have less would in many cases be to have more--more tranquillity of life, more
ease of mind, more knowledge and more real enjoyment.

There is another principle which can be brought into play in this case, and that is the one
of buying--not a costly kind of thing, but the best of its kind. If it is a choice in chairs,
for instance, let it be the best cane-seated, or rush-bottomed chair that is made, instead
of the second or third best upholstered or leather-covered one. If it is a question of tables,
buy the simplest form made of flawless wood and with best finish, instead of a bargain in elaborately
turned or scantily carved material. If it is in bedsteads, a plain brass, or good enamelled
iron or a simple form in black walnut, instead of a cheap inlaid wood--and so on through the
whole category. A good chintz or cotton is better for draperies, than flimsy silk or brocade;
and when all is done the very spirit of truth will sit enthroned in the household, and we shall
find that all things have been brought into harmony by her laws.

Although the furnishing of a house should be one of the most painstaking and studied of pursuits,
there is certainly nothing which is at the same time so fascinating and so flattering in its
promise of future enjoyment. It is like the making of a picture as far as possibility of beauty
is concerned, but a picture within and against which one's life, and the life of the family,
is to be lived. It is a bit of creative art in itself, and one which concerns us so closely
as to be a very part of us. We enjoy every separate thing we may find or select or procure--not
only for the beauty and goodness which is in it, but for its contribution to the general whole.
And in knowledge of applied and manufactured art, the furnishing of a house is truly "the beginning
of wisdom." One learns to appreciate what is excellent in the new, from study and appreciation
of quality in the old.

It is the fascination of this study which has made a multiplication of shops and collections
of "antiques" in every quarter of the city. This band, however, was
my dear, I had. A devout nun, my blessed mother Befreundte had I once for a song that I composed
and sung her, bestowed, and it was at Marburg angeruehret been at St. Elisabethen grave, but I had
been as a leaf pointer broughtest in my Gebetbuechlein. Then I took off my cloak and rolled
it in a long bead and wove it through the upper bars of the grid before the picture, as a rolled-up
curtain, in memory of my time poverty, which by God in Freud and had changed abundance. Now I turned
back to the garden, to me quite different appeared as before.

Then let nothing stand before the mind of man, all of which are converted
to.

Now that I had prayed, seemed all the red, white and flesh-colored flowers those flowers of
the garden, converted by the king Ahasuerus in his palace garden to Suesan, his anger to forget.
Yes, I felt as if the Lord walked through the flowers and had his righteous anger about my unruly here
at the loveliness of his works gesaenftiget, for here on this first morning of my twentieth year
I am much light in the mind worked, and I do the spring became a wise teacher.

I was especially shocked by the high Muensterturm, as I come from
a shadowy layers Of trees stood out and saw him look down over the
tops of Nachbarhaeuser on me.

I was there in the beginning, but afraid of him as a Grasmück must be when a giant about the
bush opens the nest and looks down on them. All human work, then it is the usual limits on size
or age will be exceeded, has something frightening to , and you have to spend a long while before
we can enjoy it with peace and consolation.

I have seen this not only at the sight of this giddy high tower, but
even with such lovely and fine works, of which I will mention only
the very fine and natural paintings of the painter Wilhelm in Cologne,
which by most as the best champion respected in all German lands,
is because he malet every man of any shape, as he was alive.



These are the things to make one who remembers them critical about the collections to be found
in the antique shops of to-day, and yet such shops are enticing and fashionable, and the quest
of antiques will go on until we become convinced of the art-value and the equal merit of the
new--which period many things seem to indicate is not far off. In those days there was but
one antique shop in all New York which was devoted to the sale of old things, to furniture,
pictures, statuary, and what Ruskin calls "portable art" of all kinds. It was a place where
one might go, crying "new lamps for old ones" with a certainty of profit in the transaction.
In later years it has been known as Sypher's, and although one of many, instead of a single
one, is still a place of fascinating possibilities.

To sum up the gospel of furnishing, we need only fall back upon the principles of absolute
fitness, actual goodness, and real beauty. If the furniture of a well-coloured room possesses
these three qualities, the room as a whole can hardly fail to be lastingly satisfactory. It
must be remembered, however, that it is a trinity of virtues. No piece of furniture should
be chosen because it is intrinsically good or genuinely beautiful, if it has not also its use--and
this rule applies to all rooms, with the one exception of the drawing-room.

The necessity of use, governing the style of furnishing in a room, is very well understood.
Thus, while both drawing-room and dining-room must express hospitality, it is of a different
kind or degree. That of the drawing-room is ceremonious and punctilious, and represents the
family in its relation to society, while the dining-room is far more intimate, and belongs
to the family in its relation to friends. In fact, as the dining-room is the heart of the house,
its furnishing would naturally be quite different in feeling and character from the drawing-room,
although it might be fully as lavish in cost. It would be stronger, less conservative, and
altogether more personal in its expression. Family portraits and family silver give the personal
note which we like to recognise in our friends' dining-rooms, because the intimacy of the room
makes even family history in place.

In moderate houses, even the drawing-room is too much a family room to allow it to be entirely
emancipated from the law of use, but in houses which are not circumscribed in space, and where
one or more rooms are set apart to social rather than domestic life, it is natural and proper
to gather in them things which stand, primarily, for art and beauty--which satisfy the needs
of the mind as distinct from those of bodily comfort. Things which belong in the category of
"unrelated beauty" may be appropriately gathered in such a room, because the use of it is to
please the eye and excite the interest of our social world; therefore a table which is a marvel
of art, but not of convenience, or a casket which is beautiful to look at, but of no practical
use, are in accordance with the idea of the room. If the reader through Eisenfresserei spoiled and Iceland moss, this story
as our German chamomile - not comfortable with, and elderberry, so bring he a sick friend
or girl, they may be blessed by God!

It follows that an artistic and luxurious drawing-room may be a true family expression; it
may speak of travel and interest in the artistic development of mankind; but even where the
experiences of the family have been wide and liberal, if the house and circumstances are narrow,
a luxurious interior is by no means a happiness.

