"When I first begun to understand jay language correctly, there was a little incident happened
here. Seven years ago, the last man in this region but me moved away. There stands his house--been
empty ever since; a log house, with a plank roof--just one big room, and no more; no ceiling--nothing
between the rafters and the floor. Well, one Sunday morning I was sitting out here in front
of my cabin, with my cat, taking the sun, and looking at the blue hills, and listening to the
leaves rustling so lonely in the trees, and thinking of the home away yonder in the states,
that I hadn't heard from in thirteen years, when a bluejay lit on that house, with an acorn
in his mouth, and says, 'Hello, I reckon I've struck something.' When he spoke, the acorn dropped
out of his mouth and rolled down the roof, of course, but he didn't care; his mind was all
on the thing he had struck. It was a knot-hole in the roof. He cocked his head to one side,
shut one eye and put the other one to the hole, like a possum looking down a jug; then he glanced
up with his bright eyes, gave a wink or two with his wings--which signifies gratification,
you understand--and says, 'It looks like a hole, it's located like a hole--blamed if I don't
believe it IS a hole!'

"Then he cocked his head down and took another look; he glances up perfectly joyful, this time;
winks his wings and his tail both, and says, 'Oh, no, this ain't no fat thing, I reckon! If
I ain't in luck! --Why it's a perfectly elegant hole!' So he flew down and got that acorn,
and fetched it up and dropped it in, and was just tilting his head back, with the heavenliest
smile on his face, when all of a sudden he was paralyzed into a listening attitude and that
smile faded gradually out of his countenance like breath off'n a razor, and the queerest look
of surprise took its place. Then he says, 'Why, I didn't hear it fall!' He cocked his eye at
the hole again, and took a long look; raised up and shook his head; stepped around to the other
side of the hole and took another look from that side; shook his head again. He studied a while,
then he just went into the Details--walked round and round the hole and spied into it from
every point of the compass. No use. Now he took a thinking attitude on the comb of the roof
and scratched the back of his head with his right foot a minute, and finally says, 'Well, it's
too many for ME, that's certain; must be a mighty long hole; however, I ain't got no time to
fool around here, I got to "tend to business"; I reckon it's all right--chance it, anyway.'

"So he flew off and fetched another acorn and dropped it in, and tried to flirt his eye to
the hole quick enough to see what become of it, but he was too late. He held his eye there
as much as a minute; then he raised up and sighed, and says, 'Confound it, I don't seem to
understand this thing, no way; however, I'll tackle her again.' He fetched another acorn, and
done his level best to see what become of it, but he couldn't. He says, 'Well, I never struck
no such a hole as this before; I'm of the opinion it's a totally new kind of a hole.' Then
he begun to get mad. He held in for a spell, walking up and down the comb of the roof and shaking
his head and muttering to himself; but his feelings got the upper hand of him, presently, and
he broke loose and cussed himself black in the face. I never see a bird take on so about a
little thing. When he got through he walks to the hole and looks in again for half a minute;
then he says, 'Well, you're a long hole, and a deep hole, and a mighty singular hole altogether--but
I've started in to fill you, and I'm damned if I DON'T fill you, if it takes a hundred years!'

"And with that, away he went. You never see a bird work so since you was born. He laid into
his work like a nigger, and the way he hove acorns into that hole for about two hours and a
half was one of the most exciting and astonishing spectacles I ever struck. He never stopped
to take a look anymore--he just hove 'em in and went for more. Well, at last he could hardly
flop his wings, he was so tuckered out. He comes a-dropping down, once more, sweating like
an ice-pitcher, dropped his acorn in and says, 'NOW I guess I've got the bulge on you by this
time!' So he bent down for a look. If you'll believe me, when his head come up again he was
just pale with rage. He says, 'I've shoveled acorns enough in there to keep the family thirty
years, and if I can see a sign of one of 'em I wish I may land in a museum with a belly full
of sawdust in two minutes!'

"He just had strength enough to crawl up on to the comb and lean his back agin the chimbly,
and then he collected his impressions and begun to free his mind. I see in a second that what
I had mistook for profanity in the mines was only just the rudiments, as you may say.

"Another jay was going by, and heard him doing his devotions, and stops to inquire what was
up. The sufferer told him the whole circumstance, and says, 'Now yonder's the hole, and if
you don't believe me, go and look for yourself.' So this fellow went and looked, and comes
back and says, 'How many did you say you put in there?' 'Not any less than two tons,' says
the sufferer. The other jay went and looked again. He couldn't seem to make it out, so he raised
a yell, and three more jays come. They all examined the hole, they all made the sufferer tell
it over again, then they all discussed it, and got off as many leather-headed opinions about
it as an average crowd of humans could have done.

"They called in more jays; then more and more, till pretty soon this whole region 'peared to
have a blue flush about it. There must have been five thousand of them; and such another jawing
and disputing and ripping and cussing, you never heard. Every jay in the whole lot put his
eye to the hole and delivered a more chuckle-headed opinion about the mystery than the jay
that went there before him. They examined the house all over, too. The door was standing half
open, and at last one old jay happened to go and light on it and look in. Of course, that knocked
the mystery galley-west in a second. There lay the acorns, scattered all over the floor.. He
flopped his wings and raised a whoop. 'Come here!' he says, 'Come here, everybody; hang'd if
this fool hasn't been trying to fill up a house with acorns!' They all came a-swooping down
like a blue cloud, and as each fellow lit on the door and took a glance, the whole absurdity
of the contract that that first jay had tackled hit him home and he fell over backward suffocating
with laughter, and the next jay took his place and done the same.

"Well, sir, they roosted around here on the housetop and the trees for an hour, and guffawed
over that thing like human beings. It ain't any use to tell me a bluejay hasn't got a sense
of humor, because I know better. And memory, too. They brought jays here from all over the
United States to look down that hole, every summer for three years. Other birds, too. And they
could all see the point except an owl that come from Nova Scotia to visit the Yo Semite, and
he took this thing in on his way back. He said he couldn't see anything funny in it. But then
he was a good deal disappointed about Yo Semite, too."

CHAPTER IV

Student Life

[The Laborious Beer King]

The summer semester was in full tide; consequently the most frequent figure in and about Heidelberg
was the student. Most of the students were Germans, of course, but the representatives of foreign
lands were very numerous. They hailed from every corner of the globe--for instruction is cheap
in Heidelberg, and so is living, too. The Anglo-American Club, composed of British and American
students, had twenty-five members, and there was still much material left to draw from.

Nine-tenths of the Heidelberg students wore no badge or uniform; the other tenth wore caps
of various colors, and belonged to social organizations called "corps." There were five corps,
each with a color of its own; there were white caps, blue caps, and red, yellow, and green
ones. The famous duel-fighting is confined to the "corps" boys. The "KNEIP" seems to be a specialty
of theirs, too. Kneips are held, now and then, to celebrate great occasions, like the election
of a beer king, for instance. The solemnity is simple; the five corps assemble at night, and
at a signal they all fall loading themselves with beer, out of pint-mugs, as fast as possible,
and each man keeps his own count--usually by laying aside a lucifer match for each mug he empties.

The election is soon decided. When the candidates can hold no more, a count is instituted and
the one who has drank the greatest number of pints is proclaimed king. I was told that the
last beer king elected by the corps--or by his own capabilities--emptied his mug seventy-five
times. No stomach could hold all that quantity at one time, of course--but there are ways of
frequently creating a vacuum, which those who have been much at sea will understand.

One sees so many students abroad at all hours, that he presently begins to wonder if they ever
have any working-hours. Some of them have, some of them haven't. Each can choose for himself
whether he will work or play; for German university life is a very free life; it seems to have
no restraints. The student does not live in the college buildings, but hires his own lodgings,
in any locality he prefers, and he takes his meals when and where he pleases. He goes to bed
when it suits him, and does not get up at all unless he wants to. He is not entered at the
university for any particular length of time; so he is likely to change about. He passes no
examinations upon entering college. He merely pays a trifling fee of five or ten dollars, receives
a card entitling him to the privileges of the university, and that is the end of it. He is
now ready for business--or play, as he shall prefer. If he elects to work, he finds a large
list of lectures to choose from. He selects the subjects which he will study, and enters his
name for these studies; but he can skip attendance.

The result of this system is, that lecture-courses upon specialties of an unusual nature are
often delivered to very slim audiences, while those upon more practical and every-day matters
of education are delivered to very large ones. I heard of one case where, day after day, the
lecturer's audience consisted of three students--and always the same three. But one day two
of them remained away. The lecturer began as usual--

"Gentlemen," --then, without a smile, he corrected himself, saying--

"Sir," --and went on with his discourse.

It is said that the vast majority of the Heidelberg students are hard workers, and make the
most of their opportunities; that they have no surplus means to spend in dissipation, and no
time to spare for frolicking. One lecture follows right on the heels of another, with very
little time for the student to get out of one hall and into the next; but the industrious ones
manage it by going on a trot. The professors assist them in the saving of their time by being
promptly in their little boxed-up pulpits when the hours strike, and as promptly out again
when the hour finishes. I entered an empty lecture-room one day just before the clock struck.
The place had simple, unpainted pine desks and benches for about two hundred persons.

About a minute before the clock struck, a hundred and fifty students swarmed in, rushed to
their seats, immediately spread open their notebooks and dipped their pens in ink. When the
clock began to strike, a burly professor entered, was received with a round of applause, moved
swiftly down the center aisle, said "Gentlemen," and began to talk as he climbed his pulpit
steps; and by the time he had arrived in his box and faced his audience, his lecture was well
under way and all the pens were going. He had no notes, he talked with prodigious rapidity
and energy for an hour--then the students began to remind him in certain well-understood ways
that his time was up; he seized his hat, still talking, proceeded swiftly down his pulpit steps,
got out the last word of his discourse as he struck the floor; everybody rose respectfully,
and he swept rapidly down the aisle and disappeared. An instant rush for some other lecture-room
followed, and in a minute I was alone with the empty benches once more.

Yes, without doubt, idle students are not the rule. Out of eight hundred in the town, I knew
the faces of only about fifty; but these I saw everywhere, and daily. They walked about the
streets and the wooded hills, they drove in cabs, they boated on the river, they sipped beer
and coffee, afternoons, in the Schloss gardens. A good many of them wore colored caps of the
corps. They were finely and fashionably dressed, their manners were quite superb, and they
led an easy, careless, comfortable life. If a dozen of them sat together and a lady or a gentleman
passed whom one of them knew and saluted, they all rose to their feet and took off their caps.
The members of a corps always received a fellow-member in this way, too; but they paid no attention
to members of other corps; they did not seem to see them. This was not a discourtesy; it was
only a part of the elaborate and rigid corps etiquette.

There seems to be no chilly distance existing between the German students and the professor;
but, on the contrary, a companionable intercourse, the opposite of chilliness and reserve.
When the professor enters a beer-hall in the evening where students are gathered together,
these rise up and take off their caps, and invite the old gentleman to sit with them and partake.
He accepts, and the pleasant talk and the beer flow for an hour or two, and by and by the professor,
properly charged and comfortable, gives a cordial good night, while the students stand bowing
and uncovered; and then he moves on his happy way homeward with all his vast cargo of learning
afloat in his hold. Nobody finds fault or feels outraged; no harm has been done.

It seemed to be a part of corps etiquette to keep a dog or so, too. I mean a corps dog--the
common property of the organization, like the corps steward or head servant; then there are
other dogs, owned by individuals.

On a summer afternoon in the Castle gardens, I have seen six students march solemnly into the
grounds, in single file, each carrying a bright Chinese parasol and leading a prodigious dog
by a string. It was a very imposing spectacle. Sometimes there would be as many dogs around
the pavilion as students; and of all breeds and of all degrees of beauty and ugliness. These
dogs had a rather dry time of it; for they were tied to the benches and had no amusement for
an hour or two at a time except what they could get out of pawing at the gnats, or trying to
sleep and not succeeding. However, they got a lump of sugar occasionally--they were fond of that.

It seemed right and proper that students should indulge in dogs; but everybody else had them,
too--old men and young ones, old women and nice young ladies. If there is one spectacle that
is unpleasanter than another, it is that of an elegantly dressed young lady towing a dog by
a string. It is said to be the sign and symbol of blighted love. It seems to me that some other
way of advertising it might be devised, which would be just as conspicuous and yet not so trying
to the proprieties.

It would be a mistake to suppose that the easy-going pleasure-seeking student carries an empty
head. Just the contrary. He has spent nine years in the gymnasium, under a system which allowed
him no freedom, but vigorously compelled him to work like a slave. Consequently, he has left
the gymnasium with an education which is so extensive and complete, that the most a university
can do for it is to perfect some of its profounder specialties. It is said that when a pupil
leaves the gymnasium, he not only has a comprehensive education, but he KNOWS what he knows--it
is not befogged with uncertainty, it is burnt into him so that it will stay. For instance,
he does not merely read and write Greek, but speaks it; the same with the Latin. Foreign youth
steer clear of the gymnasium; its rules are too severe. They go to the university to put a
mansard roof on their whole general education; but the German student already has his mansard
roof, so he goes there to add a steeple in the nature of some specialty, such as a particular
branch of law, or diseases of the eye, or special study of the ancient Gothic tongues. So this
German attends only the lectures which belong to the chosen branch, and drinks his beer and
tows his dog around and has a general good time the rest of the day. He has been in rigid bondage
so long that the large liberty of the university life is just what he needs and likes and thoroughly
appreciates; and as it cannot last forever, he makes the most of it while it does last, and
so lays up a good rest against the day that must see him put on the chains once more and enter
the slavery of official or professional life.

CHAPTER V

At the Students' Dueling-Ground

[Dueling by Wholesale]

One day in the interest of science my agent obtained permission to bring me to the students'
dueling-place. We crossed the river and drove up the bank a few hundred yards, then turned
to the left, entered a narrow alley, followed it a hundred yards and arrived at a two-story
public house; we were acquainted with its outside aspect, for it was visible from the hotel.
We went upstairs and passed into a large whitewashed apartment which was perhaps fifty feet
long by thirty feet wide and twenty or twenty-five high. It was a well-lighted place. There
was no carpet. Across one end and down both sides of the room extended a row of tables, and
at these tables some fifty or seventy-five students [1. See Appendix C] were sitting.

Some of them were sipping wine, others were playing cards, others chess, other groups were
chatting together, and many were smoking cigarettes while they waited for the coming duels.
Nearly all of them wore colored caps; there were white caps, green caps, blue caps, red caps,
and bright-yellow ones; so, all the five corps were present in strong force. In the windows
at the vacant end of the room stood six or eight, narrow-bladed swords with large protecting
guards for the hand, and outside was a man at work sharpening others on a grindstone.

He understood his business; for when a sword left his hand one could shave himself with it.

It was observable that the young gentlemen neither bowed to nor spoke with students whose caps
differed in color from their own. This did not mean hostility, but only an armed neutrality.
It was considered that a person could strike harder in the duel, and with a more earnest interest,
if he had never been in a condition of comradeship with his antagonist; therefore, comradeship
between the corps was not permitted. At intervals the presidents of the five corps have a cold
official intercourse with each other, but nothing further. For example, when the regular dueling-day
of one of the corps approaches, its president calls for volunteers from among the membership
to offer battle; three or more respond--but there must not be less than three; the president
lays their names before the other presidents, with the request that they furnish antagonists
for these challengers from among their corps. This is promptly done. It chanced that the present
occasion was the battle-day of the Red Cap Corps. They were the challengers, and certain caps
of other colors had volunteered to meet them. The students fight duels in the room which I
have described, TWO DAYS IN EVERY WEEK DURING SEVEN AND A HALF OR EIGHT MONTHS IN EVERY YEAR.
This custom had continued in Germany two hundred and fifty years.

To return to my narrative. A student in a white cap met us and introduced us to six or eight
friends of his who also wore white caps, and while we stood conversing, two strange-looking
figures were led in from another room. They were students panoplied for the duel. They were
bareheaded; their eyes were protected by iron goggles which projected an inch or more, the
leather straps of which bound their ears flat against their heads were wound around and around
with thick wrappings which a sword could not cut through; from chin to ankle they were padded
thoroughly against injury; their arms were bandaged and rebandaged, layer upon layer, until
they looked like solid black logs. These weird apparitions had been handsome youths, clad in
fashionable attire, fifteen minutes before, but now they did not resemble any beings one ever
sees unless in nightmares. They strode along, with their arms projecting straight out from
their bodies; they did not hold them out themselves, but fellow-students walked beside them
and gave the needed support.

There was a rush for the vacant end of the room, now, and we followed and got good places.
The combatants were placed face to face, each with several members of his own corps about him
to assist; two seconds, well padded, and with swords in their hands, took their stations; a
student belonging to neither of the opposing corps placed himself in a good position to umpire
the combat; another student stood by with a watch and a memorandum-book to keep record of the
time and the number and nature of the wounds; a gray-haired surgeon was present with his lint,
his bandages, and his instruments.

After a moment's pause the duelists saluted the umpire respectfully, then one after another
the several officials stepped forward, gracefully removed their caps and saluted him also,
and returned to their places. Everything was ready now; students stood crowded together in
the foreground, and others stood behind them on chairs and tables. Every face was turned toward
the center of attraction.

The combatants were watching each other with alert eyes; a perfect stillness, a breathless
interest reigned. I felt that I was going to see some wary work. But not so. The instant the
word was given, the two apparitions sprang forward and began to rain blows down upon each other
with such lightning rapidity that I could not quite tell whether I saw the swords or only flashes
they made in the air; the rattling din of these blows as they struck steel or paddings was
something wonderfully stirring, and they were struck with such terrific force that I could
not understand why the opposing sword was not beaten down under the assault. Presently, in
the midst of the sword-flashes, I saw a handful of hair skip into the air as if it had lain
loose on the victim's head and a breath of wind had puffed it suddenly away.

The seconds cried "Halt!" and knocked up the combatants' swords with their own. The duelists
sat down; a student official stepped forward, examined the wounded head and touched the place
with a sponge once or twice; the surgeon came and turned back the hair from the wound--and
revealed a crimson gash two or three inches long, and proceeded to bind an oval piece of leather
and a bunch of lint over it; the tally-keeper stepped up and tallied one for the opposition
in his book.

