Here is nature once more at her old game of self-preservation. This train of thought, she perceives,
is threatening mere waste of energy, even some collision with reality, for who will ever be
able to lift a finger against Whitaker's Table of Precedency? The Archbishop of Canterbury
is followed by the Lord High Chancellor; the Lord High Chancellor is followed by the Archbishop
of York. Everybody follows somebody, such is the philosophy of Whitaker; and the great thing
is to know who follows whom. Whitaker knows, and let that, so Nature counsels, comfort you,
instead of enraging you; and if you can't be comforted, if you must shatter this hour of peace,
think of the mark on the wall. It seemed him
to the whole world should have compassion, a little also, but strong and thoughtful with everything
around him. Wirsich had long been temporarily stepped out into the garden. The dog wagged his old
acquaintances. Tobler woman stood at the window of the Living room and listened with cocked ears
through the walls and walls, which from below her might penetrate. At the same time she watched
the movements of standing in the garden, past Assistants.

"I'll do even these few letters, Mr. Tobler, then I go," she spoke from the desk.

Whether he would leave without pay? Tobler said.
The other replied that it was he no longer possible to remain what
Tobler said that was surely be regarded not as serious bleeding. That is what one wants to be sure
of.... Wood is a pleasant thing to think about. It comes from a tree; and trees grow, and we
don't know how they grow. For years and years they grow, without paying any attention to us,
in meadows, in forests, and by the side of rivers--all things one likes to think about. "Aha!" said the assistant.

Tobler asked Joseph if he was ready. "No, not yet." Joseph had not found
time to do so today

. I like to
think of the fish balanced against the stream like flags blown out; and of water-beetles slowly
raising domes of mud upon the bed of the river. I like to think of the tree itself: first the
close dry sensation of being wood; then the grinding of the storm; then the slow, delicious
ooze of sap. I like to think of it, too, on winter's nights standing in the empty field with
all leaves close-furled, nothing tender exposed to the iron bullets of the moon, a naked mast
upon an earth that goes tumbling, tumbling, all night long. 

"Think of me a little bit when you're gone?"

He bent down and kissed her hands.

She said, "Yes, Joseph, do think a little of Mrs. Tobler, it will
not harm you."

"This is a woman, like many, no remarkable woman.

Kiss me now, hold me no longer.

Say goodbye to my children.
Walter! Come on. Joseph wants to leave us. Come, Dora, give Joseph's hand.
Come on. Yes." She paused a moment and continued, "It will certainly
go well. I hope and wish for it, and I am almost white. Always be a
little humble, not too much, your husband, you will always have to
make. But you rush to never let the first words of ill-will remain
unanswered; to a violent first word yes as soon follows a demure,
soft." I should like to take each one
separately--but something is getting in the way.... Where was I? What has it all been about?
A tree? A river? The Downs? Whitaker's Almanack? The fields of asphodel? I can't remember a
thing. Everything's moving, falling, slipping, vanishing.... There is a vast upheaval of matter.
Someone is standing over me and saying--

"I'm going out to buy a newspaper."

"Yes?"

"Though it's no good buying newspapers.... Nothing ever happens. Curse this war; God damn this
war!... All the same, I don't see why we should have a snail on our wall."

Ah, the mark on the wall! It was a snail.