     Thus bred,
     His impulses twisted
     At the starting point
     By brutality and sensuous savagery,
     Should he be crucified?
     Is it a cause for wonder
     If beneath his skin of many hues--
     Black, brown, yellow, white--
     Flows the sullen flood
     Of resentment for prenatal wrong
     And forced humility?

     Should it be a wonder
     That the muddy life current
     Eddying through his arteries,
     Crossed with the good and the bad,
     Poisoned with conflicting emotions,
     Proclaims at times,
     Through no fault of his,
     That for a surety the sins of fathers
     Become the heritage of sons
     Even to the fourth generation?
     Or that murdered chastity,
     That ravished motherhood--
     So pitiful, so helpless,
     Before the white hot,
     Lust-fever of the "master"--
     Has borne its sure fruit?

     You mutter, "There should be no wonder."
     Well, somehow, Sir Caucasian,
     Perhaps southern gentleman,
     I, marked a "whelp," am moved
     To prize that muttered admission.

       *       *       *       *       *

     But listen, please:
     The wonder is--the greater one--
     That from Lexington to San Juan hill
     Disloyalty never smirched
     His garments, nor civic wrangle
     Nor revolutionary ebullition
     Marked him its follower.

     A "striker"? Yes!
     But he struck the insurgent
     And raised the flag.

     An ingrate?
     Treacherous?
     A violator?
     When--oh, spectacle that moved the world!
     For five bloody years
     Of fratricidal strife--
     Red days when brothers warred--
     He fed the babe,
     Shielded the mother.
     Guarded the doorsill
     Of a million southern homes?

     Penniless when freedom came? Most true;
     But his accumulations of fifty years
     Could finance a group of principalities.

     Homeless? Yes; but the cabin and the hut
     Of Lincoln's day--uncover at that name!--
     Are memories; the mansion of today,
     Dowered with culture and refinement,
     Sweetened by clean lives,
     Is a fact.

     Unlettered? Yes;
     But the alumni of his schools,
     Triumphant over the handicap
     Of "previous condition,"
     Are to be found the world over
     In every assemblage inspired
     By the democracy of letters.

     In the casting up what appears?
     The progeny of lust and helplessness,
     He inherited a mottled soul--
     "Damned spots" that biased the looker on.

     Clothed a freeman,
     Turned loose in the land
     Creditless, without experience,
     He often stumbled, the way being strange,
     Sometimes fell.

     Mocked, sneered at from every angle,
     spurned, hindered in every section,
     North, south, east, west,
     Refused the most primitive rights,
     His slightest mistakes
     Made mountains of,
     Hunted, burned, hanged,
     The death rattle in his throat
     Drowned by shouts and laughter
     And--think of it!--
     The glee of little children.
     Still he pressed on, wrought,
     Sowed, reaped, builded.

     His smile ever ready,
     His perplexed soul lighted
     With the radiance
     Of an unquenchable optimism,
     God's presence visualized,
     He has risen, step by step.
     To the majesty of the home builder,
     Useful citizen,
     Student, teacher,
     Unwavering patriot.

     This of the Other Fellow.
     What of you, his judges and his patrons?

     If it has been your wont
     In your treatment of him
     Not to reflect,
     Or to stand by in idle unconcern
     While, panting on his belly,
     Ambushed by booted ruffianism,
     He lapped in sublime resignation
     The bitter waters
     Of unreasoning intolerance,
     Has not the hour of his deliverance,
     Of your escape from your "other selves"
     Struck?

     If you have erred,
     Will you refuse to know it?

     Has not the time arrived
     To discriminate between
     Those who lower
     Those who raise him?

     You are shamed by your abortions,
     Your moral half growths
     Who flee God's eye
     And stain his green earth,
     But you are not judged by yours;
     Should he be judged by his?

     In his special case--if so, why?
     Is manhood a myth,
     Womanhood a toy,
     Integrity unbelievable,
     Honor a chimera?

     Should not his boys and girls,
     Mastering the curriculum of the schools,
     Pricked on to attainment by the lure
     Of honorable achievement,
     Be given bread and not a stone
     When seeking employment
     In the labor mart,
     At the factory gate
     Or the office door?

     Broadened by the spirit of the golden rule,
     Will you not grant these children of Hagar
     An even break?

     Is the day not here, O judges,
     When the Other Fellow
     May be measured in fairness,
     Just fairness?

       *       *       *       *       *

     It is written men may rise
     "On their dead selves to higher things;"
     But can it be that this clear note of cheer
     To sodden men and smitten races
     Was meant for all save him?

Ever since the conclusion of the conflict of '61-'65, in which Negro troops numbered by thousands,
took an active part upon behalf of the Union, there has been a growing and insistent wonder
in the minds of many, why, given a chance to die in the military service of the nation, they
should not also at the same time be given a chance for promotion.

Subsequent affairs engaged in by the government requiring the intervention of its military
arm, the Spanish-American war, the Philippines investiture incident thereto, the Mexican disagreement,
the whole crowned by the stupendous World War; its frightful devastation and din yet fresh
to our sight, still filling our ears, as it will for years; in all of which they have contributed
their share of loyalty and blood--of LIVES!--have but added to, strengthened the wonder mentioned.

Up to the beginning of the European muddle it was discussed if at all, not so much as a condition
demanding uncensored condemnation, as one to continue to be patient with, trusting to time
and an awakened sense of fair play upon the part of the nation at large to note the custom
complained of, and banish the irritation by abolishing the cause.

However, there has not been lacking those who have spoken out, who have raised their voices
in protest against what they deemed an injustice to the loyal "fighting men" of their race,
and so feeling, have not hesitated to make their plea to those above empowered to listen, regardless
of the mood in which they did so.

As long ago as the summer of 1915, or to be exact, August 26th of that year, Capt. R.P. Roots
of Seattle, Washington, addressed a letter to the Hon. Lindley M. Garrison at Washington, at
the time Secretary of War, directing his attention to the discrepancy of assignment complained
of, accompanied with certain suggestions; having to do with a condition that the government
must eventually face; that will not down, and must sooner or later be abrogated. Captain Roots'
communication to the Secretary of War, also one addressed to the Hon. Joseph Tumulty, private
secretary to President Wilson, follows:

                                     "Seattle, Wash., August 26, 1915.
     "Hon. Lindley M. Garrison, Secretary of War,
     Dear Sir: As an ex-officer of the Spanish-American war, having served as
     Captain of Company "E" of the Eighth Illinois Volunteers, I am taking
     the liberty to ask that, if you should recommend any increase in the
     Army you give the Negro a chance in the manner, and for reasons I shall
     further explain.
          You will notice by my service with the 8th Illinois that I am a
     colored man, and as such am offering these suggestions, which, in the
     main, are just.
          If the increase is sufficient, we should have:
          TWO COAST ARTILLERY COMPANIES.
          ONE REGIMENT OF FIELD ARTILLERY (In these branches we are not
     represented at all).
          ONE REGIMENT OF CAVALRY.
          The above to be embodied in the Regular Army and to be officered as
     you think fit.
          But my main object is: Three Regiments of Infantry officered from
     COLONEL DOWN WITH COLORED MEN. I should not have these Infantry
     Regiments of the regular service for the reason that to appoint officers
     to the rank of Colonel, Majors, etc., would not be fair to the regular
     service officers, and would interfere with the promotion of the same,
     but I would have them rank as volunteers. Give them the name of
     "IMMUNES," "FOREIGN SERVICE REGIMENTS," or any other name that you
     choose.
          My further reasons are as to officering these regiments, that there
     would be many misfits in such organizations and I would leave it so that
     you or the President could remove them without prejudice from the
     service, but to fill by OTHER COLORED MEN the vacancies that might
     occur. I should officer these regiments with Spanish War veterans,
     non-commissioned officers of the retired and regulars, but should
     appoint all 2d Lieutenants from the schools of the country giving
     military training.
          The 2d Lieutenants upon passing the regular army examination could be
     placed in the eligible list of the regular army, but NOT until at least
     two years' service with these regiments. You could set a time limit on
     these regiments if you so desire, say ten or twelve years duration;
     either mustered out or in the regular service.
          "Now Mr. Secretary, I have striven to meet any objections which might be
     made by the Army on account of social prejudice, etc. With this thought
     I should send these regiments to some foreign post to serve where there
     are dark races; to the Philippines, Mexico, or Haiti. The object lesson
     would be marked politically, both at home and abroad.
          "The 48th and 49th Regiments organized in 1899 and sent to Philippines
     were unsatisfactory because of there being three social lines of
     separation in those organizations--THE FIELD AND STAFF of these
     regiments WERE WHITE, and the LINE OFFICERS WERE COLORED. In a social
     way the line officers WERE ENTIRELY IGNORED, and even officially were
     treated very little better than enlisted men or with no more courtesy,
     to such an extent as to cause comment by both soldiers and natives.
          "Now as to the colored citizen of this country coming to its defense
     there is no question, as he has always done so But, to use a late
     phrase, he is beginning to want HIS "PLACE IN THE SUN"--he wants a
     chance to rise on his merits AND TO KNOW WHEN HE SHOULDERS A GUN, THAT
     IF HE IS DESERVING OF IT, HE WILL HAVE A CHANCE TO RISE. He can fight
     and will, but will fight better with an incentive than without one. He
     is a, citizen regardless of all laws to the contrary; also he is the NEW
     Negro, and NOT of the "Uncle Tom" class, the passing of whom so many
     white citizens regret.
          "He reads your literature, attends your theaters, goes to your schools,
     observes you in his capacity as a waiter or porter, and is absorbing the
     best you have in the ways of civilization, and in fact, in every walk of
     life, he is a factor; and when he is asked to defend his country should
     he not be given THE SAME CHANCE AS THE WHITE MAN?
          "You will say that he should go to West Point. Well and good; but who is
     to send him? Next, who will defend him while there against the
     "Unwritten Law" of the white students not to allow him to matriculate?
          "The first officers of such regiments could be easily picked, made from
     Spanish War veterans and non-commissioned officers of the regular army,
     and second lieutenants from graduates from colleges giving military
     training. Such an organization officered in this manner would be ideal,
     speaking from my experience as a veteran of the Spanish War.
          "One thing you may have overlooked: We are twelve million in this
     country, WITH AN ESTIMATE OF A MILLION MEN FIT FOR SERVICE.
          "Suppose at such a crisis as is now transpiring in Europe, this country,
     with its millions of foreign citizens, should suddenly find itself face
     to face with a revolution. The presence and loyalty of these MILLION
     NEGROES might mean much for the stability of this government.
          "I have spoken plainly because I am a citizen; this is my country. I was
     born here, and shall at all times be found with the flag; hence I ask,
     that in your recommendations, looking to the betterment and enlargement
     of the army, you give THE BLACK PATRIOT such consideration, as I cannot
     but feel is due him, the thousands of young colored men who have passed
     through colleges and schools in an effort to prepare themselves for
     filling a place in the world.
          "I am opposed to segregation, but as it seems, under the present
     conditions of the races socially to be the ONLY way to a square deal, I
     accept it. There are Irish regiments, German regiments, etc., let us
     then have Negro regiments. The coming generations will look after the
     rest. I am, very respectfully,
                                               R.P. ROOTS
     400 26th Ave., North, Late Capt. 8th Ill. Vol. Infantry."

                                             "Seattle, Wash., Nov. 9, 1915.
     "Hon Joseph Tumulty, Secretary to the President, Washington, D.C.
     Dear Sir:--I am enclosing a copy of a letter sent to the Secretary of
     War, which I would be very much pleased to have you call the President's
     attention to, and ask if he can approve of it.
          "I was not fully informed as to the President's policy in regard to
     Haiti at the time of writing, and am not now, except through such
     information as received by the daily press. Taking that, in the main as
     authentic, I wish to add that I think a Brigade of Colored Troops, such
     as recommended in my letter to the Secretary for foreign service, would
     be the proper thing for Haiti.
          "It being a Negro Republic, the racial feeling as to the Negro's
     treatment in this country, which I need not mention, has been enlarged
     upon and not understood by the Negroes of other parts of the world, so
     that as it seems to me, to organize a constabulary officered by white
     Americans, would be inviting murder; for agitators from other
     governments, if they so desired, would soon cause a rebellion, and then
     you would have it all to do over again.
          "Colored troops from this country, I mean officers as well, would tend
     to cause a good feeling among the natives, not at first but later on as
     each became used to the other. THE WHITE MAN THINKS HE IS SUPERIOR TO
     ANY NEGRO, AND WOULD SHOW IT EVEN THOUGH HE TRIED NOT TO, and the
     Haitian would be going around with a chip on his shoulder looking for
     someone to knock it off.
          "You have three men in the regular army who could supervise the
     organization of these troops, and one who is already a Colonel of the
     Eighth Illinois National Guard, also several others if you wished to
     consider them.
          "Hoping that you will see the advisability of such an organization for
     diplomatic reasons and for JUSTICE TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO--who has been
     loyal--and served from Bunker Hill until now, I am,
                                    Very respectfully,
                                    R.P. ROOTS,
     400 26th St. N. Seattle, Wash., Late Capt. Eighth Illinois Volunteer
          Infantry during Spanish War."

As touching upon the above, Editor E.S. Abbott of THE CHICAGO DEFENDER, made the following comment:

     "There may be reasons deemed good and sufficient upon the part of
     President Wilson and Secretary Garrison for not having replied to
     the very courteous and finely conceived letters of appeal and
     suggestion, having to do with a new deal--with justice and fair
     play in the future towards the Negro soldiery of our country,
     written them some weeks ago by CAPT. R.P. ROOTS of Seattle.

     "It is not always meet, especially in times like these, of war and
     stress, of worries and apprehension, reaching across the world, for
     our rulers and servants facing great responsibilities and
     perplexing situations, to respond to every query and satisfy all
     curiosities. Much reticence must be permitted them. Much accepted,
     as a matter of course, without pursuing curiosity to the limit.

     "There may be ideas conveyed by Captain Roots to the president,
     through his communications to Secretaries Garrison and Tumulty that
     some people may not agree with, but there can be no disagreement
     over the proposition that the lot of colored soldiers in the armies
     of the United States--in the past, and at the present, is much
     different than that accorded to white soldiers; very little to
     really be proud of; very, very much to be ashamed of--much that is
     humiliating and depressing.

     "Because the present administration may be powerless in the matter,
     afraid to touch it, fearing a live wire or something of that kind,
     should OUR duty in the premises, TOWARD OUR OWN, be influenced
     thereby?

     "I wonder--is the time not NOW--right now, to commence an attack
     upon this intrenched scandal--this dirty, HUMILIATING AMERICANISM?

     "No other nation on earth, Christian or pagan, treats its
     defenders, its soldiery, so meanly, so shabbily, as does this, her
     black defenders; but whether the nation is more to blame, than we,
     who so long have submitted without a murmur, is a question. 'The
     trouble' shouted Cassius to Brutus, 'is not in our stars, that we
     are Underlings, BUT IN OURSELVES.'

     "Shall we, responding to the initiative furnished by CAPTAIN ROOTS,
     commence an organized assault upon this national vice against the
     soldiers of our race? Is this the time, readers of The Defender? Is
     this the time, brothers and editors of the contemporary press?

                                            R.S. ABBOTT."

Following in the footsteps of Captain Roots; apparently obsessed by the same vision and spirit,
Mr. Willis O. Tyler, eminent Los Angeles race representative, attorney and Harvard graduate,
also makes a plea for justice for Negro troops in the regular army, also for Negro officers,
and proposes reforms and legislation for utilizing the present force of Negro officers, and
creating enlarged opportunities for others. Says Mr. Tyler:

