A word, and I have done.  Surely in such a day as this it is no time to discuss shibboleths.
Its is a time for brotherly sympathy and great- hearted work.  With such responsibilities around
us there must be no divisions among those who love the same Saviour and look for the same heavenly
home.  I remember that at a critical period in our missionary work the venerable Doctor Dyer
said to me with tears in his eyes, "Strife is an awful price to pay for the best results, but
strife among the kinsmen of Christ in the presence of those for whom He died, and when wandering
souls are going down to death, is almost an unpardonable sin."  May I not ask you to-day, dear
brothers and sisters, what have we done to help on in the great work which is to be done in
the eventide of the world?  What lonely missionary have we remembered in prayer during the
past week?  What wanderer have we tried with love to lead to the Saviour?  Have we given the
cost of the trimmings of a dress?  Have we made any sacrifices for Him who gave Himself for
us?  May I not ask you to-day here beside God's altar to consecrate all you have and are to
His service?

With some of us the eventide draws on.  A little while, such a little while, just time enough
to do His work, and then the end shall come. And when we reach that other home, next to seeing
the Saviour, next to having the old ties re-united, will be the comfort and the blessedness
of meeting some one whom we helped heavenward and home.

Most reverend and right reverend brethren: No assembly is fraught with such awful responsibility
to God, as a council of the Bishops of His Church.  Since the Holy Spirit presided in the first
council of Jerusalem, faithful souls have looked with deep interest to the deliberations of
those whom Christ has made the shepherds of His flock, and to whom he gave His promise, "Lo,
I am with you always to the end of the world."  The responsibility is greater when division
has marred the beauty of the Lamb's Bride.  Our words and acts will surely hasten or (which
God forbid) retard the reunion of Christendom.  Feeling the grave responsibility which is imposed
on me to-day, my heart cries out as did the prophet's, "I am a child and cannot speak."  Pray
for me, venerable brethren, that God may help me to obey His word--"Whatsoever I command, that
shalt thou speak."  I would kneel with you at our Master's feet and pray that "the Holy Spirit
may guide us into all truth."  We meet as the representatives of national Churches; each with
its own peculiar responsibility to God for the souls intrusted to its care; each with all the
rights of a national Church, to adapt itself to the varying conditions of human society; and
each bound to preserve the order, the faith, the sacraments, and the worship of the Catholic
Church, for which it is a trustee.  As we kneel by the table of our common Lord we remember
separated brothers.  Division has multiplied division until infidelity sneers at Christianity
as an effete superstition, and the modern Sadducee, more bold than his Jewish brother, denies
the existence of God.  Millions for whom Christ died have not so much as heard that there is
a Saviour.  It will heal no divisions to say, Who is at fault? The sin of schism does not lie
at one door.  If one has sinned by self- will, the other has sinned as deeply by lack of charity
and love.  The way to reunion looks difficult.  To man it is impossible.  No human /eirenicon/
can bridge the gulf of separation.  There are unkind words to be taken back, alienations to
be healed, and heartburnings to be forgiven.  Where we are blind, God can make a way.  When
"the God of Peace" rules in all Christian hearts, our Lord's prayer will be answered--"That
they all may be one, as Thou, Father, art in Me, and I in Thee, that they all may be one in
Us, that the world may believe that Thou hast sent Me."  No one branch of the Church is absolutely
by itself alone the Catholic Church; all branches need reunion in order to the completeness
of the Church.  There are blessed signs that the Holy Spirit is quickening Christian hearts
to seek for unity.  We all know that this divided Christianity cannot conquer the world.  At
a time when every form of error and sin is banded together to oppose the kingdom of Christ,
the world needs the witness of a united Church.  Men must hear again the voice which peals
through the lapse of centuries bearing witness to the "faith once delivered to the saints,"
or else for many souls there will be only rationalism and unbelief--while this sad, weary world,
so full of sin and sorrow, is pleading for help, it is a wrong to Christ and to the souls for
whom He died that His children should be separated in rival folds.  As baptised into Christ
we are brothers. Notwithstanding the hedges of human opinions which men have builded in the
garden of the Lord, all who look for salvation alone through faith in Jesus Christ do hold
the great verities of Divine faith.  The opinions which separate us are not necessary to be
believed in order to salvation.  The truths in which we agree are parts of the Catholic faith.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the renewing and sanctifying influences of the Holy
Ghost are the same in the peasant in the cottage, and in the emperor on the throne.  They share
with us in the long line of confessors and martyrs for Christ.  We would not rob them of one
sheaf which they have gathered in the garner of the Lord.  We rejoice that Churches with a
like historic lineage with us are seeking reunion.  Churches whose faith has been dimmed by
coldness or clouded by error are being quickened into new life from the Incarnate Son of God.

Our hearts go out in loving sympathy to the Old Catholics of Europe and America, whose names
always will be linked with Selwyn, Wilberforce, and Wordsworth, Whittingham, Kerfoot, and Brown,
in defence of the faith. It is with deep sorrow that we remember that the Church of Rome has
separated herself from the teaching of the primitive Church by additions to the faith once
delivered to the saints, and by claiming for its Bishop prerogatives which belong only to the
Divine Head of the Church While we honor the devotion and zeal of her missionary heroes, and
rejoice at the good works of multitudes of her children, we lament that lack of charity which
anathematizes disciples of Christ who have carried the Gospel to the ends of the earth.

We bless God's Holy Name for the fraternal work which has been carried on under the guidance
of the see of Canterbury, and which we trust will lead ancient Churches to a deeper personal
faith in Jesus Christ.

