In front of the wigwam a great fire was built, and several large black kettles of venison were
suspended over it. The crowd were seated about it on the grass in a great circle. Behind them
some of the braves stood leaning against the necks of their ponies, their tall figures draped
in loose robes which were well drawn over their eyes.

Young girls, with their faces glowing like bright red autumn leaves, their glossy braids falling
over each ear, sat coquettishly beside their chaperons. It was a custom for young Indian women
to invite some older relative to escort them to the public feasts. Though it was not an iron
law, it was generally observed.

Haraka Wambdi was a strong young brave, who had just returned from his first battle, a warrior.
His near relatives, to celebrate his new rank, were spreading a feast to which the whole of
the Indian village was invited.

Holding my pretty striped blanket in readiness to throw over my shoulders, I grew more and
more restless as I watched the gay throng assembling. My mother was busily broiling a wild
duck that my aunt had that morning brought over.

"Mother, mother, why do you stop to cook a small meal when we are invited to a feast?" I asked,
with a snarl in my voice.

"My child, learn to wait. On our way to the celebration we are going to stop at Chanyu's wigwam.
His aged mother-in-law is lying very ill, and I think she would like a taste of this small game."

Having once seen the suffering on the thin, pinched features of this dying woman, I felt a
momentary shame that I had not remembered her before.

On our way I ran ahead of my mother and was reaching out my hand to pick some purple plums
that grew on a small bush, when I was checked by a low "Sh!" from my mother.

"Why, mother, I want to taste the plums!" I exclaimed, as I dropped my hand to my side in disappointment.

"Never pluck a single plum from this brush, my child, for its roots are wrapped around an Indian's
skeleton. A brave is buried here. While he lived he was so fond of playing the game of striped
plum seeds that, at his death, his set of plum seeds were buried in his hands. From them sprang
up this little bush."

Eyeing the forbidden fruit, I trod lightly on the sacred ground, and dared to speak only in
whispers until we had gone many paces from it. After that time I halted in my ramblings whenever
I came in sight of the plum bush. I grew sober with awe, and was alert to hear a long-drawn-out
whistle rise from the roots of it. Though I had never heard with my own ears this strange whistle
of departed spirits, yet I had listened so frequently to hear the old folks describe it that
I knew I should recognize it at once.

The lasting impression of that day, as I recall it now, is what my mother told me about the
dead man's plum bush.

VI.

THE GROUND SQUIRREL.

In the busy autumn days my cousin Warca-Ziwin's mother came to our wigwam to help my mother
preserve foods for our winter use. I was very fond of my aunt, because she was not so quiet
as my mother. Though she was older, she was more jovial and less reserved. She was slender
and remarkably erect. While my mother's hair was heavy and black, my aunt had unusually thin locks.

Ever since I knew her she wore a string of large blue beads around her neck,--beads that were
precious because my uncle had given them to her when she was a younger woman. She had a peculiar
swing in her gait, caused by a long stride rarely natural to so slight a figure. It was during
my aunt's visit with us that my mother forgot her accustomed quietness, often laughing heartily
at some of my aunt's witty remarks.

I loved my aunt threefold: for her hearty laughter, for the cheerfulness she caused my mother,
and most of all for the times she dried my tears and held me in her lap, when my mother had
reproved me.

Early in the cool mornings, just as the yellow rim of the sun rose above the hills, we were
up and eating our breakfast. We awoke so early that we saw the sacred hour when a misty smoke
hung over a pit surrounded by an impassable sinking mire. This strange smoke appeared every
morning, both winter and summer; but most visibly in midwinter it rose immediately above the
marshy spot. By the time the full face of the sun appeared above the eastern horizon, the smoke
vanished. Even very old men, who had known this country the longest, said that the smoke from
this pit had never failed a single day to rise heavenward.

As I frolicked about our dwelling I used to stop suddenly, and with a fearful awe watch the
smoking of the unknown fires. While the vapor was visible I was afraid to go very far from
our wigwam unless I went with my mother.

From a field in the fertile river bottom my mother and aunt gathered an abundant supply of
corn. Near our tepee they spread a large canvas upon the grass, and dried their sweet corn
in it. I was left to watch the corn, that nothing should disturb it. I played around it with
dolls made of ears of corn. I braided their soft fine silk for hair, and gave them blankets
as various as the scraps I found in my mother's workbag.

There was a little stranger with a black-and-yellow-striped coat that used to come to the drying
corn. It was a little ground squirrel, who was so fearless of me that he came to one corner
of the canvas and carried away as much of the sweet corn as he could hold. I wanted very much
to catch him and rub his pretty fur back, but my mother said he would be so frightened if I
caught him that he would bite my fingers. So I was as content as he to keep the corn between
us. Every morning he came for more corn. Some evenings I have seen him creeping about our grounds;
and when I gave a sudden whoop of recognition he ran quickly out of sight.

When mother had dried all the corn she wished, then she sliced great pumpkins into thin rings;
and these she doubled and linked together into long chains. She hung them on a pole that stretched
between two forked posts. The wind and sun soon thoroughly dried the chains of pumpkin. Then
she packed them away in a case of thick and stiff buckskin.

In the sun and wind she also dried many wild fruits,--cherries, berries, and plums. But chiefest
among my early recollections of autumn is that one of the corn drying and the ground squirrel.

I have few memories of winter days at this period of my life, though many of the summer. There
is one only which I can recall.

Some missionaries gave me a little bag of marbles. They were all sizes and colors. Among them
were some of colored glass. Walking with my mother to the river, on a late winter day, we found
great chunks of ice piled all along the bank. The ice on the river was floating in huge pieces.
As I stood beside one large block, I noticed for the first time the colors of the rainbow in
the crystal ice. Immediately I thought of my glass marbles at home. With my bare fingers I
tried to pick out some of the colors, for they seemed so near the surface. But my fingers began
to sting with the intense cold, and I had to bite them hard to keep from crying.

From that day on, for many a moon, I believed that glass marbles had river ice inside of them.

VII.

THE BIG RED APPLES.

The first turning away from the easy, natural flow of my life occurred in an early spring.
It was in my eighth year; in the month of March, I afterward learned. At this age I knew but
one language, and that was my mother's native tongue.

