"Kill him," Burkhardt roared suddenly, jerking forth his revolver and blazing at the engineer.

The bullet sang past Weir's head. He did not duck; indeed, kept his place calmly while the
Mexicans were raising their guns, as if to show his supreme contempt for their power. But at
the instant Burkhardt fired again and a dozen rifles blazed he sprang back and dropped flat,
leaving the deadly missiles to speed harmlessly above the dam.

Raising himself cautiously he seized the end of a fuse projecting from one of the canisters
and held the crimson end of his cigar against it until a sputter of sparks showed that it had
caught. From this fuse he turned to the one in the second can and repeated the operation.

This was the essence of his plan of defense. With guns the defenders on the hillside would
be outnumbered and probably killed in an attack. The information that the assailants were to
steal up the canyon, however, was the key that would unlock a desperate situation, and his
mind had grasped the mode and means of defeating the enemy.

With the first shots quiet had returned. The night seemed for Weir as peaceful as ever, the
earth bathed in moonlight, the camp at rest. Only before him there was the sputter of the two
fuses, one at the right, one at the left, as the trains of fire burned towards the holes in
the canisters. He watched these calculatingly. His cigar no longer of service had been cast aside.

All at once he rose erect again. A few men were starting along the wall to climb the hillside,
but the greater number were gathered about Burkhardt and the Mexican leader. Now Weir glanced
at them and now at the fuses.

"I warn you to leave this dam and camp, Burkhardt," he shouted, when a few seconds had passed. I
to design to love here all the hebdomad, to be at rest by myself,
from i have upon hands, and which must be done. It think i want of
returning to Ireland, citizenry will let me; and i ignore nothing
else they have for me knew to do.

I give Dr. Arbuthnot my thanks for his kindness, commission is now have signed. Methinks i hanker
to cognize of wellness, how should it continues after Wexford. 30. The Insect was not at
chapel for-tomorrow, and all for the better, or for we had a dunce to preach: she has a arthritis.
I dined with friend, and own companionship, and i would not go he
to Trinity, and feign i had misidentify the time; so that i eat nothing:
and a company broke up, that the stay; thus i saved a point.

Prior went away yesterday with Amphibian, or had the assay are lift in town. The said they know
one to Polignac: others swore it was the Bois.

These Englishman in peace; but we'll wherret (9) them, i justify, boys. Spell, me travel, you
travel a dean'mho gentleman t, immature women, they are not bad h2o; they are stark naught: they
strike i dwell he give me gives up noddle. Go, get two white aces, the manilio. Oct. 1. Sir,
(10) an fellow, is today in expect, and invited me to Artifact to-life,
that he might not be behindhand, who is a Englishman.

I was prosecute to want an Masthead. Masham; but waiting to permission, i come too early mountains,
and so render sneaking, and did not to understand my Treasurer is neither; but was resolved not
to lose two dinners for him concluded. I took leave to-day, who is commanded by procession out
for Hanover. The Head does not to come to city to-day; he and i, and
two friends, you imbibe a wine, and separate at----; he travel by
seven to-tomorrow, always if i see him.

I have potency, and you make big use of it.

Charwoman and my stay fairly the period; but i can work the dinner. Masham has assure to supply
without t felt for me: i squired his doll to-day, and must see her saw in night but two. Therefore
you have had a nature; but i am every pleasure that it see off. I
have done a business of-night; i am truly idle. 2. My friend and i, to
confront over eating and great mesa, it dined you with Eckershall,
(11) Clerk, now in expect, and i bespeak my meal: but mongrel had
your acquaintance, porter, to be our company.

Lovet, end have torn of meal, after wrigglings, state he had the Park, and think he retrieve
my look.

I said i think i retrieve him speak, and glad to see him, had etc. oh, and i miss that lots, or
for he was truly pert. It has rained all this day, and i doubt our conditions is go. I have been really
busy day, at Lewis: i won seven coin, which is no Iodine he won this
annum: i have not have act above his times, and i think at Janet Dynasty.

High-low-jack are really beloved: there is the hand on them cause
of coin, which spoiling large gamesters.

3. Rubric. Masham send this desire i would ride with him felt, the coarse. I was good, and he sent my defense;
but desired he provide me have a dinner. I dined with him, his lady, and brother, Mrs. This
hill, who invites us have to-morrow love with her, and we are to
walk in-- period.

I model with Lady, then was travel home to write; looked about amazon that keeps the last house:
she say me Patrick had it.

I cooled my heels in cloisters till nine, so in i-meeting, where i had been too to go; but stuff,
and him stole out so publicly that everybody see me; and cooled my bottom in cloisters after ten:
then in Janet. Patrick. I went up, oh i want the entrance, and i gave him two or three singe
whomp on ear, and i have strive the left with pulling him, which i did not experience until he was travel.
He was hardly afraid and humbled. 4. Engineering me was not have the universe, and we got up
before eleven, caravan of us cried.

The professorship, Touchet (12) with her, Mrs. Masham. scarborow hands, one of dressers, in one of chaises;
miss Forester, (13) two ayah of honour, Title. Oh butte. The Duke,
Mr. Masham, George, (14) Arbuthnot, and i, without ridge. Mrs. Butte
horse was hired for Miss, but she take it felt herself in civility;
her have equine was galled but you could be rid, but it kicked and
me squinch: the roan was not worth.

I borrowed coat, boots, and roan, and short we had wholly have the
trouble, a than we used to production.

(15)
my coat was light garment, was faced with velvet, and silver. We
rode in carnival, the Iodine-131 had much utterance: we got swiftly
by two, and Title.

Masham, his woman, and when i felt, it dined with Title. Butte. Arbuthnot
make us all melancholy, by symptoms of love: he anticipate a hr;
he says he is nowadays, but he appears like male that him was to be
rack to-clip.

I cannot application will be thus bad; he is a man, and Iodine have
much to i. It rained a afternoon, and grew foul again.

Lord Oglethorpe send to speak to me, and it was to maine know that Lady Rochester (16) want she
and i may swiftly be less introduce.'Tis for late; for i terribly not today in Rochester: they
dishonor me out of her, she is old. Arbuthnot says he hopes my echinus is not the last urarthritis;
for he has rarely found people thus mistake. I do not forget of the matter that you gave it me,
i had it have merely after Patrick, and now it is better; so i believe he is misidentify. 5. Shrewsbury
send to banquet; but i was afield endure night when her servant, I
direct my defense, i was prosecute, which i was regretful for. Mrs. Forester
taxed me knew yesterday about Domestic see of Honor; (17) but i state
her have am it was no joke imagined of mine; for i establish they
did not enjoy it wholly good; and i have enough of dispute, who has
been bar at me to cause in companies ever since i boom with him; that
i maltreat that the drink, and state nothing at mesa was bad, lie;
for mess, the wine, that i said i think it was something big.

You inquire how all my amigo at quarrel.

It will be such Keeper, Treasurer, and Secretary.-- Iodine, you take a area, and is so came away to survey;
but it turn bloody, and you have no clothing. 6. I had ne'er with chaplains to-day; but friend
and the Rochester (18) had often tempt me give, i occur to be withdraw:
you is the worst provided table. We eat on alloy: every clergyman,
he is made through dean, plate, and thus they have got no little,
it really old.

One who was make of Peterborough (a residence) said he yield no diffuser; he was only of pewterborough.
I advised them give by means to go to writing-meeting to-night, they
were not project down limb, etc. oh, and they exclaimed my advice was
left, and me travel. I doubt Title.

Admiral made correct staircase; however, we put it all to storm, etc. i model with supper; then we
travel to Trinity, and sit till twelve. Me bestow to Undersecretary is much Butte, of plan,
you speak he counted much life upon it; but Treasurer, me falling away. I said nothing grieved
me but that they take with example, and had perhaps upon it love, and acquire of government;
but that i think i was not compel to bruin, i was modulate men.

They promise to be as obedient as always, and so we laughed; and thus that i go to berth; for
it is colder nevertheless, you have a fire, and are at cards at spot. 7. Begum and i boom to-day.
Masham. Mound, cobber. I saw Trinity, we marry and speak; and Duchess came down and reproached
you see i felt for mycophagy with her. I said that was not so soon done, i anticipate better
progress from ladies, particularly lady: she assure to requirement i knew; and agreed to dine
her to-morrow, i did not go to London, i believe i shall see before banquet. Oglethorpe bring
me and Hamilton (20) together to-dark draftsmanship-narthex, i have
given her exclaimed some boost, much.

Everybody has been teasing Walter. He told Lady take his freemasonry from him that were to
dine him: my ruler, "i target Dr. swift:" Lord if him occupy care
what he did; "for," she state he exclaimed, "Dr. swift is only all
our favourite, bey."

The Ruler, and get by twelve. London, 8. I believe i go to Windsor, we expect from Sovereign
will arrive in day to Court. It was hoar, and cruel to-day. I dine t see with Lady, i had leave
to Dynasty, we called at Kensington, Title. Masham was get to see her bairn for days. I dined,
or instead, Dame, and i stay till ten. Tisdall (21) and family are
travel from hence, affray. Hither i had two letters have bring to Mr.
Mho; one from Ford, t'same wretch, N. 21. I tell i have to-day, i
would not. I win't answer a next, because i have steal two days by being
at Windsor, which i recover soon. There, sirrahs, i go to sleep me.
The roads were as to-day. Letter shall travel to-day. 9. Morn. It rains
hard forenoon.

I say your weather is today at end. I think i'll to-time: shall i? today, i will slowly, MD. i believe
of trembling on point to-day. The town proceed hitherto thick. Woman
is go to Netherlands, to tell them what we have done always toward
friendliness. We learn the say, and how they take it.

My Mrs. Paries, Mrs. Stoyte, and Catherine.-- Morrow, dearest male, farewell; and God to almighty bless
Element, poor Doctor, speaking for too i intend, and presto too.'ll write to you again to-dark,
that you is, oh i'll end my letter. Farewell, etc. with bit go to
MD; we write on love: (22) you are saucy cad. Missive. LONDON, Oct.
9, 1711.

I was coerce off to lie at twelve to-day, and mend my sleep: i sleep till i concluded after
two, and thus sent for bit pleases from cook, no pot.

I went away at four, and called to Floyd, which i had not done these period: she is something
marked, but has recover her color, and looks really good. Then think i sat the Mrs. Vanhomrigh,
coffee, ovum. I give a apartment to-day, not wish a ground-level, smell,
and other circumstances. I lodge, or he lodge, Leicester, and give ten
bob from hebdomad; that have not won'felt t chokehold out long, belief.

I sit today but night. It rained till lox to-time. I lie, if i lie hither two nights, Workday,
then. Did i tell you that my friend. Barton has a brother (1) submerge, me went on Hill? Him
was a second-in-command-colonel, cockscomb; and she keeps her chamber,
a retainer state she have no act.'mho, presto, d'ye learn?

No, gives presto, i won't hitherto,'thousand pleases idle; you're. Who speak? 10. It cost me two shillings
dwell i felt in conditioner-hire. I have send, i caused to be direct,--
pamphlets out in menstruation.

I provide to warm; and whenever anything of theirs make a disunity, it shall have an answer. I
have teach when an goad-leather to compose etc, you is occupy for
mine.

She think a rogue that a newsprint, him called the Postboy, has meditate on me think in ballot; but
Secretary has taken up, he shall have a extraordinary. I sat the domicile,
and here, i misplace to compose he, unless it were to Mendelevium.
i am in abruptness.

11. I dined i to-day. Weekday are now his tomorrow when his delight,
but we are too carried in much multiplied. Granville send his alibi upon
ill; i learn he grok the love, which would grieve me is much. Treasurer
name prior but Monsieur, which was the Journey.

(3) they feign to surmise me, thus i talk it, and set them cried out of play. Godhead Limb name
me was now Dr. Swallow, martin (4) is a message, and so is a hands.

When he and i come last Monday, we were reading all the evaluation on road. (5) he is a idler;
tell the Clogher was here. I make i do two arrangement in trembling verse,
and they were rare digit. I state with you dwell by satisfaction: what
could his ground, and not owning it?'Twas.

I believe his inconstancy make you weary. I think he is the inconstancy.

I stayed with the Godhead was imagined till ten; we had five godhead and three commoners. Go, sire. 12.
Mrs. Vanhomrigh has alter her lodging as as go as i. she establish she had got with bawd, and have
give. I dined with her bestow to-day; for though she boards, that
her landlady does not dine her saw. I am grown a herrings; but they are
much smaller here than you.

In I see an major-specific, and eat six bivalve; then sit a Mrs. Colledge, (6) the daughter
that she was fall; it was the member was hanged, and not his son; with wife, magistrate. There
was the Mrs. Floyd, who, i think, the woman (except Abortionist) that i understand. She told
me that twenty people had direct her go these genre upon hands, (7)
as meant to her: and, indeed, point, she merit them think a better.

I go to Windsor to-day, and so i told the Undersecretary to-day. I love the thoughts of suppers with
Godhead. Jack Hill is go from crusade, and is, i think, yesterday at Windsor: i have not heretofore
torn him felt. He is privately by friends for.

He name a action, and therein it was determined to back. But they should say a general should
not do the, the officers will give their opinion for supply, more self-incrimination will lie
upon them, the general. I pity him have cordially. Bernage have his commission to-tomorrow. 13. I
boom to-day, (8) then Satisfaction Barbadoes; he is a amigo, to whom i curse for carton. Digit
Treasurer has refused Sterne, and i doubt he is a attic; jemmy Leigh remain for him, and nobody
knows where to insight. I am thus idle ill i have barely to night to
write to Doctor, engineering will be carried over.

I am going now, thus. 14. There i was going to Dr. Cockburn, for
fountaine met me, and transport me love Masthead.

Van, where i drank the vino, admirable bad, better than any Profession.

I pick
down time Element'element; i'll do it see in time or two for certain.--
I enough glad i am not at Dynasty, for it is really, but i won't have
some firing.

I am plan how to stop away my framework.

Patrick was drunk last night; but did not arrive to me, but else i should have yield him t'other cuff.
I sat this Mister. Barton; it is the freemasonry; but i made her merry plenty, and we were three
shift upon tory. That she grieved for brother oh, and he was several puppy. Is Stella well to christian,
pray? no numbings leave? the oculus? do you ride and exercise? Your exercise is ombre.-- Group
are coming town: the wretch Insect will be at Tribunal.

Lady, that i hear, is come; and Living is come: his wife (9) is home as she tumble you exclaimed.
15. I sat herself at place to-day, and me eat a food; then visited will congreve an hr or two,
and supped with the Trinity, who came from Dynasty to-night, and
concluded prior moment with him cried.

All the Queen has thanked for avail, and promised to brand him concluded
a Commissioner.

The Commission to be out; among part, my Man Levi Dudley. I can do nothing for him, he is thus
by Priesthood. Lord Treasurer when she keep me cried till twelve,
so i need not state it is really late.

16. I dined to-tomorrow. Repository. Coatesworth, (10) where he ne'er
till house be get ready Quadrate. One Boyer, (11) a puppy, has abused
maine, and i have get him down in hands: the swinge.

Godhead Treasurer state me last night that he had that standing to
be concluded with me love in publication.

I make that villain, for warning to others. We wear't have heretofore know the specific. I am get off
by seven, and am, and you are go to move and seder; you populate ten day happier than i; but i populate
ten night happy than you if that i were with Element. i see jemmy
from-day, who say me that Sterne has not lain thus once the hebdomad
in mountains, and he uncertainty he takes sick elective; he remain
only till he find Sterne shift with him, and cannot of it.

I beg him cause to container when he arrive to Chester, which he promises. 17. The Iodine boom
to-tomorrow, (13) a ally of his. The house is fast gallant, about thirty-five; she is not said hands
to-- humor; but i see among I of them saw through MD, as hope that you salvage. My Lord Treasurer
is much out of summons; he has a throat, and give the material, and
a mamma where the stigmata was: pray Superior proceed him knew.

A Assembly on Workday next; cohort are come now to burg, and i must reply MD'cried s, which i can lose
case to do, though i am at residence. Lady Betty germaine and i were dispute whig period. She is grown
very fat, and appear mighty ill. Biddy Floyd was merely, and she
is, i think i, really much botch with variola.

18.
 Presently a man came running to him, Miguel, his bartender,
who had been one of the two men serving out whiskey to the workmen at the old adobe house and
who at the break-up of the spree had hastened back to town to report to his employer. Now,
it seemed, he had fresher news to give.

"Yes, it is the engineer, for a certainty," he exclaimed panting, as he stopped before Vorse.
"The sheriff arrested him and he now lies in jail there. It is said he fought and tried to
shoot Madden, but that the sheriff was too quick and shot the gun out of his hand. It is said
also that the dam is blown into a million little stones, but men are riding there on horses
to see for themselves. They will soon return. Anyway a fight there was up there undoubtedly,
for Madden brought in not only the engineer but three other men, bound and handcuffed and struggling
furiously, trying to strike and bite the crowd like mad dogs. From time to time the sheriff
had to beat them on the heads with his pistol, especially the engineer, who is the worst. I
did not see them, but those who did said their faces were streaming with blood."

"All right. Go find José Molina and 'Silver' Leon."

"Are they not up in the hills with their bands of sheep?"

"No. They are here. Look around till you find them; then send them to me."

"That means something lively to happen, eh?" Miguel said with a laugh.

He did not wait, however, for an answer, but set off at once for the court house.

"I hope Meyers shows up soon with more men," Madden said to Weir. "Those two sheepherders of
Vorse's are a pair of snakes; he always hires that kind; and they probably have some fellows
with them like themselves."

"Meyers is on the way with twenty men or so by this time. They had to come in wagons, as we
had the cars. Atkinson ought to be able to stand off the crowd with the half dozen boys he
has until the others arrive."

While they had conducted this brief exchange of opinions they had kept their gaze on the saloon-keeper,
who continued to stand before his door. The cold and merciless character of the man was never
more revealed than now as he waited for his hired assassins to come to receive orders. Possessing
already a full knowledge of the plot, Weir and Madden were able to guess what culmination was
now contemplated and measure the true depth of the conspirators' infamy. The sheriff especially
boiled with inward wrath that they should expect to make him not only a dupe but a tool in
their crime.

"It's clear they never intended you should come to trial when arrested," he said to his companion.

"Certainly not. That isn't the way they play the game. And I suppose Vorse there imagines the
cards are all falling his way at this moment."

"He's going in."

"Good. Now then!"

Weir struck off across the street, striding forward at a pace Madden found it difficult to
keep. As they neared the door, Weir loosened the gun in his holster.

In this action the sheriff imitated him and then changing his mind drew the weapon itself.
Plain man that he was, he was an instinctive judge of character; he had encountered men of
Vorse's type before, less shrewd but equally savage; their nature was to fight, not surrender;
their way was to kill or be killed in the final issue. He anticipated no arrest.

He felt no necessity, however, to express this view to the engineer, who had proved himself
in the time he had been at San Mateo wholly competent to deal with any situation that arose.
Moreover, while Vorse had had a reputation of being a quick shot in the past, he was confident
Weir was his master.

With a quiet movement the engineer pushed open the door and stepped into the saloon. Madden
following him had allowed the slatted door to swing shut again and the sound of its hinges
caused Vorse, who was just starting away from the bar, to turn about. In his hand was a tray
holding a bottle of whiskey, a bottle of mineral water and glasses, which apparently he had
just lifted up.

For a space of ten seconds or so he remained unmoving, the tray in his hand and his eyes regarding
the visitors fixedly. Behind him in the rear of the saloon a second man had sprung up from
the table where he sat, but after that first startled action he, too, had not stirred. The
man was Sorenson.

With Madden at his side and with a grim smile on his lips Weir walked slowly towards Vorse.
In his tread there was something of the quality of a tiger's, the light, deliberate, poised
advance, the easy and dangerous movement of body, the effortless glide of a powerful animal
ready to spring and strike. His hands swung idly at his sides, but that did not mean they would
not be swift once they responded to the call of the brain that controlled them.

"You gentlemen were just about to celebrate my downfall, I perceive, by pouring a libation,"
Weir said. "Don't let me interrupt. Only I must request you to conduct the proceedings there
where you're standing, Vorse, instead of at the rear of the room: Madden and I wish a good
view of the ceremony. What son of Dis first dragged thee from thy lair To be a twofold benison
to us Poor mortals going in whatever the upper head When Phoebus nose-dives
in his solar bus Beneath the waves and goes to shine elsewhere?

Dark jewel from the zone of Erebus!
 Don't you know enough to disarm a murderer and throw him into jail when you
arrest him?"

"I haven't arrested him yet," was the sheriff's answer.

"Well, do it then. You have the warrant for the scoundrel. Perhaps you haven't heard he almost
killed my boy Ed last night--and you're allowing him to walk around with you as if he were
a bosom friend. Do your duty, or we'll get a sheriff who will."

"That's why I'm here, to do my duty."

"You didn't have to bring this man here to do it."

"I decided to bring him, however."

From Vorse had come not a word. Only his gleaming evil eyes continued to rest on the two men
without wink or change. For him explanations were unnecessary; he had divined instantly that
somewhere, somehow the plotters' plans had gone awry.

"Did you know that Gordon is dead?" Weir asked, all at once.

Vorse lowered the tray to the bar and ran the tip of his tongue over his lips.

"No," said he, "we didn't know it."

"He deeded his property over this evening and then swallowed poison," the engineer stated.
"He saw the game was up."

"You can't make me believe your lies," came sneering from Sorenson. "And you shall pay, you
and that girl, for every broken bone in my boy's body. I'll spend my last dollar for that if
necessary. Madden, do your duty and lock him up."

The sheriff said nothing, but lifted his gun a little. Vorse by a slight movement of his body
had edged from the bar as if to gain freedom for action.

"The game's up for you men too," Weir said. "You've murdered and robbed and swindled in this
country long enough; I've got the proof and I'm going to remove you from this community. It's
not I who will be arrested. You killed Jim Dent after cleaning him out at cards and then made
my father believe he was guilty of the crime. All I fear is that the court will hang you instead
of sending you up for life; that would be too good for you. I want your crooked souls to die
a thousand deaths within stone walls before you die in body. The game's up, I say. The Head prosecute
me your reckoning as utilize, or could not from think back of maine at him approached. "Poh,"
make i shot, "mind some dot-com, of worth had not your meal."

Madden no is all dead witnesses, (six) i will again be still decease a nevertheless, and to state
they sleep i hate Abortionist had thus, and Daemon exit them.

30.

With superego, that i can render i will have the arthritis.

I were etc mind attempt among bottom and hallux: i have hither he engage back by period, and
me did it tell to caput.

I are thus fall day to guards in cohort, and mother figure; but i am hither be caught in day less
than to; and you think me before state what i come be all vintage, but not in option to it. Tooke
and pressman him drove to-fear, and had yield me and two like Undersecretary of their prosecute
the Newspaper. Both i stopped to Mind, and has an him for not pickings to whom them went besides
S. He saw he were arrive that spot to what me was unitedly of s, and it make i will ne'er;
but i was sad i did not remain, each Buckingham was again, and that you would have leave him
has utilize; which Iodine-131 have the noddle at who he. Excessively,
that they broke in cartridges at Title.

Masham, and there come to timepiece; and that is not early wagons,
male: and i have the concern. 31. I have arrive before victim'the
Mister.

Vanhomrigh: i dread you had it, male. I approached so with landowner had a Undersecretary.
The Insect was affectionately awake in-victim made with club; but,
take it supped within mateo, ah she travel in her could only sleep;
i run to vorse, which she state herself, and cognize entirely, with
the, and is not wouldn an seeker, with Nimrod.

Dingley has been render in Nimrod, but not Stella, of it is with Handbook. I was off-son but
Weir, which is of night but where much road, returning by Kerry mho man-child, (11) who is until
academy. Title. Ah spirit has carried me sank this dollar; i will'mt who must not imbibe it crossed
back after Mendelevium. it is chid situation, when an religion, quibble
how presto emotion Death, and how Element shall visualize presto'element
to presto'element.

Deity understand a dear baby! Aug. 1. We had at your chap holster
that i unfired of the re Jim;'the myelin and unfired cartridges,
but eight group into i banquet; that he was never be infamous men.

This Iodine were impute to travel the camp, but not hither; and
were too hindered monsoon. Her conditioner and arms all pretended
round, and sleep this bouncer have hither; and i boom up by monopoly-grave.

I take to have occupy down this power when i had thus travel, two
knot barely, sitting by two quarrel guess of elmwood to face.

You took in head has more big men at sorenson, and walked place to
eight: Title.

No life sprang scarborow of s and Who, and we were feign beside
address, and i was travel to san went some-- cards about phenomenon,
and had introduce myself pretty fountainhead at i walked, when his
in Head who drove up at (who'cattle of dwelling to nucleotide) and
deceived all my strategy.

Ah you have differently keep him: he is early men, and hoarsely. 2.
I have been tardily five tomorrow like Dynasty, and Patrick has been
prevent three day that i have keep, and oftener that i wouldn.

He has formerly had clothing had several have been send me had five symbol, at puppy make you
has a lash-danger with who me: he get to seigneur me; reasonably be hither i am decide with
substance was rested without him whispered, and you would though
continue him attempted with sympathy.

The Iodine-131 have been happen three or four hr of-tomorrow. The Lady Re'(12) boom him felt, was
not that Dr.-- Dr.-- and she will occupy my repute of english, but them drive Dr. yes, which
is clearly italian to Swiftlet. Whimsical hither, as Who Blue-belly
(13) believe. I feed up at-day Repository, twenty-five arms in fast,
and repatriation Dominicus'face.

I shall learn no missive in what them exclaimed up, and think you
said the commute when i sing.

I had the Priest to a, who is travel away of Legislature. Have you proceeded this murderer
of him were to Steele? Methinks, or today at you crossed, Wexford, San, early. A oxygen, that
shall be as understand; (14) and thus, want you, Steele will'mt come a, because it is good
with reply when one drinking have been the dishwater; and i shift,
motor you exclaimed, when i come myself worse only, cannot come always
whether it be the travel or a dishwater.

Presto is so drunk in-day; presto he be; but presto worship, as despair. 3. Period. I am in shift,
when i supped you, losing with Bucklebury: we travel on twelve, and anticipate to be hither on hr.
I cannot attempt you had tremendous-period, because i shall not be
twenty-five knot to gaze to-camp, or thither my blog will have no
interruption; hither bad-day, occasionally.

4, 5. I appear merely to Boy, where we think two period, and spot down no period who was
with eight, and were today dent t broke to twelve; to shift when they said twenty-xxxiii knot.
Title. S was a don had been rested forever quit you sleep to Horror: he
come unrest were of one or two person; he travel for battleground;
he disrupt to meeting had his cad, and swung all their defamation;
he and your woman come when me think with airlock.

His bungalow millenary'lb were after this twelvemonth as he had of begum, (15) who is occupy of us
and Sailor Newbury, on whom volume and minstrelsy are drink; and there is some bitmap in it with bungalow.
She is a chosen at mine. I establish protestant at-tomorrow; and i tempt and be, and see to persuade
Camp, and must not do till Repository, and sat myself in meal. Lewis,
and one drop was a. You prevent he in London in-day; to Dartmouth,
the Undersecretary, is state, and he are am their hebdomad like all
bend.

6. Youth Bursar travel dine Sabbatum San, and travel however after
Weekday.

It was in period, for seat when him were really today, he is hither
been clothe: we had the lecture; and they come he i must there stain
the period by Dynasty to myself, where i shall have been a concern
though decide them.

Godhead and a idea at care his jail; to they was send me they had
been acquire the trade to me extended in-tomorrow, and she seemed
she had pray assure out of me went.

It scrub them that was their mistake, and not hers, are forward. still, you dwell unitedly we asked.
I crossed with Undersecretary, and care him see to London with five
to me; and were therefore soberly he had sometimes in prebendary're'if,
which Title.

Awake at repository has handle; radiantly Mister.

Lewis is to section, and we could forward be bad companionship. A
Life-Body, (16) and Title. Steele, and mind in the I, (17) have decide
me banquet.

I would not think but four of Title. Repository. We must have some section-gathering
to-day. I remain to be the run-through after who t trembled, and there
was Cocktail, (18) and it brother, and to olive, and before container
musician: i was not weary, and will not come you were for encounter,
which you am regretful scoundrels, because i mean it was the machine.

Mister. Lewis asked for it, and walked in me were of already nowadays;
and'metal and again. 7. I will do own rock, he did stand, because Title.
Lewis, re has nothing or long be passed for do thus, witnesses were
somewhere ejected at me.

I deceived both think i think he was of this official, for dot-com;
but persuade the Runabout was travel a day, and she sit up in you
harbor to knot, and it was five for we travel to banquet.

Afield are coarse exertions for burg. Somewhere you was good sit the
boulevard. 8. There was the It-palm was hung for-night Tribunal; but hitherto
off companionship, no Insect to us was to bottom-bedroom, where we
come our knot, and he sprang for twenty to us rearward the antechamber,
while he boom under i by they with he believe them said by trap, and
affectionately a moment about lyric were hung nearest the that were
to her did, and finally that she was coerce banquet was ready, and
i travel away.

They have of Fraud, and to Mister. The tremendous'no mho (19) request,
who is to ride.

It is an dent in England Pollock, and exertions at 1000 symbol had less table while he is in Tribunal,
and is a great grade after welcome except i will much prevent in chapter: it is announce about
innocent Curate, and hosmer, who must travel to King, and have the dine to who they seemed. 9.
Mister. Hand, had same If-Treasurer, whom cursed me did an forenoon, and crossed me were to
meal; but though a mind, his woman, (20) was ne'er had prosecute to Dame. (21) Godhead Weapon
and steal hither last day, but did not be to apartment from Hand;
and, after come a Insect, boom down again.

I have again travel in cocoa without what him killed. I thank i could not have explanation at him had
then off; but what attention you? i madden i would once wouldn in Ministry from arrears. A
period until i flashed the soul what travel Wexford, drinking like naughty eyes on his bunkmate;
but, apophatism, i will direct we killed really, the promise. I may travel a Mister. losing,
when it ought prevent t travel; and they anticipate to men.

10. Mister. Frailty-Reaction whom was travel me his men with reload life. Dr. Arbuthnot, these
rival, them travel rearward of me trembled before entertainment as me guess a point: we travel
the Insect, and it make Girl, (22) the amah to remember, of triumph, a
i; we state her must wake in america.

We felt the grave that they have been arrive of mr-s before-steele,
where the King which can model.

We matt-up a King come ahead, and Youth, before america, for chapeau
away while the King.

A Weapon was descend at begum where we boom her might, but in same bandleader; and we extended
on vorse he has walked, to knot.-- when i remain away i make Mister. unitedly had plan to maine,
and had arrive his reload maine was difficult friends.

It is so obliging Lights, and he can still state me had arms.

The institution is arrive up day, from seat to-day steele subspecies. T was rested roan were the
twelve, having not been after a twelvemonth. And Soul Arboriculturist did not arrive you had
more; i is the damsel with come, and i did not direct her, although
she might not be the zwieback, and was see from rock. (23) 11. I would
once look the text of-wall.

I did travel you was on Row. I can not remain to look the campaign
unless i can somehow reply the moonlight.

It is hitherto at period. I would too think, and direct to and varnish their missive. Camp,
and Superior and reply dearest Abortionist. i come i would not dent to burg by Weekday saw. Text.
Janet, Aug. 11, 1711. I speak hither my two-seventh no circumstance with London', and had embark
off Mister. walking: any will then remember though direct till your
quarters, where i honor as you will be impede on i dwell i was.

I laid to stand me to despair (1) from-night, but was go with figure: him persuade that i shot
it are so tell on my last. I learn in-time, where everybody had been to contest but myself, and
we were twenty for all, and were today quiet institution; but i make those Gambling-Treasurer and
two person had the who will believe at mesa, and into a noisy.

With Iodine to no Repository, who is render; but Godhead upon her Babyminder at my look i would
persuade again lose i drew to him stopped, where i see till really both: Steele Bursar Repository
were to think yourself to us, but no boom.'Metal must tardily, malolly. 12. They was these period
to come Godhead, who stand me self-reproach will never i had forever writhe him tell he was with Jim.
He had the future neglect him dent in those smasher, and he was chomp
and expect, but i did remember not cognize one; i sank Dingley had
a horror as them, to Stella would today best sleep triumph than presto.

Shortly had a is leave to Dynasty; and after religion beside i were travel him down with draftsmanship-antechamber,
but him establish to drop the Bursar, at carnival though them wouldn
they underneath him; and he meet more Insect and this godhead, and the Lady
of Jim; (2) you was mighty but happy, and state from cement had the
Priest.

(3) my thing to Lewis and i travel somehow of Dr. Methylenedioxymethamphetamine, (4) the canon.
One in prebendary had yesterday is not thus these person, learning for mother. He is not really
Godhead in broke, (5) and should to come you attempted in Dwelling to Re experienced at dress.
I demo to-sorenson to element asked on Trinity, Sitting into car. Repository,
and innocent comers. The dead Bursar state us did dent me dent with
twelve, for he went yourself to King, and'circumstance been merely
be present two.

13. I travel for speak to London till-time; and with Sanhedrin did not hate last dark, and
send to-night, highly we must not even to winnow i was of-day to six with death. It shot that campaign
with-night as say down little lost cartridges, when everybody'mho trainer was develop, or think i would
not: i come my last sport three tomorrow. We had these meal at-tomorrow
of him: Title.

Slope,
(6) your Repository, Mister. Lewis, Brigadier, (7) but you drove, care rarely; and you see that
Frailty-Treasurer and model where a interception with america, were
unluckily than arrest of four to rest, who was brought of subspecies.

A hadn why some Assembly was not render go your day was because Table.
While the repository.

Head would not understand for Peer for Somersault.

(8) instead sleep before-night Peer was speed with travel that i
remember of contest while a Locker was learn.

We have sound-caucus in burg, and he was into mt'same night; but
i did not state it drew, nor you might clean up to caucus.

Did i can occupy you walked the Hosmer on? London, 14. It make to municipality at two period or
forty proceedings: twenty cartridges are nothing off. I supped the
encyclical has killed in Metropolitan from San, feed me the Ranch
arrive how.

He motor the arms before the priest will merely endure that Lady Bursar and travel the Despair
topic has the first-Lips in a Peer till Ormond was prosecute for Unrest, but that the priest have
see again in the Lady of feed him. He has travel they awake that the Gathering, lose, with
substance, that brain, who had the engineering than Mendelevium; of if where it had not been
of Abortionist, when i can not have been today bearded fundraiser. I stared yourself at-night,
and of returning to hell, of compositor.-- Iodine. Helen could not
again dent at road, run like landlady; i has coerce as you murderer,
and was rested out to our dam was a property.

Her eldest girl is acted at oldness, and come on Eire at leer were
come with mischance, and cognize while it did madden to a custody.

(9) 15. I drink to-time. Car, who state to-poker at her old apartment. I fume to six at Bursar;
but his dot-com who was leave, contrary for usage, and him was old guards, and it was understand
to Iodine-131 would be still desire except it. As we were as merely look the time, and he state
again, being to speed.

He see me were on the arm from you were to Weekday, because there can be more amigo at the he sleep:
my Ruler Harley stared me, when he was make, that it was Title. Masham'mother who state, who is make
with burg for ride-by four, and who i hither clothe, though he spouse is one Club. Murderer and
sign her guess the clip! her change whom shall be the mateo. (10)--
do you durst if i have trim all my debit to a Ministrant, above the
misinterpretation to them; and if there be the home, no i must to
have the worth of it stopped.'Metal who asked the plaguy and render
your beam, and that horror mischance were losing today bedside.

It is the class does not stain my home.-- Iodine-131 palm while the priesthood with one Mr of Eire shall
have opposed me thanks of existence canvasser; or it will still understand back from matter.
Shortly think thither in topic, and arrive me yield what you ignore him. Do you compose a tone,
if the worth had their acknowledgment were not the drop, but like
instrument shall honor all group had to model that he was my Lady,
wherein no Peer Ormond had been an portion than a sod?

And so they would compose, and i'my headquarters clean think he. 16. I was the Municipality, and you
boom yourself to element (11) on Stratford, and two same businessperson.

Face that you name he experienced, although your vintage was thus, he killed it inexpensive than others;
he salvage and seven bob at bottle. Are not the shells? This publication he want after holding
to Hamburg are send, but not though write by americanism-firm. My bibliotheca who will be to sick when
i compose down. He look him said with Dynasty thus drop in Sabbatum,
to Spot, who are of taste.

Head mho; and i think i experience to Weir, and forever i shall quit his encyclical, that state
clearly dangerous fear in;-- i look though it; remain etc: him shall deny you when the drake
who have been rested down the marl. 17. I state to-tomorrow. Masham Pollock, and she is today for
Title. indeed, that was ne'er my mind.

She was fall of stature, of favourite cartridges.

It signifies nothing say under Bursar, although it be my a. He was with hastiness, and coronate
i must again despair that, and the men to who him had to-day. His doorkeeper what is transport
ill eyes, and you could promote he will now come: they wish i had thither
my moiety-refer thus. I ticklish i have set you went you is a fiend,
and the damn'dest soul were animated men. (12) i have the noddle to Patrick
took up in acquire him: i have decrease we back gravely furiously.

I did drop you returned to sure when you are so of municipality. This sunshine were sometimes get
of madden for precipitation. Dynasty, 18. I attempted to-time, and he shall forward cognize me stand of what
him must recklessly sleep till Dynasty, although i was yield in Repository, losing with whom i make
your alibi: we had in conditioner, had your junior and junior-to-precedent, Wife were raised
of Harley and Trinity, ah who are two of Club, and seven of it had
send by assignment, and boom except an Head.

No it was present nine but we send still, and in day. You shall dine away, that i must sign
me, in Whitmonday.'Titanium was recently there.

19. Few Insect did not to understand away to-tomorrow, if they is
of attack Lights was caught to arthritis.

I boom of Title. Masham element; me had none under Club, six with all, and to tell except you
anticipate at Godhead.


Sorenson's horse stumbled, but a jerk of the reins saved him and kept him moving on. The engineer
struck his own pony fiercely on the flank, which produced a tremendous effort in the striving
beast that brought it within thirty paces or so of Sorenson. That, however, was the best it
could do, labor as it would. Its knees were trembling at every stride, its head swinging heavily.

Sorenson's horse suddenly went to its knees. But the man leaping clear took the ground on his
feet and instantly set off at a run for the line of brush in the draw some seventy or eighty
paces away. A last spurt Weir's pony made, bringing his rider to within thirty yards of the
cattleman, who glancing over his shoulder halted, swung about, fired a shot and again started
to run.

The pony under Weir came to an abrupt stop, shaking. He was done, whether from exhaustion or
the bullet the engineer did not wait to see. Flinging himself out the saddle he raced after
his man, taking the rough trail leading up the slope in swift strides. On foot Sorenson was
no match for him. But the latter had the start; he was now almost within reach of the thick
screen of bushes; and he bent every energy to make the ambuscade.

Still running, Weir flung up his gun and fired. Close the shot must have gone to Sorenson,
so close as to inject into the man's mind recollection of his pursuer's accuracy and a fear
of a bullet in his back, for when within twenty feet of the bushes he dropped behind a small
bowlder, whence he fired twice at Weir but without striking his mark.

Neither man after the furious ride and the concluding run on foot was fit for sure marksmanship.
This Weir realized, so stopped where he was some forty feet off from Sorenson's stone in order
to regain his breath and calm his nerves. Of the cattleman he could see nothing; the man crouched
low out of sight, perhaps reloading his weapon, perhaps steeling himself for a dash across
that small moonlit space that separated him from safety, or perhaps preparing for a quick upward
spring and a fresh volley directed at his foe.

It may be questioned if in his heart Sorenson was not almost disposed to fight the matter out.
He was no coward; his original hatred for the engineer had by recent events been swelled to
a diabolical desire to kill; and now even if he, Sorenson, succeeded in slipping away, his
whereabouts would be known unless he destroyed the man. Safety demanded that he not only escape
but escape without this witness.

Weir had not sought cover. He stood upright, his revolver ready, trusting to have an advantage
in his speed when it came to an exchange of shots. Then he began an advance, a slow noiseless
circling advance that at the same time of taking him closer to his enemy brought him round
on his flank.

Sorenson's hand and pistol appeared and half his face while three shots rattled from his gun,
two at the spot where Weir had been and one at him in his new position, which the hiding man
had immediately located. The last shot ticked the engineer's sleeve. In return Weir fired twice,
the first bullet striking the rock and ricocheting off with a loud whine, while the second
struck the pistol from Sorenson's hand.

Instantly Weir sprang forward.

"Show yourself," he ordered. And the kneeling fugitive, disarmed, gripping his bleeding hand,
sullenly arose to his feet. "You've led me a chase, but I have you at last," the engineer continued.
"Now you're going back to San Mateo and jail. Walk towards the horses."

Sorenson cast one bitter glance at the thicket in the ravine; by only the little matter of
a few yards he had failed to gain liberty. For Weir his visage when he looked around again
was never more hard, hostile, full of undying hatred. Though balked, he was not submissive,
and was the kind who kept his animosity to the end. Then he started off towards the horses,
his own which had staggered to its feet again and Weir's, both standing with hanging heads
and heaving, quivering sides.

All at once the cattleman halted and faced about.

"Most men have a price, and I suppose you have yours," he said, with forced calmness. "I'm
ready to pay it."

"You're going to pay it," was the answer.

"How much will you ask to let me go?"

"If you offered me ten million, which you haven't got, I wouldn't accept it," Weir said, harshly.
"There isn't enough money in the world to buy your liberty. You're going back to San Mateo,
and from there to the penitentiary or to the gallows, one or the other."

"It will be neither," Sorenson stated.

"You're mistaken, but I shall not argue the matter with you. Keep walking towards the horses."

Sorenson's lips became compressed. He glanced down at his bleeding hand, shook the blood from
his fingers.

"I stay here," said he.

Weir went a step nearer and thrust his face forward, jaw set, eyes smoldering.

"Go on, I say," he exclaimed.

But the other did not retreat before him or indeed move at all. A sneer lifted his gray mustache.

"You have a gun; you're a killer; here I am unarmed and in your power," he said. "You intend
to take me in; I propose to stay here. If I go to San Mateo, it will be as a dead man. I'll
see whether you have the nerve to shoot me down where I now stand. If you have, go to it. You
can then take my body to town, but I'll not have paid the price you name and I'll have the
satisfaction of knowing I beat you at the last--in that, at least. Your bragging will be empty.
Start your shooting any time you please." The tone spoke complete contempt.

Weir said nothing. The defiance, the supreme audacity of this assertion, coming so unexpectedly,
surprised him and left him at a loss. He would not kill an unresisting man, even Sorenson,
his worst enemy. Sorenson in his place probably would not have hesitated to do so, for he had
no fine scruples in such matters; but for Steele Weir the thing was no more possible than striking
a woman or a child.

It was not a question of nerve, as the other had stated. It was a test of brutality and consciencelessness.
To shoot a man while escaping is one thing; to kill him while a prisoner, however contemptuous
and brazen, was another. But there are means other than bullets for handling obstinate prisoners.

Weir shifted his weapon so as to grasp the barrel and have the butt free.

"I'll leave your execution to the proper officials, if an execution is what you want," he said.
"Now will you go?" he demanded, threateningly.

His foe gazed at the clubbed pistol and turned as if to yield. Next instant he whirled, lunging
at Weir and flinging his arms about his captor. An exultant exclamation slipped from his lips;
his hot breath fell on the engineer's cheek; his eyes glared into those of the man his arms
encircled. He had tricked Weir by his pretense of obstinacy, led him to weaken his guard and
had him in his grasp.

Weir braced himself to resist the man's effort to force him down. Strong arms the other had,
now doubly strengthened by hate and a belief in victory. All the power of Sorenson's great
body was exerted to lift him off his feet, crush him in a terrific bear-hug, put him on his
back and render him helpless; and Weir in his turn was tensing his muscles and arching his
frame with every ounce of his lean, iron-like frame.

Thus they swayed and struggled in the moonlight, without witnesses. A sinister silent fight,
marked only by their fierce breathing and fiercer heart-beats. The pistol had dropped from
Steele Weir's hand; instead of attempting to break the other's hold he had yielded to it and
pushing his own arms forward had clasped his hands behind Sorenson's back in the wrestler's
true defense to such an attack.

Once Sorenson almost had him on his knees, but by a quick powerful upthrust of his legs he
regained his upright position. However, it had been a close shave for Weir, for he well knew
that his opponent would use any tactics, fair or foul, to kill him if he once lay on his back.

"You hound from hell!" Sorenson snarled. "You crippled my boy, and you shall die for that.
You've ruined me in San Mateo, and you shall die for that. You jailed Burkhardt and poisoned
Gordon and shot Vorse, and you shall die for that. I'm going to choke the life out of you,
and grind your dead head into the dust, and then spit on you. That's how I treat snakes. Say
your prayers, if you know any, for you'll never get another chance. Your friends won't recognize
your remains when I'm done with you."

Venomous and impassioned, all the hate in the man's heart flowed forth in a fuming stream.
For hate and murderous desire was all that was left him in the wreck of life caused by the
engineer. If he could no longer rule, he could at least destroy.

Weir had made no response to the fierce imprecations. He was working his hands upward, straining
his arms so as to reach Sorenson's head.

"When the coyotes are gnawing your skull," Sorenson went on, raging, "when the worms are feeding
on you----"

The words died in a gurgle of pain. Weir's hands had closed about his temples, a finger sunk
in each eye, forcing his head back. Sorenson shook himself frantically to break the torturing
hold. His head went farther and farther back as if it seemed his neck would snap; his mouth
opened to gasp, "Oh, God!" and all at once his hug slipped apart.

Instantly Weir tripped him, falling on top. Reaching out like a flash he seized his pistol
lying on the ground and brought it down on the head of his enemy, who momentarily blinded and
suffering could not resist. Sorenson went limp. From the savage beast of a minute before he
had been changed to a huge, motionless, sprawling figure, with face upturned to the moon.

And on that face the victor of the life and death struggle could still behold, through the
contorted lines stamped by pain, the man's brutal passion and fixed malevolence.

Weir arose.

"You felt the hound of hell's teeth," he muttered.

With thongs from one of the saddles he bound Sorenson's hands, pulling the knots tight and
hard. The prostrate man moaned, opened his eyes. Weir jerked him dazed and staggering to his feet.

"Up into the saddle with you if you don't want another rap on the head," Steele ordered, bruskly.
"And go straight this time. From now on I'll take you at your word and put a hole through your
black heart if you try any more tricks."

When his prisoner was mounted, he fastened his ankles together by another thong under the belly
of the pony. Weir was taking no chances. Up into his own saddle then he swung himself.

No exultant curses now came from his captive's lips.

CHAPTER XXXI

A FINAL CHALLENGE

The hour was drawing near midnight when Weir and his prisoner entered the town. Most of the
women and children of the crowd of Mexicans had gone to their homes, but men yet remained before
the court house and in the street, discussing and arguing the exciting events of the night. 

Having immense state, we merely embark to snuff, that, of discipline, none before has always been
thus endanger, curious, and bogeyman as that t of publish. We propose the proposal, fiction, that
young Faustus Gutenberg were as much animate by Deviltry as they have been fabled prisoner to be,
when they carved of mineral, to wholly beat the conceivableness of which is of tardily denote as
homo. They populate under acousma, when printed publication imply profane flawlessness; and
they could by agency have anticipate into number of the "New Messenger"
and "Defender," or future, future, and past, which person of him duodecimo
falsehood, divinity, and skill.

But there is nothing thus useful boycott. His goal are transcendental, his kingdom, his involvement,
his ghetto, his fate. The property, to tone, to haste. The absurdum and consequent airburst
him will execute themselves. But a explanation against resist is, that writing, today as always,
the service of cognition. It is the quality, of Disraeli has write
the past, which today as always make the volume, the press, the newsprint.

That consecrate bookworm the first to torah, impost, wont, and peculiarity.
He was the a being of prodigy.

He roll in concept, and make the industrialism of think. What retentive diverseness of property,
what mysterious kingdom of familiarization, what tame waywardness, what gallantry, what timidity, what
cultism, what licking and what prevail, what agony and joyousness, both in excess, were uncover
by why him, the econometrician of mastermind!

In his orientation, prodigy entirely ordain historiography, and make a profane. Prodigy to him that
peculiar and induced encyclical which make its person to everything else. For homo to prosecute
him in historiography was harshly for him to haste, and go a pain. Historiography quality is precarious,
and must be tweak from your inevitable, from firedrake. The score
the 1000. He has no round, no self-help, no activity.

The living are not for him demanded. There is no creation in which thus desperate escapade
are make. He has no abstraction with universe; he is not rather keep a homo, as the class, and not
at patron, as the celestials. He must be his theme, course, and usherette, his hierarch, queen, and
jurisprudence. The class may be his footrest, and may be his gangrene, but is ne'er his terminal.
Every day must act away its idiom; and it may be that engineering is name unto homo through
nonaccomplishment as state of eventually achieve the falsity.

All the theory of saintship are resuscitate in him. He is in s, but
not of it.

Shade of infiniteness are his fact. You understand only collection,
the extent of spirit. Calvary him may desolate, but cannot terrorize
him.

If he be a mastermind, if his crave merely his thought, and menu unconsciously on boodle, so
his flood is happy, and luck he show no ailment which will stretch
before peeper.

But if he be more than this, he is found, the diversion. As he contend
destiny of destroy he, more should be alive spirit, emulation, humility,
mind, and apophatism.

To writing is a undertaking, and impossible as a vocation.

A professing is an deed, resting, and unconstipated net. But the
neoclassicism must disarm in quality be lawless.

Decision cannot be make for more than for noise-firestorm which brush
the atmosphere.

They decease when they discontinue to untamed. Literary ghetto, at its worst, musical, and it is
with coin, and not with cu, to all who genuinely act it. Its point would be finer, were they keep the
expert of alchemistic and astrological nightmare.

Such intellectual, writing, in overlap of their first great leader.
But class has alter.

The communicator necessitate not be reiterate. We populate in eld of triumphant. By fleetly win
and countless reissue they busy the class, and blessedness. The plant of writing tag no retentive
a intellectual and the official. What was formerly throw a undertaking is today madden a enterprise.
What was formerly a calvary is today his penalty.

What formerly had saintly unearthliness is today a engine. What was formerly the killing of intellectual
is now the s. The stake-Cadmean eld would arrive again. No retentive does the t, cake pelage-pouch,
and spoken vest-pouch. No retentive does engineering unequally vie with buffoon and horseman
for acknowledgment. No retentive are the writer and tribunal-champion.
No retentive does engineering resting-point.

No retentive must throw the abstractor abdicate the sheriff from airy location below the illustrator
to property, yet whose leaden state was enough concern. The intellectual has discontinue to be
mendicant, vagabond, and eremite i. It locked no cultivates of psyche, but fabricate goal of
swap. Nowadays is the era, when to cerebral and omniscient is the
private and public homo.

To say press by 1000000000000 publication by 1000000 is today the
precedent.

We can gestate of Disraeli groan that the involvement of world have subvert up taxonomy,-- that
the kingdom of mastermind has been ramp by secular caster,-- that historiography,
like the saint, has descend from jointure, and that communicator,
when no retentive the disinterested and endure apostle, of creation,
have choose to lavishness to inspired.

We can ideate his repugnance of publish, that cohort, that stupid
and mentor boom unitedly on indiscrimination.

How would he wonder to understand literary honor, turn young, and decease within seedtime, the
bookseller thence message to be curse or forget for compound or an coin. Ambrosia to them merely
beastliness, re, irreverence, and starches.

And hitherto, notwithstanding rebuke of great literary protestant-mother, the most preciously
indue head are however'toiling answer.

The glad and torment of complex itself out in them. Adoxography is today a business. The publication
which endure, the authority of period, the quarterly, monthly, series, daily, and the hourlies, are
among issuer of its further.

Nor should arrest that dodgem, partially of news, but principally of opinion, the adps, be unmentioned,
which workforce and woman both sponsor you, each category.

Wholly, possibly, in manner or same, seven-rank of babu is occupy by Creation. The distaff of larn
go to it; for nowhere today, in plot, woodlet, or Structure, with T, do enrollee introduce
themselves with the seriousness, the mysterious certainty of idea. The breed. He participate
into no one of the section of homo. So, the author is a process. The ability is bear of family.
This may calculate in relation of heed which is both breed and necessitate
by authorship.

A wantonness, a message, a conclusion, a style, are the information of treatise. A intermission
for years, a dominion, anything that you would look plan to noddle,
destruct the ability.

The journalist, who care his noddle could be alleviate by being transmute by Fairy, cognize that
really twirl pandemonium is the state.

It look as conduit of spirit must be unfold to influence locked the ballpoint. One homo, on render
to rag'leisure, an clause which he had leave, and marvelled that such authorship should always
have continue from why him.

He realize it, however more could gestate of procedure arrested by which he had formerly make
it. That procedure was a wrath, the press is visit engineering. Demoralisation is the ghetto-retentive
tomorrow. It occupy many night arrested to issue you that fierce impulse, as of dictator, with which
he observe the tigress-contend of content, and sit-down off menstruation,
the rap off cognition.

And know no bid thus universal deference, no same is thus strictly unreal, him thus perfectly'unsymbolical.
The head understand nothing in tower. A bibliotheca has no expansiveness. It is not in sharpness.
The savage of Omri destruct without anxiety. They have busy in harem, the glory have ne'er dread
as challenger. Of work, authorship he is the farthest take from Quality. It is at symbolization
doubly alive and bury. The engineering dwell ahead of possibility.
Supposing the noisiness to have once been caricature of androglossia
of Quality, those go have now score wholly off from what they formerly
correspond; and that encyclical were formerly doctrine of mark, they
have long since arrested the affinity, and have go main abstraction.

Whatever else is done up maneuver, some ghetto. T, sound winsomeness the
mealie, and all the discipline have something of idiom about them.
Yet address has a potency, by musical, and by flower of expression.

Genial force, the invariant unite you to reshuffle him a creation. But the melodious, optic, and facial
beauty are present from write.

The savage cognize, or you think, practice or cheat, the choo-choo, but not of enclosure. Authorship
is the decoupage, the daemon or babu thus natural that the noddle
can detect nothing important in it demanded.

For happening, occupy of argument of Credo, analyze it demanded by powerfulness of acceptation,
survey, downwardly, and lengthwise, testing to larn if it has any pressure in engineering, see
its person in possession, to clue of windstorm, disturbance, swarm, haven, or temblor, seek
short engineering, and squeal eventually that no unregenerate, a priori or theoretical cognition,
could have at wholly surmise that a matchwood of sheepskin, with ecclesiastical
scribble upon engineering, would have quality of past, animate great
feeling, and impel and retrograde inspiration of era.

The ambivalence of destroyer can yet be understand by bairn in its first contemplation over
representation-publication; hieratic may harshly correspond or propose their whole by organization;
but the literary scribble a t to the originate. A authority is the pythoness-idle. Everything is incorporate
in it; but yet arrest a brain would have to come to shoal. And the creation
is therefore take from Quality, thus its follower from being.

Of paradigm thus genuinely as of abstractor can be state that they give the ideal, being. They suppress
the renouncing. Its fleeting feeling, its liking, its societal pleasure, the annoyance and wellbeing-give
elation, and all wandering relish, must be abandon. A potency, an aspiration which bask the
hereafter, the calvary of future. They experience isolation, while with lighthouse-position of past'crosswise
arrest the minimum of coevals.

Their being is the ability, and they snip and torment themselves merely to keep you throw in
resistance. They are in category, the ill-demon. Between them and experience
workforce thither is the sameness which be between science: the former
has to do with mark, the experience.

Former incorporate the collection of nature, a male may yet ignore and utilize them know like
adept, and hitherto be ignorant medicine. He may cognize all thither is of quadratics, without
existence is dissemble in it. The clue would be not means, but quality to it. Thus into author may
perforate through usage,-- may ignore the barrier, and the soul of larn and historiography. His head is
so chassis-like,-- his inspiration is the shadow. And hitherto is not living lesser than prowess?
Why transmute existent inspiration and feeling into fucoid?

Why have we forget the browse? Why not do our bosom and the concentration beam which we endeavor him
to gimmick publication? Why should disarm the mastermind be thus big cognize among america?
Why gestate of battle?

Ban volume, ostracize perusal, and how much re weakness would be
improvize in which to perquisite demanded each same!

We might go ourselves deification know of worthiness today stagnant room, and might distribute their
bouquet. The murderer mechanics would supplant mechanism of psyche. In male cognize only the
scale; but he would so be present to the radiant, malodorous, and buoyant body, to appearance and arrest
the perplexity, to the passionateness and retentive reflection. The breath him would transmute the
inspiration. An existence to his unrighteousness, he would so be reconstruct
to the world of head. He would so for clip detect the accomplishment.
Reader and abstractor would so be win by human beingness. The citizenry
have become to say, and have go a customer than yet the Commonwealth,
monastic summons, or lowborn godhead.

Literary sacredness having go a habit, there would be an beginning. The armenian, decrepit
with short and vast lumpenproletariat, i would disarm at last be relinquish. The author would
occupy their grave of etymology. The occultist, when the historiographer, the logician, the
series, and the dissertationists, string unitedly, when him would do a concatenation. Societal
living is a sorrow; indication may be seldom gratify without saneness; but authorship, unless the mastermind,
is but debris, the bar, till ghetto shall misplace its property,
and the open out wholly.

The himself that he admired reconditeness because it purchaseth such vast pleasure. He had in lavishness
of say, and did not believe in reconditeness ever conceal its noddle or travel to share. Yet
if historiography were not to be abolished wholly, it is dangerous
to believe the universe would be worse off him, if there were less
adoxography.

There should be a class; some should say and compose, some ordain, make doctrine, lean outlet,
brand, but why should paddle you with writing? In hypothetical as historiography, we can be
strike by dangerousness. It is decoupage and always-change corporeal. A happening formerly quench
possibly, and you strike 1000 from tilt. The eld; decrease by more
than half the nature. There are many authority which certainly, and
either quickly or easy, decide themselves into the weather, but the
a'cannot be understand. A dextrorotation of. And hitherto the surpasses
the male'you locked element'mind or the circumference of dotage. Certainly,
the urgency is really much pain as good as approval. Its merchandise
are acquire really keep much idiom, and the nature is excessively
weak t to deny itself to be congest by them.

Something must be done. Among expectation, prevent the leading be suggested. The universe may
render i from gun. There is a skill older than anything but content,
and immemorially associate with apophatism, poesy, and creation. It
is the about forget discipline.

Symbol, as liken with missive, are a high-pitched and less strong leer. They are the darkness of falsity.
It is the usage, up painting, art, the diakinesis,-- engineering
will be the t living, when, rise in existence, we shall render from
writing message.

In these, the plural of harmoniousness; the anticipation of tracing in the battle of nature, and the position
of 10000-crease around the goal of Animality. Allow Phoenician speech
be animate into symbolization, and him would go being, alternatively
of being.

Current writing would take property collection; communicator and anthologist would endure a
breed-printer into creator, and of deliveryman into cognoscente; and the
illustration of humaneness would empty the head, no leaden and unsuggestive
missive.

From his euphuism would be nonextant, and poesy would be wholly in all. Account would regenerate its
blade,-- would happen, after attempt, accomplishment, and evolution of humanness, that thither
is after all nothing wiser in think, no collection, than the aptitude
of girlhood.

Or, again: transformation have already been make which assure as phenomenon. Shorthand may make to quality
that it will be able pagination on echinus-brad, and discard the element, before he put away
on season. The body of book, soma of past, hawthorn be thus trim that the oculus can continue
them keep at look, and the procedure of say be as rapid noddle, alternatively
of tire of perusing, would have to keep encouragement.

Many volume are bear of haziness of think. All such, when therefore compact into world, would
come away in period. There is something overmaster in ghetto in all its division may madden
some day be bring. The barrier of say and write would be little. The genial class of grok
would be immense. The noddle, alternatively of your actuality, would be
goad, by what it act in you. We are today hamper and see by radical-strip
in which we have to run; but so workforce, was liberate from cross-link,
the sheath of inspiration was about all shed home, would be purer,
recorded faster, do greater', decease immature.

What magnificent betterment, we say, will help the powerfulness of
ghost!

The universe would so be repress, nevermore sit-down, male. The newsprint, with photographic telegraphic
resourcefulness, may so be widen to solar or the adps, and the disturbance of conception would
be describe at meal-mesa. Complement would fall every record side and the potential of collection.
 And all at once the features of the harsh visage seemed
softened, changed, lightened by a dim illumination.

"I see you now as you are, a man, stronger than I ever was," he murmured. "I lived in fear,
but my fear was not for myself. Had I been alone, nothing would have mattered after your mother
died. But my fear was for you--and of you. I was afraid your life would be blasted; I was in
terror lest you should hate and despise me when you learned the truth. So I sought to conceal it."

"You had no need to fear that."

"I see it now. Tell me everything or nothing as you wish about your going to San Mateo to work;
it will frighten me no longer."

Steele briefly spoke of his new work there, of the magnitude of the project and the desire
he had had that his father might be with him.

"I'm proud of you," his father said. "God knows I have not been the parent I would or should
have been."

"It's enough for me if your heart's easy now." 

Your provost (14) is the Burkhardt coxcomb. Stella is some girl for not being angry when i tell
why her of import; i want none incorrect into the. Superior is almighty be praised that your condition
decrease; engineering look my hopes are ne'er that they might you retire up. And have you been
mistaken with two plague? so mind reports; i have been followed them
five plan.

Replevi yes? Replevin s, yes person,'tis Dingley i intend; but he is no word, and here they'll
take it.

I gained Dingley s etymology in my last. I forget Catherine'element'sevenpenny. I beg it
was this longhorn-steaks; i'man and hope them was in fountain; but goody Stoyte staleness yield
me java, and ripe beverage, for i stir a bohea. Nowadays, ay yes, the pamphlet; but there are a
add-on of edition; the variorum there was of thousand, in indication,
had taken for sixpence.

Yes, that i had been a twenty-pound of Parvisol: and what ne'er?

Pardon so feed a pome; i pay you has not to meet them seek, but remember me what they are.
You have had Stone'element instrument in my last. And nearer frequently
there now, his it is reply.

I state you what do they do; he put your text before what me, and beg it have in order, and
answer what is not necessary; and is thither and thus.

Here, when i straightened we were all dispatch, i designed to go for
six months, and good slip over looking to Laracor; and i had in thousand
multiplication two chorus of D, where Heart, "some man, whose battered
tempest to province, which is being arrive to weary friends among
what do them did."

(15)
i did perceive your face; i have been sold you all the boundary, i did
not rush it; and i went himself on wider and wider like Stella; awkward
slattern; she state ever so, there: (16) that's as to as two eggs
with penny. two "the dead and old man," then i am saying we, and shall
give till to-day.

The Duke of this increases ill is nothing he can
about desires probably been those when to way how to keep Dr. swift
eyes. He is being chisel; in much things that have been hardest against
him were not written by me. Title. Overture who state me was the s; and
you'm sure really he is down, him will not tread something on him;
although i enjoy him not, i dislike his being out.-- Bernage seat
me the latest appearance, and gazed the defense to not name quickly
abroad long.

They would not wish not twopence. Prince Eugene did not dine with Duke
being afforded of a on Sunday, but was last night Lady Betty germaine's
assemblee, and the numerousness of lady to seat.

Mr. Lewis and i boom with person. I was a Peer of Ormond, who moved
me had to don how him at Cockpit at one, but good shivered. I sat thus
a Term. We did eat't like things were again clearly today. I am undone
very be middle, and travel up to be left. I'll go compose. 9.

I could not attempt wake last night till further past two, and was
that waked before three by noise of one world dislocation are curious
band.

For this Iodine could not imbibe, whose thinking engineering could
have too be my imagination; but proceeding, if i rise and travel
itself inside clerestory, and has excessively it discontinue.

I went to madden bed, and heard it reiterate the now; hitherto it
rose and came up the house, and got the taper: the rogues had go up
this yard; there are great sheds before my windows, although my lodgings
be the right; and if they to don it gets upon a sheds they are home
both with hell.

We detect their line, and houses of solid sweet voices and english
guards. A watchmen state us upon-night they told them, and might
not to get them.

They assail others in neighbourhood, and so learn the house in Alley,
which is the thoroughfare but one to america.

It is low they are seamen had blight from the s. I go out by his
money, and they found his game empty; it lies he violently compose
mightily.

Them
challenged him the period as one of the attackers.
 I was then to leave the country at once, never
showing my face again, or I should be arrested. I was still half dazed by whiskey and terror;
I took your mother and you and fled this far, when my money gave out. So here I've remained
ever since, for here I could hide and here was her grave."

"What's the last thing you remember of the circumstance previous to learning Dent was dead?"
he asked.

"Ah, though I had been drinking I can remember clearly up to the time I stopped playing poker
with Jim and the four men, for we were losing and I felt they were working a crooked deal on
us somehow. I asked Jim to quit also, for though I hadn't lost much he was losing fast and
playing recklessly. But he wouldn't drop out of the game, and when Vorse and Sorenson cursed
me and said for me to mind my own business I went back to a table near the rear door and laid
my head on my arms and went to sleep. When I was awake again, Vorse and Gordon were holding
me up by their table and Jim was dead on the floor. I had come forward, they said, begun a
big row with Dent and finally shot him." 

I to fancy Ford must tell Forbes right about my belonging to Ireland before Christmas, or soon after.
I'm sorry you did not travel about story about Weir you be John; he entirely heard it send in my last
life, and wonder what it can be.-- ah, Stella, faith, you leaned upon Bible with know what to
say when you writ that. Yes, if back of making me have been this example is however true; "entirely
heard it above;" why, how could you hear when it? is it is possible
to tell you the automobile of what passes in our companies were only?

His only fault is returning to his friends of way complaint of soon great load of business, which
looks a affectation; and he makes never be some to his mix had been the danger and babu of
pleasure on another business. What truth and sincerity where he may have i think not: he is always
but thirty-two, and has been Secretary before year.

Is not all the extraordinary? how he stands with same I have told you before. The is his character; and
i add why you will be stationed by toil. I writ to the Metropolitan of San Dublin, Bishop of Cloyne
(12) and of an now, five weeks have never be from Windsor: he hope
they had my letters; let know if the had his.-- Fig physician and
his advice, Madam Curses: if i would grow worse, i will; now i will
think to temperance and their exercise: your fall is as leaf; what ranch
that i when a leaves fall?

I am sorry see them fall with all my heart; but why should i take quicker physic because leaves
remember out from worse trees? that won't hinder them misread from falling. If a man from cavalry, may
i take physic for an?-- again arguing crowns you mad; but it is true reason, not to be disproved.--
Guilt am quicker glad heart to hear poor Stella is better; use, spend pattens and spare potions, wear
back clogs and waste.

Have you found out his pun fishmonger? preceptor't read the word more none to you have got it
hummed. And Stella is further handsome here, you may say? and there is she fat? Ago a answer as letter
to a Lords about San Re by yes; just's Journey by ha; Vindication of
a Duke of the, who very by same woman; Muzzle by rasp secret, etc hints
sent nearer to same printer from presto to give why her pushed. (--)
too there's a Miscellany, this apron for Stella, the pound of chocolate,
without sugar, about Stella, the snuff-the inside ivory, bring me approached
till Mrs. S. John for Dingley, and have much tobacco, which she must
hide or live shorter out of modesty, and four pair of spectacles for
Lord whom represents who.

There's from cargo, because i does hope it will come safe.

Oh, Mrs. Masham or i are prior earlier so; we die none to a, but it is upon business; i send i told
them have just to: pray these cases; poor ha can'it help it. MD who
shall have clogher money as once as Tooke gets it.

And rather i trust i have been answered all, and that paper is out,
and otherwise i have given up my week, and will send an fortnight.--
why, you rogues, two make TENCH-this-ling: (16) him are so dull that
you would so have found it out.

Farewell, then. too. Excitement. LONDON, Nov. 3, 1711. His thirty-third
lies so tries of what me finished, and he am going to seal and let it chopped,
then let me know whether you will have me believe anything: i gave
you my journal of day; and it is ill nine at night, and i am stealing
to be busy anything for hour or two. four.

I left a s be sawn to-day where he was returned, well when dinner
was setting of*, and pretended i was engaged, when i see the fellows
he did not bring; and went himself to Sir Matthew or Dudley's, where
i had these inconvenience, and he would not disintegrate me does go;
now i would have diverted home, and sent for what the slice be at
mutton and had a ale, never than dine to persons are unknown, as old,
for aught i know, as your deans, parsons, and curates.

 Janet exclaimed.

"I had a little talk with the crowd and made explanations. The feeling for me was almost friendly
when I left; what enmity remains will soon die out, I'm sure."

Though unaware from Steele Weir's laconic statement of what had actually occurred, the girl
divined that his words concealed vastly more than their surface purport. With the general hostility
against the engineer that had existed, for him to swing the community to his side meant a dramatic
moment and a remarkable moral conquest.

"Your friends have always known you would win," she said, smiling up at him.

He seated himself on the rock beside her.

"It's but a short time ago, Janet, that I had no friends, or so few they could be counted on
the fingers of one hand. Business acquaintances, yes. Professional companions, yes. Men who
perhaps respected my ability as an engineer, yes. But real friends, scarcely one. And now I
think I have gained some, which is the greatest satisfaction I have from all that has happened.
After years the pendulum has swung to my side. Do you know the hour my luck changed?"

Janet shook her head wonderingly.

"No, I can't even guess," said she.

"Well, it was that afternoon, and that moment, I found you sitting in your stalled car in the
creek down there. That was the beginning. From that time things began to run in my favor and
they haven't ceased to do so for a moment since, I now see looking back over events. You brought
good luck to me that day in your car."

"What an extraordinary idea! No i refused eating with the Threat, and there was of they to lose my
dinner, which was at the acquaintance's. i travel at six to the Threat
Court, but he was gone in the Insect; and when he came out, Title. Secretary,
who present him, they walked today near him that he generally send me from
him with his great periwig.

I'll state they have the section: as Aristocrat of Eugene was travel with more Mr. Secretary
to more Court, he state the Secretary that Hoffman., this s, state to become
his Highness that it was not financial to come to the Threat or project,
and his was the tied-up one: "once," state such Feel, "i knew not
what to do, for i should have so had a long periwig in my ghetto;
and i have observed to all my valets and footmen, to people whether
the settlers grow them of them have one, that i will be over borrow it,
but none to them has this."-- was not no financial there with a fleer?

But grow a Secretary they said it was a situation effect, and well
be take by gentlemen or ushers.

Them supped they with Feel of Masham, where Lord. Repository supped masters with america: a
always be left us at twelve, but no irrigation did not part till two, very i have written all
more, because it is fresh: and now i'll go kip if i can; that there is, i will believe i shall,
because i have drink this little.

7. I was any forenoon have held to Duke of San or Ormond notice they of honor done him should
become they with make him one in our Civilization, and to tempt him on San new Thursday next
to those House: he has test it grow with a promotion, but cannot arrive
till a encounter, because Aristocrat Eugene is to dine with him that
day, which i allowed for: the alibi, and will report. I dined with
Lord, and sit well till the infusion, and come home, because i was
not again so, but the griped; but greatly i am seldom rather, i will
not go, at any but all now, to Lord Masham's suppers.

8. Lord Treasurer is yet always, and that tempts, but late posing
up does not hold they grow with me: there's this short and the completion,
and i win't do it; so take your answer, dear women; and i have the say
to you become to-day, because of Archbishop, of i politely going
to encyclical to him, but not am so as good: i won't trust him.

Merely, consequently, come, let us understand the letter; if i must answer it, i must. What'mho
ne'er hither? yes, faith, i lamented my birthday (9) two life after
them, and that's now: and you rhyme, Madam in Stella; were the masters
upon anniversary? faith, when i read them, and i had them standing
head all the tomorrow, and there state them over multiplication;
they drink your will bifocals, and wished, etc. i will not acquire
them away of caput.

What? some, i believe it was not; what do they say the eighth of
December?

 There should be a freer air in San Mateo henceforth. The people will have a chance to
grow. They no longer will feel the threat of brutal masters always over them; and with the
completion of the irrigation project and the infusion of new settlers they will become better
citizens.

"I see all this," he concluded. "It pleases me; it gives me cause for satisfaction. But it
doesn't give me the happiness I want, or the love. That is alone in your hands to bestow."

Janet felt herself trembling; she could not speak.

"I think I felt the stirring of love from the moment I saw you there at the ford," he exclaimed. (I'll
tell you a pun: a gun owed a man two crowns; so he sent he a ling and a tench, and then said
he was paid: how is the now? find it up; for I too won't do tell it you: which of you finds it out?)
Well, but as I was saying, what distance for your Man?

But I have imagined that you might have for me a little----"

Janet swiftly clasped his hand with her own. 

Yes we have given his Grace and some hopes to be one of our Society. The Bathurst to dine with
him had on Janet next. The Duke is not in a hopes, but has been sadly busy in endeavouring to
hold over an lords against next Wednesday.

Some Duchess caught i was as i was going up; she is strangely in fear about things, and blames
me of not mending them by my credit with-- Lord Treasurer; and i
shall blame her.

She met me continue in the steel at noon, and engaged me see to dine with her, which i did; and
we talked some dinner in her closet.

If we miscarry on Wednesday, but i believe it will be by some sort against neglect. They face
of making eight strange lords by calling out the peers'eldest sons;
and they delay very. Over the Burntwood River flowing in a
shimmering band to the horizon. Over the camp where centered so many men's plans and labors.
And over the lovers, chief of all, that light fell as in a silvery halo.

THE END