"And the remembrance of the valiant sacrifice of our daughter shall be kept alive in our race,"
said the father; "so long as the descendants of Joel, the brenn of the tribe of Karnak, shall
live they will be proud to number among their ancestors Hena, the virgin of the Isle of Sen."

The young maid made no answer. Her eyes wandered with sweet avidity from one relative to the
other as, at the moment of undertaking a journey, the departing one takes a last look at the
beloved beings from whom he is to be separated for a while.

Pointing through the open door at the moon that, now at her fullest, was seen across the evening
mist rising large-orbed and ruddy like a burning disk, Stumpy cried:

"Hena!... Hena! The moon is rising above the horizon...."

"You are right, Stumpy; this is the hour," she said, unwillingly taking her eyes from the faces
of her beloved family. An instant later she added:

"Let my father and mother and all the members of my family accompany me to the sacred stones
of the forest of Karnak.... The hour of the sacrifice has come."

Walking between Joel and Margarid, and followed by all the members of the tribe, Hena walked
serenely to the forest of Karnak.

CHAPTER IX.

THE FOREST OF KARNAK.

The call for assembling that was issued to the tribes at noon, had run from mouth to mouth,
from village to village, from town to town. It was heard all over Breton Gaul. Towards evening
the tribes proceeded en masse--men, women and children--to the forest of Karnak, the same as
Joel and his family.

The moon, at her fullest on that night, shone radiant amid the stars in the firmament. After
having marched through the dark and the lighted spots of the forest, the assembling multitude
finally arrived at the shores of the sea. The sacred stones of Karnak rose there in nine long
avenues. They are sacred stones! They are the gigantic pillars of a temple that has the sky
for its vault.

In the measure that the tribes drew nearer to the place, their solemnity deepened.

At the extremity of the avenue, the three stones of the sacrificial altar were ranged in a
semi-circle, close to the shore. Behind the mass of people rose the deep and brooding forest,
before them extended the boundless sea, above them spread the starry firmament.

The tribes did not step beyond the last avenue of Karnak. They left a wide space between themselves
and the altar. The large crowd remained silent.

At the feet of the sacrificial stones rose three pyres.

The center one, the largest of the three, was ornamented with long white veils striped with
purple; it was also ornamented with ash, oak and birch-tree branches, arranged in mystical order.

The pyre to the right was somewhat less high, but was also ornamented with green branches besides
sheafs of wheat. On it lay the body of Armel, who had been killed in loyal combat. It was almost
hidden under green and fruit-bearing boughs.

The left pyre was surmounted with a hollow bunch of twisted osiers bearing the resemblance
of a human body of gigantic stature.

The sound of cymbals and harps was presently heard from the distance.

The male and female druids, together with the virgins of the Isle of Sen were approaching the
sacrificial place.

At the head of the procession marched the bards, dressed in long white tunics that were held
around their waists by brass belts; their temples were wreathed in oak leaves; they sang while
playing upon their harps: "God, Gaul and her heroes."

They were followed by the ewaghs charged with the sacrifices, and carrying torches and axes;
they led in their midst and in chains Daoulas, the murderer who was to be executed.

