At first the air seemed heavy and oppressive to the wanderer; but by degrees she grew accustomed
to it and even, in time, scarcely felt it. Yet ever and again a dim remembrance of brighter,
purer skies came to her. She spoke of this more than once; but others only laughed and said:
“The child is dreaming!”

Because she was no longer dressed in shining garments, they did not know her for the princess
she really was. Indeed, she was no way different from those around her but that at heart she
was still the daughter of the king. They could not see her heart—this they could not know.
And seeing that they did not understand, she said no more of the thoughts that came to her.
They called it dreaming; but Eline thought that if this were so, a dream were better than a
waking life—unless—

Could these be thoughts that came to her of the world beyond the water, the reflection of the
real life? She knew not.

“We must teach this little dreamer what is life!” they said. “She will not know what life is
if we leave her to her dreams.”

They made her work and made her play: work that never seemed to do anyone any good, and play
that seemed like work. She nearly forgot that in what they called her dreams she had ever known
of another life.

Sometimes she sang to herself, strange songs that they said sounded sad and sorrowful, yet
of a sweetness all their own.

“Where does she hear them?” people asked.

But Eline never told. For the truth was that they came to her in moments when her thoughts
were far away, dreaming.

“She sings like a bird in a cage that knows of a brighter world outside,” said one. But he
was a poet, so they only smiled as if they themselves would have made the same remark if it
had not been so fanciful.

And though men thought her sad and lonely, there was joy to her in the hum of the bees and
the song of the birds and the rustling of the leaves. The butterflies and the flowers and the
brooks were her friends.

“What a strange child,” people said when they heard her talking to these friends. They did
not know of the stories her friends told her, stories which reminded her of a wonderful garden
of delight where men did not ever stare and stare in gaping wonder because a little child talked
with the fairies that live in all things beautiful, clothed in robes of sunlight and rainbow hues.

They would have taken her away from these friends but for one old man, her grandfather, who said:

“The child will be better for the fresh air. Let her live while she may.”

So it was that she played and talked with the flowers and sang to the brooks and listened to
the stories of the forest trees that whispered among themselves. None dared take her away.

One day she had been for a long ramble by a mighty river, and the sun had sunk to the westward
on its journey; but she turned not to the place she called her home. Tired and worn out with
her play, she lay on a rock and slept.

In her sleep it seemed that a touch upon her forehead awakened in her a vision of things she
once had known, but had now almost forgotten. There was the king’s garden and the palace, and
the other wonderful buildings, tall and stately—mighty buildings which seemed to speak of mighty
builders, noble thoughts and great men’s deeds. Some were even more stately, some more humble,
than the palace. But in all there was a sense of grander, nobler life than the life those knew
who were with her now, and who, laughing, called her a dreamer.

And she heard a voice repeating, “I will return! I will! I will!”

Again she smiled as she recognized the voice. A feeling of intense happiness and content came
to her and she—awoke. More than ever it seemed as if that other were the real life, and this
a heavy dream.

                                   V

The twilight glow still lingered in the west and the evening breeze called her to thoughts of home.

But she had learned wisdom, and when they asked her where she had been, Eline said she had
fallen asleep in the sunshine on a rock by the great river. Which was true.

Of her dream she said nothing to any except to the old man who alone seemed to understand her
a little. He did not laugh, but looked with thoughtful eyes intent, into the distance, away
to the starlit sky, and it seemed to her that he also was trying to remember a forgotten dream
of life. And seeing this she put her hand in his trustingly, and they two knew well each other’s
thoughts though never a word was spoken.

It seemed to the old man that the child was leading him along a familiar road to a home forgotten—after
many weary days of wandering.

“There are some things the heart can say that words can never tell,” he said to himself when
she was gone. “I think we understand one another.”

As time passed by Eline came to know more and more of that other life and she longed to tell
these things to the people who struggled and surged in hot strife to win the things of the
world they knew, never thinking that there was a happier, purer, brighter world. Some thought
they knew of such a one; but all except a few made it seem like the one in which they lived—only
they made it a little more bright by day, a little more dark by night, and with a little more
success in the strife for the things that change and pass away. These she would tell of the
nobler life she knew, but they listened not at all.

In due time Eline was sent to school to learn. But her teachers found little that she did not
quickly understand. For one thing she remembered now plainly, how in the garden of delight
everything that was done was well done—were it the telling of a story or the singing of a song
or the watering of the flowers that grew in that fair land. All was done with a wonderful thoroughness,
and Eline now felt that she must do all things in that way or leave them quite alone. But often
they would teach Eline things about which she seemed to care little and to understand as one
in a dream. Then they would call her attention to the work only to find that she was learning
to understand a great deal more than they themselves could tell. It was so with numbers. When
they asked her what the numbers were by name, she not only named them all but told them why
they were so named and what each meant. And so with music. With every chord she seemed to see
harmonies of color, like beautiful pictures too glorious to paint. And when she said that life
itself to her was music, Eline’s teachers did not understand.

One said: “She has learned these things before in another life.”

Another declared: “She sees the heart of things where we see only the outer covering. She sees
the soul, we the body.”

Perhaps they both were right.

But many gave other reasons for these things and all of them were gravely discussed. But curiously
enough, the two who gave the reasons I have told, were laughed at and told that such things
could not be. So they said little about their thoughts because, like all those who are sure
that they know the truth, they could afford to wait until their words were proved to be right.

                                  VI

At first Eline longed to tell the world of better things. She would gladly have told the world
of the glorious masonry of those noble cities which she saw in her visions—cities where men
and women moved like gods; where sorrow and want and selfishness seemed to be unknown. She
longed to tell them of the harmonies which came to her of music which might stir a dead world
to life, thrilling all nature into blossoms and fruits in abundance, as the music of a waterfall
seems to send life into the flowers which grow beside. She would have told them of the colors
with which nature loves to paint the sky, the mountains and valleys, sea and land, when all
is ready for the master’s work. For nature paints wherever the canvas is prepared to receive
the picture, and she asks no price for her work. Eline knew of times in the past—times that
will come again—when man did not ever strive to be rich regardless of his poorer brothers,
but each worked as he was able, all working for the whole world’s good. And she would have
told them how in those times man did not earn his living by toil unending, by ceaseless pain
and sorrow, but that nature helped him as he helped her, and the earth brought out her stores
of rich fruits for the welfare of her upgrown sons, well knowing that they in turn with loving
service would seek to make nobler and better that which nature gave to them in charge, birds
and beasts, flowers and trees, plants and stones and all that lives—which is everything.

Eline saw how the desire to possess more than enough, for the selfish pleasure of saying, “It
is mine!”—how the growth of selfishness in the world; the love of killing nature’s younger
sons for food and pleasure increased; how the love of ease and forgetfulness of others and
of duty to mother nature—how all these things had chilled the warmth of the one great life
that is in all things, and crippled the mother’s efforts to help her wayward sons.

Others had told these things; others had striven to show the glorious light of life that shines
behind the cold mist of sin and sorrow which has been cast like a veil over the earth; but
all had been rejected. Some were ill-received; some were stoned; some were killed.

“How can I raise this humanity which like a great orphan has cut itself off from its mother
and now lies ignorant of the happiness that awaits its coming?” thought Eline. “I have returned
to tell them of the way, and they will not hear. Others have returned as far as they might
and have been rejected. Others still have boldly plunged deeper yet in the hot sea of human
life and have been lost in its poisonous fumes. Even so, I will again return, yet lower, if
by chance there be a few who will not reject my message.”

                                  VII

So Eline hid in her heart the things she knew and the things she would have told, as she had
hidden in her soul at the river of forgetfulness the memory of the king’s garden of delight.
And she took her way into the world with messages of love and of hope, such simple messages
as the children understood, better sometimes than their elders. She told the children many
beautiful fairy stories and they listened eagerly. They did not know that these were the stories
which she had told to the learned ones of the earth and which were really true, though they
had not believed.

The children listened, and they said: “It is beautiful. Some day we will seek out such a beautiful
world as that of which the stories tell.”

There were houses, too, which they built—little toy houses with toy bricks. But Eline showed
them how to shape the bricks and how to make each brick fit in its proper place so that never
a one should lose its worth. And Eline showed the children how that behind the building of
beautiful mansions there was the beautiful thought that made the masonry so noble a work, though
it were only toy masonry. And the children understood.

In their games they had done each his best and they did well. But Eline showed them games in
which they all acted together, even the little ones helping and sharing. It was wonderful to
them that they had not thought of this before, because now they found that they could do more
than ever they had done when each worked alone and for himself.

Near the city where they dwelt was a vast plain full of great boulders, which they could have
made into a great park and a beautiful garden; but the people of the city cared not for such
things and would not help them. By themselves they knew not how to move the rocks. So it remained
a waste of wild growth, except in those places where the children had moved one by one, and
with great difficulty, the smaller stones.

Now Eline bid them take a strong rope. “For,” said she, “we will clear that plain, and it shall
be for a dwelling and a garden for all.” She was thinking of the king’s garden.

The children looked at her in astonishment as though they wondered if she meant the thing she said.

“We have no rope,” they said, “and none will give us any.”

“There is your rope,” said Eline, pointing out the overgrown plain, where, amid the rocks in
the great patches from which they had slowly and painfully drawn the smaller stones, grew masses
of pale blue flowers, beautiful, delicate little blossoms, like wind-flowers.

Again the children looked at her, questioningly; not as the people at first had done, but trustingly,
though they knew not what she would have them do, but sought to learn her wishes.

So at her bidding they gathered all the ripened stalks of the little flowers and laid them
out in the sun as she directed.

Almost it seemed a pity to destroy the plants. One little worker asked Eline of this matter
for he loved the flowers and was sorry to see them gathered and dried.

“Does it not hurt the flowers to pluck them?” he asked. “Some say that you can talk with them
as with all living things, and you can tell if the flowers do not suffer in the gathering,
although they are old and ripe.”

His was a loving heart and Eline saw that he asked this out of no mere curiosity. Gently she
touched his forehead with her finger.

“Look!” she said. “Look and listen, for I have opened the seeing eye to you.”

                                 VIII

And the boy looked around in wonderment, amazed, and saw that the whole great plain was full
of teeming life which he had not before seen. Fairies and elves peeped from every flower, gnomes
and earthmen worked and played and danced among the boulders. And where before was silence
but for the rustling of the leaves in the breeze, there rose a murmur of many voices, like
the humming of bees in the sunshine. The boy listened and at once he knew what the flowers
were whispering.

“There is a saying that the flax-people are being used for a mighty work,” said one little
blue fairy to another.

“I heard a bee spreading the news,” said another. “All the flax-people are asked to give their
dresses to help in clearing the plain for a palace and a garden where kings may dwell—not kings
of earth and of little cities, but kings of wisdom whom nature loves to obey, and we among
her children.”

“Body after body have I grown,” said the other. “I have struggled and striven to grow useful
in this glorious brotherhood of nature, and my only success seems to be that I have a pretty
head. It is good to be beautiful, perhaps, but I have always thought that I would sacrifice
my beauty for a chance of sharing in noble deeds.”

A butterfly that had stopped to listen now spoke to her:

“You have waited and now you will have your reward. For surely your body will be taken to help
in the work that is going forward. The flax-people have indeed lived to good purpose.”

“They certainly do not seem afraid to die,” said the boy to himself.

And as if in answer to his whispered thought the little flax-fairy said:

“Of course we are not afraid! I have been told that there are giants of men who really think
that when they leave their worn-out stalks—bodies they call them—behind, they live no more,
or at least are not sure what becomes of themselves. But it cannot be true—it must be a fairy
story!” laughed the little elf. “They must know, as we know, that all things sleep awhile and
then take new bodies like dresses woven while they worked in their last awaking which men call
life. And then one day we know that we shall have woven dresses so fine that we shall be free
to leave them as the butterfly leaves his dull-hued robes and spreads his bright wings for
flight into the grand unknown which we all long to know.”

“But how do you know that these things are so?” asked the boy.

“How do I know that I am alive?” answered the flax-fairy in a murmur. Fainter grew the voices
and the vision faded from the boy’s sight.

He knew not how long it was he stayed there, but after awhile he awoke with a start to find
that Eline was no longer with him, and that he had slept among the flax in the sunshine.

                                  IX

“It must have been a dream!” he said. But he did not believe it was a dream—for all his words.
And really the flowers seemed to him to bear a new life after that wonderful vision which came
to him when Eline gave him for an hour the seeing eye.

Working with the others joyfully and happily without a moment’s pause or one thought of failure,
they saw quickly growing an immense heap of beautiful fine white thread. The children had helped
the flax to grow and now in turn it aided them to clear more ground.

For in no long time all was finished and before them they had a mighty rope growing greater
every day under their Leader’s eye.

One strange thing there was about the rope. For there were golden threads interwoven which
the children did not remember having seen among the flax. And they wondered.

But Eline only said “It is golden flax.”

Whatever it was, it shone brightly in the sun until it looked like a ray of real sunlight in
the rope.

One little child said:

“It looks like a brother to the sun!”

“Perhaps it is,” said Eline, and smiled.

The work grew apace. And the play grew apace, because the children scarcely knew which was
work and which was play. They seemed to have found something better than both. Stone after
stone, rock after rock, was encircled with the cord and triumphantly drawn by that merry army
of children to the edge of the plain. Clearer and clearer grew the space. Where before the
stones had been, little pools of water formed, while round them grew masses of beautiful flowers,
among which was a new crop of the little blue flax, stronger and better grown than any that
had been there before. Gradually there grew up a great wall of rock around the plain where
the boulders were drawn by the children, for each was taken to its nearest boundary, as Eline
told them this would be the simplest way to clear the plain.

Some mighty rocks yet remained in the center of the plain but the children had so seen the
wisdom of their Leader that they doubted not that these too would be removed without difficulty,
although how this was to be done they could not tell.

And as the work was nearing an end they did as their Leader bid them in perfect trust. Actually
they put their ropes around a rock which some said was like a small mountain. They pulled with
a will, but the rock moved not.

Still they pulled willingly and with all their might, for now they had grown strong until they
scarcely knew their own powers.

From the great city, from the mountains, and from the country round about, came sightseers
and inquirers. At first they only laughed and talked, and helped not at all. But among them
came men of strange countenance, strong men, wise in looks, men of kingly bearing.

These said: “It is not right that these children should work for ever alone.”

And they too, with strong grip of a strange sort, laid hold of the golden ropes, seeing which,
the idlers too came and helped until with a mighty song of joy the children saw the great rock
move, slowly at first, then faster, faster, until with a run they had placed it in a far corner
of the great plain, standing like a sentinel to the North.

                                   X

Another and yet others followed. East and South and West the unhewn boulders stood like guardians
of the plain. A circle of twelve yet remained in the center, like giant pillars supporting
the sky. But these Eline said should stand, as also some smaller ones which were placed across
their tops like great beams resting upon a doorway. How this was done I cannot say; but there
is a saying in the city that, in the night before they were found placed high above the giant
circle, the sound of a great and joyous song, a hymn of power, was heard like the tones of
a great bell shaking the houses with its vibrations and putting men in fear of the destruction
of their city. But at sunset the children had not returned from the plain, so that they were
not in the city when this happened. And not until the sunrise did the people flock to the doors
and windows for a glimpse of the joyous army that marched in their streets. Led by the men
of kingly bearing the children marched, singing a song of triumph, with such shining glory
in their faces that all the people marveled.

Tired they were, and slept; but when in the late noontide the people asked them what had happened,
all seemed like the forgotten glory of a dream. They could remember little except that they
were filled with the joy of wonderful things which no tongue could tell.

The work had not taken one day, or two, but many days. Months and even years had passed since
the children played together in the sunshine. Strong and sturdy lads and lasses were they now.
A beautiful temple had arisen within the giant circle, and all around it was a garden of beauty
like no garden which they had seen.

But when Eline looked amid the rare flowers and found a little purple star with heart of gold,
she knew that it was a flower from the king’s garden, and she was glad that it could grow where
all was rock before. There were great purple pansies, too, like thoughts from the palace in
which Eline had lived.

Now it was that the children came to the temple to learn of Eline, and she taught them the
wonderful truths which she knew; to them she told the wonderful things that have been and the
more wonderful things that may be, if men will only try to bring them about.

She taught them things so simple that they often wondered why they had not already known them
without the telling. They did not know that there was a good reason why it should be so. Eline
taught them, too, how by all working together for the welfare and progress of all, there is
no task we may not overcome.

“We know it,” said the children, remembering the waste of rocks in the plain where now the
garden stood and the temple.

“Each by himself can do much, but all working together can move the world,” she said. “Now
I will tell you a strange thing, which is yet true. For we are not at all separate from any
other thing in the world, but the same nature is in us as in them—in the rocks and the flowers,
in the forests and streams, in city and mountain, in air and fire and water, just as the rocks
and this temple are of the same stone, although they differ in shape. And if we only will,
we can make all our rocks into beautiful, glorious temples.

“When the world of men has learned this lesson the earth itself will become a mighty temple,
that the wise teachers of old, whom men call gods, may come to us again and live with us in
peace for evermore.

“And it shall be known that music is life, for in music is harmony, and by harmony all things
live, each note in its own place, doing its perfect work, be it great or small. For this too
is a brotherhood of harmony.”

Because in those days the people listened to the teachings from the temple and to the great
ones who came to dwell therein when it was finished, and who taught the seekers after truth,
through their messenger Eline, there were happiness and joy and peace in all the land. Men
became nobler as they thought of nobler things than had hitherto been their custom.

Seeing the beauty of the temple and the mighty work that comes of aiding nature, working in
unity and harmony, they also built their houses to be like the temple. Stone they used for
brick, beautiful they built them within and without, and they labored to make their dwellings
fit temples for the gods. For it was said among them that sometimes strangers would visit their
city, and seeking entrance, would dwell with them awhile where they found a welcome. And it
was noticed that always they came to such dwellings as those where the beauty and harmony of
the building showed beauty and harmony within. And when they left the house, always there seemed
to remain a memory of their presence as a ray of light at sunset leaves a memory of joyous
days and a sense of hope for brighter days yet to come.

When this thing happened the neighbors would gather together and it was said:

“The Master has built the house.”

Then the great beam which rested on the pillars of the doors was lifted and where it had stood
was built an arch of stone. And last of all was dropped in place the keystone which held the
arch, and there was great rejoicing, for the people said: “The house is finished.” Some there
were who would have lifted the beam and built the arch, but unless the Master had been in the
house, always some accident would occur and the house be destroyed.

In the center of the arch was placed a great light which was ever kept burning, for it was
fed with oil of gold which never burns away, but whose smoke ever turns to oil again. Each
light was like the greater light which ever shone from the dome of the temple, a light to lighten
all around, such light as it was said went out to the world from the temple itself in the knowledge
of the laws of life and of all things good and great and beautiful. Never was the light to
be put out, lest harm should come. Day and night it was held a sacred duty to guard the light.

When that light shone there was peace and plenty in the land, for fellowship made life joyful.
Some called that glorious time the Golden Age; some there are even now among us who will to
bring that golden age again to earth as then, through brotherhood and the joy of life, that
misery shall not always be among us, nor poverty, sorrow, and pain.

                                  XI

But there came a day when messengers from far off lands came over sea a great journey to the
temple. And to Eline they told the despair and want and the madness of unbrotherliness that
men knew in the countries whence they came, countries where the light shone no longer. Of wars
and of famines they spoke, of poverty, oppression, and crime.

Eline’s great compassion could not be silent to appeal. “From these things, I say Humanity
SHALL be saved!” said she. “I have a duty here, but there are guardians in the Temple, and
the call comes loud to me from the world beyond. I will go!”

Those messengers heard with joy of the success of their journey, for they had traveled far
and had overcome many trials and difficulties by the way. And all the time they had hoped in
perfect faith that they would return with some encouragement to the country whence they came.
And doubtless it was because of the grand faith they showed that Eline herself answered their call.

“Guard well the temple while I am away,” Eline charged her people. “I must travel far, but
in no long time I will return!—I will return! Be watchful, therefore, that the light be burning,
that the oil fade not. None can tell the time of the coming, whether it be by night or day.
With your lives must you guard the light!”

She spoke somewhat sadly as it seemed to them, and they supposed she thought of the great misery
and need of those she went to succor in their distress.

And they answered the more eagerly:

“We will! We will!”

For the first time since it had been built the temple was left without its head—a sacred trust
indeed.

They thought they knew themselves; they thought they knew the evil in their natures, and the
good, did those temple watchers.

And in their surety of knowing they grew careless, so that in no long time they lost their
caution. Some there were who were faithless, and these began to tell them of their great success;
how they had built the temple; how their industry and labor had succeeded; how well they had
learned to know themselves. Gently they suggested these things, gently these sayings took root,
almost unperceived.

“Our temple which we have built is very mighty. It can never fall,” they said.

Some few there were who would have spoken for Eline, but they were timid and afraid of those
who talked so boastfully. Wherefore they were silent. It is true that one or two attempted
to recall the noble deeds of the absent one, and to point out that she had really built the
temple; they had supplied only the labor; yet the fruits of it were theirs and the world’s.

“True,” said the wicked and faithless ones, “she had a great mind for building; but she made
mistakes. She herself said so. We have learned by those mistakes and we know. She would have
made the temple teachings too common altogether. Why, she actually began to turn into a teacher
of virtues of which the world is weary, instead of building as at first. She had taught all
she knew, but we can teach greater things, and better things; we can teach the world twenty
different styles of building in metals, wood, stone, and marble; of ornaments and decorations
enough to last for a century. Thus we honor her; thus we carry on her work and make it grow—although
she made mistakes.”

“Indeed she did make mistakes,” said one, “and the greatest mistake of all was when she chose
such faithless craftsmen for the temple work. Shame on you!”

“O faithful one!” said they. “Such faith deserves a great reward. To you we will entrust the
duty of finding her. We will give you all you need for the voyage—a ship and provisions enough
for a year!”

                                  XII

So those treacherous ones cast adrift on the ocean the one who remained faithful. And those
others who would have spoken out for their absent Teacher were silenced against their own better
natures. For those wicked ones had been great among them, and they were afraid.

It was thought that in no long time the winds and the waves would destroy the little ship with
its lonely voyager; yet with stout heart, knowing that he might not return alone, he held on
fearless and determined. Sometimes it seems that those who so follow the voice of their inner
wisdom in dauntless courage are helped by nature, as though she ever loves such brave hearts.
I have heard the story told how the great Columbus who found a new world was beset by his followers
to return. How nature sent him messages that he was nearing land—birds and driftwood, branches
of trees and floating weed. He read the message with the eyes of one who loves all nature well,
and promised sight of land to his men in three days, a promise that was fulfilled.

So it was that the little ship with the one who remained faithful did a greater work than ever
those desired who sent it.

Slowly, slowly, in the Temple, it came about that the guardians forgot their duty, forgot that
they were there to guard the temple in sacred trust for humanity; and as the wicked ones among
them wished, they busied themselves about many things; but not the one thing needful, the welfare
and the progress of mankind.

How can the tale be told? A tale that is new, yet old—old beyond count of years.

For the enemies of the world, with whom those wicked ones were leagued, came suddenly by night,
when the sacred lamp which sent rays of hope over the great ocean was allowed to flicker and
to go out. And those enemies destroyed the temple so that scarcely one stone remained upon
another. And with it were destroyed those weak ones who failed in their trust. All perished
and with them perished for a time the Light of the World.

                                 XIII

It is said, how truly I know not, that beneath the foundation pillars of the temple was wisely
prepared by Eline a vault, a vast cave wherein were hidden the most sacred records of the temple
and the sacred secret name which they had forgotten.

To her over the sea came the knowledge of the faithless guard, and in her agony she called
upon that sacred name if by chance the temple should be saved.

In days of old men knew that there is a power in words, a power now forgotten. Stories there
are which tell of city walls falling at a trumpet blast, of cities rising as if by magic at
a word, of mighty doors thrown open, of nature spellbound by a song, of mighty names the jinns
and genii of the desert obey.

And this sacred name was such a one as these; for with its whispering a mighty thrill passed
out over the world and the foundations of the sea were shaken. Vast continents were destroyed,
and men said the world was at an end. Terrible was the time, but Eline knew that it was better
so; for the remnant of the living might one day restore the ancient glory of that land. But
had it been that the land remained, those wicked ones would have lived and worked to destroy
the whole world so that not even a remnant should be left in the bosom of the waters to re-people
the earth.

After many days, tossed and beaten by the waves, the little ship with the outcast faithful
one came drifting to the land where Eline was.

The winds and the sea conspired, as it seemed, to urge the ship on her voyage, and the dwellers
of the ocean pointed the way, watchful ever and untiring in their duty. Small as it was, and
ill-found, Eline chose this ship for her return, and once again she came to the place where
the temple had stood—she and that faithful one.

She gazed on the ruins of that sacred spot and sadly looked at the tops of the mighty pillars
just rising above the waves of the sea which at times filled the arches in between so that
no man might pass beneath.

Unseen guards there were, Eline knew, guards who would keep that spot free for future generations
of a world to come. Water-nymphs, sea-sprites, and earth-goblins, undines, gnomes, and sylphs
dwelt there as sentinels of a sacred trust, and Eline was content to go.

“For,” she said, “the secret vault of the sacred name yet stands intact until these same faithless
ones shall come again, purified by many wanderings and trials, and shall again guard that new-old
temple with me. That time they shall not fail!”

And a ray of glorious hope shone in her face as she left the ruined temple.

“I will return!” she said. “I will return!”