TWO EXPEDITIONS INTO THE INTERIOR OF SOUTHERN AUSTRALIA,

VOLUME II

by

Charles Sturt

TWO EXPEDITIONS INTO THE INTERIOR OF SOUTHERN AUSTRALIA DURING THE YEARS 1828, 1829, 1830,
1831 WITH OBSERVATIONS ON THE SOIL, CLIMATE AND GENERAL RESOURCES OF THE COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOLUME II.

"For though most men are contented only to see a river as it runs by them, and talk of the
changes in it as they happen; when it is troubled, or when clear; when it drowns the country
in a flood, or forsakes it in a drought: yet he that would know the nature of the water, and
the causes of those accidents (so as to guess at their continuance or return), must find out
its source, and observe with what strength it rises, what length it runs, and how many small
streams fall in, and feed it to such a height, as make it either delightful or terrible to
the eye, and useful or dangerous to the country about it."...SIR WILLIAM TEMPLE'S NETHERLANDS.

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME

EXPEDITION DOWN THE MORUMBIDGEE AND MURRAY RIVERS, IN 1829, 1830 AND 1831.

CHAPTER I.

Introductory--Remarks on the results of the former Expedition--The fitting out of another determined
on--Its objects--Provisions, accoutrements, and retinue--Paper furnished by Mr. Kent--Causes
that have prevented the earlier appearance of the present work.

CHAPTER II.

Commencement of the expedition in November, 1829.--Joined by Mr. George M'Leay--Appearance
of the party--Breadalbane Plains--Hospitality of Mr. O'Brien--Yass Plains--Hill of Pouni--Path
of a hurricane--Character of the country between Underaliga and the Morumbidgee--Appearance
of that river--Junction of the Dumot with it--Crossing and recrossing--Geological character
and general aspect of the country--Plain of Pondebadgery--Few natives seen.

CHAPTER III.

Character of the Morumbidgee where it issues from the hilly country--Appearance of approach
to swamps--Hamilton Plains--Intercourse with the natives--Their appearance, customs, &c.--Change
in the character of the river--Mirage--Dreariness of the country--Ride towards the Lachlan
river--Two boats built and launched on the Morumbidgee; and the drays, with part of the men
sent back to Goulburn Plains.

CHAPTER IV.

Embarkation of the party in the boats, and voyage down the Morumbidgee--The skiff swamped by
striking on a sunken tree--Recovery of boat and its loading--Region of reeds--Dangers of the
navigation--Contraction of the channel--Reach the junction of a large river--Intercourse with
the natives on its banks--Character of the country below the junction of the rivers--Descent
of a dangerous rapid--Warlike demonstrations of a tribe of natives--Unexpected deliverance
from a conflict with them--Junction of another river--Give the name of the "Murray" to the
principal stream.

CHAPTER V.

Character of the country--Damage of provisions--Adroitness of the natives in catching fish--The
skiff broken up--Stream from the North-East supposed to be the Darling--Change of country in
descending the river--Intercourse with the natives--Prevalence of loathsome diseases among
them--Apparent populousness of the country--Junction of several small streams--The Rufus, the
Lindesay, &c.--Rainy and tempestuous weather--Curious appearance of the banks--Troublesomeness
of the natives--Inhospitable and desolate aspect of the country--Condition of the men--Change
in the geological character of the country--The river passes through a valley among hills.

CHAPTER VI.

Improvement in the aspect of the country--Increase of the river--Strong westerly gales--Chronometer
broken--A healthier tribe of natives--Termination of the Murray in a large lake--Its extent
and environs--Passage across it--Hostile appearance of the natives--Beautiful scenery--Channel
from the lake to the sea at Encounter Bay--Reach the beach--Large flocks of water fowl--Curious
refraction--State of provisions--Embarrassing situation--Inspection of the channel to the ocean--Weak
condition of the men--Difficulties of the return.

CHAPTER VII.

Valley of the Murray--Its character and capabilities--Laborious progress up the river--Accident
to the boat--Perilous collision with the natives--Turbid current of the Rufus--Passage of the
Rapids--Assisted by the natives--Dangerous intercourse with them--Re-enter the Morumbidgee--Verdant
condition of its banks--Nocturnal encounter with the natives--Interesting manifestation of
feeling in one family--Reach the spot where the party had embarked on the river--Men begin
to fail entirely--Determine to send two men forward for relief--Their return--Excursion on
horseback--Reach Pondebadgery Plain, and meet the supplies from the colony--Cannibalism of
the natives--Return to Sydney--Concluding remarks.

CHAPTER VIII.

Environs of the lake Alexandrina--Appointment of Capt. Barker to make a further survey of the
coast near Encounter Bay--Narrative of his proceedings--Mount Lofty, Mount Barker, and beautiful
country adjacent--Australian salmon--Survey of the coast--Outlet of lake to the sea--Circumstances
that led to the slaughter of Capt. Barker by the natives--His character--Features of this part
of the country and capabilities of its coasts--Its adaptation for colonization--Suggestions
for the furtherance of future Expeditions.

APPENDIX.

  No. I.  Geological Specimens found to the south-west of Port Jackson
  No. II.

OBJECTS OF THE EXPEDITION.

The expedition of which we have just detailed the proceedings was so far satisfactory in its
results, that it not only set at rest the hypothesis of the existence of an internal shoal
sea in southern Australia, and ascertained the actual termination of the rivers it had been
directed to trace, but also added very largely to our knowledge of the country considerably
to the westward of former discoveries. And although no land had been traversed of a fertile
description of sufficient extent to invite the settler, the fact of a large river such as the
Darling lying at the back of our almost intertropical settlements, gave a fresh importance
to the distant interior. It was evident that this river was the chief drain for carrying off
the waters falling westerly from the eastern coast, and as its course indicated a decline of
country diametrically opposite to that which had been calculated upon, it became an object
of great importance to ascertain its further direction. Had not the saline quality of its waters
been accounted for, by the known existence of brine springs in its bed, it would have been
natural to have supposed that it communicated with some mediterranean sea; but, under existing
circumstances, it remained to be proved whether this river held on a due south course, or whether
it ultimately turned westerly, and ran into the heart of the interior. In order fully to determine
this point, it would be necessary to regain it banks, so far below the parallel to which it
had been traced as to leave no doubt of its identity; but it was difficult to fix upon a plan
for approaching that central stream without suffering from the want of water, since it could
hardly be expected that the Lachlan would afford such means, as it was reasonable to presume
that its termination was very similar to that of the Macquarie. The attention of the government
was, consequently, fixed upon the Morumbidgee, a river stated to be of considerable size and
of impetuous current. Receiving its supplies from the lofty ranges behind Mount Dromedary,
it promised to hold a longer course than those rivers which, depending on periodical rains
alone for existence, had been found so soon to exhaust themselves.

PREPARATIONS.

The fitting out of another expedition was accordingly determined upon; and about the end of
September 1829, I received the Governor's instructions to make the necessary preparations for
a second descent into the interior, for the purpose of tracing the Morumbidgee, or such rivers
as it might prove to be connected with, as far as practicable. In the event of failure in this
object, it was hoped that an attempt to regain the banks of the Darling on a N.W. course from
the point at which the expedition might be thwarted in its primary views, would not be unattended
with success. Under any circumstances, however, by pursuing these measures, an important part
of the colony would necessarily be traversed, of which the features were as yet altogether unknown.

It became my interest and my object to make the expedition as complete as possible, and, as
far as in me lay, to provide for every contingency: and as it appeared to me that, in all likelihood,
we should in one stage or other of our journey have to trust entirely to water conveyance,
I determined on taking a whale-boat, whose dimensions and strength should in some measure be
proportioned to the service required. I likewise constructed a small still for the distillation
of water, in the event of our finding the water of the Darling salt, when we should reach its
banks. The whale-boat, after being fitted, was taken to pieces for more convenient carriage,
as has been more particularly detailed in the last chapter of the preceding volume.

So little danger had been apprehended from the natives in the former journey, that three firelocks
had been considered sufficient for our defence. On the present occasion, however, I thought
it adviseable to provide arms for each individual.

Mr. Hume declined accompanying me, as the harvest was at hand. Mr. George M'Leay therefore
supplied his place, rather as a companion than as an assistant; and of those who accompanied
me down the banks of the Macquarie, I again selected Harris (my body servant), Hopkinson, and
Fraser.

MR. KENT'S REPORT.

The concluding chapter of this volume, relative to the promontory of St. Vincent, or Cape Jervis,
has been furnished me by the kindness of Mr. Kent, who accompanied the lamented officer to
whom the further exploration of that part of coast unhappily proved fatal. There is a melancholy
coincidence between Captain Barker's death and that of Captain Cook, which cannot fail to interest
the public, as the information that has been furnished will call for their serious consideration.
I shall leave for their proper place, the remarks I have to offer upon it, since my motive
in these prefatory observations has been, to carry the reader forward to that point at which
he will have to view the proceedings of the expedition alone, in order the more satisfactorily
to arrive at their results. And, although he must expect a considerable portion of dry reading
in the following pages, I have endeavoured to make the narrative of events, some of which are
remarkably striking, as interesting as possible.

REMARKS ON THE PRESENT WORK; DELIVERANCE FROM DANGERS.

It only remains for me to refer the reader to the concluding chapter of the preceding volume,
for such general information as I have been enabled to furnish upon the nature of the services
on which I was employed, and on the manner of conducting similar expeditions. Indeed, I trust
that this book (whatever be its defects) will be found to contain much valuable information
of a practical character, and I may venture to affirm, that it will give a true description
of the country, and of the various other subjects of which it treats.

Notwithstanding that I have in my dedication alluded to the causes that prevented the earlier
appearance of this work, I feel it due both to myself and the public here to state, that during
these expeditions my health had suffered so much, that I was unable to bear up against the
effects of exposure, bodily labour, poverty of diet, and the anxiety of mind to which I was
subjected. A residence on Norfolk Island, under peculiarly harassing circumstances, completed
that which the above causes had commenced; and, after a succession of attacks, I became totally
blind, and am still unable either to read what I pen, or to venture abroad without an attendant.
When it is recollected, that I have been unassisted in this work in any one particular, I hope
some excuse will be found for its imperfections. A wish to contribute to the public good led
me to undertake those journeys which have cost me so much. The same feeling actuates me in
recording their results; and I have the satisfaction to know, that my path among a large and
savage population was a bloodless one; and that my intercourse with them was such as to lessen
the danger to future adventurers upon such hazardous enterprises, and to give them hope where
I had so often despaired. Something more powerful, than human foresight or human prudence,
appeared to avert the calamities and dangers with which I and my companions were so frequently
threatened; and had it not been for the guidance and protection we received from the Providence
of that good and all-wise Being to whose care we committed ourselves, we should, ere this,
have ceased to rank among the number of His earthly creatures.

The expedition which traversed the marshes of the Macquarie, left Sydney on the 10th day of
Nov. 1828. That destined to follow the waters of the Morumbidgee, took its departure from the
same capital on the 3rd of the same month in the ensuing year. Rain had fallen in the interval,
but not in such quantities as to lead to the apprehension that it had either influenced or
swollen the western streams. It was rather expected that the winter falls would facilitate
the progress of the expedition, and it was hoped that, as the field of its operations would
in all probability be considerably to the south of the parallel of Port Jackson, the extreme
heat to which the party and the animals had been exposed on the former journey, would be less
felt on the present occasion.

As there was no Government establishment to the S.W. at which I could effect any repairs, or
recruit my supplies, as I had done at Wellington Valley, the expedition, when it left Sydney,
was completed in every branch, and was so fully provided with every necessary implement and
comfort, as to render any further aid, even had such been attainable, in a great measure unnecessary.
The Governor had watched over my preparations with a degree of anxiety that evidenced the interest
he felt in the expedition, and his arrangements to ensure, as far as practicable, our being
met on our return, in the event of our being in distress, were equally provident and satisfactory.
It was not, however, to the providing for our wants in the interior alone that His Excellency's
views were directed, but orders were given to hold a vessel in readiness, to be dispatched
at a given time to St. Vincent's Gulf, in case we should ultimately succeed in making the south
coast in its neighbourhood.

LEAVE SYDNEY.

The morning on which I left Sydney a second time, under such doubtful circumstances, was perfectly
serene and clear. I found myself at 5 a.m. of that delightful morning leading my horses through
the gates of those barracks whose precincts I might never again enter, and whose inmates I
might never again behold assembled in military array. Yet, although the chance of misfortune
flashed across my mind, I was never lighter at heart, or more joyous in spirit. It appeared
to me that the stillness and harmony of nature influenced my feelings on the occasion, and
my mind forgot the storms of life, as nature at that moment seemed to have forgotten the tempests
that sometimes agitate her.

APPEARANCE OF THE PARTY.

I proceeded direct to the house of my friend Mr. J. Deas Thomson, who had agreed to accompany
me to Brownlow Hill, a property belonging to Mr. M'Leay, the Colonial Secretary, where his
son, Mr. George M'Leay, was to join the expedition. As soon as we had taken a hasty breakfast,
I went to the carters' barracks to superintend the first loading of the animals. Mr. Murray,
the superintendent, had arranged every article so well, and had loaded the drays so compactly
that I had no trouble, and little time was lost in saddling the pack animals. I shall not forget
the interest Thomson appeared to take in a scene that must certainly have been new to him.
Our progress was not checked by the occurrence of a single accident, nor did I think it necessary
to remain with the men after we had gained that turn which, at about four miles from Sydney,
branches off to the left, and leads direct to Liverpool. From this Point my companion and I
pushed forward, in order to terminate a fifty miles' ride a little sooner than we should have
done at the leisurely pace we had kept during the early part of our journey. We remained in
Liverpool for a short time, to prepare the commissariat office for the reception, and to ensure
the accommodation, of the party; and reached Brownlow Hill a little after sunset.

LIVERPOOL-GOULBURN PLAINS.

As I have already described the country on this line of road as far us Goulburn Plains, it
will not be considered necessary that I should again notice its features with minuteness.

WALLANDILLY-TYRANNA.

The party arrived at Glendarewel, the farm attached to Brownlow Hill, on the 5th. I resumed
my journey alone on the 8th. M'Leay had still some few arrangements to make, so that I dispensed
with his immediate attendance. He overtook me, however, sooner than I expected, on the banks
of the Wallandilly. I had encamped under the bluff end of Cookbundoon, and, having been disappointed
in getting bearings when crossing the Razor Back, I hoped that I should be enabled to connect
a triangle from the summit of Cookbundoon, or to secure bearings of some prominent hill to
the south. I found the brush, however, so thick on the top of the mountain, that I could obtain
no satisfactory view, and and M'Leay, who accompanied me, agreed with me in considering that
we were but ill repaid for the hot scramble we had had. Crossing the western extremity of Goulburn
Plains on the 15th, we encamped on a chain of ponds behind Doctor Gibson's residence at Tyranna,
and as I had some arrangements to make with that gentleman, I determined to give both the men
and animals a day's rest. I availed myself of Doctor Gibson's magazines to replace such of
my provisions as I had expended, as I found that I could do so without putting him to any inconvenience;
and I added two of his men to the party, intending to send them back, in case of necessity,
or, when we should have arrived at that point from which it might appear expedient to forward
an account of my progress and ultimate views, for the governor's information.

On the 17th we struck the tents, and, crossing the chain of ponds near which they had been
pitched, entered a forest track, that gave place to barren stony ridges of quartz formation.
These continued for six or seven miles, in the direction of Breadalbane Plains, upon which
we were obliged to stop, as we should have had some difficulty in procuring either water or
food, within any moderate distance beyond them. The water, indeed, that we were obliged to
content ourselves with was by no means good. Breadalbane Plains are of inconsiderable extent,
and are surrounded by ridges, the appearance of which is not very promising. Large white masses
of quartz rock lie scattered over them, amongst trees of stunted growth. Mr. Redall's farm
was visible at the further extremity of the plains from that by which we had entered them.
It would appear that these plains are connected with Goulburn Plains by a narrow valley, that
was too wet for the drays to have traversed.

BREADALBANE PLAINS.

Doctor Gibson had kindly accompanied us to Breadalbane Plains. On the morning of the 18th he
returned to Tyranna, and we pursued our journey, keeping mostly on a W.S.W. course. From the
barren hills over which we passed, on leaving the plains, we descended upon an undulating country,
and found a change of rock, as well as of vegetation, upon it. Granite and porphyry constituted
its base. An open forest, on which the eucalyptus mannifera alone prevailed, lay on either
side of us, and although the soil was coarse, and partook in a great measure of the decomposition
of the rock it covered, there was no deficiency of grass. On the contrary, this part of the
interior is decidedly well adapted for pasturing cattle.

THE LORN.

About 1 p.m. we passed Mr. Hume's station, with whom I remained for a short time. He had fixed
his establishment on the banks of the Lorn, a small river, issuing from the broken country
near Lake George, and now ascertained to be one of the largest branches of the Lachlan River.
We had descended a barren pass of stringy bark scrub, on sandstone rock, a little before we
reached Mr. Hume's station, but around it the same, open forest tract again prevailed. We crossed
the Lorn, at 2 o'clock, leaving Mr. Broughton's farm upon our left, and passed through a broken
country, which was very far from being deficient in pasture. We encamped on the side of a water-course,
about 4 o'clock, having travelled about fifteen miles.

On the 19th, we observed no change in the soil or aspect of the country, for the first five
miles. The eucalyptus mannifera was the most prevalent of the forest trees, and certainly its
presence indicated a more flourishing state in the minor vegetation. At about five miles, however,
from where we had slept, sandstone reappeared, and with it the barren scrub that usually grows
upon a sandy and inhospitable soil. One of the drays was upset in its progress down a broken
pass, where the road had been altogether neglected, and it was difficult to avoid accidents.
Fortunately we suffered no further than in the delay that the necessity of unloading the dray,
and reloading it, occasioned. Mr. O'Brien, an enterprising settler, who had pushed his flocks
to the banks of the Morumbidgee, and who was proceeding to visit his several stations, overtook
us in the midst of our troubles. We had already passed each other frequently on the road, but
he now preceded me to his establishment at Yass; at which I proposed remaining for a day. We
stopped about three miles short of the plains for the night, at the gorge of the pass through
which we had latterly been advancing, and had gradually descended to a more open country. From
the place at which we were temporarily delayed, and which is not inappropriately called the
Devil's Pass, the road winds about between ranges, differing in every respect from any we had
as yet noticed. The sides of the hills were steeper, and their summits sharper, than any we
had crossed. They were thickly covered with eucalypti and brush, and, though based upon sandstone,
were themselves of a schistose formation.

YASS PLAINS.

