The Peary was a great, blurred shadow, a dead thing without glow or movement, with no figures
of sealmen around her. As Ken's eyes gained greater vision, he was able to make out a wide,
long rent running clear across the top of the fourth compartment of the submarine. The explosion
had done that to her, but what had it done to her crew? What had it done to the sealmen?

He saw the sealmen first. Some were quite close, but in the murk he had missed them. Silent
specters, they were apparently lifeless, strewn all around at different levels, and most of
them floating slowly up toward the dim ice ceiling.

But up under the ice was movement! Living figures were there! And at the sight Kenneth Torrance's
lips spread in their first real grin for days. The plan had worked! The sealmen had been destroyed,
and already some of the Peary's men were up there and fumbling clumsily across the hundred
feet which separated them from the hole in the ice that was the last step to the world above.

       *       *       *       *       *

A ghostly gray haze of light filtered downward through the water from the hole. Ken counted
twelve figures making their way to it. As he wondered about the rest of the crew, he saw three
bulging, swaying shapes suddenly emerge from the split in the top of the Peary, and begin an
easy rise toward the ice ceiling ninety feet above. There was no apparent danger, and they
went up quite slowly, with occasional brief pauses to avoid the risk of the bends. Clasped
together, the group of three were, and when they were halfway to the glassy ceiling of the
ice, three more left the rent in the submarine and followed likewise. Twelve men were at the
top; six others were swimming up; three more were yet to leave the submarine--and after they
had abandoned her, he, Ken, would follow with the torpoon and the food it contained.

So he thought, watching from where he lay, down below, and there was in him a great weariness
after the triumph so bitterly fought for had been achieved. He rested through minutes of quiet
and relaxation, watching what he had brought about; but only minutes--for suddenly without
warning all security was gone.

From out the murky shadows to the left a sleek shape came flashing with great speed, to jerk
Ken Torrance's eyes around and to widen them with quick alarm.

A sealman! A sealman alive, and moving--and vengeful! A sealman which the explosion of nitromite
had not reached!

Doubtless the lone creature was surprised upon seeing all its fellows motionless, drifting
like corpses upward, and the men of the Peary escaping. With graceful, beautiful speed, a liquid
streak, it flashed into the scene, eeling up and around and down, trying to understand what
extraordinary thing had happened. But finally it slowed down and hovered some thirty feet directly
above the dark hull of the Peary.

The men rising toward the ice had seen the sealman at the same time Ken Torrance had, and at
once increased their efforts, fearing immediate attack. Quickly the two groups shot to the
top where the other twelve were, and began a desperate fumbling progress over toward the hole
that alone gave exit. But the sealman paid no attention to them. It was looking at something below.

Ken saw what it was.

The last three men were leaving the Peary. Awkward, swaying objects, they rose up directly
in front of the hovering creature.

       *       *       *       *       *

With an enraged thrust of flippers, it drove at them. The three humans--Sallorsen, Lawson and
one other, Ken knew they must be--were clasped together, and the long, lithe, muscular body
smote them squarely, sent them whirling and helpless in different directions in the sea-gloom.
One of them was driven down by the force of the blow, and that one the sealman chose to finish
first. It lashed at him, its strong teeth bared to rip the sea-suit, concentrating on him all
the rage and all the thirst for vengeance it had.

But by then, down below, the torpoon's motors were throbbing at full power; the thin directional
rudders were slanting; the torpoon was turning and pointing its nose upward; and Ken Torrance,
his face bleak as the Arctic ice, was grasping the trigger of the nitro-shell gun.

He might perhaps have saved the doomed man had he swept straight up then and fired, but a quick
mounting of the odds distracted him for a fatal second. Out of the deeper gloom at the left
came a swiftly growing shadow, and Ken, with a sinking in his stomach, knew it for a second
sealman.

Then another similar shadow brought his eyes to the right.

Two more sealmen! Three now--and how many more might come?

At once Ken knew what he must do before ever he fired a shell at one of the brown-skinned shapes.
The man just attacked had to be sacrificed in the interests of the rest. The torpoon swerved,
thrust up toward the ice ceiling under the full force of her motors; and when halfway to it,
and her gun-containing bow was pointed at a spot in the ice only twenty feet in front of the
foremost of the men stroking desperately towards the distant exit-hole, Ken pressed the trigger;
and again, and again and again....

Twelve shells, quick, on the same path, bit into the ice. Almost immediately came the first
explosion. It was swelled by the others. The ice shivered and crumbled in jagged splinters--and
then there was a new column of light reaching down from the world of air and life into the
darkness of the undersea. A roughly circular hole gaped in the ice sixty or seventy feet nearer
the swimming men than the old one.

"That'll give 'em a chance," muttered Kenneth Torrance. He plunged the torpoon around and down.
"And now for a fight!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Without pause, now, there was, straight ahead, a hard, desperate duel, a fitting last fight
for any torpoon or any man riding one. Each of the seven shells left in the nitro-gun's magazine
had to count; and the first of them gave a good example.

Ken turned down in time to see the death of the man first attacked. His suit was ripped clean
across, his air of life went up in bubbles, and the water came in. The seal-creature lunged
at its falling victim a last time, and as it did so its smooth brown body crossed Ken's sights.
The torpooner fired, and saw his shell strike home, for the body shuddered, convulsed, and
the sealman, internally torn, went sinking in a dark cloud after the human it had slain.

That sight gave pause to the other two creatures that had arrived, and gave Ken Torrance a
good second chance. Motor throbbing, the torpoon turned like a thing alive. Its snout and gun-sights
swerving straight toward the next target. But, when just on the point of pressing the trigger,
Ken's torpoon was struck a terrific blow and tumbled over and over. The whole external scene
blurred to him, and only after a moment was he able to bring the torpoon back to an even keel.

He saw what had happened. While he had been sighting on the second seal-creature, the third
had attacked the torpoon from the rear by striking it with all the strength of its heavy, muscular
body. But it did not follow up its attack. For it had crashed in to the whirling propeller,
and now it was hanging well back, its head horribly gashed by the steel blades.

For a moment the three combatants hung still, both sealmen staring at the torpoon as if in
wonder that it could strike both with its bow and stern, and Ken Torrance rapidly glancing
over the situation. The remaining two of the last group of three men, he saw, had reached the
top, and the foremost of the Peary's crew were within several feet of the new hole in the ice.
In a very short time all would be out and safe. Until then he had to hold off the two sealmen.

Two? There were no longer only two, but five--ten--a dozen--and more. The dead were coming to life!

Here and there in the various levels of drifting, motionless brown bodies that he thought the
explosion had killed, one was stirring, awakening! The explosion had but stunned many or most
of them, and now they were returning to consciousness!

CHAPTER VIII

The Duel

Upon seeing this, all hope for life left Ken. He had only six shells left, and at best he could
kill only six sealmen. Already, there were more than twenty about him, completely encircling
the torpoon. They seemed afraid of it, and yet desirous of finishing it--they hung back, watching
warily the thing that could strike and hurt from either end; but Ken knew, of course, that
he could not count on their inaction long. One concerted charge would mean his quick end, and
the death of most of the men above.

Well, there was only one thing to do--try to hold them off until those men above had climbed
out, every one.

With this plan in mind, he maneuvered for a commanding position. Quietly he slid his motor
into gear, and slowly the torpoon rose. At this first movement, the wall of hesitating brown
bodies broke back a little. It quickly pressed in again, however, as the torpoon came to a
halt where Ken wanted it--a position thirty feet beneath, and slightly to one side, of the
escaping men above, with an angle of fire commanding the area the sealmen would have to cross
to attack them.

Almost at once came action. One of the surrounding creatures swerved suddenly up toward the
men. Instinctively angling the torp, Ken sent a nitro-shell at it; and the chance aim was good.
The projectile caught the sealman squarely, and, after the convulsion, it began to drift downward,
its body torn apart.

"That'll teach you, damn you!" Ken muttered savagely, and, to heighten the effect he had created,
he brought his sights to bear on another sealman in the circle around him--and fired and killed.

This sight of sudden death told on the others. They grew obviously more fearful and gave back,
though still forming a solid circle around the torpoon. The circle was ever thickening and
deepening downward as more of those that the explosion had rendered unconscious returned to life.

And then, above, the first man reached the hole, clawed at its rough edges and levered himself
through.

That was a signal. From somewhere beneath, two brown bodies flashed upward in attack. Fearing
a general rush at any second, Ken fired twice swiftly. One shell missed, but the other slid
to its mark. Almost alongside its fellow, one of the creatures was shattered and torn, and
that evidently altered the other's intentions, for it abandoned the attack and sought safety
in the mass of its fellows on the farther side.

Another respite. Another man through the hole. And but two nitro-shells left!

       *       *       *       *       *

The deadly circle, like wolves around a lone trapper who crouches close to his dying fire,
pressed in a little; and by their ominous quietness, by the sight of their eyes all turned
in on him, their concerted inching closer, Ken sensed the nearness of the charge that would
finish him. All this in deep silence, there in the gloomy quarter-light. He could not yell
and brandish his fists at them as the trapper by the fire might have done to win a few extra
minutes. The only cards he had to play were two shells--and one was needed now!

He fired it with deliberate, sure aim, and grunted as he saw its victim convulse and die, with
dark blood streaming. Again the swarm hesitated.

Ken risked a glance above. Only three men left, he saw; and one was pulled through the hole
as he watched. Below, in one place, several seal-creatures surged upward.

"Get back, damn you!" he cursed harshly. "All right--take it! That's the last!"

And the last shell hissed out from the gun even as the last man, above, was pulled through
up into the air and safety.

Ken felt that he had given half his life with that final shell. Completely surrounded by a
hundred or more of the sealmen, he could not possibly hope to maneuver the torpoon up to the
hole in the ice and leave it, without being overwhelmed. He had held off the swarm long enough
for the others to escape, but for himself it was the end.

So he thought, and wondered just when that end would come. Soon, he knew. It would not take
them long to overcome their fear when they saw that he no longer reached out and struck them
down in sudden bloody death. Now it was their turn.

"Anyway," the torpooner murmured, "I got 'em out. I saved them."

But had he? Suddenly his mind turned up a dreadful thought. He had saved them from the sealmen,
but they were up on the ice without food. There had been no time to apportion rations in the
submarine; all the supplies were stacked around him in the torpoon!

Searching planes would eventually appear overhead, but if he could not get the food up to the
men it meant their death as surely as if they had stayed locked in the Peary!

But how could he do it without shells, and with that living wall edging inch by inch upon him,
visibly on the brink of rushing him. Some carried ropes with which they would lash the torpoon
down as they had the others. Must all he and those men had gone through, be in vain? Must he
die--and the others? For certainly without food, those men above on the lonely ice fields,
all of them weakened by the long siege in the submarine, would perish quickly....

And then a faintly possible plan came to him. It involved an attempt to bluff the seal-creatures.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thirty feet above the lone man in the torpoon was the hole he had blasted in the ice. He knew
that from the cone of light which filtered down; he did not dare to take his eyes for a second
from the creatures around him, for all now depended on his judging to a fraction just when
the lithe, living wall would leap to overwhelm him.

Now the torpoon was enclosed by what was more a sphere of brown bodies than a circle. But it
was not a solid sphere. It stretched thinly to within a few feet of the ice ceiling where,
in one place, was the hole Ken had blown in the ice.

He began to play the game. He edged the gears into reverse, gently angled the diving-planes,
and slowly the torpoon tilted in response and began to sink back to the dark sea-floor.

Motion appeared in the curved facade of sleek brown heads and bodies in front and to the sides.
The creatures behind and below, Ken could not see; he could only trust to the fear inspired
by the damage his propeller had wreaked on one of them, to hold them back. However, he could
judge the movements of those behind and below by the synchronized movements of those in front;
for the sealmen, in this tense siege, seemed to move as one--just as they would move as one
when a leader got the courage to charge across the gap to the torpoon.

In reverse, slowly, the torpoon backed downward. Every minute seemed a separate eternity of
time, for Ken dared not move fast at this juncture, and he needed to retreat not less than
fifty feet.

Fifty feet! Would they hold off long enough for him to make it?

Foot by foot the torpoon edged down at her forty-five-degree angle, and with every foot the
watching bodies became visibly bolder. There was no light inside the torpoon--inner light would
decrease the visibility outside--but Ken knew her controls as does the musician his instrument.
Slowly the propeller whirled over, the torpoon dropped, slowly the diffused light from the
hole above diminished--and slowly the eager wall of sealmen followed and crept in.

