 The diary is greatly relied on by the writers
of history, but it is doubtful if there is any such liar in the world, even when the keeper
of it is honest. It is certain to be partisan, and more liable to be misinformed than a newspaper,
which exercises some care in view of immediate publicity. The writer happens to know of two
diaries which record, on the testimony of eye-witnesses, the circumstances of the last hours
of Garfield, and they differ utterly in essential particulars. One of these may turn up fifty
years from now, and be accepted as true. An infinite amount of gossip goes into diaries about
men and women that would not stand the test of a moment's contemporary publication. But by-and-by
it may all be used to smirch or brighten unjustly some one's character. Suppose a man in the
Army of the Potomac had recorded daily all his opinions of men and events. Reading it over
now, with more light and a juster knowledge of character and of measures, is it not probable
that he would find it a tissue of misconceptions? Few things are actually what they seem today;
they are colored both by misapprehensions and by moods. If a man writes a letter or makes report
of an occurrence for immediate publication, subject to universal criticism, there is some restraint
on him. In his private letter, or diary especially, he is apt to set down what comes into his
head at the moment, often without much effort at verification.

We have been led to this disquisition into the fundamental nature of this private record by
the question put to us, whether it is a good plan for a woman to keep a diary. Speaking generally,
the diary has become a sort of fetich, the authority of which ought to be overthrown. It is
fearful to think how our characters are probably being lied away by innumerable pen scratches
in secret repositories, which may some day come to light as unimpeachable witnesses. The reader
knows that he is not the sort of man which the diarist jotted him down to be in a single interview.
The diary may be a good thing for self-education, if the keeper could insure its destruction.
The mental habit of diarizing may have some value, even when it sets undue importance upon
trifles. We confess that, never having seen a woman's private diary (except those that have
been published), we do not share the popular impression as to their tenuity implied in the
question put to us. Taking it for granted that they are full of noble thoughts and beautiful
imaginings, we doubt whether the time spent on them could not be better employed in acquiring
knowledge or taking exercise. For the diary forgotten and left to the next generation may be
as dangerous as dynamite.

THE WHISTLING GIRL

The wisdom of our ancestors packed away in proverbial sayings may always be a little suspected.
We have a vague respect for a popular proverb, as embodying folk-experience, and expressing
not the wit of one, but the common thought of a race. We accept the saying unquestioning, as
a sort of inspiration out of the air, true because nobody has challenged it for ages, and probably
for the same reason that we try to see the new moon over our left shoulder. Very likely the
musty saying was the product of the average ignorance of an unenlightened time, and ought not
to have the respect of a scientific and traveled people. In fact it will be found that a large
proportion of the proverbial sayings which we glibly use are fallacies based on a very limited
experience of the world, and probably were set afloat by the idiocy or prejudice of one person.
To examine one of them is enough for our present purpose.

     "Whistling girls and crowing hens
     Always come to some bad ends."

