Across the length of that hall our eyes met--hers and mine--and held each other's glances.
To me the room and all within it formed an indistinct and misty picture, from out of which
there clearly gleamed my Paola's sweet, white face.

All at the table had risen with Ramiro, and now, copying their leader, they bared their heads
in outward token of such respect as certainly would have been felt by any men less abandoned
than were they before so much saintly beauty and distress.

Lucagnolo had stepped aside, and Ramiro was now bowing low and ceremoniously before Madonna.
His face I could not see, since his back was towards me, but his tones, as they floated across
the hall to where I stood, came laden with subservience.

"Madonna, I give praise and thanks to Heaven for this," said he. "I was afflicted by the gravest
misgivings for your safety, and I am more than thankful to behold you safe and sound."

There was a hypocritical flavour of courtliness about his words, and a mincing of his tones
that suggested the efforts of a bull-calf to imitate the warbling of a throstle.

Madonna paid him no heed; indeed, she appeared not to have heard him, for her eyes continued
to look past him and at me. At last her lips parted, and although she scarcely seemed to raise
her voice above a whisper, the word uttered reached my ears across the stillness of the great
room, and the word was "Lazzaro!"

At mention of my name, and at the tone in which it was uttered--a tone that betrayed same measure
of what was in her heart--Ramiro wheeled sharply in my direction, his brows wrinkling. A certain
craftiness he had, for all that I ever accounted him the dullest-witted clod that ever rose
to his degree of honour. He must have realised how expedient it was that in all he did he should
present himself to Madonna in a favourite light.

"Release him," he bade the executioners that held me, and in an instant I was set free. The
order given, he turned again to Madonna.

"You have been torturing him," she cried, and her words were hard and fierce, her eyes blazing.
"You shall repent it, Ser Ramiro. The Lord Cesare Borgia shall hear of it."

Her anger betrayed her more and more, and however hidden it may have been to her, to me it
was exceeding clear that she was encompassing my destruction. Ramiro laughed easily.

"Madonna, you are at fault. We have not been torturing him, though I confess that we were on
the point of putting him to the question. But your timely arrival has saved his limbs, for
the question we were asking him concerned your whereabouts!"

I would have shouted to her to be wary how she answered him, for some premonition how he was
about to trick her entered my mind. But realising the futility of such a course, I held my
peace and waited agonisedly.

"You had tortured him in vain then," she answered scornfully. "For Lazzaro Biancomonte would
never have betrayed me. Nor could he have betrayed me if he would, for after your men had searched
the hut in which I was hidden, I walked to Cattolica thinking foolishly that I should be safer
there."

Lackaday! She had told him the very thing he had sought to know. Yet to make doubly sure he
pursued the scent a little farther.

"Indeed it seems to me that had I tortured him I had given him no more than he deserved for
having abandoned you in that hut. Madonna, I tremble to think of the harm that might have come
to you through that knave's desertion." And he scowled across at me, much as the Pharisee might
have scowled upon the publican.

"He is no knave," she answered, and I could have groaned to hear her working my undoing, though
not by so much as a sign might I inspire her with caution, for that sign must have been seen
by others. "Nor did he abandon me. He left me only to go in quest of the necessaries for our
journey. If harm has come to me the blame of it must not rest on him."

"Of what harm do you speak, Madonna?" he cried, in a voice laden with concern.

"Of what harm," she echoed, eyeing him with a scorn that would have slain him had he any manhood
left. "Of what harm? Mother of Mercy, defend me! Do you ask the question? What greater harm
could have come to me than to have fallen into the hands of Ramiro del' Orca and his brigands?"

He stood looking at her, and I doubt not that his face was a very picture of simulated consternation.

"Surely, Madonna, you do not understand that we are your friends, that you can so abuse us.
But you will be faint, Madonna," he cried, with a fresh and deep solicitude. "A cup of wine."
And he waved his hand towards the table.

"It would poison me, I think," she answered coldly.

"You are cruel, and--alas!--mistrustful," said he. "Can you guess nothing of the anxiety that
has been mine these two days, of the fears that have haunted me as I thought of you and your
wanderings?"

Her lip curled, and her face took on some slight vestige of colour. Her spirit was a thing
for which I might then have come to love her had it not been that already I loved her to distraction.

"Yes," said she, "I can guess something of your dismay when you found your schemes frustrated;
when you found that you had come too late to San Domenico."

"Will you not forgive me that shift to which my adoration drove me?" he implored, in a honeyed
voice--and a more fearful thing than Ramiro the butcher was Ramiro the lover.

At that scarcely covert avowal of his passion she recoiled a step as she might before a thing
unclean. The little colour faded from her cheek, the scorn departed from her lip, and a sickly,
deadly fear overspread her lovely face. God! that I should stand there and witness this insult
to the woman I adored and worshipped with a fervour that the Church seeks to instil into us
for those about the throne of Heaven. It might not be. A blind access of fury took me. Of the
consequences I thought nothing. Reason left me utterly, and the slight hope that might lie
in temporising was disregarded.

Before those about me could guess my purpose, or those others, too engrossed in the scene at
the far end of the hall, could intervene, I had sprung from between the executioners and dashed
across the space that separated me from the Governor of Cesena. One well-aimed blow, and there
should be an end to Messer Ramiro. That was the only thought that found room in my disordered mind.

One or two there were who cried out as I sped past them, swift as the hound when it speeds
after the fleeing hare. But I was upon Ramiro ere any could have sufficiently mastered his
surprise to interfere.

By the nape of his great neck I caught him from behind, and setting my knee at his spine I
wrenched him backward, and so flung him over on the floor. Down I went with him, my hand reaching
for the dagger at his jewelled girdle, and I had found and drawn it in that swift action of
mine ere he had bethought him of his hands. Up it flashed and down. I sank it through the crimson
velvet of his rich doublets straight at the spot where his heart should be--if he were so human
as to have a heart. The next instant I turned cold and sick. My desperate effort had been all
for nothing. In my hand I was left with the bronze hilt of his great poniard; the blade had
broken off against the mesh of steel the coward wore beneath his finery.

There was a rush of feet about us, a piercing scream from Madonna Paola, and it was to her
that I owed my life in that grim moment. A dozen blades were naked and would have transfixed
me as I lay, but that she covered my body with her own and bade them strike at me through her.

A moment later and the powerful hands of the Governor of Cesena were at my throat. I was lifted
and tossed aside, as though I had been a hound and he the bull I had beset. And as he swung
me over and crushed me to the ground, he knelt above me and grinned horribly into my purpling face.

A second we stayed so, and I thought indeed that my hour was come, when suddenly I felt the
blood in my head released once more. He had taken his hands from my throat. He seized me now
by the collar and dragged me rudely to my feet.

"Take this knave and lock him in his chamber," he bade a couple of his bravi. "I may have need
of him ere he dies."

"Messer Ramiro," came the interceding voice of Madonna Paola, "what he did, he did for me.
You will not let him die for it?"

There was a pause during which he looked at her, whilst the men were roughly dragging me across
the hall.

"Who knows, Madonna?" he said, with a bow and an infernal smile. "If you were to beg his life,
it might even come to pass that I might spare it."

He did not wait for her answer, but stepping after me he called to the men that led me. In
obedience they halted, and he came forward. We were now at the foot of the staircase.

"Boccadoro," said he, planting himself before me, and eyeing me with eyes that were very full
of malice, "you will recall the punishment I promised you if I came to discover it was you
had thwarted me in Pesaro. It is the second time you have fooled Ramiro del' Orca. There does
not live the man who can boast that he did it thrice, nor will I risk it that you be that man.
Make your peace with Heaven, for at sunset--in an hour's time--you hang. There is one little
thing that might save you even yet, and if you find life sweet, you would do well to pray that
that little thing may come to pass."

I answered him nothing, but I bowed my head in token that I had heard and he signed to the
men to proceed with me, whilst turning on his heel he stepped down the hall again to where
Madonna Paola, overcome with weakness, had sunk upon a stool.

As I was leaving the gallery I had a last glimpse of her, sitting there with drawn face and
haggard eyes that followed me as I passed from her sight, whilst Ramiro del' Orca stood beside
her murmuring words that did not reach me. His so-called courtiers and his men-at-arms were
trooping out of the room, no doubt in obedience to his dismissal.

CHAPTER XX. THE SUNSET

I have heard tell of the calm that comes upon brave men when hope is dead and their doom has
been pronounced. Uncertainty may have tortured and made cowards of them; but once that uncertainty
is dissolved and suspense is at an end, resignation enters their soul, and, possessing it,
gives to their bearing a noble and dignified peace. By the mercy of Heaven they are made, maybe,
to see how poor and evanescent a thing is life; and they come to realise that since to die
is a necessity there is no avoiding, as well might it betide to-day as ten years hence.

Such a mood, however, came not to soothe that last hour of mine, and yet I account myself no
coward. It was an hour of such torture and anguish as never before I had experienced--much
though I had undergone--and the source of all my suffering lay in the fact that Madonna Paola
was in the hands of the ogre of Cesena. Had it not been for that most untoward circumstance
I almost believe that while I waited for the sun to set on that December afternoon, my mood
had not only been calm but even in some measure joyous, for it must have comforted my last
moments to reflect that for all that Messer Ramiro was about to hang me, yet had I sown the
seeds of his own destruction ere he had brought me to this pass.

I did, indeed, reflect upon it, and it may even be that, in spite of all, I culled some grain
of comfort from the reflection. But let that be. My narrative would drag wearily were I to
digress that I might tell you at length the ugly course of my thoughts whilst the sands of
my last hour were running swiftly out. For, after all, my concern and yours is with the story
of Lazzaro Biancomonte, sometime known as Boccadoro the Fool, and not with his philosophies--philosophies
so unprofitable that it can benefit no man that I should set them down.

My windows faced west, and so I was able to watch the fall of the sun, and measure by its shortening
distance from the horizon the ebbing of my poor life. At last the nether rim of that round,
fiery orb was on the point of touching the line of distant hills, and it was casting a crimson
glow along the white, snow-sheeted landscape that was singularly suggestive of a tide of blood--a
very fitting tide to flow and ebb about the walls of the Castle of Cesena.

One little thing there was might save me, Ramiro had said. But I had shut the thought out of
my mind to keep me from utter distraction. The only little thing in which I held that my salvation
could lie would be in the miraculous arrival of Cesare Borgia, and of that not the faintest
hope existed. If the greatest luck attended Mariani's errand and the greatest speed were made
by the Duke once he received the letter, he could not reach Cesena in less than another eight
hours. And another eight minutes, to reckon by the swift sinking of the sun would see the time
appointed for my hanging. I thought of Joshua in that grim hour, and in a mood that approached
the whimsical I envied him his gift. If I could have stayed the setting of the sun, and held
it where it was till midnight, all might yet be well if Mariani had been diligent and Cesare swift.

The key grating in the lock put an end to my vague musings, and reminded me of the fact that
I had neglected to employ that last hour as would have become a good son of Mother Church.
For an instant I believe that my heart turned me to thoughts of God, and sent up a prayer for
mercy for my poor sinful soul. Then the door swung wide. Two halberdiers and a carnifex in
his odious leathern apron stood before me. Clearly Ramiro sought to be exact, and to have me
hanging the instant the sun should vanish.

"It is time," said one of the soldiers, whilst the executioner, stepping into my chamber, pinioned
my wrists behind me, and retaining hold of the cord bade me march. He followed, holding that
slender cord, and so, like a beast to the shambles, went I.

Once more they led me into the hall, where the shadows were lengthening in dark contrast to
the splashes of sunlight that lingered on the floor, and whose blood-red hue was deepened by
the gules of the windows through which it was filtered.

Ramiro was waiting for me, and six of his officers were in attendance. But, for once, there
were no men-at-arms at hand. On a chair, the one usually occupied by Ramiro, himself, sat Madonna
Paola, still in her torn and bedraggled raiment, her face white, her eyes wild as they had
been when first she had been haled into Ramiro's presence, some two hours ago, and her features
so rigidly composed that it told the tale of the awful self-control she must be exerting--a
self-control that might end with a sudden snap that would plunge her into madness.

A wild rage possessed me at sight of her. Let Ramiro be ruthless and cruel where men were concerned;
that was a thing for which forgiveness might be found him. But that he should submit a lady,
delicately nurtured as was Madonna, to such horrors as she had undergone since she had awakened
from his sleeping-potion in the Church of San Domenico, was something for which no Hell could
punish him condignly.

Ramiro met me with a countenance through the assumed gravity of which I could espy his wicked,
infernal mockery peeping forth.

"I deplore your end, Lazzaro Biancomonte," said he slowly, "for you are a brave man, and brave
men are rare. You were worthy of better things, but you chose to cross swords with Ramiro del'
Orca, and you have got your death-blow. May God have mercy on your soul."

"I am praying," said I, "for just so much mercy as you shall have justice. If my prayer is
heard, I should be well-content."

He changed countenance a little. So, too, I thought, did Madonna Paola. My firmness may have
yielded her some grain of comfort. Ramiro set his hands on his hips, and eyed me squarely.

"You are a dauntless rogue," he confessed.

I laughed for answer, and in that moment it entered my mind that I might yet enjoy some measure
of revenge in this life. More than that, I might benefit Madonna. For were the seed I was about
to sow to take root in the craven heart of Ramiro del' Orca, it would so fully occupy his mind
that he would have little time to bestow on Paola in the few hours that were left him. But
before I could bethink me of words, he was speaking again.

"I held out to you a slender hope," said he. "I told you that there was one little thing might
save you. That hope has borne no fruit; the little thing, I spoke of has not come to pass.
It rested with Madonna Paola, here. She had it in her hands to effect your salvation, but she
has refused. Your blood rests on her head."

She shuddered at the words, and a low moan escaped her. She covered her face with her hands.
A moment I stood looking at her; then I shifted my glance to Ramiro.

"Will it please you, Illustrious, to allow me a few moments' conversation with Madonna Paola
di Santafior?"

I invested my tones with a weight of meaning that did not escape him. His face suddenly lightened;
whilst one of his officers--a fellow very fitly named Lupone--laughed outright.

"Your hero seems none so heroic after all," he said derisively to the Governor. "The imminence
of death makes him amenable."

Ramiro scowled on him for answer. Then, turning to me--"Do you think you could bend her stubbornness?"
quoth he.

"I might attempt it," answered I.

His eyes flashed with evil hope; his lips parted in a smile. He shot a glance at Madonna, who
had withdrawn her hands from her face and was regarding me now with a strange expression of
horror and incredulity--marvelling, no doubt, to find me such a craven as I must have seemed.

Ramiro looked at the diminishing sunlight on the floor.

"In some five minutes the sun will have completely set," said he. "Those five minutes you shall
have to seek to enlist Madonna's aid on your behalf. If you succeed--and she may tell you on
what terms you are to have your life--you shall depart from Cesena to-night a free man."

He paused a moment, and his eyes, lighted by an odious smile, rested once more on Madonna Paula.
Then he bade all withdraw, and went with them into an adjoining chamber, fondly nurturing the
hopes that were begotten of his belief that Lazzaro Biancomonte was a villain.

When we were alone, she and I, I stood a moment where they had left me, my hands pinioned behind
me, and the cord which the executioner had held trailing the ground like a lambent tail. Then
I went slowly forward until I stood close before her. Her eyes were on my face, still with
that same look of unbelief.

"Madonna mia," said I, "do not for an instant think that it is my purpose to ask of you any
sacrifice that might save my worthless life. Rather was my purpose in seeking these few moments
with you, to strengthen and encourage you by such news as it is mine to bring."

She looked now as if she scarcely understood.

"If I will wed him to-night, he has promised that you shall go free," she said in a whisper.
"He says that he can bring a priest from the neighbourhood at a moment's notice."

"Do not heed him," I cried sternly.

"I do not heed him," said she, more composedly. "If he seeks to force me, I shall find a way
of setting myself free. Dear Mother of Heaven! death were a sweet and restful thing after all
that I have suffered in these days."

Then she fell suddenly to weeping.

"Think me not an utter coward, Lazzaro. Willingly would I do this thing to save so noble a
life as yours, did I not think that you must hate me for it. I was stout and firm in my refusal,
confident that you would have had me so. Was I not right, my poor, poor Lazzaro?"

"Madonna, you were right," I answered firmly and calmly.

"And you are to die, amor mio," she murmured passionately. "You are to die when the promise
of happiness seemed held out to us. And yet, were you to live at the price at which life is
offered you, would your life be endurable? Tell me the truth, Lazzaro; swear it to me. For
if life is the dearer thing to you, why then, you shall have your life."

"Need you ask me, Paola?" questioned I. "Does not your heart tell you how much easier is death
than would be such life as I must lead hereafter, even if we could trust Ramiro, which we cannot.
Be brave, Madonna, and help me to be brave and to bear thyself with a becoming fortitude. Now
listen to what I have to tell you. Ramiro del' Orca is a traitor who is plotting the death
of his overlord. Proofs of it are by now in the hands of Cesare Borgia, and in some seven or
eight hours the Duke himself should be here to put this monster to the question touching these
matters. I will say a word in his ear ere I depart that will fill his mind with a very wholesome
fear, and you will find that during the few hours left him he will have little leisure to think
of you and afflict you with his odious wooing. Be strong, then, for a little while, for Cesare
is coming to set you free."

She looked at me now with eyes that were wide open. Suddenly--

"Could we not gain time?" she cried, and in her eagerness she rose and set her hands upon my
shoulders. "Could I not pretend to acquiesce to his wishes, and so delay your end?"

"I have thought of it," I answered gloomily, "but the thought has brought me no hope. Ramiro
is not to be trusted. He might tell you that he sets me free, but he dare not do so; he fears
that I may have knowledge of his dealings with Vitelli, and assuredly he would break faith
with us. Again the coming of the Duke might be delayed. Alas!" I ended in despair, "there is
nothing to be done but to let things run their course."

There was even more in my mind than I expressed. My mistrust of Ramiro went further than I
had explained, and concerning Madonna more closely than it did me.

"Nay, Lazzaro mine," she still protested, "I will attempt it. It is, at least, well worth the risk.

"You forget," said I, "that even when Cesare comes we cannot say how he will bear himself towards
you. You were to have been betrothed to his cousin, Ignacio. It is a matter upon which he may
insist."

She looked at me for a moment with anguish in her eyes that turned my misery into torture.

"Lazzaro," she moaned, "was ever woman so beset! I think that Heaven must have laid some curse
upon me."

Her face was close to mine. I stooped forward and kissed her on her brow.

"May God have you in His keeping, Madonna mia," I murmured. "The sun is gone."

"Lazzaro!" It was the cry of a breaking heart. Her arms went round my neck, and in a passion
of grief her kisses burned on my lips.

Then the door of the anteroom opened--and I thanked God for the mercy of that interruption.
I whispered a word to her, and in obedience she sprang back, and sank limp and broken on the
chair once again.

Ramiro entered, his men behind him, his face alit with eagerness. There and then I swamped
his hopes.

"The sun is gone, Magnificent," said I. "You had best get me hanged."

His brow darkened, for there was a note of mockery and triumph in my voice.

"You have fooled me, animal," he cried. His jaw set, and his eyes continued to regard me with
an evil glow. Then he laughed terribly, shrugged his shoulders, and spoke again. "After all,
it shall avail you little." He turned to the carnifex. "Federigo, do your work," said he, whereupon
the fellow stepped behind me, and the halberdiers ranged themselves one on either side of me again.

"A word ere I go, Messer del' Orca," I demanded insolently.

He looked at me sharply, wondering, maybe, at the fresh tone I took.

"Say it and begone," he sullenly permitted me.

I paused a moment to choose fitting words for that portentous death-song of mine. At length--

"You boasted to me a little while ago," said I, smiling grimly, "that the man did not live
who had thrice fooled you. That man does live, for that man am I."

"Bah!" he returned contemptuously, thinking, no doubt, that I referred to my interview with
Madonna Paola. "You may take what pride you will from such a thought. You are upon the threshold
of death."

"True, but the thought is one that affords me more comfort and joy than pride. As much comfort
and joy as you shall take horror when I tell you in what manner I have fooled you." I paused
to heighten the sensation of my words.

"To such good purpose have I used my wits that ere another sun shall rise and set you will
have followed me along the black road that I am now treading--the road whose bourne is the
gallows. Bethink you of the charred paper that last night you brushed from this table when
you awoke to find a candle fallen on the treacherous letter Vitellozzo Vitelli sent you in
the lining of a hat."

His jaw fell, his face flamed redder than ever for a second, then it went grey as ashes.

"Of what do you prate, fool?" he questioned huskily, seeking to bluster it before the startled
glances of his officers.

"I speak," said I, "of that charred paper. It was I who laid the candle across it; but it was
a virgin sheet I burned. Vitelli's letter I had first abstracted."

"You lie!" he almost screamed.

"To prove that I do not, I will tell you what it contained. It held proof that bribed by the
Tyrant of Citta di Castello you had undertaken to pose an arbalister to slay the Duke on the
occasion of his coming visit to Cesena."

He glared at me a moment in furious amazement. Then he turned to his officers.

"Do not heed him," he bade them. "The dog lies to sow doubts in your minds ere he goes out
to hang. It is a puerile revenge."

I laughed with amused confidence. There was one among them had heard Lampugnani's words touching
the messenger's hat--words that had cost the fellow his life. But my concern was little with
the effect my words might produce upon his followers.

"By to-morrow you will know whether I have lied or not. Nay, before then shall you know it,
for by midnight Cesare Borgia should be at Cesena. Vitellozzo Vitelli's letter is in his hands
by now."

At that Ramiro burst into a laugh. So convinced was he of the impossibility of my having got
the letter to the Duke, even if what I had said of its abstraction were true, that he gathered
assurance from what seemed to him so monstrous an exaggeration.

"By your own words are you confounded," said he. "Out of your own mouth have you proven your
lies. Assuming that all you say were true, how could you, who since last night have been a
prisoner, have got a messenger to bear anything from you to Cesare Borgia?"

I looked at him with a contemptuous amusement that daunted him.

"Where is Mariani?" I asked quietly. "Where is the father of the lad you so brutally and wantonly
slew yesternight? Seek him throughout Cesena, and when you find him not, perhaps you will realise
that one who had seen his own son suffer such an outrageous and cruel death at your brigand's
hands would be a willing and ready instrument in an act that should avenge him."

Vergine santa! What a consternation was his. He must have missed Mariani early in the day,
for he took no measure, asked no questions that might confirm or refute the thing I announced.
His face grew livid, and his knees loosened. He sank on to a chair and mopped the cold sweat
from his brow with his great brown hand. No thought had he now for the eyes of his officers
or their opinions. Fear, icy and horrid, such fear as in his time he had inspired in a thousand
hearts was now possessed of his. Sweet indeed was the flavour of my vengeance.

His officers instinctively drew away from him before the guilt so clearly written on his face,
and their eyes were full of doubt as to how they should proceed and of some fear--for it must
have been passing through their minds that they stood, themselves, in danger of being involved
with him in the Duke's punishment of his disloyalty.

This was more than had ever entered into my calculations or found room in my hopes. By a brisk
appeal to them, it almost seemed that I might work my salvation in this eleventh hour.

Madonna watched the scene with eyes that suggested to me that the same hope had arisen in her
own mind. My halberdiers and the carnifex alone stood stolidly indifferent. Ramiro was to them
the man that hired them; with his intriguing they had no concern.

For a moment or two there was a silence, and Ramiro sat staring before him, his white face
glistening with the sweat of fear. A very coward at heart was this overbearing ogre of Cesena,
who for years had been the terror and scourge of the countryside. At last he mastered his emotion
and sprang to his feet.

"You have had the laugh of me," he snarled, fury now ringing in his voice. "But ere you die
you may regret it that you mocked me."

He turned to the executioner.

"Strip him," he commanded fiercely. "He shall not hang as I intended--at least not before we
have torn every bone of his body from its socket. To the cord with him!" And he pointed to
the torture at the end of the hall.

The executioner made shift to obey him when suddenly Madonna Paola leapt to her feet, her cheeks
flushed and her eyes bright with a new excitement.

"Is there none here," he cried, appealing to Ramiro's officers, "that will draw his sword in
the service of his overlord, the Duca Valentino? There stands a traitor, and there one who
has proven his loyalty to Cesare Borgia. The Duke is likely to demand a heavy price for the
life of that faithful one to whose warning he owes his escape of assassination. Will none of
you side now with the right that anon you may stand well with Cesare Borgia when he comes?
Or, by idly allowing this traitor to have his way, will you participate in the punishment that
must be his?"

It was the very spur they needed. And scarce was that final question of hers flung at those
knaves, when the answer came from one of them. It was that same sturdy Lupone.

"I, for one, am for the Duke," said he, and his sword leapt from its scabbard. "I draw my iron
for Valentino. Let every loyal man do likewise and seize this traitor." And with his sword
he pointed at Ramiro.

In an instant three others bared their weapons and ranged themselves beside him. The remaining
two--of whom was Lucagnolo--folded their hands, manifesting by that impassivity that they were
minded to take neither one side nor the other.

The carnifex paused in his labours of undressing me, and the affair promised to grow interesting.
But Ramiro did not stand his ground. Fury swelling his veins and crimsoning his huge face,
he sprang to the door and bellowed to his guards. Six men trooped in almost at once, and reinforced
by the halberdiers that had been guarding me, they made short work of the resistance of those
four officers. In as little time as it takes me to record it, they were disarmed and ranged
against the wall behind those guards and others that had come to their support--to be dealt
with by Ramiro after he had dealt with me.

His fear of Cesare's coming was put by for the moment in his fierce lust to be avenged upon
me who had betrayed him and the officers who had turned against him. Madonna sank back once
more in her despair. The little spark that she had so bravely fanned to life had been quenched
almost as soon as it had shown itself.

"Now, Federigo," said Ramiro grimly, "I am waiting."

The executioner resumed his work, and in an instant I stood stripped of my brigandine. As the
fellow led me, unresisting, to the torture--for what resistance could have availed me now?--I
tried to pray for strength to endure what was to come. I was done with life; for some portion
of an hour I must go through the cruellest of agonies; and then, when it pleased God in His
mercy that I should swoon, it would be to wake no more in this world. For they would bear out
my unconscious body, and hang it by the neck from that black beam they called Ramiro del' Orca's
flagstaff.

I cast a last glance at Madonna. She had fallen on her knees, and with folded hands was praying
intently, none heeding her.

Federigo halted me beneath the pulleys, and his horrid hands grew busy adjusting the ropes
to my wrists.

And then, when the last ray of hope had faded, but before the executioner had completed his
hideous task, a trumpet-blast, winding a challenge to the gates of the Castle of Cesena, suddenly
rang out upon the evening air, and startled us all by its sudden and imperious note.

CHAPTER XXI. AVE CAESAR!

For just an instant I allowed myself to be tortured by the hope that a miracle had happened,
and here was Cesare Borgia come a good eight hours before it was possible for Mariani to have
fetched him from Faenza. The same doubt may have crossed Ramiro's mind, for he changed colour
and sprang to the door to bawl an order forbidding his men to lower the bridge.

But he was too late. Before he was answered by his followers, we heard the creaking of the
hinges and the rattle of the running chains, ending in a thud that told us the drawbridge had
dropped across the moat. Then came the loud continuous thunder of many hoofs upon its timbers.
Paralysed by fear Ramiro stood where he had halted, turning his eyes wildly in this direction
and in that, but never moving one way or the other.

It must be Cesare, I swore to myself. Who else could ride to Cessna with such numbers? But
then, if it was Cesare, it could not be that he had seen Mariani, for he could not have ridden
from Faenza. Madonna had risen too, and with a white face and straining eyes she was looking
towards the door.

And then our doubts were at last ended. There was a jangle of spurs and the fall of feet, and
through the open door stepped a straight, martial figure in a doublet of deep crimson velvet,
trimmed with costly lynx furs and slashed with satin in the sleeves and shoulder-puffs; jewels
gleamed in the massive chain across his breast and at the marroquin girdle that carried his
bronze-hilted sword; his hose was of red silk, and his great black boots were armed with golden
spurs. But to crown all this very regal splendour was the beautiful, pale, cold face of Cesare
Borgia, from out of which two black eyes flashed and played like sword-points on the company.

Behind him surged a press of mercenaries, in steel, their weapons naked in their hands, so
that no doubt was left of the character of this visit.

Collecting himself, and bethinking him that after all, he had best dissemble a good countenance;
Ramiro advanced respectfully to meet his overlord. But ere he had taken three steps the Duke
stayed him.

"Stand where you are, traitor," was the imperious command. "I'll trust you no nearer to my
person." And to emphasise his words he raised his gloved left hand, which had been resting
on his sword-hilt, and in which I now observed that he held a paper.

Whether Ramiro recognised it, or whether it was that the mere sight of a paper reminded him
of the letter which on my testimony should be in Cesare's keeping, or whether again the word
"traitor" with which Cesare branded him drove the iron deeper into his soul, I cannot say;
but to this I can testify: that he turned a livid green, and stood there before his formidable
master in an attitude so stricken as to have aroused pity for any man less a villain than was he.

And now Cesare's eye, travelling round, alighted on Madonna Paola, standing back in the shadows
to which she had instinctively withdrawn at his coming. At sight of her he recoiled a pace,
deeming, no doubt, that it was an apparition stood before him. Then he looked again, and being
a man whose mind was above puerile superstitions, he assured himself that by what miracle the
thing was wrought, the figure before him was the living body of Madonna Paola Sforza di Santafior.
He swept the velvet cap with its jewelled plume from off his auburn locks, and bowed low before
her.

"In God's name, Madonna, how are you come to life again, and how do I find you here of all places?"

She made no ado about enlightening him.

"That villain," said she, and her finger pointed straight and firmly at Ramiro, "put a sleeping-potion
in my wine on the last night he dined with us at Pesaro, and when all thought me dead he came
to the Church of San Domenico with his men to carry off my sleeping body. He would have succeeded
in his fell design but that Lazzaro Biancomonte there, whom you have stayed him in the act
of torturing to death, was beforehand and saved me from his clutches for a time. This morning
at Cattolica his searching sbirri discovered me and brought me hither, where I have been for
the past three hours, and where, but for your Excellency's timely arrival, I shudder to think
of the indignities I might have suffered."

"I thank you, Madonna, for this clear succinctness," answered Cesare coldly, as was his habit.
They say he was a passionate man, and such indeed I do believe him to have been; but even in
the hottest frenzy of rage, outwardly he was ever the same--icily cold and tranquil. And this,
no doubt, was the thing that made him terrible.

"Presently, Madonna," he pursued, "I shall ask you to tell me how it chanced that, having saved
you, Messer Biancomonte did not bear you to your brother's house. But first I have business
with my Governor of Cesena--a score which is rendered, if possible, heavier than it already
stood by this thing that you have told me."

"My lord," cried out Ramiro, finding his tongue at last, "Madonna has misinformed you. I know
nothing of who administered the sleeping-potion. Certainly it was not I. I heard a rumour that
her body had been stolen, and--"

"Silence!" Cesare commanded sternly. "Did I question you, dog?"

His beautiful, terrible eyes fastened upon Ramiro in a glance that defied the man to answer
him. Cowed, like a hound at sight of the whip, Ramiro whimpered into silence.

Cesare waved his hand in his direction, half-turning to the men-at-arms behind him.

"Take and disarm him," was his passionless command. And while they were doing his bidding,
he turned to me and ordered the executioner beside me to unbind my hands and set me at liberty.

"I owe you a heavy debt, Messer Biancomonte," he said, without any warmth, even now that his
voice was laden with a message of gratitude. "It shall be discharged. It is thanks to your
daring and resource that the seneschal Mariani was able to bring me this letter, this piece
of culminating proof against Ramiro del' Orca. It is fortunate for you that Mariani was not
put to it to ride to Faenza to find me, or else I am afraid we had not reached Cesena in time
to save your life. I met him some leagues this side of Faenza, as I was on my way to Sinigaglia."

He turned abruptly to Ramiro.

"In this letter which Vitelli wrote you," said he, "it is suggested that there are others in
the conspiracy. Tell me now, who are those others? See that you answer me with truth, for I
shall compel proofs from you of such accusations as you may make."

Ramiro looked at him with eyes rendered dull by agony. He moistened his lips with his tongue,
and turning his head towards his men--

"Wine," he gasped, from very force of habit. "A cup of wine!"

"Let it be supplied him," said Cesare coldly, and we all stood waiting while a servant filled
him a cup. Ramiro gulped the wine avidly, never pausing until the goblet was empty.

"Now," said Cesare, who had been watching him, "will it please you to answer my question?"

"My lord," said Ramiro, revived and strengthened in spirit by the draught, "I must ask your
Excellency to be a little plainer with me. To what conspiracy is it that you refer? I know
of none. What is this letter which you say Vitelli wrote me? I take it you refer to the Lord
of Citta di Castello. But I can recall no letters passing between us. My acquaintance with
him is of the slightest."

Cesare looked at him a second.

"Approach," he curtly bade him, and Ramiro came forward, one of the Borgia halberdiers on either
side of him, each holding him by an arm. The Duke thrust the letter under his eyes. "Have you
never seen that before?"

Ramiro looked at it a moment, and his attempt at dissembling bewilderment was a ludicrous thing
to witness.

"Never," he said brazenly at last.

Cesare folded the letter and slipped it into the breast of his doublet. From his girdle he
took a second paper. He turned from Ramiro.

"Don Miguel," he called.

From behind his men-at-arms a tall man, all dressed in black, stood forward. It was Cesare's
Spanish captain, one whose name was as well known and as well-dreaded in Italy as Cesare's
own. The Duke held out to him the paper that he had produced.

"You heard the question that I asked Messer del' Orca?" he inquired.

"I heard, Illustrious," answered Miguel, with a bow.

"See that you obtain me an answer to it, as well as an account of the other matters that I
have noted on this list--concerning the misappropriation of stores, the retention of taxes
illicitly levied, and the wanton cruelty towards my good citizens of Cesena. Put him to the
question without delay, and record me his replies. The implements are yonder."

And with the same calm indifference which characterised his every word and action Cesare pointed
to the torture, and turned to Madonna Paola, as though he gave the matter of Ramiro del' Orca
and his misdeeds not another thought.

"Mercy, my lord," rang now the voice of Ramiro, laden with horrid fear. "I will speak."

"Then do so--to Don Miguel. He will question you in my name." Again he turned to Madonna. "Madonna
Paola, may I conduct you hence? Things may perhaps occur which it is not seemly your gentle
eyes should witness. Messer Biancomonte, attend us."

Now, in spite of all that Ramiro had made me suffer, I should have been loath to have remained
and witnessed his examination. That they would torture him was now inevitable. His chance of
answering freely was gone. Even if he returned meek replies to Don Miguel's questions, that
gentleman would, no doubt, still submit him to the cord by way of assuring himself that such
replies were true ones.

Gladly, then, did I turn to follow the Duke and Madonna Paola into the adjoining chamber to
which Cesare led the way, even as Don Miguel's voice was raised to command his men to clear
the hall, to the end that he might conduct his examination in private.

The three of us stood in the anteroom. A servant had lighted the tapers and closed the doors,
and the Duke turned to me.

"First, Messer Biancomonte, to discharge my debt. You are, if I am not misinformed, the lord
by right of birth of certain lands that bear your name, which suffered sequestration during
the reign of the late Costanzo, Tyrant of Pesaro, whose son Giovanni upheld that confiscation.
Am I right?"

"Your Excellency is very well informed. The Lord of Pesaro did make me tardy restitution--so
tardy, indeed, that the lands which he restored to me had already virtually passed from his
possession."

Cesare smiled.

"In recompense for the service you have rendered me this day," said he, and my heart thrilled
at the words and at the thought of the joy which I was about to bear to my old mother, "I reinvest
you in your lands of Biancomonte for so long as you are content to recognise in me your overlord,
and to be loyal, true and faithful to my rule."

I bowed, murmuring something of the joy I felt and the devotion I should entertain.

"Then that is done with. You shall have the deed from my hand by morning. And now, Madonna,
will you grant me some explanation of your conduct in leaving Pesaro in this man's company,
instead of repairing to your brother's house, when you awakened from the effects of the potion
Ramiro gave you, or must I seek the explanation from Messer Biancomonte?"

Her eyes fell before the scrutiny of his, and when they were raised again it was to meet my
glance, and if Cesare could not, for himself, read the message of those eyes, why then, his
penetration was by no means what the world accounted it.

"My lord," I cried, "let me explain. I love Madonna Paola. It was love of her that led me to
the church and kept me there that night. It was love of her and the overmastering passion of
my grief at her so sudden death that led me, in a madness, to desire once more to look upon
her face ere they delivered it to earth's keeping. Thus was it that I came to discover that
she lived; thus was it that I anticipated Ramiro del' Orca. He came upon us almost before I
had raised her from the coffin, yet love lent me strength and craft to delude him. We hid awhile
in the sacristy, and it was there, after Madonna had revived, that the pent-up passion of years
burst the bond with which reason had bidden me restrain it."

"By the Host!" cried Cesare, his brows drawn down in a frown. "You are a bold man to tell me
this. And you, Madonna," he cried, turning suddenly to her, "what have you to say?"

"Only, my lord, that I have suffered more I think in these past few days than has ever fallen
to the life-time's share of another woman. I think, my lord, that I have suffered enough to
have earned me a little peace and a little happiness for the remainder of my days. All my life
have men plagued me with marriages that were hateful to me, and this has culminated in the
brutal act of Ramiro del' Orca. Do you not think that I have endured enough?"

He stared at her for a moment.

"Then you love this fellow?" he gasped. "You, Madonna Paola Sforza di Santafior, one of the
noblest ladies in all Italy, confess to love this lordling of a few barren acres?"

"I loved him, Illustrious, when he was less, much less, than that. I loved him when he was
little better than the Fool of the Court of Pesaro, and not even the shame of the motley that
disgraced him could stay the impulse of my affections."

He laughed curiously.

"By my faith," said he, "I have gone through life complaining of the want of frankness in the
men and women I have met. But you two seem to deal in it liberally enough to satisfy the most
ardent seeker after truth. I would that Pontius Pilate could have known you." Then he grew
sterner. "But what account of this evening's adventure am I to bear to my cousin Ignacio?"

She hung her head in silence, whilst my own spirit trembled. Then suddenly I spoke.

"My lord," said I, "if you take her back to Pesaro, you may keep the deed of Biancomonte. For
unless Madonna Paola goes thither with me, your gift is a barren one, your reward of no account
or value to me."

"I would not have it so," said he, his head on one side and his fingers toying with his auburn
beard. "You saved my life, and you must be rewarded fittingly."

"Then, Illustrious, in payment for my preservation of your life, do you render happy mine,
and we shall thus be quits."

