The Round Table soon heard of the challenge, and of course it was a good deal discussed, for
such things interested the boys. The king thought I ought now to set forth in quest of adventures,
so that I might gain renown and be the more worthy to meet Sir Sagramor when the several years
should have rolled away. I excused myself for the present; I said it would take me three or
four years yet to get things well fixed up and going smoothly; then I should be ready; all
the chances were that at the end of that time Sir Sagramor would still be out grailing, so
no valuable time would be lost by the postponement; I should then have been in office six or
seven years, and I believed my system and machinery would be so well developed that I could
take a holiday without its working any harm.

I was pretty well satisfied with what I had already accomplished. In various quiet nooks and
corners I had the beginnings of all sorts of industries under way--nuclei of future vast factories,
the iron and steel missionaries of my future civilization.  In these were gathered together
the brightest young minds I could find, and I kept agents out raking the country for more,
all the time. I was training a crowd of ignorant folk into experts--experts in every sort of
handiwork and scientific calling.  These nurseries of mine went smoothly and privately along
undisturbed in their obscure country retreats, for nobody was allowed to come into their precincts
without a special permit--for I was afraid of the Church.

I had started a teacher-factory and a lot of Sunday-schools the first thing; as a result, I
now had an admirable system of graded schools in full blast in those places, and also a complete
variety of Protestant congregations all in a prosperous and growing condition.  Everybody could
be any kind of a Christian he wanted to; there was perfect freedom in that matter.  But I confined
public religious teaching to the churches and the Sunday-schools, permitting nothing of it
in my other educational buildings.  I could have given my own sect the preference and made
everybody a Presbyterian without any trouble, but that would have been to affront a law of
human nature: spiritual wants and instincts are as various in the human family as are physical
appetites, complexions, and features, and a man is only at his best, morally, when he is equipped
with the religious garment whose color and shape and size most nicely accommodate themselves
to the spiritual complexion, angularities, and stature of the individual who wears it; and,
besides, I was afraid of a united Church; it makes a mighty power, the mightiest conceivable,
and then when it by and by gets into selfish hands, as it is always bound to do, it means death
to human liberty and paralysis to human thought.

All mines were royal property, and there were a good many of them. They had formerly been worked
as savages always work mines--holes grubbed in the earth and the mineral brought up in sacks
of hide by hand, at the rate of a ton a day; but I had begun to put the mining on a scientific
basis as early as I could.

Yes, I had made pretty handsome progress when Sir Sagramor's challenge struck me.

Four years rolled by--and then!  Well, you would never imagine it in the world.  Unlimited
power is the ideal thing when it is in safe hands.  The despotism of heaven is the one absolutely
perfect government.  An earthly despotism would be the absolutely perfect earthly government,
if the conditions were the same, namely, the despot the perfectest individual of the human
race, and his lease of life perpetual.  But as a perishable perfect man must die, and leave
his despotism in the hands of an imperfect successor, an earthly despotism is not merely a
bad form of government, it is the worst form that is possible.

My works showed what a despot could do with the resources of a kingdom at his command.  Unsuspected
by this dark land, I had the civilization of the nineteenth century booming under its very
nose!  It was fenced away from the public view, but there it was, a gigantic and unassailable
fact--and to be heard from, yet, if I lived and had luck.  There it was, as sure a fact and
as substantial a fact as any serene volcano, standing innocent with its smokeless summit in
the blue sky and giving no sign of the rising hell in its bowels.  My schools and churches
were children four years before; they were grown-up now; my shops of that day were vast factories
now; where I had a dozen trained men then, I had a thousand now; where I had one brilliant
expert then, I had fifty now.  I stood with my hand on the cock, so to speak, ready to turn
it on and flood the midnight world with light at any moment.  But I was not going to do the
thing in that sudden way.  It was not my policy. The people could not have stood it; and, moreover,
I should have had the Established Roman Catholic Church on my back in a minute.

No, I had been going cautiously all the while.  I had had confidential agents trickling through
the country some time, whose office was to undermine knighthood by imperceptible degrees, and
to gnaw a little at this and that and the other superstition, and so prepare the way gradually
for a better order of things.  I was turning on my light one-candle-power at a time, and meant
to continue to do so.

I had scattered some branch schools secretly about the kingdom, and they were doing very well.
I meant to work this racket more and more, as time wore on, if nothing occurred to frighten
me. One of my deepest secrets was my West Point--my military academy. I kept that most jealously
out of sight; and I did the same with my naval academy which I had established at a remote
seaport.  Both were prospering to my satisfaction.

Clarence was twenty-two now, and was my head executive, my right hand.  He was a darling; he
was equal to anything; there wasn't anything he couldn't turn his hand to.  Of late I had been
training him for journalism, for the time seemed about right for a start in the newspaper line;
nothing big, but just a small weekly for experimental circulation in my civilization-nurseries.
He took to it like a duck; there was an editor concealed in him, sure. Already he had doubled
himself in one way; he talked sixth century and wrote nineteenth.  His journalistic style was
climbing, steadily; it was already up to the back settlement Alabama mark, and couldn't be
told from the editorial output of that region either by matter or flavor.

We had another large departure on hand, too.  This was a telegraph and a telephone; our first
venture in this line.  These wires were for private service only, as yet, and must be kept
private until a riper day should come.  We had a gang of men on the road, working mainly by
night.  They were stringing ground wires; we were afraid to put up poles, for they would attract
too much inquiry.  Ground wires were good enough, in both instances, for my wires were protected
by an insulation of my own invention which was perfect. My men had orders to strike across
country, avoiding roads, and establishing connection with any considerable towns whose lights
betrayed their presence, and leaving experts in charge. Nobody could tell you how to find any
place in the kingdom, for nobody ever went intentionally to any place, but only struck it by
accident in his wanderings, and then generally left it without thinking to inquire what its
name was.  At one time and another we had sent out topographical expeditions to survey and
map the kingdom, but the priests had always interfered and raised trouble. So we had given
the thing up, for the present; it would be poor wisdom to antagonize the Church.

As for the general condition of the country, it was as it had been when I arrived in it, to
all intents and purposes.  I had made changes, but they were necessarily slight, and they were
not noticeable.  Thus far, I had not even meddled with taxation, outside of the taxes which
provided the royal revenues.  I had systematized those, and put the service on an effective
and righteous basis.  As a result, these revenues were already quadrupled, and yet the burden
was so much more equably distributed than before, that all the kingdom felt a sense of relief,
and the praises of my administration were hearty and general.

Personally, I struck an interruption, now, but I did not mind it, it could not have happened
at a better time.  Earlier it could have annoyed me, but now everything was in good hands and
swimming right along.  The king had reminded me several times, of late, that the postponement
I had asked for, four years before, had about run out now.  It was a hint that I ought to be
starting out to seek adventures and get up a reputation of a size to make me worthy of the
honor of breaking a lance with Sir Sagramor, who was still out grailing, but was being hunted
for by various relief expeditions, and might be found any year, now.  So you see I was expecting
this interruption; it did not take me by surprise.

CHAPTER XI

THE YANKEE IN SEARCH OF ADVENTURES

There never was such a country for wandering liars; and they were of both sexes.  Hardly a
month went by without one of these tramps arriving; and generally loaded with a tale about
some princess or other wanting help to get her out of some far-away castle where she was held
in captivity by a lawless scoundrel, usually a giant. Now you would think that the first thing
the king would do after listening to such a novelette from an entire stranger, would be to
ask for credentials--yes, and a pointer or two as to locality of castle, best route to it,
and so on.  But nobody ever thought of so simple and common-sense a thing at that.  No, everybody
swallowed these people's lies whole, and never asked a question of any sort or about anything.
Well, one day when I was not around, one of these people came along--it was a she one, this
time--and told a tale of the usual pattern.  Her mistress was a captive in a vast and gloomy
castle, along with forty-four other young and beautiful girls, pretty much all of them princesses;
they had been languishing in that cruel captivity for twenty-six years; the masters of the
castle were three stupendous brothers, each with four arms and one eye--the eye in the center
of the forehead, and as big as a fruit.  Sort of fruit not mentioned; their usual slovenliness
in statistics.

Would you believe it?  The king and the whole Round Table were in raptures over this preposterous
opportunity for adventure. Every knight of the Table jumped for the chance, and begged for
it; but to their vexation and chagrin the king conferred it upon me, who had not asked for
it at all.

By an effort, I contained my joy when Clarence brought me the news. But he--he could not contain
his.  His mouth gushed delight and gratitude in a steady discharge--delight in my good fortune,
gratitude to the king for this splendid mark of his favor for me. He could keep neither his
legs nor his body still, but pirouetted about the place in an airy ecstasy of happiness.

On my side, I could have cursed the kindness that conferred upon me this benefaction, but I
kept my vexation under the surface for policy's sake, and did what I could to let on to be
glad. Indeed, I said I was glad.  And in a way it was true; I was as glad as a person is when
he is scalped.

Well, one must make the best of things, and not waste time with useless fretting, but get down
to business and see what can be done.  In all lies there is wheat among the chaff; I must get
at the wheat in this case: so I sent for the girl and she came.  She was a comely enough creature,
and soft and modest, but, if signs went for anything, she didn't know as much as a lady's watch.
I said:

"My dear, have you been questioned as to particulars?"

She said she hadn't.

"Well, I didn't expect you had, but I thought I would ask, to make sure; it's the way I've
been raised.  Now you mustn't take it unkindly if I remind you that as we don't know you, we
must go a little slow.  You may be all right, of course, and we'll hope that you are; but to
take it for granted isn't business.  You understand that.  I'm obliged to ask you a few questions;
just answer up fair and square, and don't be afraid.  Where do you live, when you are at home?"

"In the land of Moder, fair sir."

"Land of Moder.  I don't remember hearing of it before. Parents living?"

"As to that, I know not if they be yet on live, sith it is many years that I have lain shut
up in the castle."

"Your name, please?"

"I hight the Demoiselle Alisande la Carteloise, an it please you."

"Do you know anybody here who can identify you?"

"That were not likely, fair lord, I being come hither now for the first time."

"Have you brought any letters--any documents--any proofs that you are trustworthy and truthful?"

"Of a surety, no; and wherefore should I?  Have I not a tongue, and cannot I say all that myself?"

"But your saying it, you know, and somebody else's saying it, is different."

"Different?  How might that be?  I fear me I do not understand."

"Don't understand?  Land of--why, you see--you see--why, great Scott, can't you understand
a little thing like that?  Can't you understand the difference between your--why do you look
so innocent and idiotic!"

"I?  In truth I know not, but an it were the will of God."

"Yes, yes, I reckon that's about the size of it.  Don't mind my seeming excited; I'm not. 
Let us change the subject.  Now as to this castle, with forty-five princesses in it, and three
ogres at the head of it, tell me--where is this harem?"

"Harem?"

"The castle, you understand; where is the castle?"

"Oh, as to that, it is great, and strong, and well beseen, and lieth in a far country.  Yes,
it is many leagues."

"How many?"

"Ah, fair sir, it were woundily hard to tell, they are so many, and do so lap the one upon
the other, and being made all in the same image and tincted with the same color, one may not
know the one league from its fellow, nor how to count them except they be taken apart, and
ye wit well it were God's work to do that, being not within man's capacity; for ye will note--"

"Hold on, hold on, never mind about the distance; whereabouts does the castle lie?  What's
the direction from here?"

"Ah, please you sir, it hath no direction from here; by reason that the road lieth not straight,
but turneth evermore; wherefore the direction of its place abideth not, but is some time under
the one sky and anon under another, whereso if ye be minded that it is in the east, and wend
thitherward, ye shall observe that the way of the road doth yet again turn upon itself by the
space of half a circle, and this marvel happing again and yet again and still again, it will
grieve you that you had thought by vanities of the mind to thwart and bring to naught the will
of Him that giveth not a castle a direction from a place except it pleaseth Him, and if it
please Him not, will the rather that even all castles and all directions thereunto vanish out
of the earth, leaving the places wherein they tarried desolate and vacant, so warning His creatures
that where He will He will, and where He will not He--"

"Oh, that's all right, that's all right, give us a rest; never mind about the direction, hang
the direction--I beg pardon, I beg a thousand pardons, I am not well to-day; pay no attention
when I soliloquize, it is an old habit, an old, bad habit, and hard to get rid of when one's
digestion is all disordered with eating food that was raised forever and ever before he was
born; good land! a man can't keep his functions regular on spring chickens thirteen hundred
years old.  But come--never mind about that; let's--have you got such a thing as a map of that
region about you?  Now a good map--"

"Is it peradventure that manner of thing which of late the unbelievers have brought from over
the great seas, which, being boiled in oil, and an onion and salt added thereto, doth--"

"What, a map?  What are you talking about?  Don't you know what a map is?  There, there, never
mind, don't explain, I hate explanations; they fog a thing up so that you can't tell anything
about it.  Run along, dear; good-day; show her the way, Clarence."

Oh, well, it was reasonably plain, now, why these donkeys didn't prospect these liars for details.
It may be that this girl had a fact in her somewhere, but I don't believe you could have sluiced
it out with a hydraulic; nor got it with the earlier forms of blasting, even; it was a case
for dynamite.  Why, she was a perfect ass; and yet the king and his knights had listened to
her as if she had been a leaf out of the gospel.  It kind of sizes up the whole party.  And
think of the simple ways of this court: this wandering wench hadn't any more trouble to get
access to the king in his palace than she would have had to get into the poorhouse in my day
and country.  In fact, he was glad to see her, glad to hear her tale; with that adventure of
hers to offer, she was as welcome as a corpse is to a coroner.

Just as I was ending-up these reflections, Clarence came back. I remarked upon the barren result
of my efforts with the girl; hadn't got hold of a single point that could help me to find the
castle.  The youth looked a little surprised, or puzzled, or something, and intimated that
he had been wondering to himself what I had wanted to ask the girl all those questions for.

"Why, great guns," I said, "don't I want to find the castle?  And how else would I go about it?"

"La, sweet your worship, one may lightly answer that, I ween. She will go with thee.  They
always do.  She will ride with thee."

"Ride with me?  Nonsense!"

"But of a truth she will.  She will ride with thee.  Thou shalt see."

"What?  She browse around the hills and scour the woods with me --alone--and I as good as engaged
to be married?  Why, it's scandalous. Think how it would look."

My, the dear face that rose before me!  The boy was eager to know all about this tender matter.
I swore him to secrecy and then whispered her name--"Puss Flanagan."  He looked disappointed,
and said he didn't remember the countess.  How natural it was for the little courtier to give
her a rank.  He asked me where she lived.

"In East Har--" I came to myself and stopped, a little confused; then I said, "Never mind,
now; I'll tell you some time."

And might he see her?  Would I let him see her some day?

It was but a little thing to promise--thirteen hundred years or so--and he so eager; so I said
Yes.  But I sighed; I couldn't help it.  And yet there was no sense in sighing, for she wasn't
born yet.  But that is the way we are made: we don't reason, where we feel; we just feel.

