2703. A lessor may also grant an under-lease for a term less than his own: to grant the whole
of his term would be an assignment. Leases are frequently burdened with a covenant not to underlet
without the consent of the landlord: this is a covenant sometimes very onerous, and to be avoided,
where it is possible, by a prudent lessee.

2704. A lease for any term beyond three years, whether an actual lease or an agreement for
one, must be in the form of a deed; that is, it must be "under seal;" and all assignments and
surrenders of leases must be in the same form, or they are void at law. Thus an agreement made
by letter, or by a memorandum of agreement, which would be binding in most cases, would be
valueless when it was for a lease, unless witnessed, and given under hand and seal. The last
statute, 8 & 9 Vict. c. 106, under which these precautions became necessary, has led to serious
difficulties. "The judges," says Lord St. Leonards, "feel the difficulty of holding a lease
in writing, but not by deed, to be altogether void, and consequently decided, that although
such a lease is void under the statute, yet it so far regulates the holding, that it creates
a tenancy from year to year, terminable by half a year's notice; and if the tenure endure for
the term attempted to be created by the void lease, the tenant may be evicted at the end of
the term without any notice to quit." An agreement for a lease not by deed has been construed
to be a lease for a term of years, and consequently void under the statute; "and yet," says
Lord St. Leonards, "a court of equity has held that it may be specifically enforced as an agreement
upon the terms stated." The law on this point is one of glorious uncertainty; in making any
such agreement, therefore, we should be careful to express that it is an agreement, and not
a lease; and that it is witnessed and under seal.

2705. AGREEMENTS.--It is usual, where the lease is a repairing one, to agree for a lease to
be granted on completion of repairs according to specification. This agreement should contain
the names and designation of the parties, a description of the property, and the term of the
intended lease, and all the covenants which are to be inserted, as no verbal agreement can
be made to a written agreement. It should also declare that the instrument is an agreement
for a lease, and not the lease itself. The points to be settled in such an agreement are, the
rent, term, and especially covenants for insuring and rebuilding in the event of a fire; and
if it is intended that the lessor's consent is to be obtained before assigning or underleasing,
a covenant to that effect is required in the agreement. In building-leases, usually granted
for 99 years, the tenant is to insure the property; and even where the agreement is silent
on that point, the law decides it so. It is otherwise with ordinary tenements, when the tenant
pays a full, or what the law terms rack-rent; the landlord is then to insure, unless it is
otherwise arranged by the agreement.

2706. It is important for lessee, and lessor, also, that the latter does not exceed his powers.
A lease granted by a tenant for life before he is properly in possession, is void in law; for,
although a court of equity, according to Lord St. Leonards, will, "by force of its own jurisdiction,
support a bonâ fide lease, granted under a power which is merely erroneous in form or ceremonies,"
and the 12 & 13 Vict. c. 26, and 13 & 14 Vict. c. 19, compel a new lease to be granted with
the necessary variations, while the lessor has no power to compel him to accept such a lease,
except when the person in remainder is competent and willing to confirm the original lease
without variations, yet all these difficulties involve both delay, costs, and anxieties.

2707. In husbandry leases, a covenant to cultivate the land in a husbandlike manner, and according
to the custom of the district, is always implied; but it is more usual to prescribe the course
of tillage which is to be pursued. In the case of houses for occupation, the tenant would have
to keep the house in a tenantable state of repair during the term, and deliver it up in like
condition. This is not the case with the tenant at will, or from year to year, where the landlord
has to keep the house in tenantable repair, and the tenant is only liable for waste beyond
reasonable wear and tear.

2708. INSURANCE.--Every lease, or agreement for a lease, should covenant not only who is to
pay insurance, but how the tenement is to be rebuilt in the event of a fire; for if the house
were burnt down, and no provision made for insurance, the tenant, supposing there was the ordinary
covenant to repair in the lease, would not only have to rebuild, but to pay rent while it was
being rebuilt. More than this, supposing, under the same lease, the landlord had taken the
precaution of insuring, he is not compelled to lay out the money recovered in rebuilding the
premises. Sir John Leach lays it down, that "the tenant's situation could not be changed by
a precaution, on the part of the landlord, with which he had nothing to do." This decision
Lord Campbell confirmed in a more recent case, in which an action was brought against a lessee
who was not bound to repair, and neither he nor the landlord bound to insure; admitting an
equitable defence, the court affirmed Sir John Leach's decision, holding that the tenant was
bound to pay the rent, and could not require the landlord to lay out the insurance money in
rebuilding. This is opposed to the opinion of Lord St. Leonards, who admits, however, that
the decision of the court must overrule his dictum. Such being the state of the law, it is
very important that insurance should be provided for, and that the payment of rent should be
made to depend upon rebuilding the house in the event of a fire. Care must be taken, however,
that this is made a covenant of the lease, as well as in the agreement, otherwise the tenant
must rebuild the house.

2709. The law declares that a tenant is not bound to repair damages by tempest, lightning,
or other natural casualty, unless there is a special covenant to that effect in the lease;
but if there is a general covenant to repair, the repair will fall upon the tenant. Lord Kenyon
lays it down, in the case of a bridge destroyed by a flood, the tenant being under a general
covenant to repair, that, "where a party, by his own contract, creates a duty or charge upon
himself, he is bound to make it good, because he might have guarded against it in the contract."
The same principle of law has been applied to a house destroyed by lightning. It is, therefore,
important to have this settled in the insurance clause.

2710. Lord St. Leonards asserts that "his policies against fire are not so framed as to render
the company legally liable." Generally the property is inaccurately described with reference
to the conditions under which you insure. They are framed by companies who, probably, are not
unwilling to have a legal defence against any claim, as they intend to pay what they deem just
claim without taking advantage of any technical objection, and intending to make use of their
defence only against what they believe to be a fraud, although they may not be able to prove
it. "But," says his lordship, "do not rely upon the moral feelings of the directors. Ascertain
that your house falls strictly within the conditions. Even having the surveyor of the company
to look over your house before the insurance will not save you, unless your policy is correct."
This is true; but probably his lordship's legal jealousy overshoots the mark here. Assurance
companies only require an honest statement of the facts, and that no concealment is practised
with their surveyor; and the case of his own, which he quotes, in which a glass door led into
a conservatory, rendering it, according to the view of the company, "hazardous," and consequently
voiding the policy, when a fire did occur, the company paid, rather than try the question;
but even after the fire they demurred, when called upon, to make the description correct and
indorse on the policy the fact that the drawing-room opened through a glass door into conservatories.
One of two inferences is obvious here; either his lordship has overcoloured the statement,
or the company could not be the respectable one represented. The practice with all reputable
offices is to survey the premises before insurance, and to describe them as they appear; but
no concealment of stoves, or other dangerous accessories or inflammable goods, should be practised.
This certainly binds the office so long as no change takes place; but the addition of any stove,
opening, or door through a party wall, the introduction of gunpowder, saltpetre, or other inflammable
articles into the premises without notice, very properly "voids the policy." The usual course
is to give notice of all alterations, and have them indorse on the policy, as additions to
the description of the property: there is little fear, where this is honestly done, that any
company would adopt the sharp practice hinted at in Lord St. Leonards' excellent handy book.

2711. BREAKS IN THE LEASE.--Where a lease is for seven, fourteen, or twenty-one years, the
option to determine it at the end of the first term is in the tenant, unless it is distinctly
agreed that the option shall be mutual, according to Lord St. Leonards.

2712. NOXIOUS TRADES.--A clause is usually introduced prohibiting the carrying on of any trade
in some houses, and of noxious or particular trades in others. This clause should be jealously
inspected, otherwise great annoyance may be produced. It has been held that a general clause
of this description prohibited a tenant from keeping a school, for which he had taken it, although
a lunatic asylum and public-house have been found admissible; the keeping an asylum not being
deemed a trade, which is defined as "conducted by buying and selling." It is better to have
the trades, or class of trades objected to, defined in the lease.

2713. FIXTURES.--In houses held under lease, it has been the practice with landlords to lease
the bare walls of the tenement only, leaving the lessee to put in the stoves, cupboards, and
such other conveniences as he requires, at his own option. Those, except under particular circumstances,
are the property of the lessee, and may either be sold to an incoming tenant, or removed at
the end of his term. The articles which may not be removed are subject to considerable doubt,
and are a fruitful source of dispute. Mr. Commissioner Fonblanque has defined as tenants' property
all goods and chattels; 2ndly, all articles "slightly connected one with another, and with
the freehold, but capable of being separated without materially injuring the freehold;" 3rdly,
articles fixed to the freehold by nails and screws, bolts or pegs, are also tenants' goods
and chattels; but when sunk in the soil, or built on it, they are integral parts of the freehold,
and cannot be removed. Thus, a greenhouse or conservatory attached to the house by the tenant
is not removable; but the furnace and hot-water pipes by which it is heated, may be removed
or sold to the in-coming tenant. A brick flue does not come under the same category, but remains.
Window-blinds, grates, stoves, coffee-mills, and, in a general sense, everything he has placed
which can be removed without injury to the freehold, he may remove, if they are separated from
the tenement during his term, and the place made good. It is not unusual to leave the fixtures
in their place, with an undertaking from the landlord that, when again let, the in-coming tenant
shall pay for them, or permit their removal. In a recent case, however, a tenant having held
over beyond his term and not removed his fixtures, the landlord let the premises to a new tenant,
who entered into possession, and would not allow the fixtures to be removed--it was held by
the courts, on trial, that he was justified. A similar case occurred to the writer: he left
his fixtures in the house, taking a letter from the landlord, undertaking that the in-coming
tenant should pay for them by valuation, or permit their removal. The house was let; the landlord
died. His executors, on being applied to, pleaded ignorance, as did the tenant, and on being
furnished with a copy of the letter, the executors told applicant that if he was aggrieved,
he knew his remedy; namely, an action at law. He thought the first loss the least, and has
not altered his opinion.

2714. TAXES.--Land-tax, sewers-rate, and property-tax, are landlord's taxes; but by 30 Geo.
II. c. 2, the occupier is required to pay all rates levied, and deduct from the rent such taxes
as belong to the landlord. Many landlords now insert a covenant, stipulating that land-tax
and sewers-rate are to be paid by the tenants, and not deducted: this does not apply to the
property-tax. All other taxes and rates are payable by the occupier.

2715. WATER-RATE, of course, is paid by the tenant. The water-companies, as well as gas-companies,
have the power of cutting off the supply; and most of them have also the right of distraining,
in the same manner as landlords have for rent.

2716. NOTICE TO QUIT.--In the case of leasing for a term, no notice is necessary; the tenant
quits, as a matter of course, at its termination; or if, by tacit consent, he remains paying
rent as heretofore, he becomes a tenant at sufferance, or from year to year. Half a year's
notice now becomes necessary, as we have already seen, to terminate the tenancy; except in
London, and the rent is under forty shillings, when a quarter's notice is sufficient. Either
of these notices may be given verbally, if it can be proved that the notice was definite, and
given at the right time. Form of notice is quite immaterial, provided it is definite and clear
in its purport.

2717. Tenancy for less than a year may be terminated according to the taking. Thus, when taken
for three months, a three months' notice is required; when monthly, a month's notice; and when
weekly, a week's notice; but weekly tenancy is changed to a quarterly tenure if the rent is
allowed to stand over for three months. When taken for a definite time, as a month, a week,
or a quarter, no notice is necessary on either side.

2718. DILAPIDATIONS.--At the termination of a lease, supposing he has not done so before, a
landlord can, and usually does, send a surveyor to report upon the condition of the tenement,
and it becomes his duty to ferret out every defect. A litigious landlord may drag the outgoing
tenant into an expensive lawsuit, which he has no power to prevent. He may even compel him
to pay for repairing improvements which he has effected in the tenement itself, if dilapidations
exist. When the lessor covenants to do all repairs, and fails to do so, the lessee may repair,
and deduct the cost from the rent.

2719. RECOVERY OF RENT.--The remedies placed in the hands of landlords are very stringent.
The day after rent falls due, he may proceed to recover it, by action at law, by distress on
the premises, or by action of ejectment, if the rent is half a year in arrear. Distress is
the remedy usually applied, the landlord being authorized to enter the premises, seize the
goods and chattels of his tenant, and sell them, on the fifth day, to reimburse himself for
all arrears of rent and the charges of the distress. There are a few exceptions; but, generally,
all goods found on the premises may be seized. The exceptions are--dogs, rabbits, poultry,
fish, tools and implements of a man's trade actually in use, the books of a scholar, the axe
of a carpenter, wearing apparel on the person, a horse at the plough, or a horse he may be
riding, a watch in the pocket, loose money, deeds, writings, the cattle at a smithy forge,
corn sent to a mill for grinding, cattle and goods of a guest at an inn; but, curiously enough,
carriages and horses standing at livery at the same inn may be taken. Distress can only be
levied in the daytime, and if made after the tender of arrears, it is illegal. If tender is
made after the distress, but before it is impounded, the landlord must abandon the distress
and bear the cost himself. Nothing of a perishable nature, which cannot be restored in the
same condition--as milk, fruit, and the like, must be taken.

2720. The law does not regard a day as consisting of portions. The popular notion that a notice
to quit should be served before noon is an error. Although distraint is one of the remedies,
it is seldom advisable in a landlord to resort to distraining for the recovery of rent. If
a tenant cannot pay his rent, the sooner he leaves the premises the better. If he be a rogue
and won't pay, he will probably know that nine out of ten distresses are illegal, through the
carelessness, ignorance, or extortion of the brokers who execute them. Many, if not most, of
the respectable brokers will not execute distresses, and the business falls into the hands
of persons whom it is by no means desirable to employ.

2721. Powers to relieve landlords of premises, by giving them legal possession, are given by
19 & 20 Vict., cap. 108, to the county courts, in cases where the rent does not exceed £50
per annum, and under the circumstances hereinafter mentioned; i.e.:--

    1. Where the term has expired, or been determined by notice to
    quit.

    2. Where there is one half-year's rent in arrear, and the
    landlord shall have right by law to enter for the nonpayment
    thereof. As proof of this power is required, the importance of
    including such a power in the agreement for tenancy will be
    obvious.

In the county courts the amount of rent due may be claimed, as well as the possession of the
premises, in one summons.

2722. When a tenant deserts premises, leaving one half-year's rent in arrear, possession may
be recovered by means of the police-court. The rent must not exceed £20 per annum, and must
be at least three-fourths of the value of the premises. In cases in which the tenant has not
deserted the premises, and where notice to quit has been given and has expired, the landlord
must give notice to the tenant of his intended application. The annual rent in this case, also,
must not exceed £20.

2723. THE I. O. U.--The law is not particular as to orthography; in fact, it distinctly refuses
to recognize the existence of that delightful science. You may bring your action against Mr.
Jacob Phillips, under the fanciful denomination of Jaycobb Fillipse, if you like, and the law
won't care, because the law goes by ear; and, although it insists upon having everything written,
things written are only supposed in law to have any meaning when read, which is, after all,
a common-sense rule enough. So, instead of "I owe you," persons of a cheerful disposition,
so frequently found connected with debt, used to write facetiously I. O. U., and the law approved
of their so doing. An I. O. U. is nothing more than a written admission of a debt, and may
run thus:--

                                           15th October, 1860.
  To Mr. W. BROWN.

                  I. O. U. ten pounds for coals.

  £10.                                            JOHN JONES.

If to this you add the time of payment, as "payable in one month from this date," your I. O.
U. is worthless and illegal; for it thus ceases to be a mere acknowledgment, and becomes a
promissory note. Now a promissory note requires a stamp, which an I. O. U. does not. Many persons,
nevertheless, stick penny stamps upon them, probably for ornamental effect, or to make them
look serious and authoritative. If for the former purpose, the postage-stamp looks better than
the receipt stamp upon blue paper. If you are W. Brown, and you didn't see the I. O. U. signed,
and can't find anybody who knows Jones's autograph, and Jones won't pay, the I. O. U. will
be of no use to you in the county court, except to make the judge laugh. He will, however,
allow you to prove the consideration, and as, of course, you won't be prepared to do anything
of the sort, he will, if you ask him politely, adjourn the hearing for a week, when you can
produce the coalheavers who delivered the article, and thus gain a glorious victory.

2724. APPRENTICES.--By the statute 5 Eliz. cap. 4, it is enacted that, in cases of ill-usage
by masters towards apprentices, or of neglect of duty by apprentices, the complaining party
may apply to a justice of the peace, who may make such order as equity may require. If, for
want of conformity on the part of the master, this cannot be done, then the master may be bound
to appear at the next sessions. Authority is given by the act to the justices in sessions to
discharge the apprentice from his indentures. They are also empowered, on proof of misbehaviour
of the apprentice, to order him to be corrected or imprisoned with hard labour.

2725. HUSBAND AND WIFE.--Contrary to the vulgar opinion, second cousins, as well as first,
may legally marry. When married, a husband is liable for his wife's debts contracted before
marriage. A creditor desirous of suing for such a claim should proceed against both. It will,
however, be sufficient if the husband be served with process, the names of both appearing therein,
thus:--John Jones and Ann his wife. A married woman, if sued alone, may plead her marriage,
or, as it is called in law, coverture. The husband is liable for debts of his wife contracted
for necessaries while living with him. If she voluntarily leaves his protection, this liability
ceases. He is also liable for any debts contracted by her with his authority. If the husband
have abjured the realm, or been transported by a sentence of law, the wife is liable during
his absence, as if she were a single woman, for debts contracted by her.

2726. In civil cases, a wife may now give evidence on behalf of her husband in criminal cases
she can neither be a witness for or against her husband. The case of assault by him upon her
forms an exception to this rule.

2727. The law does not at this day admit the ancient principle of allowing moderate correction
by a husband upon the person of his wife. Although this is said to have been anciently limited
to the use of "a stick not bigger than the thumb," this barbarity is now altogether exploded.
He may, notwithstanding, as has been recently shown in the famous Agapemone case, keep her
under restraint, to prevent her leaving him, provided this be effected without cruelty.

2728. By the Divorce and Matrimonial Causes Act, 1857, a wife deserted by her husband may apply
to a magistrate, or to the petty sessions, for an order to protect her lawful earnings or property
acquired by her after such desertion, from her husband and his creditors. In this case it is
indispensable that such order shall, within ten days, be entered at the county court of the
district within which she resides. It will be seen that the basis of an application for such
an order is desertion. Consequently, where the parties have separated by common consent, such
an order cannot be obtained, any previous cruelty or misconduct on the husband's part notwithstanding.

2729. When a husband allows his wife to invest money in her own name in a savings-bank, and
he survives her, it is sometimes the rule of such establishments to compel him to take out
administration in order to receive such money, although it is questionable whether such rule
is legally justifiable. Widows and widowers pay no legacy-duty for property coming to them
through their deceased partners.

2730. RECEIPTS for sums above £2 should now be given upon penny stamps. A bill of exchange
may nevertheless be discharged by an indorsement stating that it has been paid, and this will
not be liable to the stamp. A receipt is not, as commonly supposed, conclusive evidence as
to a payment. It is only what the law terms primâ facie evidence; that is, good until contradicted
or explained. Thus, if A sends wares or merchandise to B, with a receipt, as a hint that the
transaction is intended to be for ready money, and B detain the receipt without paying the
cash, A will be at liberty to prove the circumstances and to recover his claim. The evidence
to rebut the receipt must, however, be clear and indubitable, as, after all, written evidence
is of a stronger nature than oral testimony.

2731. BOOKS OF ACCOUNT.--A tradesman's books of account cannot be received as evidence in his
own behalf, unless the entries therein be proved to have been brought under the notice of,
and admitted to be correct by the other party, as is commonly the case with the "pass-books"
employed backwards and forwards between bakers, butchers, and the like domestic traders, and
their customers. The defendant may, however, compel the tradesman to produce his books to show
entries adverse to his own claim.

2732. WILLS.--The last proof of affection which we can give to those left behind, is to leave
their worldly affairs in such a state as to excite neither jealousy, nor anger, nor heartrendings
of any kind, at least for the immediate future. This can only be done by a just, clear, and
intelligible disposal of whatever there is to leave. Without being advocates for every man
being his own lawyer, it is not to be denied that the most elaborately prepared wills have
been the most fruitful sources of litigation, and it has even happened that learned judges
left wills behind them which could not be carried out. Except in cases where the property is
in land or in leases of complicated tenure, very elaborate details are unnecessary; and we
counsel no man to use words in making his will of which he does not perfectly understand the
meaning and import.

2733. All men over twenty-one years of age, and of sound mind, and all unmarried women of like
age and sanity, may by will bequeath their property to whom they please. Infants, that is,
all persons under twenty-one years of age, and married women, except where they have an estate
to their "own separate use," are incapacitated, without the concurrence of the husband; the
law taking the disposal of any property they die possessed of. A person born deaf and dumb
cannot make a will, unless there is evidence that he could read and comprehend its contents.
A person convicted of felony cannot make a will, unless subsequently pardoned; neither can
persons outlawed; but the wife of a felon transported for life may make a will, and act in
all respects as if she were unmarried. A suicide may bequeath real estate, but personal property
is forfeited to the crown.

2734. Except in the case of soldiers on actual service, and sailors at sea, every will must
be made in writing. It must be signed by the testator, or by some other person in his presence,
and at his request, and the signature must be made or acknowledged in the presence of two or
more witnesses, who are required to be present at the same time, who declare by signing that
the will was signed by the testator, or acknowledged in their presence, and that they signed
as witnesses in testator's presence.

2735. By the act of 1852 it was enacted that no will shall be valid unless signed at the foot
or end thereof by the testator, or by some person in his presence, and by his direction; but
a subsequent act proceeds to say that every will shall, as far only as regards the position
of the signature of the testator, or of the person signing for him, be deemed valid if the
signature shall be so placed at, or after, or following, or under, or beside, or opposite to
the end of the will, that it shall be apparent on the face of it that the testator intended
to give it effect by such signature. Under this clause, a will of several sheets, all of which
were duly signed, except the last one, has been refused probate; while, on the other hand,
a similar document has been admitted to probate where the last sheet only, and none of the
other sheets, was signed. In order to be perfectly formal, however, each separate sheet should
be numbered, signed, and witnessed, and attested on the last sheet. This witnessing is an important
act: the witnesses must subscribe it in the presence of the testator and of each other; and
by their signature they testify to having witnessed the signature of the testator, he being
in sound mind at the time. Wills made under any kind of coercion, or even importunity may become
void, being contrary to the wishes of the testator. Fraud or imposition also renders a will
void, and where two wills made by the same person happen to exist, neither of them dated, the
maker of the wills is declared to have died intestate.

2736. A will may always be revoked and annulled, but only by burning or entirely destroying
the writing, or by adding a codicil, or making a subsequent will duly attested; but as the
alteration of a will is only a revocation to the extent of the alteration, if it is intended
to revoke the original will entirely, such intention should be declared,--no merely verbal
directions can revoke a written will; and the act of running the pen through the signatures,
or down the page, is not sufficient to cancel it, without a written declaration to that effect
signed and witnessed.

2737. A will made before marriage is revoked thereby.

2738. A codicil is a supplement or addition to a will, either explaining or altering former
dispositions; it may be written on the same or separate paper, and is to be witnessed and attested
in the same manner as the original document.

2739. WITNESSES.--Any persons are qualified to witness a will who can write their names; but
such witness cannot be benefitted by the will. If a legacy is granted to the persons witnessing,
it is void. The same rule applies to the husband or wife of a witness; a bequest made to either
of these is void.

2740. FORM OF WILLS.--Form is unimportant, provided the testator's intention is clear. It should
commence with his designation; that is, his name and surname, place of abode, profession, or
occupation. The legatees should also be clearly described. In leaving a legacy to a married
woman, if no trustees are appointed over it, and no specific directions given, "that it is
for her sole and separate use, free from the control, debts, and incumbrances of her husband,"
the husband will be entitled to the legacy. In the same manner a legacy to an unmarried woman
will vest in her husband after marriage, unless a settlement of it is made on her before marriage.

2741. In sudden emergencies a form may be useful, and the following has been considered a good
one for a death-bed will, where the assistance of a solicitor could not be obtained; indeed,
few solicitors can prepare a will on the spur of the moment: they require time and legal forms,
which are by no means necessary, before they can act.

    I, A.B., of No. 10, ----, Street, in the city of ----
    [gentleman, builder, or grocer, as the case may be,] being of
    sound mind, thus publish and declare my last will and testament.
    Revoking and annulling all former dispositions of my property, I
    give and bequeath as follows:--to my son J.B., of ----, I give
    and bequeath the sum of ---; to my daughter M., the wife of J.,
    of ----, I give and bequeath the sum of ---- [if intended for
    her own use, add "to her sole and separate use, free from the
    control, debts, and incumbrances of her husband"], both in
    addition to any sum or sums of money or other property they have
    before had from me. All the remaining property I die possessed
    of I leave to my dear wife M. B., for her sole and separate use
    during her natural life, together with my house and furniture,
    situate at No. 10, ---- Street, aforesaid. At her death, I
    desire that the said house shall be sold, with all the goods and
    chattels therein [or, I give and bequeath the said house, with
    all the goods and chattels therein, to ----], and the money
    realized from the sale, together with that in which my said wife
    had a life-interest, I give and bequeath in equal moieties to my
    son and daughter before named. I appoint my dear friend T.S., of
    ----, and T.B., of ----, together with my wife M.B., as
    executors to this my last will and testament.

    Signed by A.B., this 10th day of October, 1861, in our presence,
    both being present together, and both having signed as
    witnesses, in the presence of the testator:--A.B.

    T.S., Witness. F.M., Witness.

It is to be observed that the signature of the testator after this attestation has been signed
by the witnesses, is not a compliance with the act; he must sign first.

2742. STAMP-DUTIES.--In the case of persons dying intestate, when their effects are administered
to by their family, the stamp-duty is half as much more as it would have been under a will.
Freehold and copyhold estates are now subject to a special impost on passing, by the Stamp
Act of 1857.

2743. The legacy-duty only commences when it amounts to £20 and upwards; and where it is not
directed otherwise, the duty is deducted from the legacy.

2744. You cannot compound for past absence of charity by bequeathing land or tenements, or
money to purchase such, to any charitable use, by your last will and testament; but you may
devise them to the British Museum, to either of the two universities of Oxford and Cambridge,
to Eton, Winchester, and Westminster; and you may, if so inclined, leave it for the augmentation
of Queen Anne's bounty. You may, however, order your executors to sell land and hand over the
money received to any charitable institution.

2745. In making provision for a wife, state whether it is in lieu of, or in addition to, dower.

2746. If you have advanced money to any child, and taken an acknowledgment for it, or entered
it in any book of account, you should declare whether any legacy left by will is in addition
to such advance, or whether it is to be deducted from the legacy.

2747. A legacy left by will to any one would be cancelled by your leaving another legacy by
a codicil to the same person, unless it is stated to be in addition to the former bequest.

2748. Your entire estate is chargeable with your debts, except where the real estate is settled.
Let it be distinctly stated out of which property, the real or personal, they are paid, where
it consists of both.

2749. Whatever is devised, let the intention be clearly expressed, and without any condition,
if you intend it to take effect.

2750. Attestation is not necessary to a will, as the act of witnessing is all the law requires,
and the will itself declares the testator to be of sound mind in his own estimation; but, wherever
there are erasures or interlineations, one becomes necessary. No particular form is prescribed;
but it should state that the testator either signed it himself, or that another signed it by
his request, or that he acknowledged the signature to be his in their presence, both being
present together, and signed as witnesses in his presence. When there are erasures, the attestation
must declare that--The words interlined in the third line of page 4, and the erasure in the
fifth line of page 6, having been first made. These are the acts necessary to make a properly
executed will; and, being simple in themselves and easily performed, they should be strictly
complied with, and always attested.

2751. A witness may, on being requested, sign for testator; and he may also sign for his fellow-witness,
supposing he can only make his mark, declaring that he does so; but a husband cannot sign for
his wife, either as testator or witness, nor can a wife for her husband.