THE SECRET ROSE:

BY

W.B. YEATS

THE SECRET ROSE:

   DEDICATION TO A.E.
   TO THE SECRET ROSE
   THE CRUCIFIXION OF THE OUTCAST
   OUT OF THE ROSE
   THE WISDOM OF THE KING
   THE HEART OF THE SPRING
   THE CURSE OF THE FIRES AND OF THE SHADOWS
   THE OLD MEN OF THE TWILIGHT
   WHERE THERE IS NOTHING, THERE IS GOD
   OF COSTELLO THE PROUD, OF OONA THE DAUGHTER OF DERMOTT, AND OF THE
   BITTER TONGUE

As for living, our servants will do that for us. --Villiers de L'Isle Adam.

My dear A.E.--I dedicate this book to you because, whether you think it well or ill written,
you will sympathize with the sorrows and the ecstasies of its personages, perhaps even more
than I do myself. Although I wrote these stories at different times and in different manners,
and without any definite plan, they have but one subject, the war of spiritual with natural
order; and how can I dedicate such a book to anyone but to you, the one poet of modern Ireland
who has moulded a spiritual ecstasy into verse? My friends in Ireland sometimes ask me when
I am going to write a really national poem or romance, and by a national poem or romance I
understand them to mean a poem or romance founded upon some famous moment of Irish history,
and built up out of the thoughts and feelings which move the greater number of patriotic Irishmen.
I on the other hand believe that poetry and romance cannot be made by the most conscientious
study of famous moments and of the thoughts and feelings of others, but only by looking into
that little, infinite, faltering, eternal flame that we call ourselves. If a writer wishes
to interest a certain people among whom he has grown up, or fancies he has a duty towards them,
he may choose for the symbols of his art their legends, their history, their beliefs, their
opinions, because he has a right to choose among things less than himself, but he cannot choose
among the substances of art. So far, however, as this book is visionary it is Irish for Ireland,
which is still predominantly Celtic, has preserved with some less excellent things a gift of
vision, which has died out among more hurried and more successful nations: no shining candelabra
have prevented us from looking into the darkness, and when one looks into the darkness there
is always something there.

W.B. YEATS.

TO THE SECRET ROSE

     Far off, most secret, and inviolate Rose,
     Enfold me in my hour of hours; where those
     Who sought thee at the Holy Sepulchre,
     Or in the wine-vat, dwell beyond the stir
     And tumult of defeated dreams; and deep
     Among pale eyelids heavy with the sleep
     Men have named beauty. Your great leaves enfold
     The ancient beards, the helms of ruby and gold
     Of the crowned Magi; and the king whose eyes
     Saw the Pierced Hands and Rood of Elder rise
     In druid vapour and make the torches dim;
     Till vain frenzy awoke and he died; and him
     Who met Fand walking among flaming dew,
     By a grey shore where the wind never blew,
     And lost the world and Emir for a kiss;
     And him who drove the gods out of their liss
     And till a hundred morns had flowered red
     Feasted, and wept the barrows of his dead;
     And the proud dreaming king who flung the crown
     And sorrow away, and calling bard and clown
     Dwelt among wine-stained wanderers in deep woods;
     And him who sold tillage and house and goods,
     And sought through lands and islands numberless years
     Until he found with laughter and with tears
     A woman of so shining loveliness
     That men threshed corn at midnight by a tress,
     A little stolen tress. I too await
     The hour of thy great wind of love and hate.
     When shall the stars be blown about the sky,
     Like the sparks blown out of a smithy, and die?
     Surely thine hour has come, thy great wind blows,
     Far off, most secret, and inviolate Rose?

THE CRUCIFIXION OF THE OUTCAST.

A man, with thin brown hair and a pale face, half ran, half walked, along the road that wound
from the south to the town of Sligo. Many called him Cumhal, the son of Cormac, and many called
him the Swift, Wild Horse; and he was a gleeman, and he wore a short parti-coloured doublet,
and had pointed shoes, and a bulging wallet. Also he was of the blood of the Ernaans, and his
birth-place was the Field of Gold; but his eating and sleeping places where the four provinces
of Eri, and his abiding place was not upon the ridge of the earth. His eyes strayed from the
Abbey tower of the White Friars and the town battlements to a row of crosses which stood out
against the sky upon a hill a little to the eastward of the town, and he clenched his fist,
and shook it at the crosses. He knew they were not empty, for the birds were fluttering about
them; and he thought how, as like as not, just such another vagabond as himself was hanged
on one of them; and he muttered: 'If it were hanging or bowstringing, or stoning or beheading,
it would be bad enough. But to have the birds pecking your eyes and the wolves eating your
feet! I would that the red wind of the Druids had withered in his cradle the soldier of Dathi,
who brought the tree of death out of barbarous lands, or that the lightning, when it smote
Dathi at the foot of the mountain, had smitten him also, or that his grave had been dug by
the green-haired and green-toothed merrows deep at the roots of the deep sea.'

