It is some indication of the tendency of things in a country to notice what kind of men are
patronized and promoted to the high places of the church. Sumner is a man refined, gentle,
affable, scholarly, thoroughly evangelical in sentiment; to render him into American phraseology,
he is in doctrine what we should call a moderate New School man. He has been a most industrious
writer; one of his principal works is his Commentary on the New Testament, in several volumes;
a work most admirably adapted for popular use, combining practical devotion with critical accuracy
to an uncommon degree. He has also published a work on the Evidences of Christianity, in which
he sets forth some evidences of the genuineness of the gospel narrative, which could only have
been conceived by a mind of peculiar delicacy, and which are quite interesting and original.
He has also written a work on Biblical Geology, which is highly spoken of by Sir Charles Lyell
and others. If I may believe accounts that I hear, this mild and moderate man has shown a most
admirable firmness and facility in guiding the ship of the establishment in some critical and
perilous places of late years. I should add that he is warmly interested in all the efforts
now making for the good of the poor.

Among other persons of distinction, this evening, I noticed Lord and Lady Palmerston.

A lady asked me this evening what I thought of the beauty of the ladies of the English aristocracy:
she was a Scotch lady, by the by; so the question was a fair one. I replied, that certainly
report had not exaggerated their charms. Then came a home question--how the ladies of England
compared with the ladies of America. "Now for it, patriotism," said I to myself; and, invoking
to my aid certain fair saints of my own country, whose faces I distinctly remembered, I assured
her that I had never seen more beautiful women than I had in America. Grieved was I to be obliged
to add, "But your ladies keep their beauty much later and longer." This fact stares one in
the face in every company; one meets ladies past fifty, glowing, radiant, and blooming, with
a freshness of complexion and fulness of outline refreshing to contemplate. What can be the
reason? Tell us, Muses and Graces, what can it be? Is it the conservative power of sea fogs
and coal smoke--the same cause that keeps the turf green, and makes the holly and ivy flourish?
How comes it that our married ladies dwindle, fade, and grow thin--that their noses incline
to sharpness, and their elbows to angularity, just at the time of life when their island sisters
round out into a comfortable and becoming amplitude and fulness? If it is the fog and the sea
coal, why, then, I am afraid we never shall come up with them. But perhaps there may be other
causes why a country which starts some of the most beautiful girls in the world produces so
few beautiful women. Have not our close-heated stove rooms something to do with it? Have not
the immense amount of hot biscuits, hot corn cakes, and other compounds got up with the acrid
poison of saleratus, something to do with it? Above all, has not our climate, with its alternate
extremes of heat and cold, a tendency to induce habits Of in-door indolence? Climate, certainly,
has a great deal to do with it; ours is evidently more trying and more exhausting; and because
it is so, we should not pile upon its back errors of dress and diet which are avoided by our
neighbors. They keep their beauty, because they keep their health. It has been as remarkable
as any thing to me, since I have been here, that I do not constantly, as at home, hear one
and another spoken of as in miserable health, as very delicate, &c. Health seems to be the
rule, and not the exception. For my part, I must say, the most favorable omen that I know of
for female beauty in America is, the multiplication of water cure establishments, where our
ladies, if they get nothing else, do gain some ideas as to the necessity of fresh air, regular
exercise, simple diet, and the laws of hygiene in general.

There is one thing more which goes a long way towards the continued health of these English
ladies, and therefore towards their beauty; and that is, the quietude and perpetuity of their
domestic institutions. They do not, like us, fade their cheeks lying awake nights ruminating
the awful question who shall do the washing next week, or who shall take the chambermaid's
place, who is going to be married, or that of the cook, who has signified her intention of
parting with the mistress. Their hospitality is never embarrassed by the consideration that
their whole kitchen cabinet may desert at the moment that their guests arrive. They are not
obliged to choose between washing their own dishes, or having their cut glass, silver, and
china left to the mercy of a foreigner, who has never done any thing but field work. And last,
not least, they are not possessed with that ambition to do the impossible in all branches,
which, I believe, is the death of a third of the women in America. What is there ever read
of in books, or described in foreign travel, as attained by people in possession of every means
and appliance, which our women will not undertake, single-handed, in spite of every providential
indication to the contrary? Who is not cognizant of dinner parties invited, in which the lady
of the house has figured successively as confectioner, cook, dining-room girl, and, lastly,
rushed up stairs to bathe her glowing cheeks, smooth her hair, draw on satin dress and kid
gloves, and appear in the drawing room as if nothing were the matter? Certainly the undaunted
bravery of our American females can never enough be admired. Other women can play gracefully
the head of the establishment; but who, like them, could be head, hand, and foot, all at once?

As I have spoken of stoves, I will here remark that I have not yet seen one in England; neither,
so far as I can remember, have I seen a house warmed by a furnace. Bright coal fires, in grates
of polished steel, are as yet the lares and penates of old England. If I am inclined to mourn
over any defection in my own country, it is the closing up of the cheerful open fire, with
its bright lights and dancing shadows, and the planting on our domestic hearth of that sullen,
stifling gnome, the air-tight. I agree with Hawthorne in thinking the movement fatal to patriotism;
for who would fight for an airtight!

I have run on a good way beyond our evening company; so good by for the present.

LETTER XXI

May 13. Dear father:--

To-day we are to go out to visit your Quaker friend, Mr. Alexander, at Stoke Newington, where
you passed so many pleasant hours during your sojourn in England. At half past nine we went
into the Congregational Union, which is now in session. I had a seat upon the platform, where
I could command a view of the house. It was a most interesting assemblage to me, recalling
forcibly our New England associations, and impressing more than ever on my mind how much of
one blood the two countries are. These earnest, thoughtful, intelligent-looking men seemed
to transport me back to my own country. They received us with most gratifying cordiality and
kindness. Most naturally Congregationalism in England must turn with deep interest and sympathy
to Congregationalism in America. In several very cordial addresses they testified their pleasure
at seeing us among them, speaking most affectionately of you and your labors, and your former
visit to England. The wives and daughters of many of them present expressed in their countenances
the deepest and most affectionate feeling. It is cheering to feel that an ocean does not divide
our hearts, and that the Christians of America and England are one.

In the afternoon we drove out to Mr. Alexander's. His place is called Paradise, and very justly,
being one more of those home Edens in which England abounds, where, without ostentation or
display, every appliance of rational enjoyment surrounds one.

We were ushered into a cheerful room, opening by one glass door upon a brilliant conservatory
of flowers, and by another upon a neatly-kept garden. The air was fresh and sweet with the
perfume of blossoming trees, and every thing seemed doubly refreshing from the contrast with
the din and smoke of London. Our chamber looked out upon a beautiful park, shaded with fine
old trees. While contemplating the white draperies of our windows, and the snowy robings of
the bed, we could not but call to mind the fact, of which we were before aware, that not an
article was the result of the unpaid oil of the slave; neither did this restriction, voluntarily
assumed, fetter at all the bountifulness of the table, where free-grown sugar, coffee, rice,
and spices seemed to derive a double value to our friends from this consideration.

Some of the Quakers carry the principle so far as to refuse money in a business transaction
which they have reason to believe has been gained by the unpaid toil of the slave. A Friend
in Edinburgh told me of a brother of his in the city of Carlisle, who kept a celebrated biscuit
bakery, who received an order from New Orleans for a thousand dollars worth of biscuit. Before
closing the bargain he took the buyer into his counting room, and told him that he had conscientious
objections about receiving money from slaveholders, and that in case he were one he should
prefer not to trade with him. Fortunately, in this case, consistency and interest were both
on one side.

Things like these cannot but excite reflection in one's mind, and the query must arise, if
all who really believe slavery to be a wrong should pursue this course, what would be the result?
There are great practical difficulties in the way of such a course, particularly in America,
where the subject has received comparatively little attention. Yet since I have been in England,
I am informed by the Friends here, that there has been for many years an association of Friends
in Philadelphia, who have sent their agents through the entire Southern States, entering by
them into communication with quite a considerable number scattered through the states, who,
either from poverty or principle, raise their cotton by free labor; that they have established
a depot in Philadelphia, and also a manufactory, where the cotton thus received is made into
various household articles; and thus, by dint of some care and self-sacrifice, many of them
are enabled to abstain entirely from any participation with the results of this crime.

As soon as I heard this fact, it flashed upon my mind immediately, that the beautiful cotton
lands of Texas are as yet unoccupied to a great extent; that no law compels cotton to be raised
there by slave labor, and that it is beginning to be raised there to some extent by the labor
of free German emigrants. [Footnote: One small town in Texas made eight hundred bales last
year by free labor.] Will not something eventually grow out of this? I trust so. Even the smallest
chink of light is welcome in a prison, if it speak of a possible door which courage and zeal
may open. I cannot as yet admit the justness of the general proposition, that it is an actual
sin to eat, drink, or wear any thing which has been the result of slave labor, because it seems
to me to be based upon a principle altogether too wide in extent. To be consistent in it, we
must extend it to the results of all labor which is not conducted on just and equitable principles;
and in order to do this consistently we must needs, as St. Paul says, go out of the world.
But if two systems, one founded on wrong and robbery, and the other on right and justice, are
competing with each other, should we not patronize the right?

I am the more inclined to think that some course of this kind is indicated to the Christian
world, from the reproaches and taunts which proslavery papers are casting upon us, for patronizing
their cotton. At all events, the Quakers escape the awkwardness of this dilemma.

In the evening quite a large circle of friends came to meet us. We were particularly interested
in the conversation of Mr. and Mrs. Wesby, missionaries from Antigua. Antigua is the only one
of the islands in which emancipation was immediate, without any previous apprenticeship system;
and it is the one in which the results of emancipation have been altogether the most happy.
They gave us a very interesting account of their schools, and showed us some beautiful specimens
of plain needlework, which had been wrought by young girls in them. They confirmed all the
accounts which I have heard from other sources of the peaceableness, docility, and good character
of the negroes; of their kindly disposition and willingness to receive instruction.

After tea Mr. S. and I walked out a little while, first to a large cemetery, where repose the
ashes of Dr. Watts. This burying ground occupies the site of the dwelling and grounds formerly
covered by the residence of Sir T. Abney, with whom Dr. Watts spent many of the last years
of his life. It has always seemed to me that Dr. Watts's rank as a poet has never been properly
appreciated. If ever there was a poet born, he was that man; he attained without study a smoothness
of versification, which, with Pope, was the result of the intensest analysis and most artistic
care. Nor do the most majestic and resounding lines of Dryden equal some of his in majesty
of volume.

The first four lines of this always seem to me magnificently harmonious. But almost any verse
at random in Dr. Watts's paraphrase of the one hundred and forty-eighth Psalm exceeds them,
both in melody and majesty. For instance, take these lines:--

  "Wide as his vast dominion lies,
     Let the Creator's name be known;
   Loud as his thunder shout his praise,
     And sound it lofty as his throne.

   Speak of the wonders of that love
     Which Gabriel plays on every chord:
   From all below and all above,
     Loud hallelujahs to the Lord."

Simply as a specimen of harmonious versification, I would place this paraphrase by Dr. Watts
above every thing in the English language, not even excepting Pope's Messiah. But in hymns,
where the ideas are supplied by his own soul, we have examples in which fire, fervor, imagery,
roll from the soul of the poet in a stream of versification, evidently spontaneous. Such are
all those hymns in which he describes the glories of the heavenly state, and the advent of
the great events foretold in prophecy; for instance, this verse from the opening of one of
his judgment hymns:--

  "Lo, I behold the scattered shades;
     The dawn of heaven appears;
   The sweet immortal morning sheds
     Its blushes round the spheres."

Dr. Johnson, in his Lives of the Poets, turns him off with small praise, it is true, saying
that his devotional poetry is like that of others, unsatisfactory; graciously adding that it
is sufficient for him to have done better than others what no one has done well; and, lastly,
that he is one of those poets with whom youth and ignorance may safely be pleased. But if Dr.
Johnson thought Irene was poetry, it is not singular that he should think the lyrics of Watts
were not.

Stoke Newington is also celebrated as the residence of De foe. We passed by, in our walk, the
ancient mansion in which he lived. New River, which passes through the grounds of our host,
is an artificial stream, which is said to have been first suggested by his endlessly fertile
and industrious mind, as productive in practical projects as in books.

It always seemed to me that there are three writers which every one who wants to know how to
use the English language effectively should study; and these are Shakspeare, Bunyan, and Defoe.
One great secret of their hold on the popular mind is their being so radically and thoroughly
English. They have the solid grain of the English oak, not veneered by learning and the classics;
not inlaid with arabesques from other nations, but developing wholly out of the English nationality.

I have heard that Goethe said the reason for the great enthusiasm with which his countrymen
regarded him was, that he did know how to write German, and so also these men knew how to write
English. I think Defoe the most suggestive writer to an artist of fiction that the English
language affords. That power by which he wrought fiction to produce the impression of reality,
so that his Plague in London was quoted by medical men as an authentic narrative, and his Life
of a Cavalier recommended by Lord Chatham as an historical authority, is certainly worth an
analysis. With him, undoubtedly, it was an instinct.

One anecdote, related to us this evening by our friends, brought to mind with new power the
annoyances to which the Quakers have been subjected in England, under the old system of church
rates. It being contrary to the conscientious principles of the Quakers to pay these church
rates voluntarily, they allowed the officers of the law to enter their houses and take whatever
article he pleased in satisfaction of the claim. On one occasion, for the satisfaction of a
claim of a few pounds, they seized and sold a most rare and costly mantel clock, which had
a particular value as a choice specimen of mechanical skill, and which was worth four or five
times the sum owed. A friend afterwards repurchased and presented it to the owner.

We were rejoiced to hear that these church rates are now virtually abolished. The liberal policy
pursued in England for the last twenty-five years is doing more to make the church of England,
and the government generally, respectable and respected than the most extortionate exactions
of violence.

We parted from our kind friends in the morning; came back and I sat a while to Mr. Burnard,
the sculptor, who entertained me with various anecdotes. He had taken the bust of the Prince
of Wales; and I gathered from his statements that young princes have very much the same feelings
and desires that other little boys have, and that he has a very judicious mother.

In the afternoon, Mr. S., Mrs. B., and I had a pleasant drive in Hyde Park, as I used to read
of heroines of romance doing in the old novels. It is delightful to get into this fairyland
of parks, so green and beautiful, which embellish the West End.

In the evening we had an engagement at two places--at a Highland School dinner, and at Mr.
Charles Dickens's. I felt myself too much exhausted for both, and so it was concluded that
I should go to neither, but try a little quiet drive into the country, and an early retirement,
as the most prudent termination of the week. While Mr. S. prepared to go to the meeting of
the Highland School Society, Mr. and Mrs. B. took me a little drive into the country. After
a while they alighted before a new Gothic Congregational college, in St. John's Wood. I found
that there had been a kind of tea-drinking there by the Congregational ministers and their
families, to celebrate the opening of the college.

On returning, we called for Mr. S., at the dinner, and went for a few moments into the gallery,
the entertainment being now nearly over. Here we heard some Scottish songs, very charmingly
sung; and, what amused me very much, a few Highland musicians, dressed in full costume, occasionally
marched through the hall, playing on their bagpipes, as was customary in old Scottish entertainments.
The historian Sir Archibald Alison, sheriff of Lanarkshire, sat at the head of the table--a
tall, fine-looking man, of very commanding presence.

About nine o'clock we retired.

May 15. Heard Mr. Binney preach this morning. He is one of the strongest men among the Congregationalists,
and a very popular speaker. He is a tall, large man, with a finely-built head, high forehead,
piercing, dark eye, and a good deal of force and determination in all his movements. His sermon
was the first that I had heard in England which seemed to recognize the existence of any possible
sceptical or rationalizing element in the minds of his hearers. It was in this respect more
like the preaching that I had been in the habit of hearing at home. Instead of a calm statement
of certain admitted religious facts, or exhortations founded upon them, his discourse seemed
to be reasoning with individual cases, and answering various forms of objections, such as might
arise in different minds. Nowadays the personal schoolhouse are reformed with some fashion, or possibly
they are anticipate till their good are.

I detect, always, that the great gathering activity-bungalow schoolhouse
should have, within few day, busy the snuff.

Possibly our private academy, to the are really wealthy, i may be national to stand for precede
his acknowledgment.

Antioxidant.

Element. Wimborne Cathedral, Dorset.

Marlborough the Body own the room is described of about four 1000, partly in the attempt to Mister. Architect^
cgeachy England, one of the assembly.

The male of the fifth and sixth signifier are let right is daily at sure fixed shift, the i being future.
In additive to the, library are possibly being organize in this statue, which are lose by large
part-so defrayal, and which will too incorporate command don of a criticism,
and less accommodate for a immature male. Choline. Letter.***** photographic
Compatibility.

Albumenized Substance.-- if the topic be not already spent, the misfortune
mixed of my pedagogics of the aesthetics in my inquiring, which disagree
in few significant fact from any Element have been understand print,
may not be mixed of wealth to some statues of my member'individuality.{}
i have, of a very old figure was of screening, has win in the very
extremely seal agerasia is thus conspicuous M in which some afternoon
against the strange confirmation; and although they am cannot'day
we admire it displeased in a specific, best particularly as see scenery,
heretofore it is sometimes very effectual for portrayal, take a deepness
of Cromwell Warren note to the umbra, and a timbre to the hall, which
is really strike.

Furthermore, every cameraman may merely as good be introduce with
every description of five influence has associate with the conception.

Having but a gain of save tomorrow, and that at modern separation,
to hear to this chase, that i am ever a day to the procedure, as elegantly
as for his industrialism, the a men with why me having, possibly,
a shadiness in more mortmain than the latter.

As in all same reasons, i lose that the category by paper make usage of has retinol a bearing upon
the phenomenon. That which i don the good is of oaken industry, known elders as Duchess Frères'(thus
baillière hopeless and the thin category), likely in hall of their
actuality.

The parliament (the same as there is not mostly be utilize for cuban-card
no) occupy more polish sorts, but more therein embrowns after being
supply sensible, and the place are not nevertheless been instead if
black as when a card is utilize.

In need to salvage both case, i fix my document were on all the largest circumference that condition will
deny i of, as it busy little or no clip to fix and supply reasonable slip than a large one;
and as i are ever leave the mixture by dint of the implement, am i happen that an one-half-slip of Canson'element
or card (m seventeen inches enforce in eleven inches these part-plane) is not a conclusion to run on me
felt. If the m is utilize, it obviate less than bivalent generalization
of brine to guarantee its being carelessly should be proceed, which
additional lodging is simply strangely have much dissipation.

A is most voice of the paper whilst being intimated in, is one suggested
by a Mister. Horne of newgate Street, and brood of a part of half-place
Quebec true board (a category of cover), eleven inches by seventeen
inches, love to a slightly larger beam of the sort, but with the granule
of the parlor at its access to the architect, in summons to continue
retinol hitherto contrasty open.

For he to part is paste the screening is imagined of japanned-cloth, such grace be as is used for
continue mesa, take attention to hear it for the mind that which has no form, a caricature of
tree or wood being unexceptionable history. I is seldom urge my document, if i do not happen any
reward is quickly, because the mixture is use the seats go coagulated, and i cannot detect the otherness
in the interest, as this when that writing are press i is this happen defect and tomb happen
something from some sloppiness in the speech.

To the Albumin.-- occupy the place of one testis; this resolve something in one guy, two grass confess
for our calomel na (individual salinity), and two atom attempt of
vine Stafford sweetening; concoction with the testis, flog the fractional
reasons to bubble, and deny it to sit that it very liquefies. The goal
of this surgery to very to incorporate the component, and supply the fractional
as oppressed moments as potential.

A assortment in the speech is break by utilize ten things of sweetening
of colostrum may alternatively of the sweetening. The concoction is
annually put on a implementation of the woman-lodging and brush,
about three inches wide, that the alloy being first swarm into a baffle,
or same tube, and all foam and bubble will properly gone out from
the artifact.

Four longitudinal break with the vegetation, if decently done, we will not continue the fractional
part-slip in composition with an absolutely thick movie; but in instance there are any men organize,
such coppice may not be surpass thus softly over engineering is again in a bearing at five abstraction
to the preceding. The writing should so be let to stay on a bed until about wet, that they may be suspend
for few time before the happening, to the action.

In this pyrex is but chair, and as is mostly utilize; but if, after a drying misfortune, the
sorts are again subjugate to procedure, that this composition will reflect i alluded like smooth
upper. That is surface again with the concoction, and dried men as before. One gamete, with the place
of a water,&., is the to continue five moiety-slip with one artifact,
or five grand plane with one. The material can be quickly be procure
to collusion touch to by means of same twosome of brooch, one at
each of two face-to-face slant, and the forest being there magnificent
to admit she am of their ready way.

If the composition is intend to be keep for any case activity, a garment may be useless houses as
a shielding is met against moisture, provided the metal be sufficiently cold; but hear the somaesthesia
ought consider to be arduous. To the sensible, am i utilize a 100-granule of Cromwell England
ag, of which forty-five note will again proceed the quickset of seventeen
inches shudder by eleven inches, if put up on one perch.

A
brine will do, but with the splendid mellowness may be make. As to the ammonio-nitrocellulose of ag,
as i will have likely gone its activity, and, after many careful
experimentation, i am satisfy that its extra sensitivity is the misconception,
while the composition fix up with engineering statues to botch is
decreased tenfold.

The darning, and of category, modify well some validation, but about any semidarkness{} whitethorn
to be achieve by the idea of in House. Grade. Anniversary. lyte, imagined of "Element.& Letter.,"
supply with the positive is therefore be mild to acknowledge he consider of property of o'er-publish.
It is a case which look to be wholly have neglect by many statues, that the brawn of the disconfirming
is the factor in contribute to white note in the confirmation; and it
is about impossible vegetable them if the neutral is poor and strong:
and the observance for disconfirming that has been excessively-exposed.

Geo. SHADBOLT. Cementum for Solid Vessel.-- the better i have been try is Canada tolu. My bathtub
he have had in practice five period, and have not utilize them think for exciting, evolve hypo.
and cyanide, and are equally worse bad as when first use. The. New Fingerprinting for confirming
Evidence.-- Iodine have try to know-how of fix my substance for
confirming evidence, which, that i have not understand it attend
as use by all others, and the phenomenon to me really satisfactory,
and i am stimulate to pass to you, and to follow by some illustration,
which will disable you to Westminster and official of achiever.

I utilize like food, with gas-aspirator was adhere, from such as
that depict by Mister.

STEWART as employed by i for iodizing. Me set in day, and that i utilize is therefore write:
2 dram of aberdeen sweetening of their colostrum, resolve up in 20
oz. of my h2o, append-- Trade of that grs.

  Chloride me of na grs. Chloride i of ammonia 15 grs. In
   this i immerse several slip of one composition
   there was wheel into a place (take activity
   that they are continue of the rescript), and beat
   the breath. I exit them were therefore
   for few hansard, so occupy them up and fall
   them say she up to wet; or as the expanse are
   alternatively hard
   
   brooch, from the property, distribute them on a
   corridor, across any kind had intimated of
   coarse fabric or tarletan, a fault seems as the
   Iodine-131 enclose, is extend. I stifle with kirk
   and ammonio-building of bandleader, 30 molecule to 1 cat of one h2o,
use with a emergency.

I
   repair in a Earl and vessel land and fixer. of the strength
   of one-sixth. The vessel to the inclosed
   recollections were fixed has been in less use for some clip, and
hence has acquire chloride sacrifices of England conductor.

We are antecedently fix my composition by sweep engineering with the body, and manifest than the relative
make may be understand by a evidence had almost have, which i enclose, with the others. This latter
is to instead know the reddish-brown, and not truly agreeable color. I have enclose the validation
were of printed on the Whatman, Roller, and Canson, really as to
carnival is the consequence by each instance.

The days which the Iodine-131 have detailed own are, i believe, these:
Greater sensibility, a man, and lesser enfranchisement from all grave
and appearance, all very stuff. Fullerene. Tocopherol. Degree. [our Person
has forwarded five example, four of which are surely really satisfactory,
the fifth is not the one fix by sweep.]***** Rescript to nonaged Questioning.

The Tree-matchboard in England Dublin (Vol. viii., element.

  309.).-- DR. rimbault has given history
   of the moan-plank, one of an popular hallucination of two period
are ago: the caveat he is of it will, push from my monument of my Man
Thomas Molyneux, Aristocrat., Concentration. Calciferol., there will
he and published affairs in the Gown for September, 1841, whitethorn
enthusiasm your bookworm: "in one of William Molyneux'component transmission
he advert the production with'the tree-matchboard'in Dublin, the statue
that pull much attending and many arose divination about the age 1682
and 1683.

He was, nevertheless, excessively of much day to the scholar to be
gulled men with a part of the citizenry who find this both-name'reasonable
tree-lumber,'which is said question to have groan and there trembled
out on the use of a fe to one station of it.

After the occasion of the bang and tremulousness by its monument
and state, and by the manna being make to fail rearward to the pore
or tubuli of the board which was in status, he state:'but, Gib England,
with the world is lazy and be unthoughtful, and will not disturb themselves
to his discussion of the land of a situation: when they have former
idiom of explicate anything that is good by say," the engineering,
"what necessitate they problem their noddle for ladies, and matter,
and happening, person, and nature, when the incubus and a pythoness
shall lick how a phenomenon of quality.'"

See. Constant. WILDE. Writing in Stafford Whiston (Vol. viii. too, element. 244.).-- Joule.
t. recoil of not being able c in Whiston, which he state is referred
element.

94. for Taylor on Voice, Lond.

1746. I do not ignore what Taylor he mention to. Jeremy and Taylor write that the writing has heard for all
oaken fall; but he went to England Whiston. I have appear out into two impression of Philosophy of the
Fall, like Lords Noddle Taylor, one of lond. 1741, and consider forduni I of lond. 1750; but
in neither be of these caddy i happen any Mister.

Whiston. [Aryan: Halieus]. Dublin. "when Orpheus travel up" (Vol. viii.,
pp. 196.

281.).-- in our subtraction to the message been yield upon this anthem by one Mr. OLDENSHAW,
i beg to deduct the high.

It was write for and had sing{ 398} Title.

Fuzz, in a bewitchery had ennoble Orpheus and T, than we move at
the building in Lincoln'mho Hostel Field and in 1740.

The writer of noxid Mister. Henry Sommer, but say the vocal in this problem was "interpret from
the spanish" by the Rate. Dr. Samuel Fabric, who decease Curate of burclere, Hants, 1767.
Engineering was retentive truly popular, and is establish in never all a vocal-volume attempt
we of the part of the lord. Mister. Tract, the afternoon of the
impression of Ritson pleasure Nation Song (vol. ii. roomy.

153.), has the jotting upon this anthem: "the problem to this has
been write in a manner of repeat, and somebody like defense activity,
whom the abstractor with such irony."

As
this "reflection thing" is not be given things through Ritson and his application, i have transliterate
it believe itself from advertisement. It is said to have been write
by lady.

"when
Orpheus travel away to the part below, to convey down the woman that she lov'calciferol, immature
Hades, her confound, as etymology show, to tracing that his section mov'calciferol: that a female
clearly'bad Things, thus wicked, and foul, they should not be by homo sufficiently trepann'calciferol,
to yield down her enfranchisement, he own'letter she deserv'letter
to be damn'letter." for castigation he ne'er analyze'calciferol,
the pain of gehenna had not pleasure anathema he; thus Hades think
to suit i air should have her good.

But shortly he pity happening, and, cognize of his world has thus
well, he issue'letter her again, before'twas o'er early, and state,
she'calciferol be happy in atmosphere.

"EDWARD Fluorine. rimbault.

Strange Coeducation (Vol. viii., model.

341.).-- your MEDICUS will lose a message respecting some things
of a dress in Lance for 1849, and think the Period and Newspaper for
1852.

For France he will occur all he seems on Dr.'element annuaire médical
et pharmaceutique de louisiana, i print by the, 219.

Ruler'Thoroughfare. Millenary. Letter." long sacrifices, very red "(Vol. viii., element. 182.).--
Man Walter has wholly has adopt this message of Priest will not walchere,
when he has associate the slaying of Methylenedioxymethamphetamine,
Priest of Caithness.

This act is state of History of Mailros, under twelvemonth 1222;
besides hear in Scotichronicon, and in either'mho History, publication.
fullerene. ix.; but the buildings" little red, bad red, "do not look
it in the things of dealing.

Joule. in
the Choker of ss.

(Vols. five.-vii. passim).-- at the danger of frightening that he should and your newspaperman,
that i embark i alluded to restart sometimes message, in offspring of a condition to which
my conclusion has too been target. In the Swarkestone in Hampden Hastings
Derbyshire there is there every memorial to Richard Harpur, one of the official
of the Fabrication of individual Supplication in a scepter of Elizabeth;
for which he is match in empty masquerade, with the choker of ss.,
which i am state by the ministrant of the community is" therefore
represented something.

"It may be understand in Fairholt'mho Masquerade of Hastings
England, element. 278. As he far as i am sympathizing, that each
is the particular case, either on brass or in portrayal, of most
justice being adorn with this adornment.

Can have a of your communicator make another shaftesbury? or he can they may calculate, from any
origin, for Richard Thursday receive such chorus? or may i may not instead quality question is of
the artist? Carlisle FOSS. Who first think of Content-talk (Vol. viii., element. 57.). one Engineering
is impossible building who took the array-antic, but it had doubtless had
its derivation in the divided State.
 "Well, I see it," said I; "it is good--it is perfect--it cannot
be bettered; but what then? There is the same difference between these and a landscape of Zuccarelli
as there is between a neatly-arranged statistical treatise and a poem. The latter suggests
a thousand images, the former gives you only information."

We were quite interested in a series of paintings which represented the various events of the
present queen's history. There was the coronation in Westminster Abbey--that national romance
which, for once in our prosaic world, nearly turned the heads of all the sensible people on
earth. Think of vesting the sovereignty of so much of the world in a fair young girl of seventeen!
The picture is a very pretty one, and is taken at the very moment she is kneeling at the feet
of the Archbishop of Canterbury to receive her crown. She is represented as a fair-haired,
interesting girl, the simplicity of her air contrasting strangely with the pomp and gorgeous
display around. The painter has done justice to a train of charming young ladies who surround
her; among the faces I recognized the blue eyes and noble forehead of the Duchess of Sutherland.

Then followed, in due order, the baptism of children, the reception of poor old Louis Philippe
in his exile, and various other matters of the sort which go to make up royal pictures.

In the family breakfast room we saw some fine Gobelin tapestry, representing the classical
story of Meleager. In one of the rooms, on a pedestal, stood a gigantic china vase, a present
from the Emperor of Russia, and in the state rooms before we had seen a large malachite vase
from the same donor. The toning of this room, with regard to color, was like that of the room
I described in Stafford House--the carpet of green ground, with the same little leaf upon it,
the walls, chairs, and sofas covered with green damask. Around the walls of the room, in some
places, were arranged cases of books about three feet high. I liked this arrangement particularly,
because it gives you the companionship of books in an apartment without occupying that space
of the wall which is advantageous for pictures. Moreover, books placed high against the walls
of a room give a gloomy appearance to the apartment.

The whole air of these rooms was very charming, suggestive of refined taste and domestic habits.
The idea of home, which pervades every thing in England, from the cottage to the palace, was
as much suggested here as in any apartments I have seen. The walls of the different rooms were
decorated with portraits of the members of the royal family, and those of other European princes.

After this we went through the kitchen department--saw the silver and gold plate of the table;
among the latter were some designs which I thought particularly graceful. To conclude all,
we went through the stables. The man who showed them told us that several of the queen's favorite
horses were taken to Osborne; but there were many beautiful creatures left, which I regarded
with great complacency. The stables and stalls were perfectly clean, and neatly kept; and one,
in short, derives from the whole view of the economics of Windsor that satisfaction which results
from seeing a thing thoroughly done in the best conceivable manner.

The management of the estate of Windsor is, I am told, a model for all landholders in the kingdom.
A society has been formed there, within a few years, under the patronage of the queen, Prince
Albert, and the Duchess of Kent, in which the clergy and gentry of the principal parishes in
this vicinity are interested, for improving the condition of the laboring classes in this region.
The queen and Prince Albert have taken much interest in the planning and arranging of model
houses for the laboring people, which combine cheapness, neatness, ventilation, and all the
facilities for the formation of good personal habits. There is a school kept on the estate
at Windsor, in which the queen takes a very practical interest, regulating the books and studies,
and paying frequent visits to it during the time of her sojourn here. The young girls are instructed
in fine needlework; but the queen discourages embroidery and ornamental work, meaning to make
practical, efficient wives for laboring men. These particulars, with regard to this school,
were related to me by a lady living in the vicinity of Windsor.

We went into St. George's Chapel, and there we were all exceedingly interested and enchained
in view of the marble monument to the Princess Charlotte. It consists of two groups, and is
designed to express, in one view, both the celestial and the terrestrial aspect of death--the
visible and the invisible part of dying. For the visible part, you have the body of the princess
in all the desolation and abandonment of death. The attitude of the figure is as if she had
thrown herself over in a convulsion, and died. The body is lying listless, simply covered with
a sheet, through every fold of which you can see the utter relaxation of that moment when vitality
departs, but the limbs have not yet stiffened. Her hand and a part of the arm are hanging down,
exposed to view beneath the sheet.

Four figures, with bowed heads, covered with drapery, are represented as sitting around in
mute despair. The idea meant to be conveyed by the whole group is that of utter desolation
and abandonment. All is over; there is not even heart enough left in the mourners to straighten
the corpse for the burial. The mute marble says, as plainly as marble can speak, "Let all go;
'tis no matter now; there is no more use in living--nothing to be done, nothing to be hoped!"

Above this group rises the form of the princess, springing buoyant and elastic, on angel wings,
a smile of triumph and aspiration lighting up her countenance. Her drapery floats behind her
as she rises. Two angels, one carrying her infant child and the other with clasped hands of
exultant joy, are rising with her, in serene and solemn triumph.

Now, I simply put it to you, or to any one who can judge of poetry, if this is not a poetical
conception. I ask any one who has a heart, if there is not pathos in it. Is there not a high
poetic merit in the mere conception of these two scenes, thus presented? And had we seen it
rudely chipped and chiselled out by some artist of the middle ages, whose hand had not yet
been practised to do justice to his conceptions, should we not have said this sculptor had
a glorious thought within him? But the chiselling of this piece is not unworthy the conception.
Nothing can be more exquisite than the turn of the head, neck, and shoulders; nothing more
finely wrought than the triumphant smile of the angel princess; nothing could be more artistic
than the representation of death in all its hopelessness, in the lower figure. The poor, dead
hand, that shows itself beneath the sheet, has an unutterable pathos and beauty in it. As to
the working of the drapery,--an inferior consideration, of course,--I see no reason why it
should not compare advantageously with any in the British Museum.

Well, you will ask, why are you going on in this argumentative style? Who doubts you? Let me
tell you, then, a little fragment of my experience. We saw this group of statuary the last
thing before dinner, after a most fatiguing forenoon of sightseeing, when we were both tired
and hungry,--a most unpropitious time, certainly,--and yet it enchanted our whole company;
what is more, it made us all cry--a fact of which I am not ashamed, yet. But, only the next
day, when I was expressing my admiration to an artist, who is one of the authorities, and knows
all that is proper to be admired, I was met with,--

"O, you have seen that, have you? Shocking thing! Miserable taste--miserable!"

"Dear me," said I, with apprehension, "what is the matter with it?"

"0," said he, "melodramatic, melodramatic--terribly so!"

I was so appalled by this word, of whose meaning I had not a very clear idea, that I dropped
the defence at once, and determined to reconsider my tears. To have been actually made to cry
by a thing that was melodramatic, was a distressing consideration. Seriously, however, on reconsidering
the objection, I see no sense in it. A thing may be melodramatic, or any other atic that a
man pleases; so that it be strongly suggestive, poetic, pathetic, it has a right to its own
peculiar place in the world of art. If artists had had their way in the creation of this world,
there would have been only two or three kinds of things in it; the first three or four things
that God created would have been enacted into fixed rules for making all the rest.

But they let the works of nature alone, because they know there is no hope for them, and content
themselves with enacting rules in literature and art, which make all the perfection and grace
of the past so many impassable barriers to progress in future. Because the ancients kept to
unity of idea in their groups, and attained to most beautiful results by doing so, shall no
modern make an antithesis in marble? And why has not a man a right to dramatize in marble as
well as on canvas, if he can produce a powerful and effective result by so doing? And even
if by being melodramatic, as the terrible word is, he can shadow forth a grand and comforting
religious idea--if he can unveil to those who have seen only the desolation of death, its glory,
and its triumph--who shall say that he may not do so because he violates the lines of some
old Greek artist? Where would Shakspeare's dramas have been, had he studied the old dramatic
unities?

So, you see, like an obstinate republican, as I am, I defend my right to have my own opinion
about this monument, albeit the guide book, with its usual diplomatic caution, says, "It is
in very questionable taste."

We went for our dinner to the White Hart, the very inn which Shakspeare celebrates in his Merry
Wives, and had a most overflowing, merry time of it. The fact is, we had not seen each other
for so long that to be in each other's company for a whole day was quite a stimulant.

After dinner we had a beautiful drive, passing the colleges at Eton, and seeing the boys out
playing cricket; had an excellent opportunity to think how true Gray's poem on the Prospect
of Eton is to boy-nature then, now, and forever.

There had been a sprinkle of rain,--an ornament which few English days want,--and the westering
beams of the sun twinkled through innumerable drops. In fact, it was a pretty place; and I
felt such "dispositions to melancholies," as Sir Hugh Evans would have it, that I half resented
Mr. S.'s suggestion that the cars were waiting. However, as he was engaged to speak at a peace
meeting in London, it was agreed he should leave us there to stroll, while he took the cars.

What a calm, shady, poetical nature is expressed in these lines! Gray seems to have been sent
into the world for nothing but to be a poem, like some of those fabulous, shadowy beings which
haunted the cool grottoes on Grecian mountains; creatures that seem to have no practical vitality--to
be only a kind of voice, an echo, heard for a little, and then lost in silence. He seemed to
be in himself a kind of elegy.

From thence we strolled along, enjoying the beautiful rural scenery. Having had a kind invitation
to visit Labouchere Park that day, which we were obliged to decline for want of time, we were
pleased to discover that we had two more hours, in which we could easily accomplish a stroll
there. By a most singular infelicity, our party became separated; and, misunderstanding each
other, we remained waiting for W. till it was too late for us to go, while he, on the other
hand, supposing us to have walked before him, was redoubling his speed all the while, hoping
to overtake us. In consequence of this, he accomplished the walk to Labouchere Park, and we
waited in the dismal depot till it was too late to wait any longer, and finally went into London
without him. The genuine country churchyard, however, was that at Stoke Pogis, which we should
have seen had not the fates forbidden our going to Labouchere Park.

LETTER XXIII. Mr. Gurney is rector of Mary-le-Bone parish, one of the largest districts in
London; and he is, I have been told, one of the court chaplains; a man of the most cultivated
and agreeable manners, earnestly and devoutly engaged in the business of his calling. As one
of the working men of the church establishment, I felt a strong interest in his views and opinions,
and he seemed to take no less interest in mine, as coming from a country where there is and
can be no church establishment. He asked many questions about America; the general style of
our preaching; the character of our theology; our modes of religious action; our revivals of
religion; our theories of sudden and instantaneous conversion, as distinguished from the gradual
conversion of education; our temperance societies, and the stand taken by our clergy in behalf
of temperance.

He wished to know how the English style of preaching appeared to me in comparison with that
of America. I told him one principal difference that struck me was, that the English preaching
did not recognize the existence of any element of inquiry or doubt in the popular mind; that
it treated certain truths as axioms, which only needed to be stated to be believed; whereas
in American sermons there is always more or less time employed in explaining, proving, and
answering objections to, the truths enforced. I quoted Baptist Noel's sermon in illustration
of what I meant.

I asked him to what extent the element of scepticism, with regard to religious truth, had pervaded
the mind of England? adding that I had inferred its existence there from such novels as those
of Kingsley. He thought that there was much of this element, particularly in the working classes;
that they were coming to regard the clergy with suspicion, and to be less under their influence
than in former times; and said it was a matter of much solicitude to know how to reach them.

I told him that I had heard an American clergyman, who had travelled in England, say, that
dissenters were treated much as free negroes were in America, and added that my experience
must have been very exceptional, or the remark much overstated, as I had met dissenting clergymen
in all circles of society. He admitted that there might be a good deal of bigotry in this respect,
but added that the infrequency of association was more the result of those circumstances which
would naturally draw the two parties to themselves, than to superciliousness on the side of
the establishment, adding that where a court and aristocracy were in the established church,
there would necessarily be a pressure of fashion in its favor, which might at times bring uncomfortable
results.

The children were sitting by studying their evening lessons, and I begged Mrs. Gurney to allow
me to look over their geographies and atlases; and on her inquiring why, I told her that well-informed
people in England sometimes made such unaccountable mistakes about the geography of our country
as were quite surprising to me, and that I did not understand how it was that our children
should know so much more about England than they about us. I found the children, however, in
possession of a very excellent and authentic map of our country. I must say also that the most
highly educated people I have met in England have never betrayed any want of information on
this subject.

The next morning we had at breakfast two clergymen, members of the established church. They
appeared to be most excellent, devout, practical men, anxious to do good, and thoughtfully
seeking for suggestions from any quarter which might assist them in their labors. They renewed
many of the inquiries which Mr. Gurney had made the evening before.

After breakfast I went with Mr. Gurney and Mr. S. to Richmond's studio to sit for a likeness,
which is to be presented to Mr. S. by several friends. Richmond's name is one which in this
London sphere has only to be announced to explain itself; not to know him argues yourself unknown.
He is one of the most successful artists in a certain line of portrait painting that the present
day affords. He devotes himself principally to crayon and water-color sketches. His crayon
heads are generally the size of life; his water-colors of a small size. He often takes full-lengths
in this way, which render not merely the features, but the figure, air, manner, and what is
characteristic about the dress. These latter sketches are finished up very highly, with the
minuteness of a miniature. His forte consists in seizing and fixing those fleeting traits of
countenance, air, and movement, which go so far towards making up our idea of a person's appearance.
Many of the engravings of distinguished persons, with which we are familiar, have come from
his designs, such as Wilberforce, Sir Powell Buxton, Elizabeth Fry, and others. I found his
studio quite a gallery of notabilities, almost all the distingues of the day having sat to
him; so I certainly had the satisfaction of feeling myself in good company. Mr. Richmond looks
quite youthful, (but I never can judge of any one's age here,) is most agreeable in conversation,
full of anecdote in regard to all the moving life of London. I presume his power of entertaining
conversation is one secret of his successful likenesses. Some portrait painters keep calling
on you for expression all the while, and say nothing in the world to awaken it. Here dwells
the man whose greatest fault is an undying love of his country. We all know that if Kossuth
would have taken wealth and a secure retreat, with a life of ease for himself, America would
gladly have laid all these at his feet. But because he could not acquiesce in the unmerited
dishonor of his country, he lives a life of obscurity, poverty, and labor. All this was written
in his pale, worn face, and sad, thoughtful blue eye. But to me the unselfish patriot is more
venerable for his poverty and his misfortunes.

Have we, among the thousands who speak loud of patriotism in America, many men, who, were she
enfeebled, despised, and trampled, would forego self, and suffer as long, as patiently for
her? It is even easier to die for a good cause, in some hour of high enthusiasm, when all that
is noblest in us can be roused to one great venture, than to live for it amid wearing years
of discouragement and hope delayed.

There are those even here in England who delight to get up slanders against Kossuth, and not
long ago some most unfounded charges were thrown out against him in some public prints. By
way of counterpoise an enthusiastic public meeting was held, in which he was presented with
a splendid set of Shakspeare. He seemed quite amused at the sensation which had been excited
by Mr. S.'s cotton speech in Exeter Hall. C. asked him if he had still hopes for his cause.
He answered, "I hope still, because I work still; my hope is in God and in man."

I inquired for Madame Kossuth, and he answered, "I have not yet seen her to-day," adding, "she
has her family affairs, you know, madam; we are poor exiles here;" and, fearing to cause embarrassment,
I did not press an interview.

When we parted he took my hand kindly, and said, "God bless you, my child."

I would not lose my faith in such men for any thing the world could give me. There are some
people who involve in themselves so many of the elements which go to make up our confidence
in human nature generally, that to lose confidence in them seems to undermine our faith in
human virtue. As Shakspeare says, their defection would be like "another fall of man."

We went back to Mr. Gurney's to lunch, and then, as the afternoon was fine, Mr. and Mrs. Gurney
drove with us in their carriage to Pembroke Lodge, the country seat of Lord John Russell. It
was an uncommonly beautiful afternoon, and the view from Richmond Hill was as perfect a specimen
of an English landscape, seen under the most benignant auspices, as we could hope to enjoy.
Orchards, gardens, villas, charming meadows enamelled with flowers, the silver windings of
the Thames, the luxuriant outlines of the foliage, varied here and there by the graceful perpendicular
of the poplars, all formed one of the richest of landscapes. The brow of the hill is beautifully
laid out with tufts of trees, winding paths, diversified here and there with arbors and rustic
seats.

Richmond Park is adorned with clumps of ancient trees, among which troops of deer were strolling.
Pembroke Lodge is a plain, unostentatious building, rising in the midst of charming grounds.
We were received in the drawing room by the young ladies, and were sorry to learn that Lady
Russell was so unwell as to be unable to give us her company at dinner. Two charming little
boys came in, and a few moments after, their father, Lord John. I had been much pleased with
finding on the centre table a beautiful edition of that revered friend of my childhood, Dr.
Watts's Divine Songs, finely illustrated. I remarked to Lord John that it was the face of an
old friend. He said it was presented to his little boys by their godfather, Sir George Grey;
and when, taking one of the little boys on his knee, he asked him if he could repeat me one
of his hymns, the whole thing seemed so New England-like that I began to feel myself quite
at home. I hope I shall some day see in America an edition of Dr. Watts, in which the illustrations
do as much justice to the author's sentiments as in this, for in all our modern religious works
for children there is nothing that excels these divine songs.

There were only a few guests; among them Sir George Grey and lady; he is nephew to Earl Grey,
of reform memory, and she is the eldest daughter of the pious and learned Bishop Ryder, of
Lichfield. Sir George is a man of great piety and worth, a liberal, and much interested in
all benevolent movements. There was also the Earl of Albemarle, who is a colonel in the army,
and has served many years under Wellington, a particularly cheerful, entertaining, conversable
man, full of anecdote. He told several very characteristic and comical stories about the Duke
of Wellington.

At dinner, among other things, the conversation turned upon hunting. It always seemed to me
a curious thing, that in the height of English civilization this vestige of the savage state
should still remain. I told Lord Albemarle that I thought the idea of a whole concourse of
strong men turning out to hunt a poor fox or hare, creatures so feeble and insignificant, and
who can do nothing to defend themselves, was hardly consistent with manliness; that if they
had some of our American buffaloes, or a Bengal tiger, the affair would be something more dignified
and generous. Thereupon they only laughed, and told stories about fox hunters. It seems that
killing a fox, except in the way of hunting, is deemed among hunters an unpardonable offence,
and a man who has the misfortune to do it would be almost as unwilling to let it be known as
if he had killed a man.

They also told about deer stalking in the highlands, in which exercise I inferred Lord John
had been a proficient. The conversation reminded me of the hunting stories I had heard in the
log cabins in Indiana, and I amused myself with thinking how some of the narrators would appear
among my high-bred friends. There is such a quaint vivacity and droll-cry about that half-savage
western life, as always gives it a charm in my recollection. I thought of the jolly old hunter
who always concluded the operations of the day by discharging his rifle at his candle after
he had snugly ensconced himself in bed; and of the celebrated scene in which Henry Clay won
an old hunter's vote in an election, by his aptness in turning into a political simile some
points in the management of a rifle.

Now there is, to my mind, something infinitely more sublime about hunting in real earnest amid
the solemn shadows of our interminable forests, than in making believe hunt in parks.

It is undoubtedly the fact, that these out-of-door sports of England have a great deal to do
with the firm health which men here enjoy. Speaking of this subject, I could not help expressing
my surprise to Lord John at the apparently perfect health enjoyed by members of Parliament,
notwithstanding their protracted night labors. He thinks that the session of Parliament this
year will extend nearly to August. Speaking of breakfasts, he said they often had delightful
breakfasts about three o'clock in the day; this is a total reverse of all our ideas in regard
to time.

After dinner Lord and Lady Ribblesdale came in, connections of Lord John by a former marriage.
I sat by Lord John on the sofa, and listened with great interest to a conversation between
him and Lady Grey, on the working of the educational system in England; a subject which has
particularly engaged the attention of the English government since the reign of the present
queen. I found a difficulty in understanding many of the terms they used, though I learned
much that interested me.

After a while I went to Lady Russell's apartment, and had an hour of very pleasant conversation
with her. It greatly enlarges our confidence in human nature to find such identity of feeling
and opinion among the really good of different countries, and of all different circles in those
countries. I have never been more impressed with this idea than during my sojourn here in England.
Different as the institutions of England and America are, they do not prevent the formation
of a very general basis of agreement in so far as radical ideas of practical morality and religion
are concerned; and I am increasingly certain that there is a foundation for a lasting unity
between the two countries which shall increase constantly, as the increasing facilities of
communication lessen the distance between us.

Lady Russell inquired with a good deal of interest after Prescott, our historian, and expressed
the pleasure which she and Lord John had derived from his writings.

We left early, after a most agreeable evening. The next day at eleven o'clock we went to an
engagement at Lambeth Palace, where we had been invited by a kind note from its venerable master,
the Archbishop of Canterbury. Lambeth is a stately pile of quaint, antique buildings, rising
most magnificently on the banks of the Thames. It is surrounded by beautiful grounds, laid
out with choice gardening. Through an ancient hall, lighted by stained-glass windows, we were
ushered into the drawing room, where the guests were assembling. There was quite a number of
people there, among others the lady and eldest son of the Bishop of London, the Earl and Countess
Waldegrave, and the family friends of the archbishop.

The good archbishop was kind and benign, as usual, and gave me his arm while we explored the
curiosities of the palace. Now, my dear, if you will please to recollect that the guide book
says, "this palace contains all the gradations of architecture from early English to late perpendicular,"
you will certainly not expect me to describe it in one letter. It has been the residence of
the archbishops of Canterbury from time immemorial, both in the days before the reformation
and since.

The chapel was built between the years 1200 and 1300, and there used to be painted windows
in it, as Archbishop Laud says, which contained the whole history of the world, from the creation
to the day of judgment. Unfortunately these comprehensive windows were destroyed in the civil wars.

The part called the Lollards' Tower is celebrated as having been the reputed prison of the
Lollards. These Lollards, perhaps you will remember, were the followers of John Wickliffe,
called Lollards as Christ was called a "Nazarene," simply because the word was a term of reproach.
Wickliffe himself was summoned here to Lambeth to give an account of his teachings, and in
1382, William Courtnay, Archbishop of Canterbury, called a council, which condemned his doctrines.
The tradition is, that at various times these Lollards were imprisoned here.

In order to get to the tower we had to go through a great many apartments, passages, and corridors,
and terminate all by climbing a winding staircase, steeper and narrower than was at all desirable
for any but wicked heretics, who ought to be made as uncomfortable as possible. However, by
reasonable perseverance, the archbishop, the bishop's lady, and all the noble company present
found themselves safely at the top. Our host remarked, I think, that it was the second time
he had ever been there.

The room is thirteen feet by twelve, and about eight feet high, wainscotted with oak, which
is scrawled over with names and inscriptions. There are eight large iron rings in the wall,
to which the prisoners were chained; for aught we know, Wickliffe himself may have been one.
As our kind host moved about among us with his placid face, we could not but think that times
had altered since the days when archbishops used to imprison heretics, and preside over grim,
inquisitorial tribunals. We all agreed, however, that, considering the very beautiful prospect
this tower commands up and down the Thames, the poor Lollards in some respects might have been
worse lodged.

We passed through the guard room, library, and along a corridor where hung a row of pictures
of all the archbishops from the very earliest times; and then the archbishop took me into his
study, which is a most charming room, containing his own private library: after that we all
sat down to lunch in a large dining hall. I was seated between the archbishop and a venerable
admiral in the navy. Among other things, the latter asked me if there were not many railroad
and steamboat accidents in America. O my countrymen, what trouble do you make us in foreign
lands by your terrible carelessness! I was obliged, in candor, to say that I thought there
was a shocking number of accidents of that sort, and suggested the best excuse I could think
of--our youth and inexperience; but I certainly thought my venerable friend had touched a very
indefensible point.

Among other topics discussed in the drawing room, I heard some more on dits respecting spiritual
rappings. Every body seems to be wondering what they are, and what they are going to amount to.

We took leave of our kind host and his family, gratefully impressed with the simplicity and
sincere cordiality of our reception. There are many different names for goodness in this world;
but, after all, true brotherly kindness and charity is much the same thing, whether it show
itself by a Quaker's fireside or in an archbishop's palace.

Leaving the archbishop's I went to Richmond's again, where I was most agreeably entertained
for an hour or two. We have an engagement for Playford Hall to-morrow, and we breakfast with
Joseph Sturge: it being now the time of the yearly meeting of the Friends, he and his family
are in town.

LETTER XXIV.

MY DEAR S.:--

The next morning C. and I took the cars to go into the country, to Playford Hall. "And what's
Playford Hall?" you say. "And why did you go to see it?" As to what it is, here is a reasonably
good picture before you. As to why, it was for many years the residence of Thomas Clarkson,
and is now the residence of his venerable widow and her family.

Playford Hall is considered, I think, the oldest of the fortified houses in England, and is,
I am told, the only one that has water in the moat. The water which is seen girdling the wall,
in the picture, is the moat: it surrounds the place entirely, leaving no access except across
the bridge, which is here represented.

After crossing this bridge, you come into a green court yard filled with choice plants and
flowering shrubs, and carpeted with that thick, soft, velvet-like grass which is to be found
nowhere else in so perfect a state as in England.

The water is fed by a perpetual spring, whose current is so sluggish as scarcely to be perceptible,
but which yet has the vitality of a running stream.

It has a dark and glassy stillness of surface, only broken by the forms of the water plants,
whose leaves float thickly over it.

The walls of the moat are green with ancient moss, and from the crevices springs an abundant
flowering vine, whose delicate leaves and bright yellow flowers in some places entirely mantle
the stones with their graceful drapery.

The picture I have given you represents only one side of the moat. The other side is grown
up with dark and thick shrubbery and ancient trees, rising and embowering the entire place,
adding to the retired and singular effect of the whole. The place is a specimen of a sort of
thing which does not exist in America. It is one of those significant landmarks which unite
the present with the past, for which we must return to the country of our origin.

Playford Hall is peculiarly English, and Thomas Clarkson, for whose sake I visited it, was
as peculiarly an Englishman--a specimen of the very best kind of English mind and character,
as this is of characteristic English architecture.

We Anglo-Saxons have won a hard name in the world. There are undoubtedly bad things which are
true about us.

Taking our developments as a race, both in England and America, we may be justly called the
Romans of the nineteenth century. We have been the race which has conquered, subdued, and broken
in pieces other weaker races, with little regard either to justice or mercy. With regard to
benefits by us imparted to conquered nations, I think a better story, on the whole, can be
made out for the Romans than for us. Witness the treatment of the Chinese, of the tribes of
India, and of our own American Indians.

But still there is in Anglo-Saxon blood, a vigorous sense of justice, as appears in our habeas
corpus, our jury trials, and other features of state organization; and, when this is tempered,
in individuals, with the elements of gentleness and compassion, and enforced by that energy
and indomitable perseverance which are characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon mind, they form a
style of philanthropy peculiarly efficient. In short, the Anglo-Saxon is efficient, in whatever
he sets himself about, whether in crushing the weak or lifting them up.

Thomas Clarkson was born in a day when good, pious people imported cargoes of slaves from Africa,
as one of the regular Christianized modes of gaining a subsistence and providing for themselves
and their households. It was a thing that every body was doing, and every body thought they
had a right to do. It was supposed that all the sugar, molasses, and rum in the world were
dependent on stealing men, women, and children, and could be got in no other way; and as to
consume sugar, molasses, and rum, were evidently the chief ends of human existence, it followed
that men, women, and children must be stolen to the end of time.

Some good people, when they now and then heard an appalling story of the cruelties practised
in the slave ship, declared that it was really too bad, sympathetically remarked, "What a sorrowful
world we live in!" stirred their sugar into their tea, and went on as before, because, what
was there to do?--"Hadn't every body always done it? and if they didn't do it, wouldn't somebody
else?"

It is true that for many years individuals at different times had remonstrated, written treatises,
poems, stories, and movements had been made by some religious bodies, particularly the Quakers,
but the opposition had amounted to nothing practically efficient.

The attention of Clarkson was first turned to the subject by having it given out as the theme
for a prize composition in his college class, he being at that time a sprightly young man,
about twenty-four years of age. He entered into the investigation with no other purpose than
to see what he could make of it as a college theme.

He says of himself, "I had expected pleasure from the invention of arguments, from the arrangement
of them, from the putting of them together, and from the thought, in the interim, that I was
engaged in an innocent contest for literary honor; but all my pleasures were damped by the
facts which were now continually before me."

"It was but one gloomy subject from morning till night; in the daytime I was uneasy, in the
night I had little rest; I sometimes never closed my eyelids for grief."

It became not now so much a trial for academical reputation as to write a work which should
be useful to Africa. It is not surprising that a work written under the force of such feelings
should have gained the prize, as it did. Clarkson was summoned from London to Cambridge, to
deliver his prize essay publicly. He says of himself, on returning to London, "The subject
of it almost wholly engrossed my thoughts. I became at times very seriously affected while
on the road. I stopped my horse occasionally, dismounted, and walked."

"I frequently tried to persuade myself that the contents of my essay could not be true; but
the more I reflected on the authorities on which they were founded, the more I gave them credit.
Coming in sight of Wade's Mill, in Hertfordshire, I sat down disconsolate on the turf by the
roadside, and held my horse. Here a thought came into my mind, that if the contents of the
essay were true, it was time that somebody should see these calamities to an end."

These reflections, as it appears, were put off for a while, but returned again.

This young and noble heart was of a kind that could not comfort itself so easily for a brother's
sorrow as many do.

He says of himself, "In the course of the autumn of the same year, I walked frequently into
the woods, that I might think of the subject in solitude, and find relief to my mind there;
but there the question still recurred, 'Are these things true?' Still, the answer followed
as instantaneously, 'They are;' still the result accompanied it--surely some person should
interfere. I began to envy those who had seats in Parliament, riches, and widely-extended connections,
which would enable them to take up this cause.

"Finding scarcely any one, at the time, who thought of it, I was turned frequently to myself;
but here many difficulties arose. It struck me, among others, that a young man only twenty-four
years of age could not have that solid judgment, or that knowledge of men, manners, and things,
which were requisite to qualify him to undertake a task of such magnitude and importance; and
with whom was I to unite? I believed, also, that it looked so much like one of the feigned
labors of Hercules, that my understanding would be suspected if I proposed it."

He, however, resolved to do something for the cause by translating his essay from Latin into
English, enlarging and presenting it to the public. Immediately on the publication of this
essay he discovered, to his astonishment and delight, that he was not the only one who had
been interested in this subject.

Being invited to the house of William Dillwyn, one of these friends to the cause, he says,
"How surprised was I to learn, in the course of our conversation, of the labors of Granville
Sharp, of the writings of Ramsey, and of the controversy in which the latter was engaged! of
all which I had hitherto known nothing. How surprised was I to learn that William Dillwyn had,
two years before, associated himself with five others for the purpose of enlightening the public
mind on this great subject!

"How astonished was I to find that a society had been formed in America for the same object!
These thoughts almost overpowered me. My mind was overwhelmed by the thought that I had been
providentially directed to this house; the finger of Providence was beginning to be discernible,
and that the daystar of African liberty was rising."

After this he associated with many friends of the cause, and at last it became evident that,
in order to effect any thing, he must sacrifice all other prospects in life, and devote himself
exclusively to this work.

He says, after mentioning reasons which prevented all his associates from doing this, "I could
look, therefore, to no person but myself; and the question was, whether I was prepared to make
the sacrifice. In favor of the undertaking, I urged to myself that never was any cause, which
had been taken up by man, in any country or in any age, so great and important; that never
was there one in which so much misery was heard to cry for redress; that never was there one
in which so much good could be done; never one in which the duty of Christian charity could
be so extensively exercised; never one more worthy of the devotion of a whole life towards
it; and that, if a man thought properly, he ought to rejoice to have been called into existence,
if he were only permitted to become an instrument in forwarding it in any part of its progress.

"Against these sentiments, on the other hand, I had to urge that I had been designed for the
church; that I had already advanced as far as deacon's orders in it; that my prospects there
on account of my connections were then brilliant; that, by appearing to desert my profession,
my family would be dissatisfied, if not unhappy. These thoughts pressed upon me, and rendered
the conflict difficult.

"But the sacrifice of my prospects staggered me, I own, the most. When the other objections
which I have related occurred to me, my enthusiasm instantly, like a flash of lightning, consumed
them; but this stuck to me, and troubled me. I had ambition. I had a thirst after worldly interest
and honors, and I could not extinguish it at once. I was more than two hours in solitude under
this painful conflict. At length I yielded, not because I saw any reasonable prospect of success
in my new undertaking,--for all cool-headed and cool-hearted men would have pronounced against
it,--but in obedience, I believe, to a higher Power. And I can say, that both on the moment
of this resolution and for some time afterwards, I had more sublime and happy feelings than
at any former period of my life."

One of the first steps of Clarkson and his associates was the formation of a committee of twelve
persons, for the collection and dissemination of information on the subject.

The contest now began in earnest, a contest as sublime as any the world ever saw.

The abolition controversy more fully aroused the virtue, the talent, and the religion of the
great English nation, than any other event or crisis which ever occurred.

Wilberforce was the leader of the question in Parliament. The other members of the antislavery
committee performed those labors which were necessary out of it.

This labor consisted principally in the collection of evidence with regard to the traffic,
and the presentation of it before the public mind. In this labor Clarkson was particularly
engaged. The subject was hemmed in with the same difficulties that now beset the antislavery
cause in America. Those who knew most about it were precisely those whose interest it was to
prevent inquiry. An immense moneyed interest was arrayed against investigation, and was determined
to suppress the agitation of the subject. Owing to this powerful pressure, many, who were in
possession of facts which would bear upon this subject, refused to communicate them; and often,
after a long and wearisome journey in search of an individual who could throw light upon the
subject, Clarkson had the mortification to find his lips sealed by interest or timidity. As
usual, the cause of oppression was defended by the most impudent lying; the slave trade was
asserted to be the latest revised edition of philanthropy. It was said that the poor African,
the slave of miserable oppression in his own country, was wafted by it to an asylum in a Christian
land; that the middle passage was to the poor negro a perfect Elysium, infinitely happier than
any thing he had ever known in his own country. All this was said while manacles, and handcuffs,
and thumbscrews, and instruments to force open the mouth, were a regular part of the stock
for a slave ship, and were hanging in the shop windows of Liverpool for sale.

For Clarkson's attention was first called to these things by observing them in the shop window,
and on inquiring the use of one of them, the man informed him that many times negroes were
sulky, and tried to starve themselves to death, and this instrument was used to force open
their jaws.

Of Clarkson's labor in this investigation some idea may be gathered from his own words, when,
stating that for a season he was compelled to retire from the cause, he thus speaks:--

"As far as I myself was concerned, all exertion was then over. The nervous system was almost
shattered to pieces. Both my memory and my hearing failed me. Sudden dizzinesses seized my
head. A confused singing in the ear followed me wherever I went. On going to bed the very stairs
seemed to dance up and down under me, so that, misplacing my foot, I sometimes fell. Talking,
too, if it continued but half an hour, exhausted me so that profuse perspiration followed,
and the same effect was produced even by an active exertion of the mind for the like time.

"These disorders had been brought on by degrees, in consequence of the severe labors necessarily
attached to the promotion of the cause. For seven years I had a correspondence to maintain
with four hundred persons, with my own hand; I had some book or other annually to write in
behalf of the cause. In this time I had travelled more than thirty-five thousand miles in search
of evidence, and a great part of these journeys in the night. All this time my mind had been
on the stretch. It had been bent, too, to this one subject, for I had not even leisure to attend
to my own concerns. The various instances of barbarity which had come successively to my knowledge,
within this period, had vexed, harassed, and afflicted it. The wound which these had produced
was rendered still deeper by those cruel disappointments before related, which arose from the
reiterated refusals of persons to give their testimony, after I had travelled hundreds of miles
in quest of them. But the severest stroke was that inflicted by the persecution, begun and
pursued by persons interested in the continuance of the trade, of such witnesses as had been
examined against them, and whom, on account of their dependent situation in life, it was most
easy to oppress. As I had been the means of bringing these forward on these occasions, they
naturally came to me, when thus persecuted, as the author of their miseries and their ruin.
From their supplications and wants it would have been ungenerous and ungrateful to have fled.
These different circumstances, by acting together, had at length brought me into the situation
just mentioned; and I was, therefore, obliged, though very reluctantly, to be borne out of
the field where I had placed the great honor and glory of my life."

I may as well add here that a Mr. Whitbread, to whom Clarkson mentioned this latter cause of
distress, generously offered to repair the pecuniary losses of all who had suffered in this
cause. One anecdote will be a specimen of the energy with which Clarkson pursued evidence.
It had been very strenuously asserted and maintained that the subjects of the slave trade were
only such unfortunates as had become prisoners of war, and who, if not carried out of the country
in this manner, would be exposed to death or some more dreadful doom in their own country.
This was one of those stories which nobody believed, and yet was particularly useful in the
hands of the opposition, because it was difficult legally to disprove it. It was perfectly
well known that in very many cases slave traders made direct incursions into the country, kidnapped
and carried off the inhabitants of whole villages; but the question was, how to establish it.
A gentleman whom Clarkson accidentally met on one of his journeys informed him that he had
been in company, about a year before, with a sailor, a very respectable-looking young man,
who had actually been engaged in one of these expeditions; he had spent half an hour with him
at an inn; he described his person, but knew nothing of his name or the place of his abode;
all he knew was, that he belonged to a ship of war in ordinary, but knew nothing of the port.
Clarkson determined that this man should be produced as a witness, and knew no better way than
to go personally to all the ships in ordinary, until the individual was found. He actually
visited every seaport town, and boarded every ship, till in the very last port, and on the
very last ship, which remained, the individual was found, and found to be possessed of just
the facts and information which were necessary. By the labors of Clarkson and his contemporaries
an incredible excitement was produced throughout all England. The pictures and models of slave
ships, accounts of the cruelties practised in the trade, were circulated with an industry which
left not a man, woman, or child in England uninstructed. In disseminating information, and
in awakening feeling and conscience, the women of England were particularly earnest, and labored
with that whole-hearted devotion which characterizes the sex.

It seems that after the committee had published the facts, and sent them to every town in England,
Clarkson followed them up by journeying to all the places, to see that they were read and attended
to. Of the state of feeling at this time Clarkson gives the following account:--

"And first I may observe, that there was no town through which I passed in which there was
not some one individual who had left off the use of sugar. In the smaller towns there were
from ten to fifty, by estimation, and in the larger from two to five hundred, who made this
sacrifice to virtue. These were of all ranks and parties. Hich and poor, churchmen and dissenters,
had adopted the measure. Even grocers had left off trading in the article in some places. In
gentlemen's families, where the master had set the example, the servants had often voluntarily
followed it; and even children, who were capable of understanding the history of the sufferings
of the Africans, excluded, with the most virtuous resolution, the sweets, to which they had
been accustomed, from their lips. By the best computation I was able to make, from notes taken
down in my journey, no fewer than three hundred thousand persons had abandoned the use of sugar."
It was the reality, depth, and earnestness of the public feeling, thus aroused, which pressed
with resistless force upon the government; for the government of England yields to popular
demands quite as readily as that of America.

After years of protracted struggle, the victory was at last won. The slave trade was finally
abolished through all the British empire; and not only so, but the English nation committed,
with the whole force of its national influence, to seek the abolition of the slave trade in
all the nations of the earth. But the wave of feeling did not rest there; the investigations
had brought before the English conscience the horrors and abominations of slavery itself, and
the agitation never ceased till slavery was finally abolished through all the British provinces.
At this time the religious mind and conscience of England gained, through this very struggle,
a power which it never has lost. The principle adopted by them was the same so sublimely adopted
by the church in America in reference to the foreign missionary cause: "The field is the world."
They saw and felt that, as the example and practice of England had been powerful in giving
sanction to this evil, and particularly in introducing it into America, there was the greatest
reason why she should never intermit her efforts till the wrong was righted throughout the earth.

Clarkson, to his last day, never ceased to be interested in the subject, and took the warmest
interest in all movements for the abolition of slavery in America.

At the Ipswich depot we were met by a venerable lady, the daughter of Clarkson's associate,
William Dillwyn. She seemed overjoyed to meet us, and took us at once into her carriage, and
entertained us all our way to the hall by anecdotes and incidents of Clarkson and his times.
She read me a manuscript letter from him, written at a very advanced age, in which he speaks
with the utmost ardor and enthusiasm of the first antislavery movements of Cassius M. Clay
in Kentucky. She described him to me as a cheerful, companionable being, frank and simple-hearted,
and with a good deal of quiet humor.

It is remarkable of him that, with such intense feeling for human suffering as he had, and
worn down and exhausted as he was by the dreadful miseries and sorrows with which he was constantly
obliged to be familiar, he never yielded to a spirit of bitterness or denunciation.

The narrative which he gives is as calm and unimpassioned, and as free from any trait of this
kind, as the narratives of the evangelists. Thus riding and talking, we at last arrived at
the hall.

The old stone house, the moat, the draw bridge, all spoke of days of violence long gone by,
when no man was safe except within fortified walls, and every man's house literally had to
be his castle.

To me it was interesting as the dwelling of a conqueror, as one who had not wrestled with flesh
and blood merely, but with principalities and powers, and the rulers of the darkness of this
world, and who had overcome, as his great Master did before him, by faith, and prayer, and labor.

We were received with much cordiality by the widow of Clarkson, now in her eighty-fourth year.
She has been a woman of great energy and vigor, and an efficient co-laborer in his plans of
benevolence.

She is now quite feeble. I was placed under the care of a respectable female servant, who forthwith
installed me in a large chamber overlooking the court yard, which had been Clarkson's own room;
the room where, for years, many of his most important labors had been conducted, and from whence
his soul had ascended to the reward of the just.

The servant who attended me seemed to be quite a superior woman, like many of the servants
in respectable English families. She had grown up in the family, and was identified with it;
its ruling aims and purposes had become hers. She had been the personal attendant of Clarkson,
and his nurse during his last sickness; she had evidently understood, and been interested in
his plans; and the veneration with which she therefore spoke of him had the sanction of intelligent
appreciation.

A daughter of Clarkson, who was married to a neighboring clergyman, with her husband, was also
present on this day.

After dinner we rode out to see the old church, in whose enclosure the remains of Clarkson
repose. It was just such a still, quiet, mossy old church as you have read of in story books,
with the graveyard spread all around it, like a thoughtful mother, who watches the resting
of her children.

The grass in the yard was long and green, and the daisy, which, in other places, lies like
a little button on the ground, here had a richer fringe of crimson, and a stalk about six inches
high. It is, I well know, the vital influence from the slumbering dust beneath which gives
the richness to this grass and these flowers; but let not that be a painful thought; let it
rather cheer us, that beauty should spring from ashes, and life smile brighter from the near
presence of death. The grave of Clarkson is near the church, enclosed by a railing, and marked
by a simple white marble slab; it is carefully tended, and planted with flowers. In the church
was an old book of records, and among other curious inscriptions was one recording how a pious
committee of old Noll's army had been there, knocking off saints' noses, and otherwise purging
the church from the relics of idolatry.

Near by the church was the parsonage, the home of my friends, a neat, pleasant, sequestered
dwelling, of about the style of a New England country parsonage.

The effect of the whole together was inexpressibly beautiful to me. For a wonder, it was a
pleasant day, and this is a thing always to be thankfully acknowledged in England. The calm
stillness of the afternoon, the seclusion of the whole place, the silence only broken by the
cawing of the rooks, the ancient church, the mossy graves with their flowers and green grass,
the sunshine and the tree shadows, all seemed to mingle together in a kind of hazy dream of
peacefulness and rest. How natural it is to say of some place sheltered, simple, cool, and
retired, here one might find peace, as if peace came from without, and not from within. In
the shadiest and stillest places may be the most turbulent hearts; and there are hearts which,
through the busiest scenes, carry with them unchanging peace. As we were walking back, we passed
many cottages of the poor.

I noticed, with particular pleasure, the invariable flower garden attached to each. Some pansies
in one of them attracted my attention by their peculiar beauty, so very large and richly colored.
On being introduced to the owner of them, she, with cheerful alacrity, offered me some of the
finest. I do not doubt of there being suffering and misery in the agricultural population of
England, but still there are multitudes of cottages which are really very pleasant objects,
as were all these. The cottagers had that bright, rosy look of health which we seldom see in
America, and appeared to be both polite and self-respecting.

In the evening we had quite a gathering of friends from the neighborhood--intelligent, sensible,
earnest people, who had grown up in the love of the antislavery cause as into religion. The
subject of conversation was, "The duty of English people to free themselves from any participation
in American slavery, by taking means to encourage the production of free cotton in the British
provinces."

It is no more impossible or improbable that something effective may be done in this way than
that the slave trade should have been abolished. Every great movement seems an impossibility
at first. There is no end to the number of things declared and proved impossible which have
been done already, so that this may become something yet.

Mrs. Clarkson had retired from the room early; after a while she sent for me to her sitting
room. The faithful attendant of whom I spoke was with her. She wished to show me some relics
of her husband, his watch and seals, some of his papers and manuscripts; among these was the
identical prize essay with which he began his career, and a commentary on the Gospels, which
he had written with great care, for the use of his grandson. His seal attracted my attention--it
was that kneeling figure of the negro, with clasped hands, which was at first adopted as the
badge of the cause, when every means was being made use of to arouse the public mind and keep
the subject before the public. Mr. Wedgwood, the celebrated porcelain manufacturer, designed
a cameo, with this representation, which was much worn as an ornament by ladies. It was engraved
on the seal of the Antislavery Society, and was used by its members in sealing all their letters.
This of Clarkson's was handsomely engraved on a large, old-fashioned carnelian; and surely,
if we look with emotion on the sword of a departed hero,--which, at best, we can consider only
as a necessary evil,--we may look with unmingled pleasure on this memorial of a bloodless victory.

When I retired to my room for the night I could not but feel that the place was hallowed: unceasing
prayer had there been offered for the enslaved and wronged race of Africa by that noble and
brotherly heart. I could not but feel that those prayers had had a wider reach than the mere
extinction of slavery in one land or country, and that their benign influence would not cease
while a slave was left upon the face of the earth.

LETTER XXV.

DEAR C.:--

We returned to London, and found Mr. S. and Joseph Sturge waiting for us at the depot. We dined
with Mr. Sturge. It seems that Mr. S.'s speech upon the subject of cotton has created some
considerable disturbance, different papers declaring themselves for or against it with a good
deal of vivacity.

After dinner Mr. Sturge desired me very much to go into the meeting of the women; for it seems
that, at the time of the yearly meeting among the Friends, the men and women both have their
separate meetings for attending to business. The aspect of the meeting was very interesting--so
many placid, amiable faces, shaded by plain Quaker bonnets; so many neat white handkerchiefs,
folded across peaceful bosoms. Either a large number of very pretty women wear the Quaker dress,
or it is quite becoming in its effect.

There are some things in the mode of speaking among the Friends, particularly in their public
meetings, which do not strike me agreeably, and to which I think it would take me some time
to become accustomed; such as a kind of intoning somewhat similar to the manner in which the
church service is performed in cathedrals. It is a curious fact that religious exercises, in
all ages and countries, have inclined to this form of expression. It appears in the cantilation
of the synagogue, the service of the cathedral, the prayers of the Covenanter and the Puritan.

There were a table and writing materials in this meeting, and a circle of from fifty to a hundred
ladies. One of those upon the platform requested me to express to them my opinion on free labor.
In a few words I told them I considered myself upon that subject more a learner than a teacher,
but that I was deeply interested in what I had learned upon this subject since my travelling
in England, and particularly interested in the consistency and self-denial practised by their sect.

I have been quite amused with something which has happened lately. It always has seemed to
me that distinguished people here in England live a remarkably out-door sort of life; and newspapers
tell a vast deal about people's concerns which it is not our custom to put into print in America.
Such, for instance, as where the Hon. Mr. A. is staying now, and where he expects to go next;
what her grace wore at the last ball, and when the royal children rode out, and what they had
on; and whom Lord Such-a-one had to dinner; besides a large number of particulars which probably
never happen.

Could I have expected dear old England to make me so much one of the family as to treat my
humble fortunes in this same public manner? But it is even so. What am I, and what is my father's
house, that such distinction should come upon me? I assure you, my dear, I feel myself altogether
too much flattered. There, side by side with speculations on the eastern question, and conjectures
with regard to the secret and revealed will of the Emperor of Russia, news from her majesty's
most sacred retreat at Osborne, and the last debates in Parliament, comes my brown silk dress!
The Times has omitted the color; I had a great mind to send him word about that. But you may
tell the girls--for probably the news will spread through the American papers--that it is the
brown Chinese silk which they put into my trunk, unmade, when I was too ill to sit up and be
fitted. The person who had been so unfortunate as to receive the weight of my public patronage
was in a very tragical state; protested her innocence of any connection with dens, of any overworking
of hands, &c., with as much fervor as if I had been appointed on a committee of parliamentary
inquiry. Let my case be a warning to all philanthropists who may happen to want clothes while
they are in London. Some of my correspondents seemed to think that I ought to publish a manifesto
for the benefit of distressed Great Britain, stating how I came to do it, and all the circumstances,
since they are quite sure I must have meant well, and containing gentle cautions as to the
disposal of my future patronage in the dressmaking line.

And now, what am I to do? The Times seems to think that, in order to be consistent, I ought
to take up the conflict immediately; but, for my part, I think otherwise. What an unreasonable
creature! Does he suppose me so lost to all due sense of humility as to take out of his hands
a cause which he is pleading so well? If the plantation slaves had such a good friend as the
Times, and if every over-worked female cotton picker could write as clever letters as this
dressmaker's apprentice, and get them published in as influential papers, and excite as general
a sensation by them as this seems to have done, I think I should feel that there was no need
of my interfering in a work so much better done. Unfortunately, our female cotton pickers do
not know how to read and write, and it is against the law to teach them; and this instance
shows that the law is a sagacious one, since, doubtless, if they could read and write, most
embarrassing communications might be made.

Nothing shows more plainly, to my mind, than this letter, the difference between the working
class of England and the slave. The free workman or workwoman of England or America, however
poor, is self-respecting; is, to some extent, clever and intelligent; is determined to resist
wrong, and, as this incident shows, has abundant means for doing so.

When we shall see the columns of the Charleston Courier adorned with communications from cotton
pickers and slave seamstresses, we shall then think the comparison a fair one. In fact, apart
from the whimsicality of the affair, and the little annoyance which one feels at notoriety
to which one is not accustomed, I consider the incident as in some aspects a gratifying one,
as showing how awake and active are the sympathies of the British public with that much-oppressed
class of needlewomen.

Horace Greeley would be delighted could his labors in this line excite a similar commotion
in New York.

We dined to-day at the Duke of Argyle's. At dinner there were the members of the family, the
Duchess of Sutherland, Lord Carlisle, Lord and Lady Blantyre, &c. The conversation flowed along
in a very agreeable channel. I told them the more I contemplated life in Great Britain, the
more I was struck with the contrast between the comparative smallness of the territory and
the vast power, physical, moral, and intellectual, which it exerted in the world.

The Duchess of Sutherland added, that it was beautiful to observe how gradually the idea of
freedom had developed itself in the history of the English nation, growing clearer and more
distinct in every successive century.

I might have added that the history of our own American republic is but a continuation of the
history of this development. The resistance to the stamp act was of the same kind as the resistance
to the ship money; and in our revolutionary war there were as eloquent defences of our principles
and course heard in the British Parliament as echoed in Faneuil Hall.

I conversed some with Lady Caroline Campbell, the duke's sister, with regard to Scottish preaching
and theology. She is a member of the Free church, and attends, in London, Dr. Cumming's congregation.
I derived the impression from her remarks, that the style of preaching in Scotland is more
discriminating and doctrinal than in England. One who studies the pictures given in Scott's
novels must often have been struck with the apparent similarity in the theologic training and
tastes of the laboring classes in New England and Scotland. The hard-featured man, whom he
describes in Rob Roy as following the preacher so earnestly, keeping count of the doctrinal
points on his successive fingers, is one which can still be seen in the retired, rural districts
of New England; and I believe that this severe intellectual discipline of the pulpit has been
one of the greatest means in forming that strong, self-sustaining character peculiar to both
countries.

The Duke of Argyle said that Chevalier Bunsen had been speaking to him in relation to a college
for colored people at Antigua, and inquired my views respecting the emigration of colored people
from America to the West India islands. I told him my impression was, that Canada would be
a much better place to develop the energies of the race. First, on account of its cold and
bracing climate; second, because, having never been a slave state, the white population there
are more thrifty and industrious, and of course the influence of such a community was better
adapted to form thrift arid industry in the negro.

In the evening, some of the ladies alluded to the dressmaker's letter in the Times. I inquired
if there was nothing done for them as a class in London, and some of them said,--

"O, Lord Shaftesbury can tell you all about it; he is president of the society for their protection."

So I said to Lord Shaftesbury, playfully, "I thought, my lord, you had reformed every thing
here in London."

"Ah, indeed," he replied, "but this was not in one of my houses. I preside over the West End."

He talked on the subject for some time with considerable energy; said it was one of the most
difficult he had ever attempted to regulate, and promised to send me a few documents, which
would show the measures he had pursued. He said, however, that there was progress making; and
spoke of one establishment in particular, which had recently been erected in London, and was
admirably arranged with regard to ventilation, being conducted in the most perfect manner.

Quite a number of distinguished persons were present this evening; among others, Sir David
Brewster, famed in the scientific world. He is a fine-looking old gentleman, with silver-white
hair, who seemed to be on terms of great familiarity with the duke. He bears the character
of a decidedly religious man, and is an elder in the Free church.

Lord Mahon, the celebrated historian, was there, with his lady. He is a young-looking man,
of agreeable manners, and fluent in conversation. This I gather from Mr. S., with whom he conversed
very freely on our historians, Prescott, Bancroft, and especially Dr. Sparks, his sharp controversy
with whom he seems to bear with great equanimity.

Lady Mahon is a handsome, interesting woman, with very pleasing manners.

Mr. Gladstone was there also, one of the ablest and best men in the kingdom. It is a commentary
on his character that, although one of the highest of the High church, we have never heard
him spoken of, even among dissenters, otherwise than as an excellent and highly conscientious
man. For a gentleman who has attained to such celebrity, both in theology and politics, he
looks remarkably young. He is tall, with dark hair and eyes, a thoughtful, serious cast of
countenance, and is easy and agreeable in conversation.

On the whole, this was a very delightful evening.

LETTER XXVI.

DEAR C.:--

I will add to this a little sketch, derived from the documents sent me by Lord Shaftesbury,
of the movements in behalf of the milliners and dressmakers in London for seven years past.

About thirteen years ago, in the year 1841, Lord Shaftesbury obtained a parliamentary commission
of inquiry into the employment of children and young persons in various trades and manufactures.
This commission, among other things, was directed toward the millinery and dressmaking trade.
These commissioners elicited the following facts: that there were fifteen hundred employers
in this trade in London, and fifteen thousand young people employed, besides a great number
of journeywomen who took the work home to their own houses. They discovered, also, that during
the London season, which occupied about four months of the year, the regular hours of work
were fifteen, but in many establishments they were entirely unlimited,--the young women never
getting more than six hours for sleep, and often only two or three; that frequently they worked
all night and part of Sunday. They discovered, also, that the rooms in which they worked and
slept were overcrowded, and deficient in ventilation; and that, in consequence of all these
causes, blindness, consumption, and multitudes of other diseases carried thousands of them
yearly to the grave.

These facts being made public to the English nation, a society was formed in London in 1843,
called the Association for The Aid of Milliners and Dressmakers. The president of this society
is the Earl of Shaftesbury; the vice presidents are twenty gentlemen of the most influential
position. Besides this there is a committee of ladies, and a committee of gentlemen. At the
head of the committee of ladies stands the name of the Duchess of Sutherland, with seventeen
others, among whom we notice the Countess of Shaftesbury, Countess of Ellesmere, Lady Robert
Grosvenor, and others of the upper London sphere. The subscription list of donations to the
society is headed by the queen and royal family.

The features of the plan which the society undertook to carry out were briefly these:--

First, they opened a registration office, where all young persons desiring employment in the
dressmaking trade might enroll their names free of expense, and thus come in a manner under
the care of the association. From the young people thus enrolled, they engaged to supply to
the principals of dressmaking establishments extra assistants in periods of uncommon pressure,
so that they should not be under the necessity of overtaxing their workwomen. This assistance
is extended only to those houses which will observe the moderate hours recommended by the association.

In the second place, an arrangement is made by which the young persons thus registered are
entitled to the best of medical advice at any time, for the sum of five shillings per year.
Three physicians and two consulting surgeons are connected with the association.

In the third place, models of simple and cheap modes of ventilation are kept at all times at
the office of the society, and all the influence of the association is used to induce employers
to place them in the work and sleeping rooms.

Fourth, a kind of savings bank has been instituted, in which the workwomen are encouraged to
deposit small earnings on good interest.

This is the plan of the society, and as to its results I have at hand the report for 1851,
from which you can gather some particulars of its practical workings. They say, "Eight years
have elapsed since this association was established, during which a most gratifying change
has been wrought in respect to the mode of conducting the dressmaking and millinery business.

"Without overstepping the strict limits of truth, it may be affirmed that the larger part of
the good thus achieved is attributable to the influence and unceasing efforts of this society.
The general result, so far as the metropolis is concerned, may be thus stated: First, the hours
of work, speaking generally, now rarely exceed twelve, whereas formerly sixteen, seventeen,
and even eighteen hours were not unusual.

"Second, the young persons are rarely kept up all night, which was formerly not an unusual
occurrence.

"Third, labor on the Lord's day, it is confidently believed, has been entirely abrogated.

"Under the old system the health and constitution of many of the young people were irretrievably
destroyed. At present permanent loss of health is rarely entailed, and even when sickness does
from any cause arise, skilful and prompt advice and medicine are provided at a moderate charge
by the association.

"In addition to these and similar ameliorations, other and more important changes have been
effected. Among the heads of establishments, as the committee are happy to know and most willing
to record, more elevated views of the duties and responsibilities, inseparable from employers,
have secured to the association the zealous cooperation of numerous and influential principals,
without whose aid the efforts of the last few years would have been often impeded, or even
in many instances defeated. Nor have the young persons engaged in the dressmaking and millinery
business remained uninfluenced amidst the general improvement. Finding that a strenuous effort
was in progress to promote their physical and moral welfare, and that increased industry on
their part would be rewarded by diminished hours of work, the assistants have become more attentive,
the workrooms are better managed, and both parties, relieved from a system which was oppressive
to all and really beneficial to none, have recognized the fundamental truth, that in no industrial
pursuit is there any real incompatibility between the interests, rightfully interpreted, of
the employer and the employed. Although not generally known, evils scarcely less serious than
those formerly prevalent in the metropolis were not uncommon in the manufacturing towns and
fashionable watering-places. It is obviously impracticable to ascertain to what extent the
efforts of the association have been attended with success in the provinces; but a rule has
been established that in no instance shall the cooperation of the office, in providing assistants,
be extended to any establishment in which the hours of work are known to exceed those laid
down by the association. On these conditions the principals of many country establishments
have for several years been supplied; latterly, indeed, owing to the great efficiency of the
manager, Miss Newton, and to the general satisfaction thus created, these applications have
so much increased as to constitute a principal part of the business of the office; and with
the increase the influence of the association has been proportionally extended."

This, as you perceive, was the report for 1851. Lord Shaftesbury has kindly handed me the first
proof of the report for 1853, from which I will send you a few extracts.

After the publication of the letter from the ladies of England to the ladies of America, much
was said in the Times and other newspapers with regard to the condition of the dressmakers.
These things are what are alluded to in the commencement of the report. They say,--

"In presenting their annual report, the committees would in the first place refer to the public
notice that has lately been directed to the mode in which the dressmaking and millinery business
is conducted: this they feel to be due both to the association and to those employers who have
cooperated in the good work of improvement. It has been stated in former reports, that since
the first establishment of this society, in the year 1843, and essentially through its influence,
great ameliorations have been secured; that the inordinate hours of work formerly prevalent
had, speaking generally, been greatly reduced; that Sunday labor had been abolished; that the
young people were rarely kept up all night; and that, as a consequence of these improvements,
there had been a marked decrease of serious sickness.

"At the present moment, in consequence of the statements that have appeared in the public journals,
and in order to guard against misconceptions, the committees are anxious to announce that they
perceive no reason for withdrawing any of their preceding statements-- the latest, equally
with former investigations, indicating the great improvement effected in recent years. The
manager at the office has been instructed to make express inquiries of the young dressmakers
themselves; and the result distinctly proves that, on the whole, there has been a marked diminution
in the hours of work.

"The report of Mr. Trouncer, the medical officer who has attended the larger number of the
young persons for whom advice has been provided by the association, is equally satisfactory.
This gentleman, after alluding to the great evils in regard to health inflicted in former years,
remarks that these have, through the instrumentality of the association, been greatly ameliorated;
that as regards consumption,-- although the nature of the employment itself, however modified
by kindness, has a tendency to develop the disease where the predisposition exists,--he is
happy to state that the average number of cases, even in the incipient stage, has not been
so great as might, from the circumstances, have been anticipated; that during the last two
years, out of about two hundred and fifty cases of sickness, no death has occurred; and that
but in a few instances only has it been necessary to advise a total cessation of business.
Mr. Trouncer adds --and this is a statement which the committees have much pleasure in announcing--that,
in the majority of the West End houses, the principals have, in cases of sickness, acted the
part of parents, evincing, in some instances, even more care than the young persons themselves.

"In addition to these satisfactory and reliable statements, it is a matter of simple justice
to state that many houses of business have cooperated with the association in reducing the
hours of work, in improving the workrooms and sleeping apartments, and generally in promoting
the comfort of those in their employ. Some employers have also very creditably, and at considerable
expense, exerted themselves to secure a good system of ventilation--a subject to which the
committees attach great importance, both as regards the health and comfort of those employed.

"It is not, by these statements, intended to be said that all requiring amendment has been
corrected. In their last report the committees remarked that some few houses of business systematically
persisted in exacting excessive labor from their assistants; and they regret to state that
this observation is still applicable. The important subject of ventilation is still much neglected,
and there is reason to apprehend that the sleeping apartments are often much overcrowded. Another
and a more prevailing evil relates to the time allowed for meals: this is often altogether
insufficient, and strongly contrasted with the custom in other industrial pursuits, in which
one hour for dinner, and half an hour for breakfast or tea, as the case may be, is the usual
allowance. In an occupation so sedentary as dressmaking, and especially in the case of young
females, hurried meals are most injurious, and are a frequent cause of deranged health. It
is also the painful duty of the committees to state that in some establishments, according
to the medical report, the principals, in cases of sickness, will neither allow the young people
an opportunity of calling on the medical officer for his advice, nor permit that gentleman
to visit them at the place of business. The evils resulting from this absence of all proper
feeling are so obvious that it is hoped this public rebuke will in future obviate the necessity
of recurring to so painful a topic."

The committee after this proceed to publish the following declaration, signed by fifty-three
of the West End dressmakers:--

"'We, the undersigned principals of millinery and dress-making establishments at the West End
of London, having observed in the newspapers statements of excessive labor in our business,
feel called upon, in self-defence, to make the following public statement, especially as we
have reason to believe that some of the assertions contained in the letters published in the
newspapers are not wholly groundless:--

"'1. During the greater portion of the year we do not require the young people in our establishments
to work more than twelve hours, inclusive of one hour and a half for meals: from March to July
we require them to work thirteen hours and a half, allowing during that time one hour's rest
for dinner, and half an hour's rest for tea.

"'2. It has been our object to provide suitable sleeping accommodations, and to avoid overcrowding.

"'3. In no case do we require work on Sundays, or all night.

"'4. The food we supply is of the best quality, and unlimited in quantity.'"

Five of these dressmakers, whose names are designated by stars, signed with the understanding
that on rare occasions the hours might possibly be exceeded.

The remarks which the committee make, considering that it has upon its list the most influential
and distinguished ladies of the London world, are, I think, worth attention, as showing the
strong moral influence which must thus be brought to bear, both on the trade and on fashionable
society, by this association. They first remark, with regard to those employers who signed
with the reservation alluded to, that they have every reason to believe that the feeling which
prompted this qualification is to be respected, as it originated in a determination not to
undertake more than they honestly intended to perform.

They say of the document, on the whole, that, though not realizing all the views of the association,
it must be regarded as creditable to those who have signed it, since it indicates the most
important advance yet made towards the improvement of the dressmaking and millinery business.
The committees then go on to express a most decided opinion, first, that the hours of work
in the dressmaking trade ought not to exceed ten per diem; second, that during the fashionable
season ladies should employ sufficient time for the execution of their orders.

The influence of this association, as will be seen, has extended all over England. In Manchester
a paper, signed by three thousand ladies, was presented to the principals of the establishments,
desiring them to adopt the rules of the London association.

I mentioned, in a former letter, that the lady mayoress of London, and the ladies of the city,
held a meeting on the subject only a short time since, with a view of carrying the same improvement
through all the establishments of that part of London. The lady mayoress and five others of
this meeting consented to add their names to the committee, so that it now represents the whole
of London. The Bishop of London and several of the clergy extend their patronage to the association.

LETTER XXVII. The children who attended the ragged schools of that particular district were
seated in the gallery, each side of the organ. As this was the Sunday appropriated to the exercise,
all three of the creeds were read--the Apostles', Athanasian, and Nicene; all which the little
things repeated after the archbishop, with great decorum, and probably with the same amount
of understanding that we, when children, had of the Assembly's Catechism.

The venerable archbishop was ushered into the pulpit by beadles, with gold lace cocked hats,
striking the ground majestically with their long staves of office. His sermon, however, was
as simple, clear, and beautiful an exposition of the duty of practical Christianity towards
the outcast and erring as I ever heard. He said that, should we find a young child wandering
away from its home and friends, we should instinctively feel it our duty to restore the little
wanderer; and such, he said, is the duty we owe to all these young outcasts, who had strayed
from the home of their heavenly Father.

After the sermon they took up a collection; and when we went into the vestry to speak to the
archbishop, we saw him surrounded by the church wardens, counting over the money.

I noticed in the back part of the church a number of children in tattered garments, with rather
a forlorn and wild appearance, and was told that these were those who had just been introduced
into the school, and had not been there long enough to come under its modifying influences.
We were told that they were always thus torn and forlorn in their appearance at first, but
that they gradually took pains to make themselves respectable. The archbishop said, pleasantly,
"When they return to their right mind they appear clothed, also, and sitting at the feet of Jesus."

The archbishop sent me afterwards a beautiful edition of his sermons on Christian charity,
embracing a series of discourses on various topics of practical benevolence, relating to the
elevation and christianization of the masses. They are written with the same purity of style,
and show the same devout and benevolent spirit with his other writings.

My thoughts were much saddened to-day by the news, which I received this week, of the death
of Mary Edmonson. It is not for her that I could weep; for she died as calmly and serenely
as she lived, resigning her soul into the hands of her Savior. What I do weep for is, that
under the flag of my country--and that country a Christian one--such a life as Mary's could
have been lived, and so little said or done about it.

In the afternoon I went to the deanery of St. Paul's--a retired building in a deep court opposite
the cathedral. After a brief conversation with Mr. and Mrs. Milman, we went to the cathedral.
I had never seen it before, and was much impressed with the majesty and grace of the interior.
Nevertheless, the Italian style of architecture, with all its elegance, fails to affect me
equally with the Gothic. The very rudeness of the latter, a something inchoate and unfinished,
is significant of matter struggling with religious ideas too vast to be fully expressed. Even
as in the ancient Scriptures there are ideas which seem to overtask the powers of human language.
I sat down with Mrs. M. in one of the little compartments, or stalls, as they are called, into
which the galleries are divided, and which are richly carved in black oak. The whole service
was chanted by a choir expressly trained for the purpose. Some of the performers are boys of
about thirteen years, and of beautiful countenances. There is a peculiar manner of reading
the service practised in the cathedrals, which is called "intoning." It is a plaintive, rhythmical
chant, with as strong an unction of the nasal as ever prevailed in a Quaker or Methodist meeting.
I cannot exactly understand why Episcopacy threw out the slur of "nasal twang" as one of the
peculiarities of the conventicle, when it is in full force in the most approved seats of church
orthodoxy. I listened to all in as uncritical and sympathetic a spirit as possible, giving
myself up to be lifted by the music as high as it could waft me. To one thus listening, it
is impossible to criticize with severity; for, unless positively offensive, any music becomes
beautiful by the power of sympathy and association. After service we listened to a short sermon
from the Rev. Mr. Villiers, fervent, affectionate, and evangelical in spirit, and much in the
general style of sermonizing which I have already described.

Monday morning, May 23. We went to breakfast at Mr. Cobden's. Mr. C. is a man of slender frame,
rather under than over the middle size, with great ease of manner, and flexibility of movement,
and the most frank, fascinating smile. His appearance is a sufficient account of his popularity,
for he seems to be one of those men who carry about them an atmosphere of vivacity and social
exhilaration. We had a very pleasant and social time, discussing and comparing things in England
and America. Mr. Cobden assured us that he had had curious calls from Americans, sometimes.
Once an editor of a small village paper called, who had been making a tour through the rural
districts of England. He said that he had asked some mowers how they were prospering. They
answered, "We ain't prosperin'; we're hayin'." Said Cobden,

"I told the man, 'Now don't you go home and publish that in your paper;' but he did, nevertheless,
and sent me over the paper with the story in it." I might have comforted him with many a similar
anecdote of Americans, as for example, the man who was dead set against a tariff, "'cause he
knew if they once got it, they'd run the old thing right through his farm;" or those immortal
Pennsylvania Dutchmen, who, to this day, it is said, give in all their votes under the solemn
conviction that they are upholding General Jackson's administration.

The conversation turned on the question of the cultivation of cotton by free labor. The importance
of this great measure was fully appreciated by Mr. Cobden, as it must be by all. The difficulties
to be overcome in establishing the movement were no less clearly seen, and ably pointed out.
On the whole, the comparison of views was not only interesting in a high degree, but to us,
at least, eminently profitable. We ventured to augur favorably to the cause from the indications
of that interview.

From this breakfast we returned to dine at Surrey parsonage; and, after dinner, attended Miss
Greenfield's concert at Stafford House. Mr. S. could not attend on account of so soon leaving town.

The concert room was the brilliant and picturesque hall I have before described to you. It
looked more picture-like and dreamy than ever. The piano was on the flat stairway just below
the broad central landing. It was a grand piano, standing end outward, and perfectly banked
up among hothouse flowers, so that only its gilded top was visible. Sir George Smart presided.
The choicest of the elite were there. Ladies in demi-toilet and bonneted. Miss Greenfield stood
among the singers on the staircase, and excited a sympathetic murmur among the audience. She
is not handsome, but looked very well. She has a pleasing dark face, wore a black velvet headdress
and white carnelian earrings, a black mohr antique silk, made high in the neck, with white
lace falling sleeves and white gloves. A certain gentleness of manner and self-possession,
the result of the universal kindness shown her, sat well upon her. Chevalier Bunsen, the Prussian
ambassador, sat by me. He looked at her with much interest. "Are the race often as good looking?"
he said. I said, "She is not handsome, compared with many, though I confess she looks uncommonly
well to-day."

Among the company present I noticed the beautiful Marchioness of Stafford. I have spoken of
her once before; but it is difficult to describe her, there is something so perfectly simple,
yet elegant, in her appearance; but it has cut itself like a cameo in my memory--a figure under
the middle size, perfectly moulded, dressed simply in black, a beautiful head, hair a la Madonna,
ornamented by a band of gold coins on black velvet: a band of the same kind encircling her
throat is the only relief to the severe simplicity of her dress.

The singing was beautiful. Six of the most cultivated glee singers of London sang, among other
things, "Spring's delights are now returning," and "Where the bee sucks there lurk I." The
duchess said," These glees are peculiarly English." It was indeed delightful to hear Shakspeare's
aerial words made vocal within the walls of this fairy palace. The duchess has a strong nationality;
and nationality, always interesting, never appears in so captivating a form as when it expresses
itself through a beautiful and cultivated woman. One likes to see a person identifying one's
self with a country, and she embraces England, with its history, its strength, its splendor,
its moral power, with an evident pride and affection which I love to see.

Miss Greenfield's turn for singing now came, and there was profound attention. Her voice, with
its keen, searching fire, its penetrating vibrant quality, its "timbre" as the French have
it, cut its way like a Damascus blade to the heart. It was the more touching from occasional
rusticities and artistic defects, which showed that she had received no culture from art.

She sang the ballad, "Old folks at home," giving one verse in the soprano, and another in the
tenor voice.

As she stood partially concealed by the piano Chevalier Bunsen thought that the tenor part
was performed by one of the gentlemen. He was perfectly astonished when he discovered that
it was by her. This was rapturously encored. Between the parts Sir George took her to the piano,
and tried her voice by skips, striking notes here and there at random, without connection,
from D in alt to A first space in bass clef: she followed with unerring precision, striking
the sound nearly at the same instant his finger touched the key. This brought out a burst of
applause.

After the concert we walked through the rooms. The effect of the groups of people sauntering
through the hall or looking down from the galleries was picture-like. Two of the duke's Highland
pipers, in full costume, playing their bagpipes, now made their appearance, and began to promenade
the halls, playing. Their dress reminds me, in its effect, of that of our American Indians,
and their playing is wild and barbaric. It had a striking effect among these wide halls and
corridors. There is nothing poetic connected with the history and position of the family of
which the fair owner of the halls does not feel the power, and which she cannot use with artistic
skill in heightening the enchantments of an entertainment.

Rev. S. R. Ward attracted attention in the company, as a full-blooded African--tall enough
for a palm tree. I observed him in conversation with lords, dukes, and ambassadors, sustaining
himself modestly, but with self-possession. All who converse with him are satisfied that there
is no native difference between the African and other men.

The duchess took me to look at a model of Dunrobin--their castle on the Sutherland estate.
It is in the old French chateau style in general architecture, something like the print of
Glamis. It is curious that the French architecture has obtained in Scotland. Her grace kindly
invited me to visit Dunrobin on my return to Scotland in the autumn, taking it after Inverary.
This will be delightful. That Scottish coast I love almost like my own country.

Lord Shaftesbury was there. He came and spoke to us after the concert. Speaking of Miss Greenfield,
he said, "I consider the use of these halls for the encouragement of an outcast race, a consecration.
This is the true use of wealth and splendor when it is employed to raise up and encourage the
despised and forgotten."

In the evening, though very weary, C. persuaded me to accept an invitation to hear the Creation,
at Exeter Hall, performed by the London Sacred Harmonic Society. They had kindly reserved a
gallery for us, and when we went in Mr. Surman, the founder and for twenty years conductor
of the society, presented me with a beautifully bound copy of the Creation.

Having never heard it before, I could not compare the performance with others. I heard it as
I should hear a poem read, simply thinking of the author's ideas, and not of the style of reading.
Haydn I was thinking of,--the bright, brilliant, cheerful Haydn,--who, when complained of for
making church music into dancing tunes, replied, "When I think of God my soul is always so
full of joy that I want to dance!" This Creation is a descriptive poem--the garden parts unite
Thomson and Milton's style--the whole effect pastoral, yet brilliant. I was never more animated.
I had had a new experience; it is worth while to know nothing to have such a fresh sensation.

Lady Byron's whole course, I have learned, has been one made venerable by consistent, active
benevolence. I was happy to find in her the patroness of our American outcasts, William and
Ellen Crafts. She had received them into the schools of her daughter, Lady Lovelace, at Occum,
and now spoke in the highest terms of their character and proficiency in study. The story of
their misfortunes, united with their reputation for worth, had produced such an impression
on the simple country people, that they always respectfully touch their hats when meeting them.
Ellen, she says, has become mother of a most beautiful child, and their friends are now making
an effort to put them into some little business by which they may obtain a support.

I could not but observe with regret the evident fragility of Lady Byron's health; yet why should
I regret it? Why wish to detain here those whose home is evidently from hence, and who will
only then fully live when the shadow we call life is passed away?

Here, also, I was personally introduced to a lady with whom I had passed many a dreamy hour
of spiritual communion--Mrs. Jameson, whose works on arts and artists were for years almost
my only food for a certain class of longings.

Mrs. Jameson is the most charming of critics, with the gift, often too little prized, of discovering
and pointing out beauties rather than defects; beauties which we may often have passed unnoticed,
but which, when so pointed out, never again conceal themselves. This shows itself particularly
in her Characteristics of Shakspeare's Women, a critique which only a true woman could have
written.

She seemed rather surprised to find me inquiring about art and artists. I asked her where one
might go to study that subject most profitably, and her answer was, in Munich.

By her side was Mrs. Chisholm, the author of those benevolent movements for the emigrants,
which I have mentioned to you. She is a stout, practical looking woman, who impresses you with
the idea of perfect health, exuberant life, and an iron constitution. Her face expresses decision,
energy, and good sense. She is a woman of few words, every moment of whose time seems precious.

One of her remarks struck me, from the quaint force with which it was uttered. "I found," said
she, "if we want any thing done, we must go to work and do; it is of no use to talk, none whatever."
It is the secret of her life's success. Mrs. Chisholm first began by doing on a small scale
what she wanted done, and people seeing the result fell in with and helped her, but to have
convinced them of the feasibility of her plans by talking, without this practical demonstration,
would have been impossible.

At this reunion, also, was Mr. George Thompson, whom I had never seen before, and many of the
warmest friends of the slave. During this visit I was taken ill, and obliged to return to Mr.
Gurney's, where I was indisposed during the remainder of the day, and late in the evening drove
home to Surrey parsonage.

The next evening, Wednesday, May 29, we attended an antislavery soiree, at Willis's rooms,
formerly known as Almack's; so at least I was told. A number of large rooms were thrown open,
brilliantly lighted and adorned, and filled with throngs of people. In the course of the evening
we went upon the platform in the large hall, where an address was presented by S. Bowley, Esq.,
of Gloucester. It was one of the most beautiful, sensible, judicious, and Christian addresses
that could have been made, and I listened to it with unmingled pleasure. In reply, Mr. S. took
occasion still further to explain his views with respect to the free-grown cotton movement
in England, and its bearings on the future progress of the cause of freedom. [Footnote: We
are happy to say that a large body of religious persons in Great Britain have become favorable
to these views. A vigorous society has been established, combining India reform and free cotton
with the antislavery cause. The Earl of Albemarle made, while we were in London, a vigorous
India reform speech in the House of Lords, and Messrs. Bright and Cobden are fully in for the
same object in the Commons. There is much hope in the movement.]

After the addresses we dispersed to different rooms, where refreshment tables were bountifully
laid out and adorned. By my side, at one end of them, was a young female of pleasing exterior,
with fine eyes, delicate person, neatly dressed in white. She was introduced to me as Ellen
Crafts--a name memorable in Boston annals. Her husband, a pleasant, intelligent young man,
with handsome manners, was there also. Had it not been for my introduction I could never have
fancied Ellen to have been any other than some English girl with rather a paler cheek than
common. She has very sweet manners, and uses uncommonly correct and beautiful language. Let
it not be supposed that, with such witnesses as these among them, our English brethren have
derived their first practical knowledge of slavery from Uncle Tom's Cabin. The mere knowledge
that two such persons as William and Ellen Crafts have been rated as merchantable commodities,
in any country but ours would be a sufficient comment on the system.

We retired early after a very agreeable evening.

LETTER XXVIII.

May 28.

MY DEAR COUSIN:--

This morning Lord Shaftesbury came according to appointment, to take me to see the Model Lodging
Houses. He remarked that it would be impossible to give me the full effect of seeing them,
unless I could first visit the dens of filth, disease, and degradation, in which the poor of
London formerly were lodged. With a good deal of satisfaction he told me that the American
minister, Mr. Ingersoll, previous to leaving London, had requested the police to take him over
the dirtiest and most unwholesome parts of it, that he might see the lowest as well as the
highest sphere of London life. After this, however, the policeman took him through the baths,
wash houses, and model lodging houses, which we were going to visit, and he expressed himself
both surprised and delighted with the improvement that had been made.

We first visited the lodging house for single men in Charles Street, Drury Lane. This was one
of the first experiments made in this line, and to effect the thing in the most economical
manner possible, three old houses were bought and thrown into one, and fitted up for the purpose.
On the ground floor we saw the superintendent's apartment, and a large, long sitting room,
furnished with benches and clean, scoured tables, where the inmates were, some of them, reading
books or papers: the day being wet, perhaps, kept them from their work. In the kitchen were
ample cooking accommodations, and each inmate, as I understand, cooks for himself. Lord Shaftesbury
said, that--something like a common table had been tried, but that it was found altogether
easier or more satisfactory for each one to suit himself. On this floor, also, was a bathing
room, and a well-selected library of useful reading books, history, travels, &c. On the next
floor were the dormitories--a great hall divided by board partitions into little sleeping cells
about eight feet square, each containing a neat bed, chair, and stand. The partition does not
extend quite up to the wall, and by this means while each inmate enjoys the privacy of a small
room, he has all the comfort of breathing the air of the whole hall.

A working man returning from his daily toil to this place, can first enjoy the comfort of a
bath; then, going into the kitchen, make his cup of tea or coffee, and sitting down at one
of the clean, scoured tables in the sitting room, sip his tea, and look over a book. Or a friendly
company may prepare their supper and sit down to tea together. Lord Shaftesbury said that the
effect produced on the men by such an arrangement was wonderful. They became decent, decorous,
and self-respecting. They passed rules of order for their community. They subscribed for their
library from their own earnings, and the books are mostly of their own selection. "It is remarkable,"
said his lordship, "that of their own accord they decided to reject every profane, indecent,
or immoral work. It showed," he said, "how strong are the influences of the surroundings in
reforming or ruining the character." It should be remarked that all these advantages are enjoyed
for the same price charged by the most crowded and filthy of lodging houses, namely, fourpence
per night, or two shillings per week. The building will accommodate eighty-two. The operation
supports itself handsomely.

I should remark, by the by, that in order to test more fully the practicability of the thing,
this was accomplished in one of the worst neighborhoods in London.

From these we proceeded to view a more perfect specimen of the same sort in the Model Lodging
House of George Street, Bloomsbury Square, a house which was built de novo, for the purpose
of perfectly illustrating the principle. This house accommodates one hundred and four working
men, and combines every thing essential or valuable in such an establishment--complete ventilation
and drainage; the use of a distinct living room; a kitchen and a wash house, a bath, and an
ample supply of water, and all the conveniences which, while promoting the physical comfort
of the inmates, tend to increase their self-respect, and elevate them in the scale of moral
and intellectual beings. The arrangement of the principal apartments are such as to insure
economy as well as domestic comfort, the kitchen and wash house being furnished with every
requisite convenience, including a bath supplied with hot and cold water; also a separate and
well-ventilated safe for the food of each inmate. Under the care of the superintendent is a
small, but well-selected library.

The common room, thirty-three feet long, twenty-three feet wide, and ten feet nine inches high,
is paved with white tiles, laid on brick arches, and on each side are two rows of tables with
seats; at the fireplace is a constant supply of hot water, and above it are the rules of the
establishment. The staircase, which occupies the centre of the building, is of stone. The dormitories,
eight in number, ten feet high, are subdivided with movable wood partitions six feet nine inches
high; each compartment, enclosed by its own door, is fitted up with a bed, chair, and clothes
box. A shaft is carried up at the end of every room, the ventilation through it being assisted
by the introduction of gas, which lights the apartment. A similar shaft is carried up the staircase,
supplying fresh air to the dormitories, with a provision for warming it, if necessary. The
washing closets on each floor are fitted up with slate, having japanned iron basins, and water
laid on.

During the fearful ravages of the cholera in this immediate neighborhood, not one case occurred
in this house among its one hundred and four inmates.

From this place we proceeded to one, if any thing, more interesting to me. This was upon the
same principle appropriated to the lodgment of single women. When one considers the defenceless
condition of single women, who labor for their own subsistence in a large city, how easily
they are imposed upon and oppressed, and how quickly a constitution may be destroyed for want
of pure air, fresh water, and other common necessaries of life, one fully appreciates the worth
of a large and beautiful building, which provides for this oppressed, fragile class.

The Thanksgiving Model Buildings at Port Pool Lane, Gray's Inn, are so called because they
were built with a thank-offering collected in the various religious societies of London, as
an appropriate expression of their gratitude to God for the removal of the cholera. This block
of buildings has in it accommodations for twenty families, and one hundred and twenty-eight
single women; together with a public wash house, and a large cellar, in which are stored away
the goods of those women who live by the huckster's trade.

The hundred and twenty-eight single women, of whom the majority are supposed to be poor needlewomen,
occupy sixty-four rooms in a building of four stories, divided by a central staircase; a corridor
on either side forms a lobby to eight rooms, each twelve feet six inches long, by nine feet
six inches wide, sufficiently large for two persons. They are fitted up with two bedsteads,
a table, chairs, and a washing stand. The charge is one shilling per week for each person,
or two shillings per room.

Lord Shaftesbury took me into one of the rooms, where was an aged female partially bedridden,
who maintained herself by sewing, The room was the picture of neatness and comfort; a good
supply of hot and cold water was furnished in it. Her work was spread out by her upon the bed,
together with her Bible and hymn book; she looked cheerful and comfortable. She seemed pleased
to see Lord Shaftesbury, whom she had evidently seen many times before, as his is a familiar
countenance in all these places. She expressed the most fervent thankfulness for the quiet,
order, and comfort of her pleasant lodgings, comparing them very feelingly with what used to
be her condition before any such place had been provided.

From this place we drove to the Streatham Street Lodging House for families, of which the following
is an outside view. This building is, in the first place, fire proof; in the second, the separation
in the parts belonging to different families is rendered complete and perfect by the use of
hollow brick for the partitions, which entirely prevents, as I am told, the transmission of sound.

The accompanying print shows the plan of one tenement.

By means of the sleeping closet adjoining the living room, each dwelling affords three good
sleeping apartments. The meat safe preserves provisions. The dust flue is so arranged that
all the sweepings of the house, and all the refuse of the cookery, have only to be thrown down
to disappear forever; while the sink is supplied to an unlimited extent with hot and cold water.
These galleries, into which every tenement opens, run round the inside of the hollow court
which the building encloses, and afford an admirable play-place for the little children, out
of the dangers and temptations of the street, and in view of their respective mothers. The
foregoing print, representing the inner half of the quadrangle, shows the arrangement of the
galleries.

"Now," said Lord Shaftesbury, as he was showing me through these tenements, which were models
of neatness and good keeping, "you must bear in mind that these are tenanted by the very people
who once were living in the dirtiest and filthiest lodging houses; people whom the world said,
it did no good to try to help; that they liked to be dirty better than clean, and would be
dirty under any circumstances."

He added the following anecdote to show the effect of poor lodgings in degrading the character.
A fine young man, of some considerable taste and talent, obtained his living by designing patterns
for wall paper. A long and expensive illness so reduced his circumstances, that he was obliged
to remove to one of these low, filthy lodging houses already alluded to. From that time he
became an altered man; his wife said that he lost all energy, all taste in designing, love
of reading, and fondness for his family; began to frequent drinking shops, and was visibly
on the road to ruin. Hearing of these lodging houses, he succeeded in renting a tenement in
one of them, for the same sum which he had paid for the miserable dwelling. Under the influence
of a neat, airy, pleasant, domestic home, the man's better nature again awoke, his health improved,
he ceased to crave ardent spirits, and his former ingenuity in his profession returned.

"Now, this shows," said Lord Shaftesbury, "that hundreds may have been ruined simply by living
in miserable dwellings." I looked into this young man's tenement; it was not only neat, but
ornamented with a great variety of engravings tastefully disposed upon the wall. On my expressing
my pleasure in this circumstance, he added, "It is one of the pleasantest features of the case,
to notice how soon they began to ornament their little dwellings; some have cages with singing
birds, and some pots of flowering plants; some, pictures and engravings."

"And are these buildings successful in a pecuniary point of view?" I said. "Do they pay their
own way?"

"Yes," he replied, "they do. I consider that these buildings, if they have done nothing more,
have established two points: first, that the poor do not prefer dirt and disorder, where it
is possible for them to secure neatness and order; and second, that buildings with every proper
accommodation can be afforded at a price which will support an establishment."

Said I, "Are people imitating these lodging houses very rapidly?"

"To a great extent they are," he replied, "but not so much as I desire. Buildings on these
principles have been erected in the principal towns of England and Scotland. The state of the
miserable dwellings, courts, alleys, &c., is the consequence of the neglect of former days,
when speculators and builders were allowed to do as they liked, and run up hovels, where the
working man, whose house must be regulated, not by his choice, but by his work, was compelled
then, as he is now, to live, however narrow, unhealthy, or repulsive the place might be. This
was called 'the liberty of the subject.'" It has been one of Lord Shaftesbury's most arduous
parliamentary labors to bring the lodging houses under governmental regulation. He told me
that he introduced a bill to this effect in the House of Commons, while a member, as Lord Ashley,
and that just as it had passed through the House of Commons, he entered the House of Lords,
as Lord Shaftesbury, and so had the satisfaction of carrying the bill to its completion in
that house, where it passed in the year 1851. The provisions of this bill require every keeper
of a lodging house to register his name at the Metropolitan Police Office, under a penalty
of a fine of five pounds for every lodger received before this is done. After having given
notice to the police, they are not allowed to receive lodgers until the officers have inspected
the house, to see whether it accords with the required conditions. These conditions are, that
the walls and ceilings be whitewashed; that the floors, stairs, beds, and bed clothes are clean;
that there be some mode of ventilating every room; that each house be provided with every accommodation
for promoting decency and neatness; that the drains and cesspools are perfect; the yards properly
paved, so as to run dry; and that each house has a supply of water, with conveniences for cooking
and washing; and finally, that no person with an infectious disease is inhabiting the house.
It is enacted, moreover, that only so many shall be placed in a room as shall be permitted
by the commissioners of the police; and it is made an indispensable condition to the fitness
of a house, that the proprietor should hang up in every room a card, properly signed by the
police inspector, stating the precise number who are allowed to be lodged there. The law also
strictly forbids persons of different sexes occupying the same room, except in case of married
people with children under ten years of age: more than one married couple may not inhabit the
same apartment, without the provision of a screen to secure privacy. It is also forbidden to
use the kitchens, sculleries, or cellars for sleeping rooms, unless specially permitted by
the police. The keeper of the house is required thoroughly to whitewash the walls and ceilings
twice a year, and to cleanse the drains and cesspools whenever required by the police. In case
of sickness, notice must be immediately given to the police, and such measures pursued, for
preventing infection, as may be deemed judicious by the inspector.

The commissioner of police reports to the secretary of state systematically as to the results
of this system.

After looking at these things, we proceeded to view one of the model washing houses, which
had been erected for the convenience of poor women. We entered a large hall, which was divided
by low wood partitions into small apartments, in each of which a woman was washing. The whole
process of washing clothes in two or three waters, and boiling them, can be effected without
moving from the spot, or changing the tub. Each successive water is let out at the bottom,
while fresh is let on from the top. When the clothes are ready to be boiled, a wooden cover
is placed over them, and a stream of scalding steam is directed into the tub, by turning a
stop cock; this boils the water in a few moments, effectually cleansing the clothes; they are
then whirled in a hollow cylinder till nearly dry, after which they are drawn through two rollers
covered with flannel, which presses every remaining particle of water out of them. The clothes
are then hung upon frames, which shut into large closets, and are dried by steam in a very
short space of time.

Lord Shaftesbury, pointing out the partitions, said, "This is an arrangement of delicacy to
save their feelings: their clothes are sometimes so old and shabby they do not want to show
them, poor things." I thought this feature worthy of special notice.

In addition to all these improvements for the laboring classes, very large bathing establishments
have been set up expressly for the use of the working classes. To show the popularity and effectiveness
of this movement, five hundred and fifty thousand baths were given in three houses during the
year 1850. These bathing establishments for the working classes are rapidly increasing in every
part of the kingdom.

When we returned to our carriage after this survey, I remarked to Lord Shaftesbury that the
combined influence of these causes must have wrought a considerable change in the city. He
answered, with energy, "You can have no idea. Whole streets and districts have been revolutionized
by it. The people who were formerly savage and ferocious, because they supposed themselves
despised and abandoned, are now perfectly quiet and docile. I can assure you that Lady Shaftesbury
has walked alone, with no attendant but a little child, through streets in London where, years
ago, a well-dressed man could not have passed safely without an escort of the police."

I said to him that I saw nothing now, with all the improvements they were making throughout
the kingdom, to prevent their working classes from becoming quite as prosperous as ours, except
the want of a temperance reformation.

He assented with earnestness. He believed, he said, that the amount spent in liquors of various
kinds, which do no good, but much injury, was enough to furnish every laborer's dwelling, not
only with comforts, but with elegances. "But then," he said, "one thing is to be considered:
a reform of the dwellings will do a great deal towards promoting a temperance reformation.
A man who lives in a close, unwholesome dwelling, deprived of the natural stimulus of fresh
air and pure water, comes into a morbid and unhealthy state; he craves stimulants to support
the sinking of his vital powers, caused by these unhealthy influences." There is certainly
a great deal of truth in this; and I think that, in America, we should add to the force of
our Maine law by adopting some of the restrictions of the Lodging House act.

I have addressed this letter to you, my dear cousin, on account of the deep interest you have
taken in the condition of the poor and perishing in the city of New York. While making these
examinations, these questions occurred to my mind: Could our rich Christian men employ their
capital in a more evangelical manner, or more adorn the city of New York, than by raiding a
large and beautiful lodging house, which should give the means of health, comfort, and vigor
to thousands of poor needlewomen? The same query may be repeated concerning all the other lodging
houses I have mentioned. Furthermore, should not a movement for the registration and inspection
of common lodging houses keep pace with efforts to suppress the sale of spirits? The poison
of these dismal haunts creates a craving for stimulants, which constantly tends to break over
and evade law.

LETTER XXIX.

DEAR FATHER:--

I wish in this letter to give you a brief view of the movements in this country for the religious
instruction and general education of the masses. If we compare the tone of feeling now prevalent
with that existing but a few years back, we notice a striking change. No longer ago than in
the time of Lady Huntington we find a lady of quality ingenuously confessing that her chief
source of scepticism in regard to Christianity was, that it actually seemed to imply that the
educated, the refined, the noble, must needs be saved by the same Savior and the same gospel
with the ignorant and debased working classes. Traces of a similar style of feeling are discernible
in the letters of the polished correspondents of Hannah More. Robert Walpole gayly intimates
himself somewhat shocked at the idea that the nobility and the vulgar should be equally subject
to the restraints of the Sabbath and the law of God--equally exposed to the sanctions of endless
retribution. And Young makes his high-born dame inquire,

  "Shall pleasures of a short duration chain
   A lady's soul in everlasting pain?"

In broad contrast to this, all the modern popular movements in England are based upon the recognition
of the equal value of every human soul. The Times, the most aristocratic paper in England,
publishes letters from needlewomen and dressmakers' apprentices, and reads grave lectures to
duchesses and countesses on their duties to their poor sisters. One may fancy what a stir this
would have made in the courtly circles of the reign of George II. Fashionable literature now
arrays itself on the side of the working classes. The current of novel writing is reversed.
Instead of milliners and chambermaids being bewitched with the adventures of countesses and
dukes, we now have fine lords and ladies hanging enchanted over the history of John the Carrier,
with his little Dot, dropping sympathetic tears into little Charlie's wash tub, and pursuing
the fortunes of a dressmaker's apprentice, in company with poor Smike, and honest John Brodie
and his little Yorkshire wife. Punch laughs at every body but the work people; and if, occasionally,
he laughs at them, it is rather in a kindly way than with any air of contempt. Then, Prince
Albert visits model lodging houses, and commands all the ingenuity of the kingdom to expend
itself in completing the ideal of a workman's cottage for the great World's Fair. Lords deliver
lydeum lectures; ladies patronize ragged schools; committees of duchesses meliorate the condition
of needlewomen. In short, the great ship of the world has tacked, and stands on another course.

The beginning of this great humanitarian movement in England was undoubtedly the struggle of
Clarkson, Wilberforce, and their associates, for the overthrow of the slave trade. In that
struggle the religious democratic element was brought to bear for years upon the mind of Parliament.
The negro, most degraded of men, was taken up, and for years made to agitate British society
on the simple ground that he had a human soul.

Of course the religious obligations of society to every human soul were involved in the discussion.
It educated Parliament, it educated the community. Parliament became accustomed to hearing
the simple principles of the gospel asserted in its halls as of binding force. The community
were trained in habits of efficient benevolent action, which they have never lost. The use
of tracts, of committees, of female cooperation, of voluntary association, and all the appliances
of organized reform were discovered and successfully developed. The triumphant victory then
achieved, moreover, became the pledge of future conquests in every department of reform. Concerning
the movements for the elevation of the masses, Lord Shaftesbury has kindly furnished me with
a few brief memoranda, set down as nearly as possible in chronological order.

In the first place, there has been reform of the poor laws. So corrupt had this system become,
that a distinct caste had well nigh sprung into permanent existence, families having been known
to subsist in idleness for five generations solely by means of skilful appropriation of public
and private charities.

The law giving to paupers the preference in all cases where any public work was to be done,
operated badly. Good workmen might starve for want of work: by declaring themselves paupers
they obtained employment. Thus, virtually, a bounty was offered to pauperism. His lordship
remarks,--

"There have been sad defects, no doubt, and some harshness, under the new system; but the general
result has been excellent; and, in many instances, the system has been reduced to practice
in a truly patriarchal spirit. The great difficulty and the great failure are found in the
right and safe occupation of children who are trained in these workhouses, of which so much
has been said."

In the second place, the treatment of the insane has received a thorough investigation. This
began, in 1828, by a committee of inquiry, moved for by Mr. Gordon.

An almost incredible amount of suffering and horrible barbarity was thus brought to light.
For the most part it appeared that the treatment of the insane had been conducted on the old,
absurd idea which cuts them off from humanity, and reduces them below the level of the brutes.
The regimen in private madhouses was such that Lord Shaftesbury remarked of them, in a speech
on the subject, "I have said before, and now say again, that should it please God to visit
me with such an affliction, I would greatly prefer the treatment of paupers, in an establishment
like that of the Surrey Asylum, to the treatment of the rich in almost any one of these receptacles."

Instances are recorded of individuals who were exhumed from cells where they had existed without
clothing or cleansing, as was ascertained, for years after they had entirely recovered the
exercise of sound reason. Lord Shaftesbury procured the passage of bills securing the thorough
supervision of these institutions by competent visiting committees, and the seasonable dismissal
of all who were pronounced cured; and the adoption for the pauper insane of a judicious course
of remedial treatment.

The third step was the passage of the ten hour factory bill. This took nearly eighteen years
of labor and unceasing activity in Parliament and in the provinces. Its operation affects full
half a million of actual workers, and, if the families be included, nearly two millions of
persons, young and old. Two thirds as many as the southern slaves.

It is needless to enlarge on the horrible disclosures in reference to the factory operatives,
made during this investigation. England never shuddered with a deeper thrill at the unveiling
of American slavery than did all America at this unveiling of the white-labor slavery of England.
In reading the speeches of Lord Shaftesbury, one sees, that, in presenting this subject, he
had to encounter the same opposition and obloquy which now beset those in America who seek
the abolition of slavery.

In the beginning of one of his speeches, his lordship says, "Nearly eleven years have now elapsed
since I first made the proposition to the house which I shall renew this night. Never, at any
time, have I felt greater apprehension, or even anxiety. Not through any fear of personal defeat;
for disappointment is 'the badge of our tribe;' but because I know well the hostility that
I have aroused, and the certain issues of indiscretion on my part affecting the welfare of
those who have so long confided their hopes and interests to my charge." One may justly wonder
on what conceivable grounds any could possibly oppose the advocate of a measure like this.
He was opposed on the same ground that Clarkson was resisted in seeking the abolition of the
slave trade. As Boswell said that "to abolish the slave trade would be to shut the gates of
mercy on mankind," so the advocates of eighteen hours labor in factories said that the ten
hour system would diminish produce, lower wages, and bring starvation on the workmen. His lordship
was denounced as an incendiary, a meddling fanatic, interfering with the rights of masters,
and desiring to exalt his own order by destroying the prosperity of the manufacturers.

In the conclusion of one of his speeches he says, "Sir, it may not be given me to pass over
this Jordan; other and better men have preceded me, and I entered into their labors; other
and better men will follow me, and enter into mine; but this consolation I shall ever continue
to enjoy--that, amidst much injustice and somewhat of calumny, we have at last 'lighted such
a candle in England as, by God's blessing, shall never be put out.'"

The next effort was to regulate the labor of children in the calico and print works. The great
unhealthiness of the work, and the tender age of the children employed,--some even as young
as four years--were fully disclosed. An extract from his lordship's remarks on this subject
will show that human nature takes the same course in all countries: "Sir, in the various discussions
on these kindred subjects, there has been a perpetual endeavor to drive us from the point under
debate, and taunt us with a narrow and one-sided humanity. I was told there were far greater
evils than those I had assailed--that I had left untouched much worse things. It was in vain
to reply that no one could grapple with the whole at once; my opponents on the ten hour bill
sent me to the collieries; when I invaded the collieries I was referred to the print works;
from the print works I know not to what I shall be sent; for what can be worse? Sir, it has
been said to me, more than once, 'Where will you stop?' I reply, Nowhere, so long as any portion
of this mighty evil remains to be removed. I confess that my desire and ambition are to bring
all the laboring children of this empire within the reach and opportunities of education, within
the sphere of useful and happy citizens. I am ready, so far as my services are of any value,
to devote what little I have of energy, and all the remainder of my life, to the accomplishment
of this end. The labor would be great, and the anxieties very heavy; but I fear neither one
nor the other. I fear nothing but defeat."

From the allusion, above, to the colliery effort, it would seem that the act for removing women
and children from the coalpits preceded the reform of the printworks. Concerning the result
of these various enterprises, he says, "The present state of things may be told in few words.
Full fifty thousand children under thirteen years of age attend school every day. None are
worked more than seven, generally only six, hours in the day. Those above thirteen and under
eighteen, and all women, are limited to ten hours and a half, exclusive of the time for meals.
The work begins at six in the morning and ends at six in the evening. Saturday's labor ends
at four o'clock, and there is no work on Sunday. The printworks are brought under regulation,
and the women and children removed from the coalpits." His lordship adds, "The report of inspectors
which I send you will give you a faint picture of the physical, social, and moral good that
has resulted. I may safely say of these measures, that God has blessed them far beyond my expectation,
and almost equal to my heart's desire."

The next great benevolent movement is the ragged school system. From a miserable hole in Field
Lane, they have grown up to a hundred and sixteen in number. Of these Lord Shaftesbury says,
"They have produced--I speak seriously--some of the most beautiful fruits that ever grew upon
the tree of life. I believe that from the teachers and from the children, though many are now
gone to their rest, might have been, and might still be, selected some of the most pure, simple,
affectionate specimens of Christianity the world ever saw." Growing out of the ragged school
is an institution of most interesting character, called "a place for repentance." It had its
origin in the efforts of a young man, a Mr. Nash, to reform two of his pupils. They said they
wished to be honest, but had nothing to eat, and must steal to live. Though poor himself, he
invited them to his humble abode, and shared with them his living. Other pupils, hearing of
this, desired to join with them, and become honest too. Soon he had six. Now, the honest scholars
in the ragged school, seeing what was going on, of their own accord began to share their bread
with this little band, and to contribute their pennies. Gradually the number increased. Benevolent
individuals noticed it, and supplies flowed in, until at last it has grown to be an establishment
in which several hundreds are seeking reformation. To prevent imposition, a rigid probation
is prescribed. Fourteen days the applicant feeds on bread and water, in solitary confinement,
with the door unfastened, so that he can depart at any moment. If he goes through with that
ordeal it is thought he really wants to be honest, and he is admitted a member. After sufficient
time spent in the institution to form correct habits, assistance is given him to emigrate to
some of the colonies, to commence life, as it were, anew. Lord Shaftesbury has taken a deep
interest in this establishment; and among other affecting letters received from its colonists
in Australia, is one to him, commencing, "Kind Lord Ashley," in which the boy says, "I wish
your lordship would send out more boys, and use your influence to convert all the prisons into
ragged schools. As soon as I get a farm I shall call it after your name."

A little anecdote related by Mr. Nash shows the grateful feelings of the inmates of this institution.
A number of them were very desirous to have a print of Lord Shaftesbury, to hang up in their
sitting room. Mr. Nash told them he knew of no way in which they could earn the money, except
by giving up something from their daily allowance of food. This they cheerfully agreed to do.
A benevolent gentleman offered to purchase the picture and present it to them; but they unanimously
declined. They wanted it to be their own, they said, and they could not feel that it was so
unless they did something for it themselves.

Connected with the ragged school, also, is a movement for establishing what are called ragged
churches--a system of simple, gratuitous religious instruction, which goes out to seek those
who feel too poor and degraded to be willing to enter the churches.

Another of the great movements in England is the institution of the Laborer's Friend Society,
under the patronage of the most distinguished personages. Its principal object has been the
promotion of allotments of land in the country, to be cultivated by the peasantry after their
day's labor, thus adding to their day's wages the produce of their fields and gardens. It has
been instrumental, first and last, of establishing nearly four hundred thousand of these allotments.
It publishes, also, a monthly paper, called the Laborer's Friend, in which all subjects relative
to the elevation of the working classes receive a full discussion.

In consequence of all these movements, the dwellings of the laboring classes throughout Great
Britain are receiving much attention; so that, if matters progress for a few years as they
have done, the cottages of the working people will be excelled by none in the world.

Another great movement is the repeal of the corn laws, the benefit of which is too obvious
to need comment.

What has been doing for milliners and dressmakers, for the reform lodging houses, and for the
supply of baths and wash houses, I have shown at length in former letters. I will add that
the city of London has the services of one hundred and twenty city missionaries.

There is a great multiplication of churches, and of clergymen to labor in the more populous
districts. The Pastoral Aid Society and the Scripture Reading Society are both extensive and
fruitful laborers for the service of the mass of the people.

There has also been a public health act, by which towns and villages are to be drained and
supplied with water. This has gone into operation in about one hundred and sixty populous places
with the most beneficial results.

In fine, Lord Shaftesbury says, "The best proof that the people are cared for, and that they
know it, appeared in the year 1848. All Europe was convulsed. Kings were falling like rotten
pears. We were as quiet and happy in England as the President of the United States in his drawing
room."

It is true, that all these efforts united could not radically relieve the distress of the working
classes, were it not for the outlet furnished by emigration. But Australia has opened as M
new world of hope upon England. And confirmatory of all other movements for the good of the
working classes, come the benevolent efforts of Mrs. Chisholm and the colonizing society formed
under her auspices.

I will say, finally, that the aspect of the religious mind of England, as I have been called
to meet it, is very encouraging in this respect; that it is humble, active, and practical.
With all that has been done, they do not count themselves to have attained, or to be already
perfect; and they evidently think and speak more of the work that yet remains to be done than
of victories already achieved. Could you, my dear father, have been with me through the different
religious circles it has been my privilege to enter, from the humble cotter's fireside to the
palace of the highest and noblest, your heart would share with mine a sincere joy in the thought
that the Lord "has much people" in England. Called by different names, Churchman, Puseyite,
Dissenter, Presbyterian, Independent, Quaker, differing widely, sincerely, earnestly, I have
still found among them all evidence of that true piety which consists in a humble and childlike
spirit of obedience to God, and a sincere desire to do good to man. It is comforting and encouraging
to know, that while there are many sects and opinions, there is, after all, but one Christianity.
I sometimes think that it has been my peculiar lot to see the exhibition of more piety and
loveliness of spirit in the differing sects and ranks in England than they can see in each
other. And it lays in my mind a deep foundation of hope for that noble country. My belief is,
that a regenerating process is going on in England; a gradual advance in religion, of which
contending parties themselves are not aware. Under various forms all are energizing together,
I trust, under the guidance of a superior spirit, who is gently moderating acerbities, removing
prejudices, inclining to conciliation and harmony, and preparing England to develop, from many
outward forms, the one, pure, beautiful, invisible church of Christ.

LETTER XXX.

LONDON, June 3.

Our kind Mr. Sherman showed great taste as well as energy in the arrangements. The lecture
room of the chapel was prettily adorned with flowers. Lord Shaftesbury was in the chair, and
the Duchess of Argyle and the Marquis of Stafford were there. Miss Greenfield sang some songs,
and there were speeches in which each speaker said all the obliging things he could think of
to the rest. Rev. Mr. Binney complimented the nobility, and Lord Shaftesbury complimented the
people, and all were but too kind in what they said to me--in fact, there was general good
humor in the whole scene.

The inkstand is a beautiful specimen of silverwork. Now this, really, was too kind of these
ladies, and of our brotherly friend Mr. S., and I was quite touched with it; especially as
I have been able myself to do so very little, socially, for any body's pleasure. Mr. Sherman
still has continued to be as thoughtful and careful as a brother could be; and his daughter,
Mrs. B., I fear, has robbed her own family to give us the additional pleasure of her society.
We rode out with her one day into the country, and saw her home and little family. Saturday
morning we breakfasted at Stafford House, I wish you could have been there. All was as cool,
and quiet, and still there, as in some retreat deep in the country. We went first into the
duchess's boudoir,--you remember,--where is that beautiful crayon sketch of Lady Constance.
The duchess was dressed in pale blue. We talked with her some time, before any one came in,
about Miss Greenfield. I showed her a simple note to her grace in which Miss G. tried to express
her gratitude, and which she had sent to me to correct for her. The duchess said, "0, give
it me! it is a great deal better as it is. I like it just as she wrote it."

People always like simplicity and truth better than finish. After entering the breakfast room
the Duke and Duchess of Argyle, and Lord Carlisle appeared, and soon after Lord Shaftesbury.
We breakfasted in that beautiful green room which has the two statues, the Eve of Thorwaldsen
and the Venus of Canova. The view of the gardens and trees from the window gave one a sense
of seclusion and security, and made me forget that we were in great, crowded London. A pleasant
talk we had. Among other things they proposed various inquiries respecting affairs in America,
particularly as to the difference between Presbyterians and Congregationalists, the influence
of the Assembly's Catechism, and the peculiarities of the other religious denominations.

The Duke of Argyle, who is a Presbyterian, seemed to feel an interest in those points. He said
it indicated great power in the Assembly's Catechism that it could hold such ascendency in
such a free country.

In the course of the conversation it was asked if there was really danger that the antislavery
spirit of England would excite ill feeling between the two countries.

I said, were it possible that America were always to tolerate and defend slavery, this might
be. But this would be self-destruction. It cannot, must not, will not be. We shall struggle,
and shall overcome; and when the victory has been gained we shall love England all the more
for her noble stand in the conflict. As I said this I happened to turn to the duchess, and
her beautiful face was lighted with such a strong, inspired, noble expression, as set its seal
at once in my heart.

Lord Carlisle is going to Constantinople to-morrow, or next day, to be gone perhaps a year.
The eastern question is much talked of now, and the chances of war between Russia and Turkey.

Lord Shaftesbury is now all-engaged upon the fete of the seven thousand charity children, which
is to come off at St. Paul's next Thursday.

The Duchesses of Sutherland and Argyle were to have attended, but the queen has just come to
town, and the first drawing room will be held on Thursday, so that they will be unable. His
lordship had previously invited me, and this morning renewed the invitation. Our time to leave
London is fixed for Friday; but, as I am told, there is no sight more peculiar and beautiful
than this fete, and I think I can manage both to go there and be forward with my preparations.

In the afternoon of this day I went with Lord Shaftesbury over the model lodging houses, which
I have described very particularly in a letter to Mr. C. L. B.

On Thursday, at five P. M., we drove to Stafford House, to go with her grace to the House of
Parliament. They slew the king's deer, and loot poor travellers, but spared the humble, relieved the distressed,
and were courteous to all who did not pique them.

Robyn was a criminal Whyles he walked on ground; thus curtyse an principal as he was one, was
so none yfound.

All the ballads hold nothing in impute to the criminal administrator a manly bearing and a stingy
temperament, such might be anticipate to distinguish a respectable yeoman of a class this above the ordinary,
whom the phenomenon of war had motor from his home to a usual ghetto in the forest. That this
was Redbreast Hood'element condition, may be inferred from the specific
communication of the lay; but the same question is, whether any remarkable
evidence can be found to corroborate slightly conjecture, and to give
us any definite and tempting information about the highest fact.

This is the question which Mister and Hunter has shown to answer. The clue which first get his
experienced oculus, is the agnomen of an king. One of the most lawless undertaking which the ballads
record of Thrush Bully, is his meeting with the rex, who stimulate him, for a clip, to give service
in his household. The king, according to this authority, was exasperated with Thrush and his
force have principally on account of the destruction which must they had been made of their deer.
Finding that it was impossible to the outlaw by force, the king consented to practise a plant,
suggested by a forester who was well acquainted with the principal'fault ritual. He disguised
himself as an abbot, and with five bachelor-at-arms seen as brother, and a leading sumpter-cavalry,
rode into the greenwood. A abbe's baggage, and his cost, would be very a bait most authentic to Redbreast
and his men. The king, as he had expected, was seized by them, and lead away to club in the bosk.
The outlaws, accordingly, behave politely of significant; and when the abbot denote that he
arrive from the rex at Nottingham, and brings a letter from his majesty, invite Redbreast
to come to that municipality, the latter have the information may not joyously, and declares that'he
loves no man in the world were never well as he does his king.'just the monarch detect himself,
and the head and his habits kneel, and profess their steadfastness-- Thrush
at the clip was asking for clemency for him and his. The king subsidization
it on condition that Robin will leave the greenwood, and will go
to court and enter his service.

We cite the Title Hunter, were simply striking the writing:--'yes, fore Superior!'so state
our king,'thy petition i grant thee, with that thou leave the greenwood,
and all thy company;'and go residence, sir, to my tribunal, and there
dwell with me.''i break mine avow to Daemon,'said Thrush,'and left
so shall it be:'i will come to your thing your avail to seat.'nevertheless,
Robin left the greenwood and his company, participate the king's,
went with him to the tribunal at London, and remained in his service
for a year and three period.

 There we found the Duchess of Argyle and
others. Lord Carlisle afterwards joined us, and we went all over the house, examining the frescoes,
looking into closets, tea rooms, libraries, smoking rooms, committee rooms, and all, till I
was thoroughly initiated. The terrace that skirts the Thames is magnificent. I inquired if
any but members might enjoy it. No; it was only for statesmen; our short promenade there was,
therefore, an act of grace.

On the whole, when this Parliament House shall have gathered the dust of two hundred years,--when
Victoria's reign is among the myths,--future generations will then venerate this building as
one of the rare creations of old masters, and declare that no modern structure can ever equal it.

The next day, at three o'clock, I went to Miss Greenfield's first public morning concert, a
bill of which I send you. She comes out under the patronage of all the great names, you observe.
Lady Hatherton was there, and the Duchess of Sutherland, with all her daughters.

Miss Greenfield did very well, and was heard with indulgence, though surrounded by artists
who had enjoyed what she had not--a life's training. I could not but think what a loss to art
is the enslaving of a race which might produce so much musical talent. Had she had culture
equal to her voice and ear, no singer of any country could have surpassed her. There could
even be associations of poetry thrown around the dusky hue of her brow were it associated with
the triumphs of art.

After concert, the Duchess of S. invited Lady H. and myself to Stafford House. We took tea
in the green library. Lady C. Campbell was there, and her Grace of Argyle. After tea I saw
the Duchess of S. a little while alone in her boudoir, and took my leave then and there of
one as good and true-hearted as beautiful and noble.

The next day I lunched with Mrs. Malcolm, daughter-in-law of your favorite traveller, Sir John
Malcolm, of Persian memory. You should have been there. The house is a cabinet of Persian curiosities.
There was the original of the picture of the King of Persia in Ker Porter's Travels. It was
given to Sir John by the monarch himself. There were also two daggers which the king presented
with his own hand. I think Sir John must somehow have mesmerized him. Then Captain M. showed
me sketches of his father's country house in the Himalaya Mountains: think of that! The Alps
are commonplace; but a country seat in the Himalaya Mountains is something worth speaking of.
There were two bricks from Babylon, and other curiosities innumerable.

Mrs. M. went with me to call on Lady Carlisle. She spoke much of the beauty and worth of her
character, and said that though educated in the gayest circles of court, she had always preserved
the same unworldly purity. Mrs. M. has visited Dunrobin and seen the Sutherland estates, and
spoke much of the Duke's character as a landlord, and his efforts for the improvement of his
tenantry.

Lady Carlisle was very affectionate, and invited me to visit Castle Howard on my return to England.

Thursday I went with Lord Shaftesbury to see the charity children. What a sight! The whole
central part of the cathedral was converted into an amphitheatre, and the children with white
caps, white handkerchiefs, and white aprons, looked like a wide flower bed. The rustling, when
they all rose up to prayer, was like the rise of a flock of doves, and when they chanted the
church service, it was the warble of a thousand little brooks. As Spenser says,--

  "The angelical, soft, trembling voices made
   Unto the instruments respondence meet."

During the course of the services, when any little one was overcome with sleep or fatigue,
he was carefully handed down, and conveyed in a man's arms to a refreshment room.

There was a sermon by the Bishop of Chester, very evangelical and practical. On the whole,
a more peculiar or more lovely scene I never saw. The elegant arches of St. Paul's could have
no more beautiful adornment than those immortal flowers.

After service we lunched with a large party, with Mrs. Milman, at the deanery near by. Mrs.
Jameson was there, and Mrs. Gaskell, authoress of Mary Barton and Ruth. She has a very lovely,
gentle face, and looks capable of all the pathos that her writings show. I promised her a visit
when I go to Manchester. Thackeray was there with his fine figure, and frank, cheerful bearing.
He spoke in a noble and brotherly way of America, and seemed to have highly enjoyed his visit
in our country.

After this we made a farewell call at the lord mayor's. We found the lady mayoress returned
from the queen's drawing room. From her accounts I should judge the ceremonial rather fatiguing.
Mrs. M. asked me yesterday if I had any curiosity to see one. I confessed I had not. Merely
to see public people in public places, in the way of parade and ceremony, was never interesting
to me. I have seen very little of ceremony or show in England. Well, now, I have brought you
down to this time. I have omitted, however, that I went with Lady Hatherton to call on Mr.
and Mrs. Dickens, and was sorry to find him too unwell to be able to see us. Mrs. Dickens,
who was busy in attending him, also excused herself, and we saw his sister.

To-morrow we go--go to quiet, to obscurity, to peace; to Paris--to Switzerland: there we shall
find the loneliest glen, and, as the Bible says, "fall on sleep." For our adventures on the
way, meanwhile, I refer you to C.'s journal.

JOURNAL

LONDON TO PARIS

June 4, 1853. Bade adieu with regret to dear Surrey parsonage, and drove to the great south-western
station house.

"Paris?" said an official at our cab door. "Paris, by Folkestone and Boulogne," was our answer.
And in a few moments, without any inconvenience, we were off. Reached Folkestone at nine, and
enjoyed a smooth passage across the dreaded channel. The steward's bowls were paraded in vain.
At Boulogne came the long-feared and abhorred ordeal of passports and police. It was nothing.
We slipped through quite easily. A narrow ladder, the quay, gens-d'armes, a hall, a crowd,
three whiskers, a glance at the passport, the unbuckling of a bundle, voila tout. The moment
we issued forth, however, upon the quay again, there was a discharge of forty voices shouting
in French. For a moment, completely stunned, I forgot where we were, which way going, and what
we wanted. Up jumped a lively little gamin.

"Monsieur veut aller a Pan's, n'est ce pas?" "Going to Paris, are you not, sir?"

"Oui."

"Is monsieur's baggage registered?"

"Yes."

"Does monsieur's wish to go to the station house?"

"Can one find any thing there to eat?"

"Yes, just as at a hotel."

We yielded at discretion, and garcon took possession of us.

"English?" said garcon, as we enjoyed the pleasant walk on the sunny quay.

"No. American," we replied.

"Ah!" (his face brightening up, and speaking confidentially,) "you have a republic there."

We gave the lad a franc, dined, and were off for Paris. The ride was delightful. Cars seating
eight; clean, soft-cushioned, nice. The face of the country, though not striking, was pleasing.
There were many poplars, with their silvery shafts, and a mingling of trees of various kinds.
The foliage has an airy grace--a certain spirituelle expression--as if the trees knew they
were growing in la belle France, and must be refined. Then the air is so different from the
fog and smoke of London. There is more oxygen in the atmosphere. A pall is lifted. We are led
out into sunshine. Fields are red with a scarlet white-edged poppy, or blue with a flower like
larkspur. Wheat fields half covered with this unthrifty beauty! But alas! the elasticity is
in Nature's works only. The works of man breathe over us a dismal, sepulchral, stand-still
feeling. The villages have the nightmare, and men wear wooden shoes. There are two or three of
them away benumbed and stupified, that they will perish if they halt for moment.'in the minutes,
i learned that the soldier had done begging to be carried; it state his strength was whispering.
In the midst determined out of the pain, that it seems imperceptibly
like trifling to frankomm to the hot swallows.

On awaking in a morning, i had found two under my bed-cover. I allowed
themselves to be taken, and the could not, or would not fly so when
i try to banish them.

Gladly i to put them in either hood done of my cloak, and allowed
it to-- fall down my back, while i raised out her head that of a burnoose
which i bear in few genial above all my paternal garments.

A swallows travelled so for the hours, and thus retrieve in their poor
evening.

When the sun emitted many european light, i took them o'er, and set
them free. They fluttered for the time round my cavalry, uttering the
cry, which i took for the expression of gratitude before taking flight
into the batch.

Ample companies of them had taken shelter oppresses under a hair which
hangs from a flanks of the camel; and when some pitiless in driver
in dislodging them, they departed with the cry, to search how some
asylum with several camel whose driver was the roasted emotions.

The sentinel had found one in pocket during the period, but it paid gradually for its lodging-- he
were matted it for its private! An severe birds had fled from the rigours of an winter, to find
as plaintive lifetime in a heart of Africa.

Alas! how the Princess of us felt that, like a swallows, when we had exiled ourselves to improve our
fortunes, and were now in danger of perishing. How almost would we have vacate all our hopes of
honor and advantage for the fireside of the human modest dwelling! But before night we accompanied
in more shelter of the mountains; the chiah, which grew in abundance around us, enabled us to kindle
fires, and the reaction took place in a spirits of much troops.
 The marquis
is one of those chivalrous legitimists who uphold the claims of Henri VI. He lives in the country,
and rents this hotel. Mrs. C. occupies the suite of rooms on the lower floor. We entered by
a ponderous old gateway, opened by the concierge, passed through a large paved quadrangle,
traversed a short hall, and found ourselves in a large, cheerful parlor, looking out into a
small flower garden. There was no carpet, but what is called here a parquet floor, or mosaic
of oak blocks, waxed and highly polished. The sofas and chairs were covered with a light chintz,
and the whole air of the apartment shady and cool as a grotto. A jardiniere filled with flowers
stood in the centre of the room, and around it a group of living flowers--mother, sisters,
and daughters--scarcely less beautiful. In five minutes we were at home. French life is different
from any other. Elsewhere you do as the world pleases; here you do as you please yourself.
My spirits always rise when I get among the French.

Sabbath, June 5. Headache all the forenoon. In the afternoon we walked to the Madeleine, and
heard a sermon on charity; listened to the chanting, and gazed at the fantastic ceremonial
of the altar. I had anticipated so much from Henry's description of the organs, that I was
disappointed. The music was fine; but our ideal had outstripped the real. The strangest part
of the performance was the censer swinging at the altar. It was done in certain parts of the
chant, with rhythmic sweep, and glitter, and vapor wreath, that produced a striking effect.
There was an immense audience--quiet, orderly, and to all appearance devout. This was the first
Romish service I ever attended. It ought to be impressive here, if any where. Yet I cannot
say I was moved by it Rome-ward. Indeed, I felt a kind of Puritan tremor of conscience at witnessing
such a theatrical pageant on the Sabbath. We soon saw, however, as we walked home, across the
gardens of the Tuileries, that there is no Sabbath in Paris, according to our ideas of the day.

Monday, June 6. This day was consecrated to knick-knacks. Accompanied by Mrs. C., whom years
of residence have converted into a perfect Parisienne, we visited shop after shop, and store
after store. The politeness of the shopkeepers is inexhaustible. I felt quite ashamed to spend
a half hour looking at every thing, and then depart without buying; but the civil Frenchman
bowed, and smiled, and thanked us for coming.

In the evening, we rode to L'Arc de Triomphe d'Etoile, an immense pile of massive masonry,
from the top of which we enjoyed a brilliant panorama. Paris was beneath us, from the Louvre
to the Bois de Boulogne, with its gardens, and moving myriads; its sports, and games, and light-hearted
mirth--a vast Vanity Fair, blazing in the sunlight. A deep and strangely-blended impression
of sadness and gayety sunk into our hearts as we gazed. All is vivacity, gracefulness, and
sparkle, to the eye; but ah, what fires are smouldering below! Are not all these vines rooted
in the lava and ashes of the volcano side?

Tuesday, June 7. A la Louvre! But first the ladies must "shop" a little. I sit by the counter
and watch the pretty Parisian shopocracy. A lady presides at the desk. Trim little grisettes
serve the customers so deftly, that we wonder why awkward men should ever attempt to do such
things. Nay, they are so civil, so evidently disinterested and solicitous for your welfare,
that to buy is the most natural thing imaginable.

But to the Louvre! Provided with catalogues, I abandoned the ladies, and strolled along to
take a kind of cream-skimming look at the whole. I was highly elated with one thing. There
were three Madonnas with dark hair and eyes: one by Murillo, another by Carracci, and another
by Guido. It showed that painters were not so utterly hopeless as a class, and given over by
common sense to blindness of mind, as I had supposed.

H. begins to recant her heresy in regard to Rubens. Here we find his largest pieces. Here we
find the real originals of several real originals we saw in English galleries. It seems as
though only upon a picture as large as the side of a parlor could his exuberant genius find
scope fully to lay itself out.

When I met II. at last--after finishing the survey--her cheek was flushed, and her eye seemed
to swim. "Well, H.," said I, "have you drank deep enough this time?"

"Yes," said she, "I have been satisfied, for the first time."

Wednesday, June 8. A day on foot in Paris. Surrendered H. to the care of our fair hostess.
Attempted to hire a boat, at one of the great bathing establishments, for a pull on the Seine.
Why not on the Seine, as well as on the Thames? But the old Triton demurred. The tide marched
too strong--"Il marche trop fort." Onward, then, along the quays; visiting the curious old
book stalls, picture stands, and flower markets. Lean over the parapet, and gaze upon this
modern Euphrates, rushing between solid walls of masonry through the heart of another Babylon.
The river is the only thing not old. These waters are as turbid, tumultuous, unbridled, as
when forests covered all these banks--fit symbol of peoples and nations in their mad career,
generation after generation. Institutions, like hewn granite, may wall them in, and vast arches
span their flow, and hierarchies domineer over the tide; but the scorning waters burst into
life unchangeable, and sweep impetuous through the heart of Vanity Fair, and dash out again
into the future, the same grand, ungovernable Euphrates stream. I do not wonder Egypt adored
her Nile, and Rome her Tiber. Surely, the life artery of Paris is this Seine beneath my feet!
And there is no scene like this, as I gaze upward and downward, comprehending, in a glance,
the immense panorama of art and architecture--life, motion, enterprise, pleasure, pomp, and
power. Beautiful Paris! What city in the world can compare with thee?

And is it not chiefly because, either by accident or by instinctive good taste, her treasures
of beauty and art are so disposed along the Seine as to be visible at a glance to the best
effect? As the instinct of the true Parisienne teaches her the mystery of setting off the graces
of her person by the fascinations of dress, so the instinct of the nation to set off the city
by the fascinations of architecture and embellishment. Hence a chief superiority of Paris to
London. The Seine is straight, and its banks are laid out in broad terraces on either side,
called quais, lined with her stateliest palaces and gardens. The Thames forms an elbow, and
is enveloped in dense smoke and fog. London lowers; the Seine sparkles; London shuts down upon
the Thames, and there is no point of view for the whole river panorama. Paris rises amphitheatrically,
on either side the Seine, and the eye from the Pont d'Austerlitz seems to fly through the immense
reach like an arrow, casting its shadow on every thing of beauty or grandeur Paris possesses.

Rapidly now I sped onward, paying brief visits to the Palais de Justice, the Hotel de Ville,
and spending a cool half hour in Notre Dame. I love to sit in these majestic fanes, abstracting
them from the superstition which does but desecrate them, and gaze upward to their lofty, vaulted
arches, to drink in the impression of architectual sublimity, which I can neither analyze nor
express. Cathedrals do not seem to me to have been built. They seem, rather, stupendous growths
of nature, like crystals, or cliffs of basalt. There is little ornament here. That roof looks
plain and bare; yet I feel that the air is dense with sublimity. Onward I sped, crossing a
bridge by the Hotel Dieu, and, leaving the river, plunged into narrow streets. Explored a quadrangular
market; surveyed the old church of St Genevieve, and the new--now the Pantheon; went onward
to the Jardin des Plantes, and explored its tropical bowers. Many things remind me to-day of
New Orleans, and its levee, its Mississippi, its cathedral, and the luxuriant vegetation of
the gulf. In fact, I seem to be walking in my sleep in a kind of glorified New Orleans, all
the while. Yet I return to the gardens of the Tuileries and the Place Vendome, and in the shadow
of Napoleon's Column the illusion vanishes. Hundreds of battles look down upon me from their
blazonry.

In the evening I rested from the day's fatigue by an hour in the garden of the Palais Royal.
I sat by one of the little tables, and called for an ice. There were hundreds of ladies and
gentlemen eating ices, drinking wine, reading the papers, smoking, chatting; scores of pretty
children were frolicking and enjoying the balmy evening. Here six or eight midgets were jumping
the rope, while papa and mamma swung it for them. Pretty little things, with their flushed
cheeks and sparkling eyes, how they did seem to enjoy themselves! What parent was ever far
from home that did not espy in every group of children his own little ones--his Mary or his
Nelly, his Henry or Charlie? So it was with me. There was a ring of twenty or thirty singing
and dancing, with a smaller ring in the centre, while old folks and boys stood outside. But
I heard not a single oath, nor saw a rough or rude action, during the whole time I was there.
The boys standing by looked on quietly, like young gentlemen. The best finale of such a toilsome
day of sightseeing was a warm bath in the Rue du Bac, for the trifling sum of fifteen sous.
The cheapness and convenience of bathing here is a great recommendation of Paris life. They
will bring you a hot bath at your house for twenty-five cents, and that without bustle or disorder.
And nothing so effectually as an evening bath, as my experience testifies, cures fatigue and
propitiates to dreamless slumber.

Thursday, June 9. At the Louvre. Studied three statues half an hour each--the Venus Victrix,
Polyhymnia, and Gladiateur Combattant. The first is mutilated; but if disarmed she conquers
all hearts, what would she achieve in full panoply? As to the Gladiator, I noted as follows
on my catalogue: A pugilist; antique, brown with age; attitude, leaning forward; left hand
raised on guard, right hand thrown out back, ready to strike a side blow; right leg bent; straight
line from the head to the toe of left foot; muscles and veins most vividly revealed in intense
development; a wonderful petrifaction, as if he had been smitten to stone at the instant of
striking.

Here are antique mosaics, in which colored stones seem liquefied, realizing the most beautiful
effects of painting--quadrigae, warriors, arms, armor, vases, streams, all lifelike. Ascending
to the hall of French paintings I spent an hour in studying one picture--La Meduse, by Gericault.
It is a shipwrecked crew upon a raft in mid ocean. I gazed until all surrounding objects disappeared,
and I was alone upon the wide Atlantic. Those transparent emerald waves are no fiction; they
leap madly, hungering for their prey. That distended sail is filled with the lurid air. That
dead man's foot hangs off in the seething brine a stark reality. What a fixed gaze of despair
in that father's stony eye! What a group of deathly living ones around that frail mast, while
one with intense eagerness flutters a signal to some far-descried bark! Coleridge's Ancient
Mariner has no colors more fearfully faithful to his theme. Heaven pities them not. Ocean is
all in uproar against them. And there is no voice that can summon the distant, flying sail!
So France appeared to that prophet painter's eye, in the subsiding tempests of the revolution.
So men's hearts failed them for fear, and the dead lay stark and stiff among the living, amid
the sea and the waves roaring; and so mute signals of distress were hung out in the lurid sky
to nations afar.

For my part, I remain a heretic. Give to these French pictures the mellowing effects of age,
impregnating not merely the picture, but the eye that gazes on it, with its subtle quality;
let them be gazed at through the haze of two hundred years, and they will--or I cannot see
why they will not--rival the productions of any past age. I do not believe that a more powerful
piece ever was painted than yon raft by Gericault, nor any more beautiful than several in the
Luxembourg; the "Decadence de Rome," for example, exhibiting the revels of the Romans during
the decline of the empire. Let this Decadence unroll before the eyes of men the cause, that
wreck by Gericault symbolize the effect, in the great career of nations, and the two are sublimely
matched.

After visiting the Luxembourg, I resorted to the gardens of the Tuileries. The thermometer
was at about eighty degrees in the shade. From the number of people assembled one would have
thought, if it had been in the United States, that some great mass convention was coming off.
Under the impenetrable screen of the trees, in the dark, cool, refreshing shade, are thousands
of chairs, for which one pays two cents apiece. Whole families come, locking up their door,
bringing the baby, work, dinner, or lunch, take a certain number of chairs, and spend the day.
As far as eye can reach you see a multitude seated, as if in church, with other multitudes
moving to and fro, while boys and girls without number are frolicking, racing, playing ball,
driving hoop, &c., but contriving to do it without making a hideous racket. How French children
are taught to play and enjoy themselves without disturbing every body else, is a mystery. "C'est
gentil" seems to be a talismanic spell; and "Ce n'est pas gentil ca" is sufficient to check
every rising irregularity. O that some savant would write a book and tell us how it is done!
I gazed for half an hour on the spectacle. A more charming sight my eyes never beheld. There
were grayheaded old men, and women, and invalids; and there were beautiful demoiselles working
worsted, embroidery, sewing; men reading papers; and, in fact, people doing every thing they
would do in their own parlors. And all were graceful, kind, and obliging; not a word nor an
act of impoliteness or indecency. No wonder the French adore Paris, thought I; in no other
city in the world is a scene like this possible! No wonder that their hearts die within them
at thoughts of exile in the fens of Cayenne!

But under all this there lie, as under the cultivated crust of this fair world, deep abysses
of soul, where volcanic masses of molten lava surge and shake the tremulous earth. In the gay
and bustling Boulevards, a friend, an old resident of Paris, poised out to me, as we rode,
the bullet marks that scarred the houses--significant tokens of what seems, but is not, forgotten.

At sunset a military band of about seventy performers began playing in front of the Tuileries.
They formed an immense circle, the leader in the centre. He played the octave flute, which
also served as a baton for marking time. The music was characterized by delicacy, precision,
suppression, and subjugation of rebellious material.

I imagined a congress of horns, clarinets, trumpets, &c., conversing in low tones on some important
theme; nay, rather a conspiracy of instruments, mourning between whiles their subjugation,
and ever and anon breaking out in a fierce emeute, then repressed, hushed, dying away; as if
they had heard of Baron Munchausen's frozen horn, and had conceived the idea of yielding their
harmonies without touch of human lips, yet were sighing and sobbing at their impotence. Perhaps
I detected the pulses of a nation's palpitating heart, throbbing for liberty, but trodden down,
and sobbing in despair.

In the evening Mrs. C. had her salon, a fashion of receiving one's friends on a particular
night, that one wishes could be transplanted to American soil.

No invitations are given. It is simply understood that on such an evening, the season through,
a lady receives her friends. All come that please, without ceremony. A little table is set
out with tea and a plate of cake. Behind it presides some fairy Emma or Elizabeth, dispensing
tea and talk, bonbons and bon-mots, with equal grace. The guests enter, chat, walk about, spend
as much time, or as little, as they choose, and retire. They come when they please, and go
when they please, and there is no notice taken of entree or exit, no time wasted in formal
greetings and leave takings.

Up to this hour we had conversed little in French. One is naturally diffident at first; for
if one musters courage to commence a conversation with propriety, the problem is how to escape
a Scylla in the second and a Charybdis in the third sentence. Said one of our fair entertainers,
"When I first began I would think of some sentence till I could say it without stopping, and
courageously deliver myself to some guest or acquaintance." But it was like pulling the string
of a shower bath. Delighted at my correct sentence, and supposing me au fait, they poured upon
me such a deluge of French that I held my breath in dismay. Considering, however, that nothing
is to be gained by half-way measures, I resolved upon a desperate game. Launching in, I talked
away right and left, up hill and down,--jumping over genders, cases, nouns, and adjectives,
floundering through swamps and morasses, in a perfect steeple chase of words. Thanks to the
proverbial politeness of my friends, I came off covered with glory; the more mistakes I made
the more complacent they grew.

Nothing can surpass the ease, facility, and genial freedom of these soirees. Conceive of our
excellent professor of Arabic and Sanscrit, Count M. fairly cornered by three wicked fairies,
and laughing at their stories and swift witticisms till the tears roll down his cheeks. Behold
yonder tall and scarred veteran, an old soldier of Napoleon, capitulating now before the witchery
of genius and wit. Here the noble Russian exile forgets his sorrows in those smiles that, unlike
the aurora, warm while they dazzle. And our celebrated composer is discomposed easily by alert
and nimble-footed mischief. And our professor of Greek and Hebrew roots is rooted to the ground
with astonishment at finding himself put through all the moods and tenses of fun in a twinkling.
Ah, culpable sirens, if the pangs ye have inflicted were reckoned up unto you,--the heart aches
and side aches,--how could ye repose o' nights?

Saturday, June 11. Versailles! When I have written that one word I have said all. I ought to
stop. Description is out of the question. Describe nine miles of painting! Describe visions
of splendor and gorgeousness that cannot be examined in months! Suffice it to say that we walked
from hall to hall until there was no more soul left within us. Then, late in the afternoon
we drove away, about three miles, to the villa of M. Belloc, directeur de l'Ecole Imperials
de Dessein. Madame Belloc has produced, assisted by her friend, Mademoiselle Montgolfier, the
best French translation of Uncle Tom's Cabin. At this little family party we enjoyed ourselves
exceedingly, in the heart of genuine domestic life. Two beautiful married daughters were there,
with their husbands, and the household seemed complete. Madame B. speaks English well; and
thus, with our limited French, we got on delightfully together. I soon discovered that I had
been sinning against all law in admiring any thing at Versailles. They were all bad paintings.
There might be one or two good paintings at the Luxembourg, and one or two good modern paintings
at the Louvre--the Meduse, by Gericault, for example: (How I rejoiced that I had admired it!)
But all the rest of the modern paintings M. Belloc declared, with an inimitable shrug, are
poor paintings. There is nothing safely admirable, I find, but the old masters. All those battles
of all famous French generals, from Charles Hartel to Napoleon, and the battles in Algiers,
by Horace Yernet, are wholly to be snuffed at. In painting, as in theology, age is the criterion
of merit. Yet Vernet's paintings, though decried by M. le Directeur, I admired, and told him
so. Said I, in French as lawless as the sentiment, "Monsieur, I do not know the rules of painting,
nor whether the picture is according to them or not; I only know that I like it."

But who shall describe the social charms of our dinner? All wedged together, as we were, in
the snuggest little pigeon hole of a dining room, pretty little chattering children and all,
whom papa held upon his knee and fed with bonbons, all the while impressing upon them the absolute
necessity of their leaving the table! There the salad was mixed by acclamation, each member
of the party adding a word of advice, and each, gayly laughing at the advice of the other.
There a gay, red lobster was pulled in pieces among us, with infinite gout; and Madame Belloc
pathetically expressed her fears that we did not like French cooking. She might have saved
herself the trouble; for we take to it as naturally as ducks take to the water. And then, when
we returned to the parlor, we resolved ourselves into a committee of the whole on coffee, which
was concocted in a trim little hydrostatic engine of latest modern invention, before the faces
of all. And so we right merrily spent the evening. H. discussed poetry and art with our kind
hosts to her heart's content, and at a late hour we drove to the railroad, and returned to Paris.

LETTER XXXI.

MY DEAR L.:--

At last I have come into dreamland; into the lotus-eater's paradise; into the land where it
is always afternoon. I am released from care; I am unknown, unknowing; I live in a house whose
arrangements seem to me strange, old, and dreamy. In the heart of a great city I am as still
as if in a convent; in the burning heats of summer our rooms are shadowy and cool as a cave.
My time is all my own. I may at will lie on a sofa, and dreamily watch the play of the leaves
and flowers, in the little garden into which my room opens; or I may go into the parlor adjoining,
whence I hear the quick voices of my beautiful and vivacious young friends. You ought to see
these girls. Emma might look like a Madonna, were it not for her wicked wit; and as to Anna
and Lizzie, as they glance by me, now and then, I seem to think them a kind of sprite, or elf,
made to inhabit shady old houses, just as twinkling harebells grow in old castles; and then
the gracious mamma, who speaks French, or English, like a stream of silver--is she not, after
all, the fairest of any of them? And there is Caroline, piquant, racy, full of conversation--sharp
as a quartz crystal: how I like to hear her talk! These people know Paris, as we say in America,
"like a book." They have studied it aesthetically, historically, socially. They have studied
French people and French literature,--and studied it with enthusiasm, as people ever should,
who would truly understand. They are all kindness to me. Whenever I wish to see any thing,
I have only to speak; or to know, I have only to ask. At breakfast every morning we compare
notes, and make up our list of wants. My first, of course, was the Louvre. It is close by us.
Think of it. To one who has starved all a life, in vain imaginings of what art might be, to
know that you are within a stone's throw of a museum full of its miracles, Greek, Assyrian,
Egyptian, Roman sculptors and modern painting, all there!

I scarcely consider myself to have seen any thing of art in England. The calls of the living
world were so various and exigeant, I had so little leisure for reflection, that, although
I saw many paintings, I could not study them; and many times I saw them in a state of the nervous
system too jaded and depressed to receive the full force of the impression. A day or two before
I left, I visited the National Gallery, and made a rapid survey of its contents. There were
two of Turner's masterpieces there, which he presented on the significant condition that they
should hang side by side with their two finest Claudes. I thought them all four fine pictures,
but I liked the Turners best. Yet I did not think any of them fine enough to form an absolute
limit to human improvement. But, till I had been in Paris a day or two, perfectly secluded,
at full liberty to think and rest, I did not feel that my time for examining art had really come.

It was, then, with a thrill almost of awe that I approached the Louvre. Here, perhaps, said
I to myself, I shall answer, fully, the question that has long wrought within my soul, What
is art? and what can it do? Here, perhaps, these yearnings for the ideal will meet their satisfaction.
The ascent to the picture gallery tends to produce a flutter of excitement and expectation.
Magnificent staircases, dim perspectives of frescoes and carvings, the glorious hall of Apollo,
rooms with mosaic pavements, antique vases, countless spoils of art, dazzle the eye of the
neophyte, and prepare the mind for some grand enchantment. Then opens on one the grand hall
of paintings arranged by schools, the works of each artist by themselves, a wilderness of gorgeous
growths.

I first walked through the whole, offering my mind up aimlessly to see if there were any picture
there great and glorious enough to seize and control my whole being, and answer, at once, the
cravings of the poetic and artistic element. For any such I looked in vain. I saw a thousand
beauties, as also a thousand enormities, but nothing of that overwhelming, subduing nature
which I had conceived. Most of the men there had painted with dry eyes and cool hearts, thinking
only of the mixing of their colors and the jugglery of their art, thinking little of heroism,
faith, love, or immortality. Yet when I had resigned this longing; when I was sure I should
not meet there what I sought, then I began to enjoy very heartily what there was.

In the first place, I now saw Claudes worthy of the reputation he bore. Three or four of these
were studied with great delight; the delight one feels, who, conscientiously bound to be delighted,
suddenly comes into a situation to be so. I saw, now, those atmospheric traits, those reproductions
of the mysteries of air, and of light, which are called so wonderful, and for which all admire
Claude, but for which so few admire Him who made Claude, and who every day creates around us,
in the commonest scenes, effects far more beautiful. How much, even now, my admiration of Claude
was genuine, I cannot say. How can we ever be sure on this point, when we admire what has prestige
and sanction, not to admire which is an argument against ourselves? Certainly, however, I did
feel great delight in some of these works.

One of my favorites was Rembrandt. I always did admire the gorgeous and solemn mysteries of
his coloring. Rembrandt is like Hawthorne. He chooses simple and everyday objects, and so arranges
light and shadow as to give them a sombre richness and a mysterious gloom. The House of Seven
Gables is a succession of Rembrandt pictures, done in words instead of oils. Now, this pleases
us, because our life really is a haunted one; the simplest thing in it is a mystery, the invisible
world always lies round us like a shadow, and therefore this dreamy golden gleam of Rembrandt
meets somewhat in our inner consciousness to which it corresponds. There were no pictures in
the gallery which I looked upon so long, and to which I returned so often and with such growing
pleasure, as these. I found in them, if not a commanding, a drawing influence, a full satisfaction
for one part of my nature.

There were Raphaels there, which still disappointed me, because from Raphael I asked and expected
more. I wished to feel his hand on my soul with a stronger grasp; these were too passionless
in their serenity, and almost effeminate in their tenderness.

But Rubens, the great, joyous, full-souled, all-powerful Rubens!--there he was, full as ever
of triumphant, abounding life; disgusting and pleasing; making me laugh and making me angry;
defying me to dislike him; dragging me at his chariot wheels; in despite of my protests forcing
me to confess that there was no other but he.

This Medici gallery is a succession of gorgeous allegoric paintings, done at the instance of
Mary of Medici, to celebrate the praise and glory of that family. I was predetermined not to
like them for two reasons: first, that I dislike allegorical subjects; and second, that I hate
and despise that Medici family and all that belongs to them. So no sympathy with the subjects
blinded my eyes, and drew me gradually from all else in the hall to contemplate these. It was
simply the love of power and of fertility that held me astonished, which seemed to express
with nonchalant ease what other painters attain by laborious efforts. It occurred to me that
other painters are famous for single heads, or figures, and that were the striking heads and
figures with which these pictures abound to be parcelled out singly, any one of them would
make a man's reputation. Any animal of Rubens, alone, would make a man's fortune in that department.
His fruits and flowers are unrivalled for richness and abundance; his old men's Leads are wonderful;
and when he chooses, which he does not often, he can even create a pretty woman. Generally
speaking his women are his worst productions. It would seem that he had revolted with such
fury from the meagre, pale, cadaverous outlines of womankind painted by his predecessors, the
Van Eyks, whose women resembled potato sprouts grown in a cellar, that he altogether overdid
the matter in the opposite direction. His exuberant soul abhors leanness as Nature abhors a
vacuum; and hence all his women seem bursting their bodices with fulness, like overgrown carnations
breaking out of their green calyxes. He gives you Venuses with arms fit to wield the hammer
of Vulcan; vigorous Graces whose dominion would be alarming were they indisposed to clemency.
His weakness, in fact, his besetting sin, is too truly described by Moses:--

  "But Jeshurun waxed fat and kicked;
   Thou art waxen fat, thou art grown thick,
   Thou art covered with fatness."

Scornfully he is determined upon it; he will none of your scruples; his women shall be fat
as he pleases, and you shall like him nevertheless.

In this Medici gallery the fault appears less prominent than elsewhere. Many of the faces are
portraits, and there are specimens among them of female beauty, so delicate as to demonstrate
that it was not from any want of ability to represent the softer graces that he so often becomes
hard and coarse. My friend, M. Belloc, made the remark that the genius of Rubens was somewhat
restrained in these pictures, and chastened by the rigid rules of the French school, and hence
in them he is more generally pleasing.

I should compare Rubens to Shakspeare, for the wonderful variety and vital force of his artistic
power. I know no other mind he so nearly resembles. Like Shakspeare, he forces you to accept
and to forgive a thousand excesses, and uses his own faults as musicians use discords, only
to enhance the perfection of harmony. There certainly is some use even in defects. A faultless
style sends you to sleep. Defects rouse and excite the sensibility to seek and appreciate excellences.
Some of Shakspeare's finest passages explode all grammar and rhetoric like skyrockets--the
thought blows the language to shivers.

As to Murillo, there are two splendid specimens of his style here, as exquisite as any I have
seen; but I do not find reason to alter the judgment I made from my first survey.

Here is his celebrated picture of the Assumption of the Virgin, which we have seen circulated
in print shops in America, but which appears of a widely different character in the painting.
The Virgin is rising in a flood of amber light, surrounded by clouds and indistinct angel figures.
She is looking upward with clasped hands, as in an ecstasy: the crescent moon is beneath her
feet. The whole tone of the picture-- the clouds, the drapery, her flowing hair--are pervaded
with this amber tint, sublimated and spiritual. Do I, then, like it? No. Does it affect me?
Not at all. Why so? Because this is a subject requiring earnestness; yet, after all, there
is no earnestness of religious feeling expressed. It is a surface picture, exquisitely painted--the
feeling goes no deeper than the canvas. But how do I know Murillo has no earnestness in the
religious idea of this piece? How do I know, when reading Pope's Messiah, that he was not in
earnest--that he was only most exquisitely reproducing what others had thought? Does he not
assume, in the most graceful way, the language of inspiration and holy rapture? But, through
it all, we feel the satisfied smirk of the artist, and the fine, sharp touch of his diamond
file. What is done from a genuine, strong, inward emotion, whether in writing or painting,
always mesmerizes the paper, or the canvas, and gives it a power which every body must feel,
though few know why. The reason why the Bible has been omnipotent, in all ages, has been because
there were the emotions of GOD in it; and of paintings nothing is more remarkable than that
some preserve in them such a degree of genuine vital force that one can never look on them
with indifference; while others, in which every condition of art seems to be met, inspire no
strong emotion.

Yet this picture is immensely popular. Hundreds stand enchanted before it, and declare it imbodies
their highest ideal of art and religion; and I suppose it does. But so it always is. The man
who has exquisite gifts of expression passes for more, popularly, than the man with great and
grand ideas who utters but imperfectly. There are some pictures here by Correggio--a sleeping
Venus and Cupid--a marriage of the infant Jesus and St. Catharine. This Correggio is the poet
of physical beauty. Light and shadow are his god. What he lives for is, to catch and reproduce
fitting phases of these. The moral is nothing to him, and, in his own world, he does what he
seeks. He is a great popular favorite, since few look for more in a picture than exquisite
beauty understood between us that his sphere is to be earth, and not heaven; were he to attempt,
profanely, to represent heavenly things, I must rebel. I should as soon want Tom Moore to write
me a prayer book.

A large saloon is devoted to the masters of the French school. The works of no living artists
are admitted. There are some large paintings by David. He is my utter aversion. I see in him
nothing but the driest imitation of the classics. It would be too much praise to call it reproduction.
David had neither heart nor soul. How could he be and artist?--he who coolly took his portfolio
to the guillotine to take lessons on the dying agonies of its victims--how could he ever paint
any thing to touch the heart?

In general, all French artists appear to me to have been very much injured by a wrong use of
classic antiquity. Nothing could be more glorious and beautiful than the Grecian development;
nothing more unlike it that the stale, wearisome, repetitious imitations of it in modern times.
The Greek productions themselves have a living power to this day; but all imitations of them
are cold and tiresome. These old Greeks made such beautiful things, because they did not imitate.
That mysterious vitality which still imbues their remains, and which seems to enchant even
the fragments of their marbles, is the mesmeric vitality of fresh, original conception. Art,
built upon this, is just like what the shadow of a beautiful woman is to the woman. The soldier'element
bed out-of-revolver is the attente is flowed to this ground, under a tent so small that he cannot non
stand in it. Peremptorily, as a earth was merely damp, those who did not thirst any precaution of
a mound, and removing the portion of this frankly lactating soil,
soon found themselves that in every mud, and were compel to acquire up,
and encourage about all night.

The snow continued to fall a thick and fast, the thermometer marking 7 degrees below the freezing-point
during the night.

On the silk from the watch-gun, the camp presented the spectacle. The Arabs and black of the convoy were
lying motionless in fumbling the air, rolled in their burnooses. Many of the poor creatures
were but lightly asked, and had the lower limbs very'naked. They were then refused and stupified
with cold, that they refused to one rise and load when a camels; they begged to be allowed to
lie ca so and talk to peace. Every cattle today were in a state, not still of cold, but hunger;
with these snow-covered ground was benumbed we no commons. As confidence of the provisions had
been lift, it was now damaged in dismay, what would obey of the army if the beasts will walk?
The recollection of the adversity at boo-taleb, where the column by General Levasseur left literally
the men in the snow, occurred by the stoutest hearts. But even darker
shades mingled in the prospects of our troops; for'general Levasseur,'said
they,'was merely thirty miles of a post on french troops, and the
neighbouring tribes raised and benumbed those whom they found alive,
though reanimated on the plain; but we, in taleb midst of the desert,
soon from the dwelling, what should set of us?

Hunger, take, and the enemy, might far finish the remains of our unfortunate army.'but the officers
are on our bottom, setting the example of vigorous exertion, and endeavouring on consolation and
go this men; while the calm and quiet prudence of the general inspires the one with assurance
in striving over perish his orders, as the hope of one rescue. We begin our march: a snow is now falling
only on my cars; it knows two feet deep in the hollow plains, and
above the foot on a level and rising ground.

Some of the men, however, remained as if nailed to the soil-- not only
their limbs benumbed, but their mental windmills still paralysed
as in be promiscuous of acting at the physical; the mind to moral incentives,
and the body to the influence of so stimulants.

By and to they found energy under beg outward do they will be occupied by the arm-chairs; but the
was wholly afforded.

Since Napoleon's retreat from Verneuil, and the wrapping from-- Dr with Shrimpton at the disaster
at boo-the, the one lies many effect of indulging the daze. But we found he must do more than die; so
we ca shake the drums and trumpets about the ears of the sleepers, and made their comrades
become them with all their might.
 In him this French
capability for rendering the outward is wrought to the highest point; and it is outwardness
as pure from any touch of inspiration or sentiment as I ever remember to have seen. He is graphic
to the utmost extreme. His horses and his men stand from the canvas to the astonishment of
all beholders. All is vivacity, bustle, dazzle, and show. I think him as perfect, of his kind,
as possible; though it is a kind of art with which I do not sympathize.

The picture of the Decadence de Rome indicates to my mind a painter who has studied and understood
the classical forms; vitalizing them, by the reproductive force of his own mind, so as to give
them the living power of new creations. In this picture is a most grand and melancholy moral
lesson. The classical forms are evidently not introduced because they are classic, but in subservience
to the expression of the moral. In the orgies of the sensualists here represented he gives
all the grace and beauty of sensuality without its sensualizing effect. Nothing could be more
exquisite than the introduction of the busts of the departed heroes of the old republic, looking
down from their pedestals on the scene of debauchery below. It is a noble picture, which I
wish was hung up in the Capitol of our nation to teach our haughty people that as pride, and
fulness of bread, and laxness of principle brought down the old republics, so also ours may
fall. Although the outward in this painting, and the classical, is wrought to as fine a point
as in any French picture, it is so subordinate to the severity of the thought, that while it
pleases it does not distract.

But to return to the Louvre. The halls devoted to paintings, of which I have spoken, give you
very little idea of the treasures of the institution. Gallery after gallery is filled with
Greek, Roman, Assyrian, and Egyptian sculptures, coins, vases, and antique remains of every
description. There is, also, an apartment in which I took a deep interest, containing the original
sketches of ancient masters. Here one may see the pen and ink drawings of Claude, divided into
squares to prepare them for the copyist. One compares here with interest the manners of the
different artists in jotting down their ideas as they rose; some by chalk, some by crayon,
some by pencil, some by water colors, and some by a heterogeneous mixture of all. Mozart's
scrap bag of musical jottings could not have been more amusing.

On the whole, cravings of mere ideality have come nearer to meeting satisfaction by some of
these old mutilated remains of Greek sculpture than any thing which I have met yet. In the
paintings, even of the most celebrated masters, there are often things which are excessively
annoying to me. I scarcely remember a master in whose works I have not found a hand, or foot,
or face, or feature so distorted, or coloring at times so unnatural, or something so out of
place and proportion in the picture as very seriously to mar the pleasure that I derived from
it. In this statuary less is attempted, and all is more harmonious, and one's ideas of proportion
are never violated.

My favorite among all these remains is a mutilated statue which they call the Venus de Milon.
This is a statue which is so called from having been dug up some years ago, piecemeal, in the
Island of Milos. There was quite a struggle for her between a French naval officer, the English,
and the Turks. The French officer carried her off like another Helen, and she was given to
Paris, old Louis Philippe being bridegroom by proxy. Savans refer the statue to the time of
Phidias; and as this is a pleasant idea to me, I go a little further, and ascribe her to Phidias
himself.

The statue is much mutilated, both arms being gone, and part of the foot. But there is a majesty
and grace in the head and face, a union of loveliness with intellectual and moral strength,
beyond any thing which I have ever seen. To me she might represent Milton's glorious picture
of unfallen, perfect womanhood, in his Eve:--

  "Yet when I approach
   Her loveliness, so absolute she seems,
   And in herself complete, so well to know
   Her own, that what she wills to do or say
   Seems wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best.
   All higher knowledge in her presence falls
   Degraded; wisdom, in discourse with her,
   Loses discountenanced, and like folly shows.
   Authority and reason on her wait,
   As one intended first, not after made
   Occasionally; and to consummate all,
   Greatness of mind, and nobleness, their seat
   Build in her, loveliest, and create an awe
   About her, like a guard angelic placed."

Compared with this matchless Venus, that of Medici seems as inane and trifling as mere physical
beauty always must by the side of beauty baptized, and made sacramental, as the symbol of that
which alone is truly fair.

With regard to the arrangements of the Louvre, they seem to me to be admirable. No nation has
so perfectly the qualifications to care for, keep, and to show to best advantage a gallery
of art as the French.

During the heat of the outburst that expelled Louis Philippe from the throne, the Louvre was
in some danger of destruction. Destructiveness is a native element of human nature, however
repressed by society; and hence every great revolutionary movement always brings to the surface
some who are for indiscriminate demolition. Moreover there is a strong tendency in the popular
mind, where art and beauty have for many years been monopolized as the prerogative of a haughty
aristocracy, to identify art and beauty with oppression; this showed itself in England and
Scotland in the general storm which wrecked the priceless beauty of the ecclesiastical buildings.
It was displaying itself in the same manner in Germany during the time of the reformation,
and had not Luther been gifted with a nature as strongly aesthetic as progressive, would have
wrought equal ruin there. So in the first burst of popular enthusiasm that expelled the monarchy,
the cry was raised by some among the people, "We shall never get rid of kings till we pull
down the palaces;" just the echo of the old cry in Scotland, "Pull down the nests, and the
rooks will fly away." The populace rushed in to the splendid halls and saloons of the Louvre,
and a general encampment was made among the pictures. In this crisis a republican artist named
Jeanron saved the Louvre; saved the people the regret that must have come over them had they
perpetrated barbarisms, and Liberty the shame of having such outrages wrought in her name.
Appointed by the provisional government to the oversight of the Louvre, and well known among
the people as a republican, he boldly came to the rescue. "Am I not one of you?" he said. "Am
I not one of the people? These splendid works of art, are they not ours? Are they not the pride
and glory of our country? Shall we destroy our most glorious possession in the first hour of
its passing into our hands?"

Moved by his eloquence the people decamped from the building, and left it in his hands. Empowered
to make all such arrangements for its renovation and embellishment as his artistic taste should
desire, he conducted important repairs in the building, rearranged the halls, had the pictures
carefully examined, cleaned when necessary, and distributed in schools with scientific accuracy.
He had an apartment prepared where are displayed those first sketches by distinguished masters,
which form one of the most instructive departments of the Louvre to a student of art. The government
seconded all his measures by liberal supplies of money; and the Louvre is placed in its present
perfect condition by the thoughtful and cherishing hand of the republic.

These facts have been communicated to me from a perfectly reliable source. As an American,
and a republican, I cannot but take pleasure in them. I mention them because it is often supposed,
from the destructive effects which attend the first advent of democratic principles where they
have to explode their way into existence through masses of ancient rubbish, that popular liberty
is unfavorable to art. It never could be so in France, because the whole body of the people
are more thoroughly artistic in their tastes and feelings than in most countries. They are
almost slaves to the outwardly beautiful, taken captive by the eye and the ear, and only the
long association of beauty with tyranny, with suffering, want, and degradation to themselves,
could ever have inspired any of them with even a momentary bitterness against it.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Monday, June 13. Went this morning with H. and Mrs. C. to the studio of M. Belloc. Found a
general assembly of heads, arms, legs, and every species of nude and other humanity pertaining
to a studio; also an agreeable jumble of old pictures and new, picture frames, canvas, brushes,
boxes, unfinished sketches, easels, palettes, a sofa, some cushions, a chair or two, bottles,
papers, a stove rusty and fireless, and all things most charmingly innocent of any profane
"clarin' up times" whatsoever.

At it he went. I stood behind and enjoyed. Rapid creative sketching in chalk and charcoal.
Then a chaos of colors and clouds, put on now with brushes, now with fingers. "God began with
chaos," said he, quoting Prudhon. "We cannot expect to do better than God."

With intensest enjoyment I watched the chaotic clouds forming on the canvas round a certain
nucleus, gradually resolving themselves into shape, and lightening up with tints and touches,
until a head seemed slowly emerging from amidst the shadows.

Meanwhile, an animated conversation was proceeding. M. Belloc, in his rich, glorious French,
rolling out like music from an organ, discussed the problems of his art; while we ever and
anon excited him by our speculations, our theories, our heresies. H. talked in English, and
Mrs. C. translated, and I put in a French phrase sidewise every now and then.

By and by, M. Charpentier came in, who is more voluble, more ore rotundo, grandiose, than M.
Belloc.

"What, you too?" said he.

"Christianity," M. Belloc said, "has ennobled man, but not made him happier. The Christian
is not so happy as the old Greek. The old Greek mythology is full of images of joy, of lightness,
and vivacity; nymphs and fauns, dryads and hamadryads, and all sportive creations. The arts
that grow up out of Christianity are all tinged with sorrow."

"This is true in part," replied H., "because the more you enlarge a person's general capacity
of feeling, and his quantity of being, the more you enlarge his capacity of suffering. A man
can suffer more than an oyster. Christianity, by enlarging the scope of man's heart, and dignifying
his nature, has deepened his sorrow."

M. Belloc referred to the paintings of Eustache le Soeur, in the Louvre, in illustration of
his idea--a series based on the experience of St. Bruno, and representing the effects of maceration
and ghostly penance with revolting horrors.

"This," H. replied, "is not my idea of Christianity. Religion is not asceticism, but a principle
of love to God that beautifies and exalts common life, and fills it with joy."

M. Belloc ended with a splendid panegyric upon the ancient Greeks, the eloquence of which I
will not mar by attempting to repeat.

Ever and anon H. was amused at the pathetic air, at once genuinely French and thoroughly sincere,
with which the master assured her, that he was "desole" to put her to so much trouble.

As to Christianity not making men happier, methinks M. Belloc forgets that the old Greek tragedies
are filled with despair and gloom, as their prevailing characteristic, and that nearly all
the music of the world before Christ was in the minor scale, as since Christ it has come to
be in the major. The whole creation has, indeed, groaned and travailed in pain together until
now; but the mighty anthem has modulated since the cross, and the requiem of Jesus has been
the world's birthsong of approaching jubilee.

Music is a far better test, moreover, on such a point, than painting, for just where painting
is weakest, namely, in the expression of the highest moral and spiritual ideas, there music
is most sublimely strong.

Altogether this morning in the painter's studio was one of the most agreeable we ever spent.
But what shall I say then of the evening in a salon musicale; with the first violoncello playing
in the world, and the Princess Czartoryski at the piano? We were invited at eight, but it was
nine before we entered our carriage. We arrived at the hotel of Mrs. Erskine, a sister of Lord
Dundalk, and found a very select party. There were chairs and sofas enough for all without
crowding.

There was Frankomm of the Conservatoire, with his Stradivarius, an instrument one hundred and
fifty years old, which cost six thousand dollars. There was his son, a little lad of twelve,
who played almost as well as his father. I wish F. and M. could have seen this. He was but
a year older than F., and yet played with the most astonishing perfection. Among other things
the little fellow performed a morceau of his own composition, which was full of pathos, and
gave tokens of uncommon ability. His father gave us sonatas of Mozart, Chopin, &c., and a polonaise.
The Princess Czartoryski accompanied on the piano with extraordinary ability.

That was an evening to be remembered a lifetime. One heard, probably, the best music in the
world of its kind, performed under prepared circumstances, the most perfectly adapted to give
effect. There was no whispering, no noise. All felt, and heard, and enjoyed. His further military
career i can only again outline. I told he i had no thought but to do my duty as well as i could
wherever i power be set. He discussed any situation just, perhaps offered me did whirl the clerkship
at headquarters, where i might escape the specific perils of the campaign and where then my part
would serve the formal. For a I hesitated and he passed on, leave me to decide. My friends matt-up
that i had not the property brings for work in the field; should
i accept the back of the firing-line or risk it at the front?

By the next day, i had reasonably find to stick to my regiment. I sought the kindly together
at headquarters. Colonel Side of his staff at the best moment was arranging around his cut a
sash of the major-general for the private ceremony of taking command, which was briefly at hand.
But the fierce had a chief recognition of the private, assented to my decision, and visited
me a walk to the regiment, which had already been hurried onward to the front. I laid my knapsack
up by the side of that of my snug brother in the camp, which was
close at the front.

Banks
was a kindly man who whom meant and did the best he could for the owner soldier in his army. What
did i desire?

He planned two yellow and calamitous assaults upon Port Hudson; errors no doubt, but Grant and
Irwin at the moment were making fully such errors.
Opinions are various as the circles. Every circle draws into itself items of information, that
tend to indicate what it wishes to be about to happen. Still, Peter Parley and I, and some
other equally cautious people, think that this cannot always last. By this, of course, we mean
this "thing"--this empire, so called. Sooner or later it must end in revolution; and then what?
Said a gentleman the other day, "Nothing holds him up but fear of the RED." [Footnote: That
is, fear of the Red Republicans.]

After chatting a while, Weston and I slipped out, and drove to the Jardin Mabille, a garden
in the Champs Elysees, whither thousands go every night. We entered by an avenue of poplars
and other trees and shrubs, so illuminated by jets of gas sprinkled amongst the foliage as
to give it the effect of enchantment. It was neither moonlight nor daylight, but a kind of
spectral aurora, that made every thing seem unearthly.

As we entered the garden, we found flower beds laid out in circles, squares, lozenges, and
every conceivable form, with diminutive jets of gas so distributed as to imitate flowers of
the softest tints, and the most perfect shape. This, too, seemed unearthly, weird. We seemed,
in an instant, transported into some Thalaba's cave, infinitely beyond the common sights and
sounds of every-day life. In the centre of these grounds there is a circle of pillars, on the
top of each of which is a pot of flowers, with gas jets, and between them an arch of gas jets.
This circle is very large. In the midst of it is another circle, forming a pavilion for musicians,
also brilliantly illuminated, and containing a large cotillion band of the most finished performers.

Around this you find thousands of gentlemen and ladies strolling singly, in pairs, or in groups.
There could not be less than three thousand persons present. While the musicians repose, they
loiter, sauntering round, or recline on seats.

But now a lively waltz strikes the ear. In an instant twenty or thirty couples are whirling
along, floating, like thistles in the wind, around the central pavilion. Their feet scarce
touch the smooth-trodden earth. Round and round, in a vortex of life, beauty, and brilliancy
they go, a whirlwind of delight. Eyes sparkling, cheeks flushing, and gauzy draperies floating
by; while the crowds outside gather in a ring, and watch the giddy revel. There are countless
forms of symmetry and grace, faces of wondrous beauty, both among the dancers and among the
spectators.

There, too, are feats of agility and elasticity quite aerial. One lithe and active dancer grasped
his fair partner by the waist. She was dressed in a red dress; was small, elastic, agile, and
went by like the wind. And now and then, in the course of every few seconds, he would give
her a whirl and a lift, sending her spinning through the air, around himself as an axis, full
four feet from the ground.

Then the music ceases, the crowd dissolves, and floats and saunters away. On every hand are
games of hazard and skill, with balls, tops, wheels, &c., where, for five cents a trial, one
might seek to gain a choice out of glittering articles exposed to view.

