Then Dicul went his way homewards, with one of our men to lead his mule and carry some few
presents for his people to Bosham, and after he was gone we had a quiet feasting in our hall
until the light was gone. And even as our feasting ended there came in a swineherd from the
forest with word that from the northward there came a strong band of armed men through the
forest, and he held it right that my father should be warned thereof, for he feared they were
some banded outlaws, seeing that there was peace in the land. That was no unlikely thing at
all, for our forests shelter many, and game being plentiful they live there well enough, if
not altogether at ease. As a rule they gave little trouble to us, and at times in the winter
we would even have men who were said to be outlaws from far off working in the woods for us.

Yet now and then some leader would rise among them and gather them into bands which waxed bold
to harry cattle and even houses, so that there might be truth in what the swineherd told. Nevertheless
my father thought of little danger but to the herds, and so had them driven into the sheds
from the home fields, and set the men their watches as he had more than once done before in
like alarms.

Presently I was awakened, for I had gone to rest before the message came, by the hoarse call
of a horn and the savage barking of the dogs. I heard the hall doors shut and open once or
twice as men passed in and out, and in the hall was the rattle of weapons as the men took them
from their places on the walls, but I heard no voices raised more than usual. Then I got out
of my bed and tried to open the sliding doors that would let me out on the high place from
my father's chamber, where I always slept now, but I could not move them. So I went back to
my place and listened.

What was happening I must tell, therefore, as Owen has told me, for I saw nothing to speak of.

As the horn was blown, one of the men who had been on guard came into the hall hastily and
spoke to my father.

"The house is beset, Lord. Stuf blew the horn and bade me tell you. There are men all round
the stockade."

"Outlaws?"

The man shook his head.

"We think not, Lord. But it is dark, and we cannot fairly see them. We heard them call one
'Thane.' Nor are there any outland voices among them, as there would be were they outlaws."

Then my father armed himself in haste and went out. The night was very dark, and it was raining
a little. Stuf had shut the stockade gates, which were strong enough, and had reared a ladder
against the timbers that he might look over.

Close to the ladder stood Owen, armed also, for he had been out to see that all was quiet and
that the men were on guard.

"There are men everywhere," he said. "I would we had some light."

"Heave a torch on the straw stack," my father answered; "there will be enough then."

The stack was outside the stockade, and some twenty yards from its corner. One of the men ran
to the hall and brought a torch from its socket on the wall, and handed it to Stuf, who threw
it fairly on the stack top, from the ladder. It blazed up fiercely as it went through the air,
and from the men who beset us there rose a howl as they saw it. Several ran and tried to reach
it with their spears, but they were not in time. The first damp straws of the thatch hissed
for a moment, dried, and burst into flame, and then nought could stop the burning. The red
flames gathered brightness every moment, lighting up two sides of the stockading, in the midst
of which the hall stood. Then an arrow clicked on Stuf's helm, and he came down into shelter.

"This is a strange affair, Master," he said. "I have seen three men whom I know well among them."

"Who are they?"

"Wisborough men--freemen of Erpwald's."

My father and Owen looked at one another. Words my father knew he should have to put up with,
after today, from Erpwald, but this seemed token of more than words only.

Then came the blast of a horn from outside, and a strange voice shouted that the thane must
come and speak with those who called him. So my father went to the gate and answered from within
it:

"Here am I. What is all the trouble?"

"Open the gate, and you shall know."

"Not so, Thane," cried one of our men, who was peering through the timbers of the stockade.
"Now that I can see, I have counted full fifty men, and they are waiting as if to rush in."

Then said my father:

"Maybe we will open the gate when we are sure you are friends. One may be forgiven for doubting
that when you come thus at midnight to a peaceful house."

"We are friends or not, as you choose, Aldred," the voice answered. "I am Erpwald, Woden's
priest, and I am here to stay wrong to the Asir of which I have heard."

"I will not pretend not to know what you mean, Erpwald," answered my father. "But this, as
it seems to me, is a matter that concerns me most of all."

"If it concerns not Woden's priest, whom shall it concern?" answered Erpwald. "It is true,
then, that you have left the Asir to follow the way of the thralls, led aside by that Welshman
you have with you?"

"It is true enough that I am a Christian," said my father steadily. "As for leaving the Asir,
that is not to be said of one whose line goes back to Woden, his forefather. But I cannot worship
him any longer. Forefather of mine he may be, but not a god."

"Ho! that is all I needed to hear. Now, I will not mince matters with you, Aldred. Either you
give up this foolishness, or I am here to make you do so."

Now, my father looked round at the men and saw that all the house-carles and one or two from
the village were in the courtyard, fifteen of them altogether, besides himself and Owen. They
were all Christian men, and they stood in a sort of line behind him across the closed gate
with their faces set, listening.

"Don't suppose that there is any help coming to you from the village," said the hard voice
from outside. "There is a guard over every house."

"Erpwald," said my father, "it is a new thing that any man should be forced to quit his faith
here in Sussex. Nor is it the way of a thane to fall on a house at night in outlaw fashion.
Ina the king will have somewhat to say of this."

"If there is one left to tell him, that is," came back the reply. "There will not be shortly,
unless I have your word that tomorrow you come to me at Wisborough and make such atonement
to the Asir as you may, quitting your new craze."

Then said Stuf, the leader of the house-carles, growling:

"That is out of the question, and he knows it. He means to fall on us, else had he spoken to
you elsewhere first, Thane. It seems to me that here we shall die."

He looked round on his fellows, and they nodded, and one set his helm more firmly on his head,
and another tightened his belt, and one or two signed the cross on their broad chests, but
not one paled, though they knew there was small hope for them if Erpwald chose to storm the
house. The court was light as day with the flames of the stack by this time.

"What think you of this, Owen," my father said.

"That it is likely that we must seal our faith with our blood, brother," he answered. "Yet
I think that there is more in this than heathenism, in some way."

"There is an old feud of no account," said my father, "but I would not think hardly of Erpwald.
After all, he was Woden's priest, and is wroth, as I myself might have been. It is good to
die thus, and but for the boy I would be glad."

"I do not think that he will be harmed," said Owen, "even if the worst comes to the worst."

"Well, if I fall, try to get him hence. After that maybe Erpwald will be satisfied. I set him
in your charge, brother, for once you have saved him already. Fail me not."

Owen held out his hand and took his.

"I will not fail you," he said--"if I live after you."

Now from outside the voices began to be impatient, and Erpwald had been crying to my father
to be speedy, unheeded. But in the midst of the growing shouts of the heathen my father turned
to the men and asked them if they were content to die with him for the faith. And with one
accord they said that they would.

Then with a thundering crash a great timber beam was hurled against the gate, shaking its very
posts with the force of the six men who wielded it at a run, and in the silence that fell as
they drew back Erpwald cried:

"For the last time, Aldred, will you yield?"

But he had no answer, and after a short space the timber crashed against the gate again and
again. And across it waited our few, silent and ready for its falling.

I heard all this in the closed chamber, and the red light of the fire shone across the slit
whence the light and fresh air came into it, but it was too high for me to look out of. I got
up and dressed myself then, for no reason but that I must be doing something. I waxed excited
with the noise and flickering light, and no one came near me. My old nurse was the only woman
in the house, for the married house-carles lived in the village, and I daresay she slept through
it all in her own loft. There was no thunderstorm that could ever wake her.

At this time my father sent a few of the men to the back of the house, that they might try
at least to keep off the foe from climbing the stockade and so falling on them in the rear.
But the timbers were high, and the ditch outside them full of water, and as it happened there
was no attack thence.

Erpwald watched the back indeed, but all his force was bent on the gate.

It was not long before that fell, crashing inwards, and across it strode the heathen priest
into the gap. He was fully armed, and wore the great golden ring of the temple--all that was
left him of his old surroundings since Ethelwalch the king, who sent Wilfrith to us, had destroyed
the building that stood with the image of Woden in it hard by his house. Men used to take oath
on that ring, as do we on the Book of the Gospels, and they held it holier than the oaken image
of the god itself. I do not think that any man had seen it since that time until this night.

Now Erpwald stood for a moment in the gate, with his men hard behind him, expecting a rush
at him, as it would seem. But our folk stood firm in the line across the courtyard, shoulder
to shoulder, with my father and Owen before them. So they looked at one another.

Then Erpwald slipped the golden ring from his arm and held it up. There may have been some
thought in his mind that my father was hesitating yet.

"By the holy ring I adjure you, Aldred, for the last time, to return to the Asir," he said loudly.

My father shook his head only, but Stuf the house-carle, who had stood beside him at the font
this morning, had another answer which was strange enough.

"This for the ring!" he said.

And with that he hurled a throwing spear at it as it shone in the firelight, with a true aim.
The spear went through the ring itself without harming the hand of the holder, and coming a
little slantwise, twitched it away from him and stuck in the timber of the stockade whence
the gatepost had been riven. The ring hung spinning on the shaft safely enough, but to Erpwald
it seemed that his treasure had gone altogether, and he yelled with rage and sprang forward.
After him came his men, and in a moment the two parties were hand to hand.

Then was fighting such as the gleemen sing of, with the light of the red fire waxing and waning
across the courtyard the while. The strange lights and shadows it cast were to the advantage
of our men for a little while, but the numbers were too great against them for that to be of
much avail. Soon they who had not fallen were borne back to the hall door, and there stood
again, but my father was not with them.

He fell at the first, as Owen tells me. Another has told me that Owen stood across his body
and would have fallen with him, but that Stuf drew him away, calling on him to mind his promise
concerning me, and so he went back, still fighting, until he stood in the door of the hall.

There Erpwald and his men stayed their hands, like a ring of dogs that bay a boar. There was
a little porch, so that they could not get at him sideways, and needs must that they fell on
him one at a time. It seemed that not one cared to be the first to go near the terrible Briton
as he stood, in the plain arms and with the heavy sword my father had given him, waiting for
them. Well do I know what he was like at that time, and I do not blame them. There is no man
better able to wield weapons than he, and they had learnt it.

Then the light of the straw stack went out suddenly, as a stack fire will, and the darkness
seemed great. Yet from the well-lit hall a path of light came past Owen and fell on his foes,
so that he could well see any man who was bold enough to come, and they held back the more.

There were but six men of ours in the house behind Owen.

Then came Erpwald, leaning, sorely wounded, on one of his men, and Owen spoke to him.

"You have wrought enough harm, Erpwald, for this once. Let the rest of the household go in peace."

"Harm?" groaned the heathen. "Whose fault is it? How could I think that the fool would have
resisted?"

"As there are fifty men in the yard at this moment, it seems that you were sure of it," answered
Owen in a still voice. "If you knew it not before, now at least you know that a Christian thinks
his faith worth dying for."

Now, whether it was his wound, or whether he saw that he had gone too far, Erpwald bethought
himself, and seemed minded to make terms.

"I wish to slay no more," he said. "Yield yourselves quietly, and no harm shall come to you."

"Let them not go, Thane," said one of his men, "else will they be off to Ina, and there will
be trouble. You mind what you promised us."

Now, Owen heard this, and the words told him that he was right in thinking that there was more
than heathenry in the affair. It seemed to him that the first thing was to save me, and that
if he could do that in any way nought else mattered much. It was plain that no man was to be
left to bring Ina on the priest for his ill deeds.

"If that is all the trouble now," he said, therefore, "as we are in your power you can make
us promise what you like. Give us terms at least; if not, come and end us and the matter at once."

One of the men flew at him on that, and bided where he fell, across the doorway of the porch;
none stirred to follow him.

"Swear that you will not go to Ina for a month's time with any tales, and you and all shall
go free," Erpwald said.

The man who had spoken before put in at once:

"What of the blood feud, Erpwald?--There is Aldred's son yet."

At that the priest lost temper with his follower, and turned on him savagely:

"Is it for men to war with children? What care I for a blood feud? Can I not fend for myself?
Hold your peace."

Then he said to Owen:

"They say that you are the child's foster-father now. If I give him to you, will you swear
that you or he shall cross my path no more? You need not trouble to go to Ina, for he will
not hearken to a Briton in any case."

Owen reddened under the last, but for my sake he did not answer, save to the first part of
the saying.

"I will swear to take the child hence and let this matter be for us as if it had not been,"
he said, seeing that it was the best he could win for me.

What other thoughts were in his mind will be seen hereafter, but I will say now that it was
not all so hopeless as it seemed to Erpwald.

"What of the other men," asked one or two of Erpwald's following.

"They shall bide here, where we can keep an eye on them," the priest answered. "They will not
hurt us, nor we them, save only if they try to make trouble."

Then some of our house-caries said in a low tone to Owen: "Better to die with the master. Let
us out and fall on them."

But he said: "This is for the boy's sake. Let me be, my brothers; I have the thane's word to
carry out."

Then they knew that he was right, but they bade him make Erpwald swear to keep faith with them all.

So he spoke again with the priest, asking for honest pledges in return for his own oath. Whereon
from across the courtyard, where a few wounded men lay--a voice weak with pain cried, with
a strange laugh:

"Get him the holy ring, that he may be well bound. It hangs yonder where I put it, in the gateside
timbers."

Erpwald glowered into the darkness, but he could see nothing of the man who had spoken. But
one of his men had seen the spear cast, and knew what was meant, though the fight had set it
out of his mind. So he ran, and found the shaft easily in the darkness, and took the ring from
it, bringing it back to Erpwald.

"It is luck," he said. "Spear and ring alike have marked the place for Woden."

"Hold your peace, fool," snarled Erpwald, with a sharp look at Owen.

And at that Stuf laughed again, unheeded.

Then Owen swore as he had promised, on the cross hilt of his sword, and Erpwald swore faith
on the ring, and so the swords were sheathed at last; and when they had disarmed all our men
but Owen, Erpwald's men took torches from the hall and went to tend the wounded, who lay scattered
everywhere inside the gate, and most thickly where my father fell.

Owen went to that place, with a little hope yet that his friend might live, but it was not
so. Therefore he knelt beside him for a little while, none hindering him, and so bade him farewell.
Then he went to Stuf, who was sorely hurt, but not in such wise that he might not recover.

"What will you do with the child?" the man asked.

"Have no fear for him. I shall take him westward, where my own people are. He shall be my son,
and I think that all will be well with him hereafter."

"I wit that you are not what you have seemed, Master," Stuf said. "It will be well if you say so."

Then Owen bade him farewell also, and went to find me and get me hence before the ale and mead
of the house was broached by the spoilers. And, as I have said, I was already dressed, and
I ran to his arms and asked what all the trouble was, and where my father had gone, and the
like. I think that last question was the hardest that Owen ever had put to him, and he did
not try to answer it then. He told me that he and I must go to Chichester at once, at my father's
bidding; and I, being used to obey without question, was pleased with the thought of the unaccustomed
night journey. And then Owen bethought him, and left me for a moment, going to the chest where
my father had his store of money. It was mine now, and he took it for me.

It seemed strange to him that there was no ransacking of the house, as one might have expected.
Had the foe fired it he would not have been surprised at all, but all was quiet in the hall,
and the voices of the men came mostly from the storehouses, whence he could hear them rolling
the casks into the courtyard; so he told me to bide quietly here in the chamber for a few minutes,
and went out on the high place swiftly, closing the door after him, that I might see nothing
in the hall.

There he found Erpwald himself close at hand, sitting in my father's own chair while the wound
that Owen himself had given him was being dressed. At the side of the great room sat the rest
of our men, downcast and wondering, and half a dozen of the foe stood on guard at the door.
It was plain that nought in the house was to be meddled with.

Erpwald turned as he heard the sliding door open.

"Get you gone as soon as you may," he said sullenly.

"There is one thing that I must ask you, Erpwald," Owen said. "It is what one may ask of one
brave man concerning another. Let Aldred's people bury him in all honour, as they will."

"There you ask too much, Welshman. But I will bury him myself in all honour in the way that
I think best. He shall have the burial of a son of Woden for all his foolishness."

At least, there would be no dishonour to his friend in that, and Owen thought it best to say
no more, but he had one more boon, as it were, to ask.

"Let me take a horse from the stable for the child," he said. "We may have far to go."

He thought that he would have been met with rage at this, but it was worth asking. However,
Erpwald answered somewhat wearily, and not looking at him:

"Take them all, if you will. I am no common reiver, and they are not mine. The farther you
go the better. But let me tell you, that it will be safer for you not to make for Winchester
and the king. I shall have you watched."

"A plain warning not to be disregarded," answered Owen. "We shall not need it."

Erpwald said no more, and Owen came back to me, closing the door after him again. There was
another door, seldom used, from this chamber to the back of the house where the servants had
their quarters, and through that he took me, wrapped in such warm furs as he could find. Then
he went to the stables, and in the dark, for he would not attract the notice of Erpwald's men,
who were round the ale in the courtyard, he saddled my forest pony, and another good horse
which he was wont to ride with my father at times. He did not take the thane's own horse, as
it would be known, and he would risk no questions as to how he came by it.

Then we rode away by the back gate, and when the darkness closed on us as we passed along the
well-known road towards Chichester the voices of the foe who revelled in our courtyard came
loudly to us. And I did but think it part of the rejoicing of that day as I listened.

Through the warm summer rain we came before daylight had fully broken to Bosham, not passing
through Chichester, for the gates would be closed. And just before the sun rose, Dicul the
priest came from his house to the little church and saw us sitting in the porch, waiting him,
while the horses cropped the grass on the little green outside the churchyard, hobbled in forest
fashion.

He bade us back to his house, and there I fell asleep straightway, with the tiredness that
comes suddenly to a child. And Owen and he talked, and I know that he told him all that had
happened and what his own plans for me were, under the seal of secrecy. And then he begged
the good priest to tell me of my loss.

So it came to pass that presently Dicul took me on his knee and told me wonderful stories of
the martyrs of old time, and of his own land in times that are not so far off; and when it
seemed to me that indeed there is nought more wonderful and blessed than to give life for the
faith, he told me how my father had fallen at the hands of heathen men, and was indeed a martyr
himself. I do not know that he could have done it more wisely or sweetly, for half the sting
was lost in the wonder of it all.

But he did not tell me who it was had slain my father, and that I did not know for many a long day.

After that we ate with him, and he gave us some little store for a journey, and so Owen and
I rode on again, westward, homeless indeed, but in no evil case.

Now, as one may suppose, Owen's first thought was to get me beyond the reach of Erpwald, whose
mood might change again, from that in which he let us go with what we would, to that in which
he came on us. So all that day we went on steadily, sleeping the night in a little wayside
inn, and pushing on again in the early morning, until Owen deemed it safe for us to draw rein
somewhat, and for my sake to travel slowly.

At this time he had no clear plan in his head for the ending of our journey, nor was there
need to make one at once. We had store of money to last us for many a long day, what with my
father's and that which Owen had of his own, and we were well mounted, and what few things
we needed to seem but travellers indeed Owen bought in some little town we passed through on
the third day. After that we went easily, seeing things that had nought in them but wonder
and delight for me.

Then at last we came in sight of the ancient town of Sarum on its hill, and there we drew up
on the wayside grass to let a little train of churchmen pass us, and though I did not know
it, that little halt ended our wandering. In the midst of the train rode a quiet looking priest,
who sang softly to himself as his mule ambled easily along, and he turned to give us his blessing
as Owen unhelmed when he passed abreast of us. Then his hand stayed as he raised it, and I
saw his face lighten suddenly, and he pulled up the mule in haste, crying to Owen by name,
and in the Welsh tongue. And I saw the face of my foster-father flush red, and he leapt from
his horse and went to the side of the priest, setting his finger on his lip for a moment as
he did so.

Then the priest signed that his people should go on, and at once they left him with us, and
Owen bade me do reverence to Aldhelm, the abbot of Malmesbury, before whom we stood. And after
that they talked long in Welsh, and that I could not follow, though indeed I knew a fair smattering
of it by this time, seeing that Owen would have me learn from him, and we had used it a good
deal in these few days as we rode.

It seemed to me that Aldhelm was overjoyed to see Owen, and I know now that those two were
old friends of the closest at one time, when they met in Owen's own land.

So from that meeting it came to pass that we found a home with the good abbot at Malmesbury
for a time, and there I learned much, as one may suppose, while Owen trained me in arms, and
the monks taught me book learning, which I liked not at all, and only suffered for love of
Owen, who wished me to know all I might.

Then one day, after two years in quiet here, came Ina the king with all his court to see the
place and the new buildings that were rising under the hand of Aldhelm and Owen, who had skill
in such matters, and then again was a change for us. It seems that Ethelburga the queen took
a fancy to me, and asked that I might be with her as a page in the court, and that was so good
a place for the son of any thane in the land that Owen could not refuse, though at first it
seemed that we must be parted for a time.

But it was needful that the king should hear my story, that he might have some surety as to
who I was, and if I were worthy by birth to be of his household, and Owen hardly knew how to
tell him without breaking his oath to Erpwald. Yet it was true that the heathen thane had scoffed
at him, rather than forbidden him to seek Ina, though indeed it was plain that he meant to
bind us from making trouble for him in any way. But at last Owen said that if the king would
forbear to take revenge for a wrong done to me, he might speak, and so after promise given
he told all.

Very black grew the handsome face of the king as he heard.

"Am I often deceived thus?" he said. "I will even send some to ask of all the ins and outs
of such another case hereafter. This Erpwald sent to me to say that Aldred and all his house
had been slain by outlaws, and that he himself had driven them off and I believed him. After
that I made over the Eastdean lands to him, and I take it that they were what he wanted. Well,
he has not lived long to enjoy them, for he died not long ago, and now his brother holds the
lands after him, and I know that he at least is a worthy man.

"Let it be. The child is my ward now, as an orphan, and I should have had to set his estate
in the hands of some one to hold till he can take them. There will be no loss to him in the end."

Then he smiled and looked Owen in the face.

"I know you well, Owen, though it is plain that you would not have it so. Mind you the day
when I met Gerent at the Parrett bridge? I do not often forget a face, and I saw you then,
and asked who you were. Now there is good and, as I hope, lasting peace between our lands,
thanks to the wisdom of our good Aldhelm here, and I will ask you somewhat, for I know that
you also wrought for that peace while you might. Come to me, and be of the nobles who guard
me and mine, and so wait in honour until the time comes when you may return to your place.
Then you will be with the boy also."

So it came to pass that we took leave of that good friend the abbot, and went from Malmesbury
in the train of Ina of Wessex. Thereafter for six years I served Ethelburga the queen, being
trained in all wise as her own child, and after that I was one of the athelings of the court
in one post or another, but always with the king when there was war on the long frontier of
the Wessex land.

At this time, when I take up my story again, I was two and twenty, not very tall indeed, but
square in the shoulder, and well able to hold my own, at the least, with the athelings who
were my comrades, at the weapon play or any of our sports. It would have been my own fault
if I were not so, for there was no better warrior in all Ina's following than Owen, and he
taught me all I knew. And that knowledge I had tested on the field more than once, for Ina
had no less trouble with his neighbours than any other king in England, whether in matters
of raiding to be stopped or tribute to be enforced. Since I was too old to serve the queen
as page any longer I had been of his bodyguard, and where he went was not always the safest
place on a field for us who shielded him.

A court is always changing, as men come and go again to their own places after some little
service there, but Owen and I were of those to whom the court was home altogether. Owen was
the king's marshal now, and I was in command of the house-carles, and had been so for a year
or more. It was no very heavy post, nor responsible after all, for Ina's guard was the love
of his people, and beyond these warriors from the freemen who served as palace guard and watch,
were the athelings of the household, from whose number I had been chosen for this post by right
of longest service more than for any other reason, as I think. I knew all the ins and outs
of every house where Ina went, and had nothing fresh to learn in the matter. Still, if the
men under me were few, the post had its own privileges, and was always held to lead to somewhat
higher, and I was more than content therewith, for it kept me near Owen and the king, whom
I loved next to my foster father.

I do not think that by this time any one knew, save the king, that I was not Owen's own son.
I was wont to call him father always, and I cannot be blamed, for he was foster father and
godfather to me, and well did he take the father's place to the orphan whom he had saved. And
I had forgotten Eastdean, save as one keeps a memory of the home where one was a child. I never
thought of it as a place that should have been mine, for neither the king nor Owen ever spoke
to me concerning it. Sometimes, in remembrances of my father, I would wonder into whose hands
the manors had passed, but rather in hopes that some day those who owned them now would suffer
me to see that the grave where he lay was honoured, rather than as a matter which at all concerned
me in any closer way.

For, since I was but a child, the court had been my home, with Owen as my father, and Ina the
king as the loved guardian for whom I would gladly give my life in need. All my training and
thoughts were centred here, not as what one calls a courtier at all, but as one of the household
who feared the king and queen no more than Owen himself, and yet reverenced all three as those
to whom all homage was due since he could remember.

Thus things were with us at the end of the tenth year after we left Aldhelm at Malmesbury,
and now the court was at Glastonbury in fair Somerset, keeping the Christmastide there in the
place that is the holiest in all England by reason of the coming thither of Joseph of Arimathea,
and the first preaching of the Gospel in our land by him. It was not by any means the first
time I had been in the place, and here I had some good friends indeed; for Ina loved the vale
of Avalon well, and often came hither with a few of us, or with the whole court, to the house
which he had made that he might watch the building of the wondrous church which he was raising
over the very spot where the little chapel of the saint had been in the old days.

Fair is the place indeed, for it lies deep among green hills, and from the westward slope where
the church stands, at their foot stretch great meres to lesser hills toward the sunset beyond.
Very pleasant are the trees and flowers of the rich meadows of the island valley, and the wind
comes but gently here even at Yuletide, hardly ruffling the clear waters that have given the
place its name, "Inys Vitryn," and "Avalon" men called the place before we Saxons came, by
reason of those still meres and the wondrous orchards which fear no frost among the hills that
shelter them. The summer seems to linger here after it has fled from the uplands.

There was a goodly company gathered in Ina's hall for the twelfth night feasting. Truly, the
hall was not so great as that in the palace at Winchester, but it was all the brighter for
that reason. It was hard to get that great space well lighted and warmed at times, when the
wind blew cold under eaves and through narrow windows; but here all was well lit and comfortable
to look on and to feel also, as one sat and feasted with the sweet sedges of the mere banks
deep under foot on the floor and the great fire in the hall centre near enough to every one.
I think that this hall in Glastonbury was as pleasant as any that I know in all Wessex.

There was a great door midway in the southern side of the hall, and as one entered, to right
and left along that wall ran the tables for the house-carles and other men of the lower ranks,
and for strangers who might come in to share the king's hospitality and had no right to a higher
place. Then at either end of the hall were cross tables, where the thanes and their ladies
had their places in due order, above the franklins whose cross tables were next to those of
the house-carles. And then, right over against the south wall and across the fire on the hearth,
was the longest table of all, and in the midst of that was the high place for the king and
queen and a few others. That dais was the only place where the guests did not sit on both sides
of the tables, for the king's board stood open to the midst of the hall on its three low steps
that he might see and be seen by all his guests, and be fitly served from in front.

On the hearth a great yule log burnt brightly, and all round the wall were set torches in their
sconces, so that the hall was very bright. On the walls were the costly hangings that we took
everywhere with us, and above them shone the spare arms and helms and shields of the house-carles,
mixed with heads of boar and stag and wolf from the Mendips and Quantocks where Ina hunted,
each head with its story. Up and down in the spaces between the tables hurried the servants
who tended the guests, so that the hall was full of life and brightness from end to end. There
was peace in all Wessex at this time, and so here was a full gathering of guests to the little
town.

Ina and Ethelburga the queen were on the high place, and to their left was Herewald, the Somerset
ealdorman, who lived in Glastonbury, and was a good friend of mine, as will be seen, with his
fair daughter Elfrida, and on the right of the king was Nunna, his cousin, and his wife. Owen
was next to Herewald, at one end of the high place, and at the other end was Sigebald, the
Dorset ealdorman, under whom I had fought not so long ago. There were many others of high rank
in the west to the right and left of these again at the long tables.

Indeed, there was but one whom I missed in all the gathering. My old friend Aldhelm was gone.
He died in the last year, after having been Bishop of Sherborne for a little while. I missed
him sorely, as did every man who knew him.

I do not think that if one searched all England through there could have been found a more
noble looking group than that at Ina's high table. It is well known that our king and queen
were beyond all others for royalty of look and ways, and I will venture to say that neither
of the ealdormen had their equals, save in Nunna, anywhere. But it is not my word only, for
it was a common saying, that Owen seemed most royal next to the king himself. Grave he always
was, but with a ready smile and pleasant, in the right place, and though he was now about five-and-forty
he had changed little to my eyes from what he was twelve years ago, when he saved me from the
wolves. He was one of those men who age but slowly.

One other on the high place I have not mentioned in this way. That was Elfrida, the Somerset
ealdorman's daughter, of whom it was said that she was the fairest maiden in all Wessex. Certainly
at this time I for one would have agreed in that saying. She was two years younger than I,
if I dare say it, and it seemed to me that in the last three years she had suddenly grown from
the child that I used to play with to a very stately lady, well fitted to take the place of
her mother, who used to be kind to me when I first came here as the queen's somewhat mischievous
page, and had but died a year or so ago. I think that this feast was the first Elfrida and
her father had been present at since then, and at least, that was the reason I heard given
for her presence on the high place.

Now I must say where my place was in the hall, for it may make more plain what happened hereafter.
The young nobles of the court who had no relatives present sat at one of the cross tables at
the king's right hand, and at the head of these tables was my seat by reason of my post as
captain of the house-carles. So I sat with my back to the long chief table, with its occupants
just behind me, and to my left was the open space in the centre of the hall, so that if I was
needed, or had to go out for the change of guard or other house-carle business, all that I
had to do, being at one end of the bench, was to get up and go my way without disturbing any
one. At the same time I could see all the hall before me, and a half turn of the head would
set my eyes on the king himself.

The door of the hall was closed when the king entered from his own chambers and took his place,
so that the cold, and the draughts, which might eddy the smoke of fire and torches about the
guests too much, was kept out. But it was closed against weather only, for any man might crave
admittance to the king's ball at the great feast, whether as wayfarer or messenger or suppliant,
so that he had good reason for asking hospitality. Several men had come in thus as the feast
went on, but none heeded the little bustle their coming made, nor so much as turned to see
where they were set at the lower tables, except myself and perhaps Owen. There was merriment
enough in the hall, and room and plenty for all comers, even as Ina loved to have it.

Now there is no need to tell aught of that feast, until the meat was done and the tables were
cleared for the most pleasant part of the evening, when the servants, whether men or women,
sat down at their tables also, and the harp went round, with the cups, and men sang in turn
or told tales, each as he was best able to amuse the rest. There was a little bustle while
this clearance went on, and men changed their seats to be nearer friends and the like, for
the careful state of the beginning of the feast was over in some degree; but at last all was
ready, and the great door, which had been open for a few minutes as the servants took out into
the courtyard the great cauldrons and spits, was closed, and then there fell a silence, for
we waited for a custom of the king's.

Here at Ina's court we kept up the old custom of drinking the first cup with all solemnity,
and making some vows thereover. This cup was, of course, to be drunk by the host, and after
him by any whom he would name, or would take a vow on him. In the old heathen days this cup
was called the "Bragi bowl," and the vows were made in the names of the Asir, and mostly ended
in fighting before the year was over. We kept the old name yet, but now the vows were made
in the name of all the Saints, and if Ina or any other made one it was sure to be of such sort
that it would lead to some worthy deed before long, wrought in all Christian wise. Maybe the
last of the old pattern of vow was made when Kentwine our king swore to clear the Welsh from
the Parrett River to the sea, and did it.

So when the time came we sat waiting, each with his horn or cup before him, brimming with ale
or cider or mead, as he chose, and men turned in their seats that they might see the pleasant
little ceremony at the high place the better. As for me, I just turned in my bench end so that
my feet were clear of the table, on which my arm and cup rested, and faced right down the hall,
with, of course, no one at all between me and the steps of the high place. For now all had
taken their seats except one cup bearer, who waited at the lowest step with the king's golden
cup in one hand, and in the other a silver flagon of good Welsh wine to fill it withal. One
would say that this was but a matter of chance, but as it happened presently it was well that
I moved.

Now, in the hush was a little talk and laughter among those who were nearest the king, and
then I saw the queen smile and speak to Elfrida, who blushed and looked well pleased, and then
rose and came daintily round the end of the king's board. There a thane who sat at the table
at the foot of the steps rose and handed her down them to where the servant waited. Ina had
asked her to hand him the cup after the old fashion, she being the lady of the chief house
in Glastonbury next his own. There she took the cup from the man's hand, and held it while
he filled it heedfully. A little murmur that was all of praise went round the hall, and her
colour rose again as she heard it, for it was not to be mistaken, and from the lower tables
the voices were outspoken enough in all honesty.

Then she went up the steps holding the cup, and the king smiled on her as she came, and so
she stood on the dais before the table and held out the wine, and begged the king to drink
the "Bragi bowl" from her hands in her father's town.

The king bowed and smiled again, and rose up to take the cup from this fair bearer, and at
that moment there was a sort of scuffle, unseemly enough, at the lower end of the hall near
the door, and gruff voices seemed to be hushed as Ina glanced up with the cup yet untouched
by his hand.

Then a man leapt from the hands of some who tried to hold him back, and he strode across the
hall past the fire and to the very foot of the high place--as rough and unkempt a figure as
ever begged for food at a king's table, unarmed, and a thrall to all seeming. And as he came
he cried:

"Justice, Ina the king!--Justice!"

At that I and my men, who had sprung to our feet to hinder him, sat down again, for a suppliant
none of us might hinder at any time. I did not remember seeing this man come in, but that was
the business of the hall steward, unless there was trouble that needed the house-carles.

Ina frowned at this unmannerly coming at first, but his brow cleared as he heard the cry of
the man. He signed to Elfrida to wait for a moment, and looked kindly at the thrall before him.

"Justice, Lord," the man said again.

"Justice you shall have, my poor churl," answered the king gently. "But this is not quite the
time to go into the matter. Sit you down again, and presently you shall tell all to Owen the
marshal, and thus it will come to me, and you shall see me again in the morning."

"Nay, but I will have justice here and now," the man said doggedly, and yet with some sort
of appeal in his voice.

"Is it so pressing? Well, then, speak on. Maybe the vow that I shall make will be to see you
righted."

And so the king sat down again, and the lady Elfrida waited, resting one hand on the table
at the end of the dais farthest from me, and holding the golden cup yet in the other.

"What shall be done to the man who slays my brother?" the thrall cried.

And the king answered:

"If he has slain him by craft, he shall die; but if in fair fight and for what men deem reason,
then he shall pay the full weregild that is due according to my dooms."

Then said the man, and his voice minded me of Owen's in some way:

"But and if he slew him openly in cold blood, for no wrong done to himself?"

"A strange doing," said the king--"but he should die therefor."

The king leant forward, with his elbow on the table to hear the better, and the man was close
to the lowest step to be near him. It seemed that he was very wroth, for his right hand clutched
the front of his rough jerkin fiercely, and his voice was harsh and shaking.

"It is your own word, Ina of Wessex, that the man who has slain my brother in this wise shall
die. Lo, you! I am Morgan of Dyvnaint--and thus--"

There flashed from under the jerkin a long knife in the man's hand, and at the king he leapt
up the low steps. But two of us had seen what was coming, and even as the brave maiden on his
left dashed the full cup of wine in the man's face, blinding him, I was on him, so that the
wine covered him and my tunic at once. I had him by the neck, and he gripped the table, and
his knife flashed back at me wildly once, but I jerked him round and hurled him from the dais
with a mighty crash, and so followed him and held him pinioned, while the cups and platters
of the overturned table rolled and clattered round us.

Then rose uproar enough, and the hall was full of flashing swords. I mind that I heard the
leathern peace thongs of one snap as the thane who tried to draw it tugged at the hilt, forgetting
them. Soon I was in the midst of a half ring of men as I held the man close to the great fire
on the hearth with his face downward and his right arm doubled under him. He never stirred,
and I thought he waited for me to loose my hold on him.

Then came the steady voice of Ina:

"Let none go forth from the hall. To your seats, my friends, for there can be no more danger;
and let the house-carles see to the man."

Two of my men took charge of my captive, even as he lay, and I stood up. Owen was close to me.

"The man is dead," he said in a strange voice.

"I doubt it," I answered, looking at him quickly, for the voice startled me. Then I saw that
my foster father's face was white and drawn as with some trouble, and he was gazing in a still
way at the man whom the warriors yet held on the floor.

"His foot has been in the fire since you hove him there, yet he has not stirred," he said.

Then I minded that I had indeed smelt the sharp smell of burning leather, and had not heeded
it. So I told the two men to draw the thrall away and turn him over. As they did so we knew
that he was indeed dead, for the long knife was deep in his side, driven home as he fell on
it. And I saw that in the hilt of it was a wonderful purple jewel set in gold. It was not the
weapon of a thrall.

That Ina saw also, and he came down from the high place, and stood and looked in the face of
this one who would have slain him, fixedly for a minute.

Then he said, speaking to Owen in a low voice:

"Justice has been done, as it seems to me. Justice from a higher hand than mine, moreover."

Then he went back to his place, and standing there said in the dead hush that was on us all:

"It would seem that this man thought that he had somewhat against me, indeed, but I do not
know him, or who his brother may have been. Nor have I slain any man save in open field of
battle at any time, as all men know, save and except that I may be said to have done so by
the arm of the law. Yet even so, our Wessex dooms are not such as take life but for the most
plain cause, and that seldom as may be. Is there any one here who has knowledge of this man
who calls himself Morgan of Dyvnaint? It seems to me that I have heard the name before."

Now Owen had gone back to his place, and while one or two thanes came forward and looked in
the face of the man, whom they had not yet seen plainly, he spoke to the king, and Ina seemed
to wonder at what he heard.

Then Herewald the ealdorman said:

"That is the name of one of the two Devon princes of the West Welsh, cousins of Gerent the
king. We have trouble with their men, who raid our homesteads now and then."

At that a big man with a yellow moustache and long curling hair rose from among the franklins
and said loudly, in a voice which was neither like that of a Briton nor a Saxon at all:

"Let me get a nearer look at him, and I will soon tell you if he is what he claimed to be."

And with no more ceremony he came to where I and the two house-carles yet stood, and looked
and laughed a little to himself as he did so.

"He is Morgan the prince, right enough," he said. "And I can tell you all the trouble. Your
sheriff hung his brother, Dewi, three months since for cattle lifting and herdsman slaying
on this side Parrett River, somewhere by Puriton, where no Welshman should be. I helped hunt
the knaves at the time. The sheriff took him for a common outlaw like his comrades, and it
was in my mind that there would be trouble. So I told the sheriff, and he said that if the
king himself got mixed up with outlaws and cattle thieves he must even take his chance with
the rest. And thereon I said--"

"Thanks, friend," said Ina. "The rest shall be for tomorrow. Bide here tonight, that you may
tell all at the morning."

The man made a courtly bow enough, and went back to his seat, and then Ina bade Owen see to
his lodgment, and after that the thralls carried out the body. I went quietly and walked along
the lower tables, bidding my men see if more Welshmen were present, but finding none, and then
I found the hall steward wringing his hands, with an ashy face, at the far end of the hall.

"Master Oswald," he said, almost weeping, "how that man came in here I do not know. I saw him
not until he rose up. None seem to have seen him enter, but men have so shifted their places
that it seemed not strange to any near him that they had not seen him before."

"Had you seen him you could not have turned him away," I said. "He came as a suppliant, and
the king's word is strict concerning such at these times. Good Saxon enough he spoke, too,
in the way of many of our half Welsh border thralls. I do not think that you will be blamed.
Most likely he slipped in as the tables were cleared just now. There was coming and going enough,
and we have many strangers here.

"Who is the yellow-haired man?"

"A chapman from the town. Some shipmaster whom the ealdorman knows."

Now, after I was back in my place and the bustle was ended, there fell an uneasy silence, for
men knew not if the feast was to go on. Many of the ladies had gone, with the queen, and Elfrida
was there no longer. But Ina stood up with a fresh cup in his hand, and he smiled and said,
while the eyes of all were on him:

"Friends, we have seen a strange thing, but you have also seen the deeds of a brave maiden
and a ready warrior to whom I am beholden for my life, as is plain enough. Yet we will not
let the wild ways of our western neighbours mar the keeping of our holy tide. Maybe there is
more to be learnt of the matter, but if so that can rest. Think now only of these two brave
ones, I pray you, for I have yet the Bragi bowl to drink, and it is not hard to say whom I
should pledge therein."

Then he looked round for Elfrida, not having noticed that she had gone with the queen.

"Why," he said, "it was in my mind to pledge the lady first, but I fear she has been fain to
leave us. So I do not think that I can do better than pledge both my helpers together, and
then Oswald can answer for the lady and himself at once."

He rose and held the cup high, and I rose also, not quite sure if I were myself or some one
else, with all the hall looking at me.

"Drinc hael to the lady Elfrida, bravest and fairest in all the land of Somerset!" he cried.
"Drinc hael, Oswald the king's thane--thane by right of ready and brave service just rendered!"

Then he drank with his eyes on me, and there went up a sort of cheer at his words, for men
love to see any service rewarded on the spot if it may be so. Now I was at a loss what to say,
and the lady should have been here to bring the cup to me in all formality. Maybe I should
have stood there silent and somewhat foolish, but that the ealdorman, her father, helped me out.

"Come and do homage for the new rank, lad," he said in a low voice.

He was at the lower table near me now, for the high table had been broken and the king stood
alone on the dais.

So I went to the steps, and bent one knee at their top, and kissed the hand of the king, and
then held out the hilt of my sword, that he might seem to take it and give it me again. But
he bade me rise, and so he took off his own sword, which was a wondrous one, and the token
of the submission of some chief on the Welsh border beyond Avon, and he girt it on me with
his own hands.

"You nigh gave your life for me, my thane," he said. "That man's knife was perilously near you."

He touched my tunic with his hand, and I looked. Across it where my heart beat was a long slit
that I had not found out yet, where the knife flew at me. That stroke must have been the man's
bane, because to reach me thus he had thrown his arm across his chest, and so had fallen on
his weapon.

Then I was going, I think, though indeed I hardly know what I did at that moment, but the king
stayed me, laughing.

"Do not think that I am going to let you off the cup, though. Now you shall pledge me, and
if you have any vow to make which is fitting for a thane, make it and let us all hear it. But
you have also the lady to think of in your words."

Then there was a little rustle at the door which was on the high place, and the queen returned
with some of her ladies, hearing that all was seemly again, and she stood smiling at these
last words. But Elfrida was not with her, and I was glad, else I had been more mazed yet. So
I plucked up heart and took the cup from the hand of the king, trying to collect my thoughts
into some sort of fitting words.

"Drinc hael Cyning," I said, while my voice shook. "Here do I vow before all the Saints and
before this company--that I will do my best to prove myself worthy of this honour that has
been set on me!"

"Why, Oswald," said the queen, "that is no sort of vow such as you should make, for we know
that already, and you have proved it now if never before. And you have forgotten Elfrida."

Now, I thought to myself that the last thing that I was ever likely to do was to forget that
maiden, and with that a thought came into my head, and as the queen was smiling at me, and
every one was waiting, I grew desperate, and must needs out with it.

"Now, I cannot do better than this," I said, finding my courage all of a sudden. "Here do I
add to my vow that so long as my life shall last I will not again forget the Lady Elfrida.
Nor will I be content until I am held worthy by her to--to guard her all the rest of my days."

With that I drained the cup, and while the thanes laughed and cheered all round me, and Ina
smiled as if well pleased enough, the queen set her hand on my arm, smiling also, and said:

"That was well said, my thane, but for one turn of the words. Why did you not tell us plainly
that you mean to win her? We all know what you mean."

Then I went to my place, and I glanced at Herewald, to see how he would take all this. Somewhat
seemed to have amused him mightily, and his eyes brimmed with a jest as he looked at me. Presently,
when men forgot me in listening to the vow Ina made, that he would add somewhat to the new
Church in thankfulness for this escape, the ealdorman came near me and whispered:

"You are a cautious youth, Oswald, for I never heard a man turn a hint from a lady better in
my life. Nevertheless, if you are not careful, Ethelburga will wed you to Elfrida for all your
craft."

He laughed again, and said no more. But I was looking at Owen, who seemed to have some thoughts
of his own that were troubling him sorely. He smiled and nodded, indeed, when he caught my
eye, but then he grew grave again directly, and afterwards his horn stood before him on the
table untasted, and his look seemed far away, though round him men sang and all was merry.

However, as one may suppose, the merriment was not what it should have been, and none wondered
much when Ina rose and left the table with a few pleasant parting words. He was never one to
bide long at a feast, and he knew, maybe, that the house-carles and younger men would be more
at ease when his presence was no longer felt by them. With him went Owen and the ealdorman,
and Nunna, at some sign of his, and after they went I had to stand no little banter concerning
my vow, as may be supposed.

I was not sorry when a page came and bade me join the king in his own chamber, though it was
all good-natured and in no sort of unkindness. I will not say that I did not enjoy it either.
So I went as I was bidden, and found that some sort of council was being held, and that those
four were looking grave over it. I supposed they had some errand for me at first, but in no
long time I knew that what was on hand was nought more or less than the beginning of parting
between Owen and me.

I will make little of all that was said, though it was a long matter, and heavy in the telling,
and maybe tangled here and there to me as I listened. I think that Ina understood that trouble
fell on me as I heard all, for he looked kindly on me from his great chair, while Nunna sat
on the table and was silent, stroking his beard, as if thinking. But Owen drew me to the settle
by him, and bade me hearken while the king told me the tale I had to learn.

Then I heard how Owen, my foster father, was indeed a prince of the old Cornish line that came
from Arthur, and how his cousins, Morgan and Dewi, had plotted to oust him from his place at
the right hand of Gerent the king, and had succeeded only too well, so that he had had to fly.
It matters not what their lies concerning him had been, nor do I think that Owen knew all that
had been said against him, but Gerent had banished him, and so he had wandered to Mercia, and
thence after a year or two to Sussex, having heard of the Irish monks of the old Western Church
at Bosham. So he had met with me, and thus he and I had come to Ina's court together.

And as I heard all, I knew that it had been for my sake that he was content to serve as a simple
forester at Eastdean, for Ina told me that across the Severn among the other princes of the
old Welsh lands he would have been more than welcome. I could say nothing, but I set my hand
on his and left it there, and he smiled at me, and grasped it.

"And now," said Ina, "your hand has in some sort avenged the old wrong, for you have brought
about the end of Morgan, who was Owen's foe. But this is a matter we need to hear more concerning.
Do you bring us that stranger that he may tell us what he knows."

I went to the hall again, and found him easily enough, for all men were looking at him. He
was in the midst of the hall, juggling in marvellous wise with a heavy woodman's axe, which
he played with as if it were a straw for lightness. Even as I entered from the door on the
high place he was whirling it for a mighty stroke which seemed meant to cleave a horn cup which
he had set on a stool before him, and I wondered. But he stayed the stroke as suddenly as if
his great arms had been turned to steel, so that the axe edge rested on the rim of the vessel
without so much as notching it, and at that all the onlookers cheered him.

"Now it may be known," said he, smiling broadly, "why men call me Thorgils the axeman."

Then he threw the unhandy weapon into the air whirling, and caught it as it came to hand again,
so that it balanced on his palm, and so he held it as I went to him, and told him the king
would speak with him.

Whereon he threw the axe at the doorpost, so that it stuck there, and laughed at the new shout
of applause, and so turned down his sleeves and bade me lead him where I would.

He made a stiff, outlandish salute as he stood before Ina, and the king returned it.

"I have sent for you now, friend, rather than wait for morning," he said, "for it seems to
me that we have business that must be seen to with the first light. Will you tell us what you
know of this man who has been slain? I think you are no Welshman of Cornwall."

"I am Thorgils the Norseman of Watchet, king," he answered. "Thorgils the axeman, men call
me, by reason, of some skill with that weapon which your folk seem to hold in no repute, which
is a pity. Shipmaster am I by trade, and I am here to seek for cargo, that I may make one more
voyage this winter with the more profit, having to cross to Dyfed, beyond the narrow sea, though
it is late in the year."

"I thought you might be a Dane from Tenby."

"The Welsh folk know the difference between us by this time," Thorgils said, with a little
laugh. "They call them 'black heathen' and us 'white heathen,' though I don't know that they
love us better than they do them. By grace of Gerent the king, to be politic, or by grace of
axe play, to speak the truth, we have a little port of our own here on this side the water,
at the end of the Quantocks, where we seek to bide peaceably with all men as traders."

"Ay! I have heard of your town," said Ina. "Now, can tell us how Morgan and his brother came
to be in company with outlaws?"

"He fell out with Gerent over us, to begin with. I went with our chiefs to Exeter when we first
came seeking a home, to promise tribute if we were left in peace in the place we had chosen.
Gerent was willing enough, but Morgan, who claims some sort of right over the Devon end of
the kingdom, was against our biding at all, and there were words. However, Gerent and we had
our way, and so we thought to hear no more of the matter. But the next thing was that Morgan
gathered a force and tried to turn us out on his own account, and had the worst of the affair.
That angered Gerent, for he lost some good men outside our stockades. And then other things
cropped up between them. I have heard that the old king found out old lies told by Morgan concerning
Owen the prince, whom men hope to see again, but I know little of that. Anyway, Morgan and
his brother fled, and this is the end thereof. We heard too that he plotted to take the throne,
and it is likely."

"Thanks, friend," Ina said. "That is a plain tale, and all we need to know. But what say men
of Owen, whom you spoke of? Is it known that he lives?"

"Oh ay. They say that you know more of him than any one. Men have seen him here at Glastonbury.
Moreover, Gerent came to Norton, just across the Quantocks, yesterday, and it is thought that
he wants to send a message to you asking after him. There will be joy in West Wales if he goes
back to the right hand of the king, for one would think that he was a fairy prince by the way
he is spoken of."

Thereat Ina smiled at Owen, and Thorgils saw it, and knew what was meant in a moment. He turned
to Owen with a quick look, and said frankly:

"True enough, Prince, but I did not know that I spoke of a listener. On my word, if you do
go back, you will have hard work to live up to what is expected of you. Maybe what is more
to the point is this, that Morgan has more friends than enough, and it is likely that they
will stick at little to avenge him.

"Howbeit," he added with a quaint smile, "it shall not be said that Thorgils missed a chance.
Prince, if you do go back to Gerent you will be his right hand, as they say. Therefore I will
ask you at once to have us Norsemen in favour, so far as we need any. Somewhat is due to the
bearer of tidings, by all custom."

Ina laughed, and even Owen smiled at the ready Norseman, but Herewald the ealdorman and I wondered
at him, for he spoke as to equals, with no sort of fear of the king on him, which was not altogether
the way of men who stood before Ina.

Then said Owen quietly:

"Friend, I think there is a favour I may ask you, rather. I have bided away from my uncle,
King Gerent, because I would not return to him unasked, being somewhat proud, maybe. But now
it seems to King Ina and myself that needs must I go to him to take the news of this death
of Morgan myself. It is a matter that might easily turn to a cause of war between Wessex and
West Wales, for if the man tried to slay our king in his own court, it may also be told that
here was slain a prince of Dyvnaint. There is full need that the truth should reach the king
before rumour makes the matter over great. You have seen all, and are known to the Welsh court
as a friend. Come with me, therefore, tomorrow and tell the tale."

"That I will, Prince," Thorgils said. "You will be welcome; but as I warn you, there will be
need for care."

"You know somewhat of the ways of the Welsh court," said Ina.

"Needs must, Lord King. I am a shipmaster, and every trader I carry across the sea, sometimes
to South Wales, and sometimes to Bristol, and betimes so far as to Ireland, tells me all he
has learned. It were churlish not to listen, and then we need warning against such attacks
as that of Morgan. Moreover, one likes somewhat to talk of."

"That is plain enough," said Nunna, laughing.

"Maybe I do talk too much," answered the Norseman. "It is a failing in my family. But my sister
is worse than I."

Then the king laughed again, and so dismissed the shipman, and presently Owen bade me make
all preparation for riding to Norton on the morrow early. Ina would have us take a strong guard,
and I should bring them back, either with or without Owen, as things went.

But little sleep had I that night, for I knew too well that from henceforth my life and that
of my foster father must lie apart, and how far sundered we might be I could not tell. There
was no love of the Saxon in West Wales, nor of the Welshman in Wessex.

Gerent, the king of the West Welsh, as we called him, ruled over all the land of Devon and
Cornwall, from the fens of the Tone and Parrett Rivers to the Land's End. Only those wide fens,
across which he could not go, had kept our great King Kenwalch from pushing Wessex yet westward,
and along their line had been our frontier since his days until, not long before Ina came to
the throne, Kentwine crossed them to the north and cleared the marauding Welsh of the Quantock
hills and forests from the river to the sea, setting honest Saxon franklins here and there
in the new-won land, to keep it for him. It was out of those deep wooded hills that Morgan
had come on the raid that ended so badly for his brother and himself, for the wasted country
was yet a sort of no-man's land, where outlaws found easy harbourage, coming mostly from the
Welsh side. It would not need much to set the tide of war moving westward again, now that our
men knew the fenland as well as ever the British learned the secrets of the paths.

Now that the time seemed to have come for him to leave Ina, Owen feared most of all that the
long peace would end, for that would mean the rending of old friendships and certain parting
from me. How much longer the peace would last was very doubtful, and men said that it was only
the wisdom of Aldhelm that had kept it so well, and now he was dead. It was not so long since
that a west Welshman would not so much as eat with a Saxon, so great was the hatred they had
for us, though that had worn off more or less. Maybe it would have passed altogether but that
there were the differences between the ways of the two Churches which were always cropping
up and making things bitter again, and those were the troubles that Aldhelm, whom Gerent honoured,
had most tried to smooth away with some sort of success. Yet it was well known that many of
the Welsh priests and people were sorely against peace with the men who followed the way of
Austin of Canterbury.

As for me, I almost wondered that Ina seemed so ready to part with Owen, but presently I saw
that if Gerent owned him again, my foster father would be a link between the two kingdoms,
which would make for peace in every way. But for all that, in my own heart was a sort of half
hope that in spite of what the Norseman had heard, Owen would not be welcomed back to the west,
else I should lose him altogether. There was no intercourse between our courts, now that Aldhelm
was gone.

But in the morning, when I came to say some of this to Owen, he smiled at me, and said:

"Wait, Oswald. Time enough for trouble when it comes. Maybe you and I will be back here this
evening, and if not, I hope that my staying with my uncle will mean peace between our lands.
Let it be so till we have seen what may be our fortune at Norton."

So I tried to let the trouble pass, and indeed at the morning meal I had my new rank to think
of, for my comrades would not forget it, nor would they let me do so. The first man to greet
me as thane was Thorgils the Norseman, too, and he went with me to see to choosing men and
horses for our journey, and I was glad of his gossip, for it kept me from thinking overmuch
of the heavier things that had kept me waking.

He would guide us across the hills to Norton, where Gerent was; for though we knew somewhat
of the Quantocks, beyond them we did not go. The palace where the king lay was an ancient Roman
stronghold, and had belonged to Morgan, who was dead; and though Thorgils had heard that Gerent
was there to seek Owen, it was more likely that he had come to see that the outlawed brothers
did not gather any force against him in their own place. It was many a year since he had been
so near our border.

Presently Thorgils would go down the town to the inn where he had bestowed his horse, and I
went with him, having an hour left before we started, rather than face any more banter concerning
my thanedom. It was almost in my mind to go to the ealdorman's house to ask after Elfrida,
but I forbore, being shy, I suppose, and so left the Norseman to join us presently, and went
back to the king's hall by a short cut from the village, whereby I had a meeting which was
unlooked for altogether.

That way was a sort of stolen short cut across the king's orchard, which some of us used at
times in coming from village to hall, for it lay between the two on the south side of the hall
where the ground sloped sunwards. And as I leapt over the fence I was aware of a lady who was
gathering some of the ruddy crab apples from the ground under their bare tree, for the hot
ale of the wassail bowl, doubtless, for we leave them out to mellow with the frost thus. She
did not heed me as I came over the soft snow, and when she did at last look up I saw that she
was Elfrida. Just for a moment I wished that I had gone round by the road, but there was no
escape for me now, for she had seen me. So I unbonneted and went to meet her.

There was a little flush on her face when she saw me, but it was not altogether one of pleasure,
for when I wished her good morrow, all that I had in return was a cold little bow and the few
words that needs must be spoken in answer. Whereat I felt somewhat foolish; but it did not
seem to me that I had done aught to deserve quite so much coldness, not being a stranger by
any means. So I would even try to find the way to a better understanding, and I thought that
maybe the sight of me had brought back some of the terror of last night.

"Now, I hope that the rough doings of the feast have not been troublous to you, Lady Elfrida,"
I said, trying with as good a grace as I could not to see her cold looks.

I saw that she did indeed shrink a little from them as I spoke, even in the passing thought.

But she answered:

"Such things are best forgotten as soon as may be. I do not wish to hear more of them."

"Nevertheless," I answered, "there are some who will not forget them, and I fear that you must
needs be ready to hear of your part in them pretty often."

"Ay," she said somewhat bitterly, "I suppose that I am the talk of the whole place now."

"If so, there would be many who would be glad to be spoken of as you must needs be. There is
nought but praise for you."

Then she turned on me, and the trouble was plain enough in a moment.

"But for yourself, Thane, there would have been nought that I could not have put up with. But
little thought for me was there when you made me the jest of your idle comrades over that foolish
cup of the king's."

That was a new way of looking at the matter, in all truth. I supposed that a vow of fealty
to any lady would have been taken by her as somewhat on which to pride herself maybe, from
whomsoever it came. Which seemed to be foolishness in this fresh light. Still, it came to me
that her anger was not altogether fair, for I was the one who had to stand the jesting, and
not one of my honest comrades so much as mentioned her name lightly in any wise.

"That was no jest of mine, Elfrida," I said gravely enough. "If there is any jest at all that
will come from my oath, it will be that I have been foolish enough to vow fealty to one who
despises me. The last thing that I would do is anything that might hurt you. And my vow stands
fast, whether you scorn me or not, for if it was made in a moment, it is not as if I had not
had long years to think on in which we have been good friends enough."

"Ay," she said, turning from me and reaching some apples that yet hung on a sheltered bough,
"I have heard the terms of that vow from my father, more than once. You can keep it without
trouble."

"Have I your leave to try to keep it?"

"You have had full leave to be a good friend of ours all these years, as you say, and I do
not see that the vow binds you to more. No one thinks that you are likely to forget last night,
or any one who took part in that cruel business. And if a friend will not help to guard a lady--well,
he would be just nidring, no more or less."

Then she took up her basket, which was pretty full and no burden for a lady, for she had picked
fast and heedlessly as she spoke to me, and so turned away.

"Nay, but surely you know that there was more than that meant," I said lamely.

"No need to have haled my name into the matter at all," she said.

And then, seeing that my eyes went to the basket, she smiled a little, and held it to me with
both hands.

"Well, if you meant some new sort of service, you can begin by carrying this for me. I am going
to the queen's bower."

I took it without a word, and we went silently together to the door that led to the queen's
end of the hall. There she stayed for a moment with her hand on the latch.

But she had only a question to ask me:

"Do you go with your father to the Welsh king's court, as it is said that he will go shortly?"

"We start together in an hour's time or thereabout," I answered, wondering.

"Well then, take this to mind you of your vow," she said, and threw a little bronze brooch,
gilt and set with bright enamel, into the basket, and so fled into the house, leaving me on
the doorstep with the apples.

I set them down there, and had a mind to leave the brooch also. However, on second thoughts
I took it, and went my way in a puzzled state of mind. It certainly seemed that Elfrida was
desperately angry with me for reasons which were not easy to fathom, and yet she had given
me this--that is, if to have a thing thrown at one is to have it given. But I was not going
to quarrel with the manner of a gift from Elfrida, and so I went on with it in my hand, and
as I turned the corner into a fresh path I also ran into the abbot of the new minster, who
was on his way to speak with Owen before he set out. He had been a great friend of Bishop Aldhelm's,
and I had known him well since the old days of Malmesbury.

"So Oswald," he cried, "I have been looking for you, that I might wish you all good in your
thaneship. Why, some of us are proud of you. And I, having known you since you were a child,
feel as if I had some sort of a share in your honours. But what is amiss? One would look to
see you the gayest of the gay, and it seems as if the world had gone awry with you."

Now, the abbot was just the friend to whom I could tell my present trouble without fear of
being mocked, for he was wont to stand to us boys of the court as the good friend who would
help us out of a scrape if he could, and make us feel ashamed thereof in private afterward,
in all kindliness. So I told him what was on my mind, for he was at the feast last night.

"It is all that vow of mine," I said. "I have just met Elfrida, and she is angry with me for
naming her at all."

"Unfair," said the abbot. "You could not have helped it, seeing that you were bidden to do so."

I had forgotten that, and it was possible that Elfrida did not know it. So I said that I did
not look for quite the scorn I had met with, at all events. Whereon the abbot stayed in his
walk and asked more, trying to look grave as he heard me, and soon he had all the story.

"So you carried the basket like any thrall, and had my Yuletide gift to her in payment," he
said, with his eyes twinkling; "I will ask if she has lost it presently, and you will be avenged."

He laughed again, and then said more gravely, but with a smile not far off:

"Go to, Oswald, don't ask me to make the ways of a damsel plain to you, for that was more than
Solomon himself could compass. But I think I know what is wrong. Her father has been making
a jest to her of the way you worded your vow, laughing mightily after his manner, and she is
revenging herself on you. Never mind. Wait till you come back from this journey, and then see
how things are with her. Now let us talk of your errand, for it is important."

Then we went slowly together, and he told me how that he had foreseen for a long time that
Owen would return to his uncle and take his right place again. Also he told me that Morgan
had a strong party on his side, and that we might have trouble with them if Owen was taken
into favour again.

"As I hope he may be," he added with a sigh; "for I have seen the war cloud drifting nearer
every year under the guidance of Morgan and his fellows."

Then we turned into the courtyard, and he went to speak to Owen in the hall, turning with a
last smile to bid me hide the brooch, lest Elfrida should hear some jesting about that next.
So I pinned it under my cloak, and then went and donned my arms, and saw to all things for
the journey, both for Owen and myself; and so at last the hour came when I led the men round
to the great door of the hall, and sent one to say that all was ready.

Now the king came forth, and with him was Owen. Ina wore his everyday dress, but my foster
father was fully armed, and as those two stood there I thought that I had never seen a more
kingly looking pair, silent and thoughtful both, and with lines of care on their foreheads,
and both in their prime of life.

Behind me I heard Thorgils say to Godred, the chief house-carle: "If there were choice, I would
take the king that wears the war gear. That is the only dress that to my mind fits a man who
shall lead warriors."

Now the king came and spoke with me, bidding me be on my guard against any attack while we
were at Norton, telling me plainly also that he deemed that there was danger to both of us
at the first, somewhat in the way in which the abbot had already spoken to me. I daresay the
words were his, for he had been counselling Owen.

Then the queen came forth with her ladies, and there was an honour for us, for she herself
brought the stirrup cup to Owen, bidding him farewell, at the same time that the king must
needs send Elfrida with another cup to me, saying that it was my due for last night's omission.
But there was no smile as she set it in my hand, and she waited with head turned away until
I gave it back to her, as if she looked at Owen rather than any one else. Then it was only
a short word of farewell that she said to me, and yet it did seem that her eyes were less grave
than she would seem in face as she turned back to the other ladies on the hall steps.

Then Owen unhelmed and turned his horse to the gates, and after him we went clattering down
the street. In a minute or two Thorgils came alongside me.

"So that was the lady of the vow, surely. Well, you may be excused for making it, though indeed
it is rash to bind oneself--nay, but it seems that this is one of those matters whereon I must
hold my tongue!"

For I had spurred my horse a little impatiently, and he understood well enough. I did not altogether
care that this stranger should talk of my affairs--more particularly as they did not seem to
be going at all rightly. So he said no more of them, but began to talk of himself gaily, while
Owen rode alone at our head, as he would sometimes if his thoughts were busy.

Presently he reined up and came alongside us, taking his part in our talk in all cheerfulness.
And from that time I had little thought but of the pleasantness of the ride in the sharp winter
air and under the bright sun with him toward the new court which I had often longed to see,
with its strange ways, in the ancient British-Roman palace that he had so often told me of.

So we rode along the ancient and grass-grown Roman road that lies on the Polden ridge, hardly
travelled save by a few chapmen, since the old town they called Uxella was lost in the days
of my forefathers. The road had no ending now, as one may say, for beyond the turning to the
bridge across the Parrett for which we were making it passed to nought but fen and mere where
once had been the city. All the wide waters on either side of the hills were hard frozen, and
southward, across to where we could see the blue hill of ancient Camelot, the ice flashed black
and steely under the red low sun of midwinter. Before us the Quantocks lay purple and deepest
brown where the woods hid the snow that covered them. Over us, too, went the long strings of
wild geese, clanging in their flight in search of open water--and it was the wolf month again,
and even so had they fled on that day when Owen found me in the snow.

And therewith we fell into talk of Eastdean, and dimly enough I recalled it all. I knew that
an Erpwald held the place even yet, but I cared not. It was but a pleasant memory by reason
of the coming of Owen, and I had no thought even to see the place again. Only, as we talked
it did seem to me that I would that I knew that the grave of my father was honoured.

Then we left the old road, and crossed the ancient Parrett bridge, where the Roman earthworks
yet stood frowning as if they would stay us. They were last held against Kenwalch, and now
we were in that no-man's land which he had won and wasted. Then we climbed the long slope of
the Quantocks, whence we might look back over the land we had left, to see the Tor at Glastonbury
shouldering higher and higher above the lower Poldens, until the height was reached and the
swift descent toward Norton began. There we could see all the wild Exmoor hills before us,
with the sea away to our right, and Thorgils shewed us where lay, under the very headlands
of the hills we were crossing, the place where his folk had their haven. He said that he could
see the very smoke from the hearths, but maybe that was only because he knew where it ought
to be, and we laughed at him.

So we came to the outskirts of Norton, and all the way we had seen no man. The hills were deserted,
save by wild things, and of them there was plenty. And now for the first time I saw men living
in houses built of stone from ground to roof, and that was strange to me. We Saxons cannot
abide aught but good timber. Here none of us had ever come, and still some of the houses built
after the Roman fashion remained, surrounded, it is true, by mud hovels of yesterday, as one
might say, but yet very wonderful to me. Many a time I had seen the ruined foundations of the
like before, but one does not care to go near them. The wastes our forefathers made of the
old towns they found here, and had no use for, lie deserted, for they are haunted by all things
uncanny, as any one knows. Maybe that is because the old Roman gods have come back to their
old places, now that the churches are no longer standing.

Through the village we went, and then came to the walls of the ancient stronghold, and they
seemed as if they were but lately raised, so strong were they and high. The gates were in their
places, and at them was a guard, and through them, for they stood open, I could see the white
walls and flat roof of the house, or rather palace, which was either that of the Roman governor
of the place, or else had been rebuilt or restored from time to time in exactly the same wise,
so that it stood fair and lordly and fit for a king's dwelling even yet. Maybe the wattled
hovels of the thralls that clustered round it inside the great earthworks were not what would
have been suffered in the days of those terrible men who made the fortress, but I doubt not
that they stood on the foundations of the quarters of the soldiers who had held it for Rome.

The guard turned out in orderly wise as we came to the gates, and they wore the Roman helm
and corselet, and bore the heavy Roman spear and short heavy sword. But that war gear I had
seen before on the other Welsh border, and I had a scar, moreover, that would tell that I had
been within reach of one weapon or the other. I knew their tongue, too, almost as well as my
own, for Owen had taught it me, saying that I might need it at some time. It had already been
of use to the king in the frontier troubles, for I could interpret for him, but I think that
Owen had in his mind the coming of some such day as this.

Now, Owen would have me speak to the guard and tell them our errand, and I rode forward and
did so. The short day was almost over by this time; and the captain who came to meet me did
not seem to notice my Saxon arms in the shadow of the high rampart. Hearing that we bore a
message for the king, he sent a man to ask for directions, and meanwhile we waited. I asked
him if there was any news, thinking it well to know for certain if aught had been heard yet
of the end of Morgan. News of that sort flies fast.

"No news at all," he answered. "What did you expect?"

"I had heard of the death of a prince, and do not know the rights thereof."

"Why, where have you been? That is old news. It was only Dewi, and he is no loss. The Saxon
sheriff hung him, even as the king said he would do to him an he caught him, so maybe it is
the same in the end. I have not heard that any one is sorry to lose him."

He laughed, and if it was plain that Morgan's brother was not loved, it was also plain that
nought was known of the end of the other prince yet. We were first with the tidings here, and
that might be as well.

Now a message came to bid us enter, and the steward who brought it told us that we were to
be lodged in some great guest chamber, and that we should speak with the king shortly.

The men bided outside the walls, the captain leading them to a long row of timber-built stables
which stood close at hand by the gate. Presently, when the horses were bestowed, they would
be brought to the guest hall; so Thorgils went with them, while the steward led Owen and myself
through the gate and to the palace, which stood squarely in the midst of the fortress, with
a space between it and the other buildings which filled the area.

By daylight I knew afterwards that it was uncared for, and somewhat dilapidated without, but
in the falling dusk it looked all that it should. We entered through a wide door, and passed
a guardroom where many men lounged, armed and unarmed, and then were in a courtyard formed
by the four sides of the building, wonderfully paved, and with a frozen fountain in its midst.
There were windows all round the walls which bounded this court, and the light shone red from
them, very cheerfully, and already there was bustle of men who crossed and passed through the
palace making ready for our reception. The steward led us to the northern wing of the house
across this court, and so took us into an antechamber, as it seemed, warm and bright, with
hanging lamps, and with painted walls and many-patterned tiled floor, but for all its warmth
with no fire to be seen, which was strange enough to me.

And so soon as the bright light shone on Owen I saw the steward start and gaze at him fixedly,
and then as Owen smiled a little at him he fell on his knees and cried softly some words of
welcome, with tears starting in his eyes.

"Oh my Lord," he said, "is it indeed you? This is a good day.--A thousand welcomes!"

Owen raised him kindly, and set his finger on his lip.

"It is well that you have been the first to know me, friend," he said. "Now hold your peace
for a little while till we see what says my uncle. I must have word with him at once, if it
can be managed, before others know me. It will be best."

"He waits you, Lord. It was his word that he would see the Saxon alone."

Then he led us into another room like to that we left, but larger, and with rich carpets on
the tiled floor, and there sat Gerent alone to wait us. I thought him a wonderful looking old
man, and most kingly, as he rose and bowed in return when we greeted him. His hair was white,
and his long beard even whiter, but his eyes were bright. Purple and gold he wore, and those
robes and the golden circlet on his head shewed that he had put on the kingly dress to meet
with the messenger of a king.

Almost had Owen sprung toward him, but he forbore, and when the king had taken his seat he
went slowly to him, holding out a letter which Ina had written for him, saying nothing. And
Gerent took it without a word or so much as a glance at the bearer from under his heavy brows,
and opened it.

Owen stood back by me, and we watched the face of the king as he read. We saw his brows knit
themselves fiercely at first, and then as he went on they cleared until he seemed as calm as
when he first met us. But the flush that had come with the frown had not faded when at last
he looked keenly at us.

"Come nearer," he said in a harsh voice, speaking in fair Saxon. "Know you what is written herein?"

"I know it," Owen said.

"Here Ina says that this is borne by one whom I know. Is it you or this young warrior?"

Then Owen went forward and fell on one knee before the king, and said in his own tongue--the
tongue of Cornwall and of Devon:

"I am that one of whom Ina has spoken. Yet it is for Gerent to say whether he will own that
he knows me even yet."

I saw the king start as the voice of Owen came to him in the familiar language, and he knitted
his brows as one who tries to recall somewhat forgotten, and he looked searchingly in the face
of the man who knelt before him, scanning every feature.

And at last he said in a hushed voice, not like the harsh tones of but now:

"Can it be Owen?--Owen, the son of my sister? They said that one like him served the Saxon,
but I did not believe it. That is no service for one of our line."

"What shall an exile do but serve whom he may, if the service be an honoured one? Yet I will
say that I wandered long, seeing and learning, before there came to me a reason that I should
serve Ina. To you I might not return."

But the king was silent, and I thought that he was wroth, while Owen bided yet there on his
knee before him, waiting his word. And when that came at last, it was not as I feared.

Slowly the king set forth his hand, and it shook as he did so. He laid it on Owen's head, while
the letter that was on his knees fluttered unheeded to the floor as he bent forward and spoke
softly:

"Owen, Owen," he said, "I have forgotten nought. Forgive the old blindness, and come and take
your place again beside me."

And as Owen took the hand that would have raised him and kissed it, the old king added in the
voice of one from whom tears are not so far:

"I have wearied for you, Owen, my nephew. Sorely did I wrong you in my haste in the old days,
and bitterly have I been punished. I pray you forgive."

Then Owen rose, and it seemed to me that on the king the weight of years had fallen suddenly,
so that he had grown weak and needful of the strong arm of the steadfast prince who stood before
him, and I took the arm of the steward and pulled him unresisting through the doorway, so that
what greeting those two might have for one another should be their own.

Then said the steward to me as we looked at one another:

"This is the best day for us all that has been since the prince who has come back left us.
There will be joy through all Cornwall."

But I knew that what I dreaded had come to pass, and that from henceforth the way of the prince
of Cornwall and of the house-carle captain of Ina's court must lie apart, and I had no answer
for him.

It would be long for me to tell how presently Owen called me in to speak with the king, and
how he owned me as his foster son in such wise that Gerent smiled on him, and spoke most kindly
to me as though I had indeed been a kinsman of his own. And then, after we had spoken long
together, Thorgils was sent for, and he told the tale of the end of Morgan plainly and in few
words, yet in such skilful wise that as he spoke I could seem to see once more our hall and
myself and Elfrida at the dais, even as though I were an onlooker.

"You are a skilful tale teller," the king said when he ended. "You are one of the Norsemen
from Watchet, as I am told."

"I am Thorgils the shipmaster, who came to speak with you two years ago, when we first came
here. Men say that I am no bad sagaman."

"This is a good day for me," Gerent said, "and I will reward you for your tale. Free shall
the ship of Thorgils be from toil or harbourage in all ports of our land from henceforward.
I will see that it is known."

"That is a good gift, Lord King," said the Norseman, and he thanked Gerent well and heartily,
and so went his way back to the guest chambers with a glad heart.

Then Gerent said gravely:

"I suppose that there are men who would call all these things the work of chance or fate. But
it is fitting that vengeance on him who wronged you should come from the hand of one whom you
have cared for. That has not come by chance; but I think it will be well that it is not known
here just at first whose was the hand that slew Morgan."

"For fear of his friends?" asked Owen thoughtfully.

"Ay, for that reason. Overbearing and proud was he, but for all that there are some who thought
him the more princely because he was so. And there are few who know that he did indeed try
to end my life, for I would not spread abroad the full shame of a prince of our line. Men have
thought that I would surely take him into favour again, but that was not possible. Only, I
would that he had met a better ending."

The old king sighed, and was silent. Presently Owen said that I must see to the men and horses,
and I rose up to leave the chamber, and then the king said:

"We shall see you again at the feast I am making for you all. Then tomorrow you must take back
as kingly a letter to Ina as he wrote to me, and so return to Owen for as long as your king
will suffer you to bide with us."

So I went to the stables first of all, and there was Thorgils bidding a Welsh groom to get
out his horse while he took off the arms that had been lent him from our armoury, for he was
but half armed when he came.

"There is no need to do that," I said; "for if Ina arms a man, it is as a gift for service
done, if he is not too proud to take it. But are you not biding for the feast?"

"First of all," he said, laughing, "none ever knew a Norseman too proud to accept good arms
from a king. Thank Ina for me in all form. And as to my going, seeing that tide waits for no
man, if I do not get home shortly I shall lose the tide I want for a bit of a winter voyage
I have on hand; wherefore I must go. Farewell, and good luck to you. This business has turned
out well, after all, and a great man you will be in this land before long. Don't forget us
Norsemen when that comes about, and if ever you need a man at your back, send for me. You might
have a worse fence than my axe, and I have a liking for you; farewell again."

I laughed and shook hands with him, and he swung himself into the saddle and rode away.

There was high feasting that night in the guest hall of Norton, as may be supposed. I sat on
the left of the king, and Owen on his right, while all the great men who could be summoned
in the time were present, and it was plain enough that the homecoming of their lost prince
was welcome to every one in all the hall. Not one dark look was there as I scanned the bright
company, and presently not one refused to join in the great shout of welcome that rose when
Owen pledged them all.

It was a good welcome, and the face of the old king grew bright as he heard it.

Then the harpers sang; I did not think their ways here so pleasant as our own, where the harp
goes round the hall, and every man takes his turn to sing, or if he has no turn for song, tells
tale or asks riddle that shall please the guests. Certainly, these Welsh folk were readier
to talk than we, and maybe the meats were more dainty and the wines finer than ours, and in
truth the Welsh mead was good and the Welsh ale mighty, but men seemed to care little for the
sport that should come after the meal was over. Yet these harpers sang well, and from them
I learnt more about my foster father than he had ever cared to tell me, for they sang of old
deeds of his. Doubtless they made the most of them, for it would seem from their songs that
he had fought with Cornish giants as an everyday thing, and that he had been the bane of more
than one dragon. But one knows how to sift the words of the gleeman's song, and they told me
at least that Owen had been a great champion ere he left his home.

Still, I missed the bright fire on the hearth, and the ways of the court were too stately for
me here. Men seemed not to like the cheerful noise of my honest house-carles, who jested and
laughed as they would have done in the hall of Ina, who loved to see and hear that his men
were merry. We should have thought that there was something wrong if there had not been plenty
of noise at the end of the long tables below the salt.

Now, I will not say that there was not something very pleasant in sitting here at the side
of the king as the most honoured guest next to my foster father, but there was a sadness at
the back of it all in the knowledge that it was likely that from henceforth our ways must needs
go apart more or less, and that I might see him only from time to time. For I was Ina's man,
and a Saxon, and it could not be supposed that I should be welcome here. I knew that I must
go back to my place, and he must bide in his that he had found again, and so there was the
sorrow of parting to spoil what might else have made me a trifle over proud.

Gerent did not stay long at the feast, nor did the ladies who were present, and Owen and I
stayed for but a little while after they had gone. Then we were taken in all state to the room
where we should sleep, and so for the first time I was housed within stone walls. There were
a sort of wide benches along the walls covered with skins and bright rugs for us to sleep on,
but after I had helped Owen to his night gear I took the coverings that were meant for me and
set them across the door on the floor and so slept. For I had a fear of treachery and the friends
of Morgan.

It was in my mind to talk for a while before rest came, but Owen would not suffer me to do
so, saying that it was best to sleep on all the many things that happened before we thought
much of what was to be done next. So I wrapt myself in my rugs on the strangely warm floor
and went to sleep at once, being, as may be supposed, fairly tired out with the long day and
its doings. More than that little space of time it seemed since we left Glastonbury, and even
my meeting with Elfrida was like a matter of long ago to me.

There was a bronze lamp burning with some scented oil, hanging from the ceiling, which seemed
so low after our open roofs, and we had left it alight, as I thought it better to have even
its glimmer than darkness, here in this strange house. And presently I woke with a feeling
that this lamp had flared up in some way, shining across my eyes, so that I sat up with a great
start, grasping my sword hastily. But the lamp burned quietly, and all that woke me was the
light of a square patch of bright moonlight from a high window that was creeping across the
broad chest of Owen as he slept, and had come within range of my eyelids, for my face was turned
to him. The room was bright with it, and for a little I watched the quiet sleeper, and then
I too slept, and woke not again until Owen roused me with the daylight from the same window
falling on his face.

"That is where I should have slept," I said, "for it is my place to wake you, father."

He laughed, and said that it was his place in the old days, and there was a sigh at the back
of the laugh as he thought of those times, and then we forgot the whole thing. Yet though it
seems a little matter in the telling, in no long time I was to mind that waking in a strange
way enough, and then I remembered.

We must part presently, as I found, at least for a little while. There was no question but
that Owen would stay at the court here, and so Gerent had ready for me a letter which I should
carry back to Ina at once. He spoke very kindly to me at that time, giving me a great golden
bracelet from his own arm, that I might remember to come back to bide for a time with him ere
long. And then we broke our fast, and my men were ready, and I parted from my foster father
in the bright morning light that made the white walls of the old palace seem more wonderful
to me than ever.

"Farewell, then, for a while," he said to me; "come back as soon as Ina will spare you. There
will be peace between him and Gerent now, as I think."

Then came a man in haste from out of the gateway where we stood yet, and he bore a last gift
from Gerent to me. It was a beautiful wide-winged falcon from the cliffs of Tintagel in the
far west, hooded and with the golden jesses that a king's bird may wear on her talons.

"It is the word of the king," said the falconer, "that a thane should ride with hawk on wrist
if he bears a peaceful message. Moreover, there will be full time on the homeward way for a
flight or two. Well trained she is, Master, and there is no better passage hawk between here
and Land's End."

That was a gift such as any man might be proud of, and I asked Owen to thank the king for me.
And so we parted with little sorrow after all, for it was quite likely that I should be back
here in a day or two for yet a little while longer with him.

So I and my men were blithe as we rode in the still frosty air across the Quantocks by the
way we had come, and by and by, when we gained the wilder crests, I began to look about me
for some chance of proving the good hawk that sat waiting my will on my wrist.

Soon I saw that the rattle and noise of men and horses spoiled a good chance or two for me,
for the black game fled to cover, and once a roe sprang from its resting in the bushes by the
side of the track and was gone before I could unhood the bird.

"Ho, Wulf!" I cried to one of the men who was wont to act as forester when Ina hunted, "let
us ride aside for a space, and then we will see what sort of training a Welshman can give a hawk."

So we put spurs to our horses and went on until they were a mile behind us, and then we were
on a ridge of hill whence a long wooded combe sank northward to the dense forest land at the
foot of the hills, and there we rode slowly, questing for what might give us a fair flight.
Bustard there were on these hills, and herons also, for below me I could see the bare branches
of the tree tops on which the broad-winged birds light at nesting time, twigless and skeleton-like.
For a while we saw nothing, however, and so rode wide of the track, across the heather, until
we found the woodland before us, and had to make our way back to the road, which passed through
it. But before we came in sight of the road, from almost under my feet, a hare bolted from
a clump of long grass, and made for the coverts. I cast off the hawk and shouted, but we were
too near the underwood, and it seemed that the hare would win to cover in time to save herself.

Yet in a moment the hare was back again out of the cover, and running along its edge in the
open as though she had met with somewhat that she feared even more than the winged terror which
she had so nearly baffled. And that was strange, for it is hard to get a hare to stir from
her seat if there is a hawk overhead, so that sometimes men have even picked up the timid beast
from her place.

"There is a fox in the underwood, and she has seen him," I cried, and then forgot all about
the strangeness of the matter in watching the stoop of the ready hawk, who waited only for
one more chance.

Not far did the hare win this time. The hawk swooped and took her close to the edge of the
wood, and I rode quickly to take the bird again and give her her share of the quarry. And then,
while my eyes were fixed on her, and I was just about to dismount, I was aware of something
like a streak of light that flew from the underwood toward me, and suddenly my horse reared
wildly, and fell back on me, pinning me to the ground.

At the same moment I heard Wulf roaring somewhat, and then he was between me and the cover,
and I saw him, through the dazedness of my eyes with the fall, dismount and unsling his shield
from his back, with his eyes ever on the wood. Then an arrow struck the ground close to me,
and I heard another smite Wulf's shield with the clap that no warrior can mistake. At that
his steed took fright and left us.

"Get my horn and wind it," I said, struggling to get free from the horse. It was no mean bowman
who had sent that first arrow, for the poor beast never moved after it fell, and had spent
its last strength in rearing.

"That is crushed flat, Master," Wulf said between his teeth, and he tried to lift the weight
that was on me.

Then the arrows came thickly again, and he crouched over me with the shield, behind the horse.
It was lucky that I was almost covered by it as I lay, for it was between me and the wood.
I writhed and struggled and at last I was free again, and Wulf helped me to get my own shield
from my back as I rose, and then we stood back to back and looked for our foes.

"Morgan's people, I suppose," I said. "We should not have left the men, for I knew that he
was leagued with Quantock outlaws."

"A nidring set, too," said Wulf savagely. "Can't they show themselves?"

As if the men had heard him, they came from the cover even as he spoke. There were more than
I could count after a few moments, for they poured out in twos and threes from all along the
edge of the wood, and came cautiously toward us, in such wise as to surround us. Wild looking
men they were, with never a helm or mail shirt among them, but they were all well armed enough
with bow and spear and seax, and more than one had swords.

Then I looked round to see if I could see my men coming, and my heart sank. We were hidden
from the road by the crest of the hill, and I knew that the flight of the hawk had led us some
way from it. We could not be less than a full mile from them at the rate we had ridden, and
I did not think it likely that they had hurried after us, for they would not spoil sport.

Now the men were round us in a ring that was closing quickly, and Wulf and I had our swords
out and were back to back facing them. Not a word had been said on either side, and I was not
going to begin to talk to outlaws. If they had anything to say they might say it. But they
had not, and I knew that they would make a rush on us directly.

One who seemed to be the leader whistled sharply, and the rush came with a wild howl and flight
of ill-aimed spears that were of no harm. The circle was too close for a fair throw at us,
lest the weapon should go too far. I had time to catch one as it passed me, and send it back
with the Wessex war shout, and there was one man less against us.

I think that I cut down one or two after that, and then I felt Wulf reel and prop himself against
me. Then I had a score of men crowding on me, and they clogged my sword arm and gripped my
shield and tore it aside, and then from behind or at the side one smote me on the head with
a club or a stone hammer, and I went down. I heard one cry that I was not to be slain, as I fell.

Then Wulf stood over me for a little while and fought all that crowd, until he was on his knees
at my side, and my senses were coming back to me. Then he fell over me, and the men threw themselves
on me and pinioned me and thrust something into my mouth and then bound me.

I knew that Wulf was slain at that time, and that he had given his life for me. That was what
he would have wished to do, but in my heart there grew a wild rage with these men and with
myself for my carelessness that had led us into their hands.

Now they dragged me into the cover, and thither also they brought Wulf and the fallen men,
and for a little while all sat silent, and soon I knew what they were waiting for. I heard
the voices of my men and the very click and rattle of their arms as they trotted slowly through
the wood along the road, and I tried to shout to them, but the gag would not let me. So their
sounds died away beyond the hill, and after them crept some of the foe, to see that they did
not halt or turn back, as one may suppose. I thought how that they had at least three miles
to ride before they could come to any place whence they could see that I and Wulf were not
before them, and then, when they missed us, how were they to begin to seek us?

I suppose that my wits were sharpened with my danger, for I saw one thing that might help them
even while I was thinking this. My hawk had gorged herself with her prey when the fight had
turned aside from her, and so she was sitting sleepily and contented on the high bough of one
of the trees that stood at the wood's edge. And she still had her jesses on, so that my men
would know her if they caught sight of her by any chance.

Now the men who had me, being sure that all fear was past, began to talk of what was to be
done next, and they spoke in Welsh, plainly thinking that I could not understand them. There
were three or four who seemed to take the lead under the one who had given the signal for attack,
and the rest gathered round them.

At first they were for killing me offhand as it seemed, but the leader would not hear of that.

"Search him first, and let us see who he is," he said. "We may have caught the wrong man, after
all."

So they came to me and searched my pouch and thrust their grimy hands into the front of my
byrnie, and there they found the king's letter, which they seized with a shout of delight.
Then they took my arms, wondering at the sword with its wondrous hilt. Only my ring mail byrnie
they could not take from me, as they feared to untie my arms.

"Not much would I give for your life if this warrior got loose," said one of them to that one
who had the letter. "See how he glares at you."

And true enough that was, moreover. I should surely have gone berserk, like the men Thorgils
told me of as we rode yesterday, had I been able to get free for a moment.

They took my belongings to the leaders, and they asked for some one who could read the letter,
and there was none, even as I had expected, so that I was glad.

"It does not matter much," the leader said; "doubtless it has a deal of talk in it which would
mean nought to us. We will have it read the next time one of us goes to the church," and with
that he grinned, and the others laughed as at a good jest. "Let me look at the sword he wore."

He looked and his eyes grew wide, and then he whistled a little to himself. The others asked
him what was amiss.

"If we have got Owen's son, we have taken Ina's own sword as well," he said. "Many a time have
I seen the king wear it before the law got the best of me. It is not to be mistaken. Now, if
we are not careful we have a hornets' nest on us in good truth. Ina does not give swords like
this to men he cares nought for, and there will be hue and cry enough after him, and that from
Saxon and Welsh alike."

"Kill him and have done. That is what we meant to do when we laid up for him."

So said many growling voices, and I certainly thought that the end was very near.

"Ay, and have ourselves hung in a row that will reach from here to the bridge," the leader
said coolly. "Mind you this, that with the Welsh up against us we cannot get to Exmoor, and
with the Saxons out also we cannot win to the Mendips, as we have done before now."

"There is the fen."

"And all the fenmen Owen's own men. Little safety is there in that."

"But he slew Morgan, as they say."

"Worse luck for Morgan therefore. What is that to you and me, when one comes to think of it?"

Now I began to understand the matter more or less. It seemed to me that these were Morgan's
outlaws, and that somehow they had heard all the story. No doubt that was easy enough, for
it would be all over Norton before the night was very old after our coming. And these outlaws
have friends everywhere. So they had laid up for me, and now the leader was frightened, as
it would seem, or else he had some other plan in his head. It did not seem that he had wished
me to be slain, from the first, if it could be helped. Maybe the others had forced him to waylay
me. A leader of outlaws has little hold on his men.

"Let him swear to say nought of us, and let him go then," one of the other leaders said in
a surly way.

Then the chief got up and laughed at them all.

"There are six of us slain and a dozen with wounds, and we will make him pay for that and for
Morgan as well before we have done with him. Now we must not bide here, or we shall have his
men back on us, seeking him. Let us get away, and I will think of somewhat as we go. There
is profit to be made out of this business, if I am not mistaken."

Then they brought my man's horse, which they had caught, and set me on it, making my feet fast
under the girth. The men who had fallen they hid in the bushes, and it troubled me more than
aught to think that Wulf should lie among them. My horse they dragged into a hollow, and piled
snow over him. Then they went swiftly down the hillside into the deep combe, leaving only the
trampled and reddened snow to tell that there had been a fight.

I had a hope for a little while that the track they left would be enough for my men to follow
if they hit on it, but there was little snow lying in the sheltered woodlands, and there the
track was lost. And these men scattered presently in all directions, so that trace of them
was none. Only the leader and some dozen men stayed with me.

So they took me for many a long mile, always going seaward, until we were in a deep valley
that bent round among the hills until its head was lost in their folds, and there was some
sort of a camp of these outlaws sheltered from any wind that ever blew, and with a clear brook
close at hand. All round on the hillsides was the forest, but there was one landmark that I knew.

High over the valley's head rose a great hill, and on that was an ancient camp. It was what
they call the "Dinas," the refuge camp of the Quantock side, which one can see from Glastonbury
and all the Mendips.

Here they took me from the horse and bound my feet afresh, and took the gag from my mouth and
set me against a tree, and so waited until the band had gathered once more, lighting a great
fire meanwhile. Glad enough was I of its warmth, for it is cold work riding bound through the
frost.

When that was done the leader bade some of those with him fetch the goods to this place, and
catch some ponies ready against the journey. I could not tell what this might mean, but I thought
that they had no intention of biding here, and I was sorry in a dull way. It had yet been a
hope that they might be tracked by my men from the place of the fight.

After these men had gone hillward into the forest, others kept coming in from one way or another
until almost all seemed to have returned.

One by one as these gathered, they came and looked at me, and laughed, making rough jests at
me, which I heeded not at all, if they made my blood boil now and then. Once, indeed, their
leader shouted roughly to them to forbear, when some evil words came with a hoarse gust of
laughter to his ears, and they said under their breath, chuckling as at a new jest:

"Evan has a mind to tell Tregoz that he treated the Saxon well," and so left me. It seemed
to me that I had heard that name at Norton.

When the best part of the band had gathered again they lit another fire fifty yards from me,
and round it they talked and wrangled for a good half hour. It was plain that they were speaking
about me and my fate, but I could hear little of what they said.

The leader took not much part in the talk at first, but let the rest have their say. And when
they had talked themselves out, as it were, he told them his plans. I could not hear them,
but the rest listened attentively enough, and at the end of his speech seemed to agree, for
they laughed and shouted and made not much comment.

Then the leaders got up and came and looked at me.

"Tell him what we are going to do with him, Evan," one said to the chief.

So Evan spoke in the worst Saxon I had ever heard, and I thought that it fitted his face well.

"No good glaring in that wise," he said; "if you are quiet no harm will come to you. We are
going to hold you as a hostage until your Saxon master or your British father pay ransom for
you, and inlaw us again. That last is a notion of my own, for I am by way of being an honest
man. The rest do not care for anything but the money we shall get for you from one side or
the other, or maybe from both. By and by, when we have you in a safe place, you shall write
a letter for us to use, and I will have you speak well of me in it, so that it shall be plain
that you owe your life to me, and then I shall be safe. That is a matter between you and me,
however. None of these knaves ken a word of Saxon."

I suppose that I showed pretty plainly what I thought of this sort of treachery to his comrades,
for one of the others laughed at me, and said:

"Speak him fair, Evan, speak him fair, else we shall have trouble with him."

"I am just threatening him now," the villain said in Welsh--"after that is time to give him
a chance to behave himself," and then he went on to me in Saxon: "Now, if you will give your
word to keep quiet and go with me as a friend I will trust you, but if not--well, we must take
you as we can. How do you prefer to go?"

He waited for an answer, but I gave him none. I would not even seem to treat with them.

"Don't say that I did not give you a chance," he said; "but if you will go as a captive, that
is your own fault."

And as I said nothing he turned away, and said to the rest:

"We shall have to bind him. He will not go quietly."

"How shall we get him on board as a captive?" one asked.

"That would be foolishness," Evan said; "the next thing would be that every one would know
who the captive that was taken out of Watchet was. I have a better plan than that. We will
tie him up like a sorely wounded man, and so get him shipped carefully and quietly with no
questions asked."

"Well, then, there is no time to lose. We must be at the harbour in four hours' time at the
latest. Tide will serve shortly after that," one of the others said. "What about the sword?--shall
we sell it to the Norsemen?"

"What! and so tell all the countryside what we have been doing?--it is too well known a weapon.
No, put it into one of the bales of goods, and I can sell it safely to some prince on the other
side. No man dare wear it on this, but they will not know it there, or will not care if they
do. Now get a litter made, and bring me some bandages."

It seemed to me to be plain that they would try to get me across the channel into Wales, or
maybe Ireland, and my heart sank. But after all, Owen would gladly pay ransom for me, and that
was the one hope I had. And then I wondered what vessel they had ready, and all of a sudden
I minded that Thorgils had spoken of a winter voyage that he was going to take on this tide,
and my heart leapt. It was likely that these men were going to sail with him, so I might have
a chance of swift rescue.

Now Evan went to work on me with the help of one of his men, who seemed to know something of
leech craft.

"This," said Evan, "is a poor friend of mine who has met with a bad fall from his horse. His
thigh is broken and his shoulder is out. Also his jaw is broken, because the horse kicked him
as he lay. For the same reason he is stunned, and cannot move much. It is a bad case altogether,"
and he grinned with glee at his own pleasantry.

Then they fitted a long splint to my right leg from hip to ankle, so that I was helpless as
a babe in its swaddlings, and made fast the other leg to that. They did not do more than loosen
the cords that bound me just enough to suffer them to pass the bandages round until the splint
was on, and the other men stood in a ring and gibed at me all the time. After that they bandaged
my right arm across my chest as if for a slipped shoulder, but under the bandages were cords
that pinioned my elbows to one another across my back, so that I could only move my left forearm.
Evan said that he would tie that also if need was, but it might pass now. I could not reach
my mouth with this free hand, if I did try to take out a gag.

Next they bandaged my head and chin carefully, so that only my eyes were to be seen. I suppose
that I might be thankful that they left my mouth uncovered more or less. And Evan said that
he would gag me by and by.

"No need to discomfort him more than this now," he added. "Maybe he will be ready to promise
silence when he has gone some time in this rig."

By this time some had caught half a dozen hill ponies, and on them they loaded several bales
of goods, which I thought looked like those of some robbed chapman, and I have reason to think
that they were such. They opened one of these, and in it they stowed my sword and helm and
the great gold ring that Gerent gave me. There was some argument about this, but the leader
said that it was better to sell it for silver coin which they could use anywhere.

Now Evan and two others dressed themselves afresh, and washed in the brook. One would have
taken them for decent traders when that was done, for they were soberly clad in good blue cloth
jerkins, with clean white hose, and red garterings not too new. Good cloaks they had also,
and short seaxes in their belts. Only Evan had a short Welsh sword, and the peace strings of
that were tied round the hilt. I wondered where the bodies of the honest men they had taken
these things from were hidden in the wild hills.

Half a dozen of the best clad of the other men took boar spears, and so they were ready for
a start, for all the world like the chapmen they pretended to be. They put me into the litter
they had ready then, and four of the men were told off to bear me, grumbling. It was only a
length of sacking made fast to two stout poles, and when they had hoisted me to their shoulders
a blanket was thrown over me, and a roll of cloth from one of the bales set under my head,
so that I might seem to be in comfort at least.

Then the band set out, and we went across the hills seaward and to the west until we saw Watchet
below us. There was a road somewhere close at hand, as I gathered, for we stopped, and some
of the rabble crept onward to the crest of the hill and spied to see if it was clear. It was
so, and here all the band left us, and only Evan and the other two seeming merchants went on
with their followers, who bore me and led the laden ponies. The road had no travellers on it,
as far as I could see, nor did we meet with a soul until we were close into the little town
that the Norsemen had made for themselves at the mouth of a small river that runs between hills
to the sea.

Maybe there were two score houses in the place, wooden like ours, but with strange carvings
on the gable ends. And for fear, no doubt, of the British, they had set a strong stockade all
round the place in a half circle from the stream to the harbour. There were several long sheds
for their ships at the edge of the water, and a row of boats were lying on a sort of green
round which the houses stood with their ends and backs and fronts giving on it, as each man
had chosen to set his place.

I thought that Evan had forgotten to gag me, but before we went to the gate of the stockade
he came and did it well. I could not see a soul near but my captors, and it would have been
little or no good to shout. So I bore it as well as I might, being helpless. Then, within arrow
shot of the gate, one of the men blew a harsh horn, and we waited for a moment until a man,
armed with an axe and sword, lounged through the stockade and looked at us, and so made a gesture
that bid us enter, and went his way within. I hope that I may never feel so helpless again
as I did at the time when I passed this man, who stared at me in silence, unable to call to
him for help.

Then we crossed the green without any one paying much heed to us, though I saw the women at
the doors pitying me, and so we came to the wharf, alongside which a ship was lying. There
were several men at work on her decks, and it was plain that she was to sail on this tide,
for her red-and-brown striped sail was ready for hoisting, and there was nothing left alongside
to be stowed. She was not yet afloat however, though the tide was fast rising.

Evan hailed one of the men, and he came ashore to him. The bearers set down my litter and waited.

"Where is the shipmaster?" Evan asked.

The man jerked his thumb over his shoulder, and lifted his voice and shouted "Ho Thorgils,
here is the Welsh chapman."

I saw the head of my friend rise from under the gunwale amidships, and when he saw who was
waiting he also came ashore. Evan met him at the gangway.

"I thought you were not coming, master chapman," he said. "A little later and you had lost
your voyage. Tide waits for no man, and Thorgils sails with the tide he waits. Therefore Thorgils
waits for no man."

Just for a moment a thought came to me that Thorgils was in league with the outlaws, and that
was hard. But Evan's next words told me that in this I was wrong. It would seem that the taking
of his ill-gotten goods across the channel had been planned by Evan before he fell in with
me, and maybe that already made plan was the saving of my life, by putting the thought of an
easy way to dispose of me to some profit into the outlaw's head.

"I had been here earlier," he said, "but for a mischance to my friend here. I want to take
him with me, if you will suffer it."

He pointed to me as he spoke, and Thorgils turned and looked at me idly. I was some twenty
yards from him as I lay, and I tried to cry out to him as his eyes fell on me, but I could
only fetch a sort of groan, and I could not move at all.

"He seems pretty bad," said Thorgils, when he heard me. "What is amiss with him? I can have
no fevers or aught of that sort aboard, with the young lady as passenger, moreover."

"There is nothing of that," Evan answered hastily. "It is but the doing of a fall from his
horse. The beast rolled on him, and he has a broken thigh, slipped shoulder, and broken jaw,
so that it will be long before he is fit for aught again, as I fear. Now he wants to get back
to his wife and children at Lanphey, hard by Pembroke, and our leech said that he would take
no harm from the voyage. It is calm enough, and not so cold but that we may hap him up against
it. If I may take him, I will pay well for his passage."

Thorgils looked at me again for a moment.

"Well," he said, "if that is all, I do not mind. It would be better if the after cabin was
empty, but of course the princess has that. There is room for him to be stowed comfortably
enough under the fore deck with your bales, however, and it will be warm there. Ay, we will
take the poor soul home, for his mind will be easier, and that will help his healing. It is
ill to be laid up in a strange land. Get him on board as soon as you can, for there is but
an hour to wait for tide. I will ask no pay for his passage, for he is but another bale of
goods, as it were, swaddled up in that wise, and I told you that I would take all you liked
to bring for what we agreed on."

Evan thanked him, and Thorgils laughed, turning away to go up the town, and saying that he
would be back anon. I groaned again as he passed me, and he looked straight in my eyes, which
were all that he could see of me.

"Better on board than in that litter, poor fellow," he said kindly; "it is a smooth sea, and
we shall see Tenby in no long time if this breeze holds."

He passed on with a nod and smile, and I could almost have wept in my rage and despair. I could
not have thought of anything more cruel than this, and there was a sour grin on Evan's face,
as if he knew what was passing in my mind.

Now they lifted me once more and carried me to the ship, setting me down amidships while they
got the bales of goods on board. She was a stout trading vessel, built for burden more than
speed, but she seemed light in the water, as though she had little cargo for this voyage. She
had raised decks fore and aft, and there were low doors in the bulkheads below them that seemed
to lead to some sort of cabins. Under the forward of these decks the outlaws began to stow
their bales, the man who had called Thorgils ashore directing them.

I lay just at the gangway, and a little on one side so as not to block it, and I watched all
that went on, helplessly. There was no one near me, or I think that I should have made some
desperate effort to call a Norseman to my help. Maybe Evan thought me safer here than nearer
the place where all were busy, as yet, but presently I heard voices on the wharf as if some
newcomers were drawing near, and Evan heard them also, and left his cargo to hasten to my side.
I saw that he looked anxious, and a little hope of some fresh chance of escape stirred in me,
though, as they had carried me on board feet foremost, I could not see who came.

When they were close at hand their voices told me that one at least was a lady, and that she
and her companions were Welsh. I supposed that this was the princess of whom I had heard Thorgils
speak just now. I should know in a moment, for the first footsteps were on the long gangplank
and pattering across it, while Evan began to smile and bow profoundly.

Then there came past my litter, stepping daintily across the planks, a most fair and noble
lady, tall and black haired and graceful, wrapped against the sea air in the rare beaver skins
of the Teifi River, and wonderful stuffs that the traders from the east bring to Marazion,
such as we Saxons seldom see but as priceless booty, paid for with lives of men in war with
West Wales in days not long gone by.

She half turned as she saw me, and it gave me a little pang, as it were, to see her draw her
dress aside that it might by no means touch me, no doubt with the same fear of fever that had
been in the mind of my friend at the first. But then she stayed and looked at me and at Evan,
who was yet cringing in some Welsh way of respect as she passed. Her companions stopped on
the gangplank, and they were silent.

"Why is this sick man on the ship," she said to my captor, with some little touch of haughtiness.
"And why is he swathed thus? What is wrong with him?"

Evan bowed again, and at once began his tale as he had told it to Thorgils. But he did not
say that I came from near Pembroke at all. Now he named some other place whose name began with
"Llan--" as my home.

"The good shipmaster has suffered me to take him home, Lady, subject to your consent," he ended.
"I pray you let it be so."

Now the eyes of the princess had grown soft as she heard the tale, and when Evan ended it there
was pity in her voice as she answered.

"Surely he may come, and if there is no fitting place for him he shall even have the cabin
to himself. I can be well content in these warm things of mine on deck in this calm air, and
he must have all shelter."

"Nay, Lady, but there is the fore cabin, where he will be well bestowed," Evan said hastily,
beckoning at the same time to his comrades that they might take me from this too unsafe place
at once.

He kept himself between me and her as much as he could all this time, and I made no sign. It
seemed to me that I could not, even in my trouble, bring more pain to this soft-eyed princess
by raising the groan which was all that I could compass. What good would it do? I could tell
her nothing, and she could not dream of the true reason that made me try to cry out. Maybe
she would listen through all the long hours to come to hear if the poor wretch she felt for
was yet in that dire pain that made him moan so terribly.

"Is he well bandaged?" she said, then. "It is ill if broken bones are not closely set and splinted,
and the ship will plunge and rock presently."

Evan assured her with many words that all was well done, and yet she lingered.

"I must see him well and softly bestowed in his place," she said, half laughing, and turning
to some who stood yet beyond my range of sight. "Else I shall have no peace at all till we
come to land again."

Evan turned to me at that saying, to hide his face. He was growing ashy pale, and the sweat
was breaking out on his forehead. And that made me glad to see, for he was being punished.
Even yet the princess might wish to see that my swathings were comfortable, and if I once had
my mouth freed for a moment all was lost to him.

He signed to his comrades to lift me carefully, and then put a bold face on the matter, and
thanked the princess for her kindness.

"Lady, I may be glad to beg a warm wrap or two from your store," he said. "If it pleases you,
we will shew you where he is to lie."

So they went forward, I on my litter first, and the lady and her people following. Evan knew
well enough that little fault could be found with the warm place that was ready for me among
the bales under the deck, and he was eager to get me out of sight before Thorgils returned.
They had made a place ready with some of the softer bales for me to lie on, and there they
lifted me from the litter, very carefully indeed, that they might not have to rearrange any
of my bonds. Then the princess looked in through the low doorway and seemed content.

"It is as well as one can expect on board a ship, I suppose," she said, with a little sigh.
"But I will send him somewhat to cover him well."

And then she bade me farewell, bidding me be patient for the little while of the voyage, and
also adding that presently, when she was at home, she would ask Govan the hermit to pray for
me; and so went her way, with the two maidens who were with her, and followed by a couple of
well-armed warriors, all of whom I could see now for the first time.

Then Evan drew his hand over his forehead and cursed. As for the other Welshmen, they looked
at one another, saying nothing, but I could see that they also had been fairly terrified. One
of the men of the princess came with a warm blanket to cover me, and he stayed to see it put
over me. It was as well that he did so, for Evan had no time to see that my arm was yet loose,
unless he had forgotten that it ever had been so. Then they all went out, shutting the door
after them, and I was left to my thoughts, which were not happy.

I began to blame myself as a fool for not trying to let the princess see that all was not right.
But still I could not lose hope, for Thorgils might yet wish to see me, or the princess might
send her men to look in on me. There were more chances now than a little while ago, as I thought.

I began to think over all that were possible, presently, and I tried to get the gag from my
mouth. I could not reach it with my free hand, however, my elbows being too tightly fastened
back even after all the shaking of the journey. Then I thrust that free hand and forearm well
among the bandages across my chest, so that either of my captors who thought of it might think
that the other had bound it, for I dared not try to loosen myself more yet. There would be
time for that when we were fairly at sea.

After that I lay still, and so spied the bale in which my sword had been put, and that gave
me some sort of hope by its nearness to me, though indeed it did not seem likely that I should
ever get it.

I heard Thorgils come on board before very long, and I could hear also the voice of the princess
as she talked to him, though with the length of the vessel between us, and the wash of the
ripples alongside in my ears, I did not make out if they spoke of me. Evan spoke with them
also, and it is likely that they did so.

Presently I could tell by the sway of the ship that she was afloat, and the men began to bustle
about the deck overhead, while Thorgils shouted some orders now and then. Soon the sides of
the ship grated along the wharf as she was hauled out, and then the shore warps were hove on
board with a thud above me. I felt the lift of a little wave and heard the rattle of the halliards
as the sail was hoisted and the ship heeled a little, and then began the cheerful wash and
bubble of the wave at her bows as she went to sea. The men hailed friends on shore with last
jests and farewells, and then fell to clearing up the shore litter from the decks.

Then Evan came and looked at me. Through the door I could see the hills and the harbour beyond
the high stern, and on that Thorgils was steering, with his eyes on the vane at the masthead.
His men were coiling down ropes, and Evan's two men were sitting under the weather gunwale
aft, talking with the guards of the princess. She was in the after cabin, I suppose, out of
the way of the wind, with her maidens. I could not see her.

"Art all well, friend?" said Evan, loudly enough for the nearest Norseman to hear. "Well, that
is good."

Then he sunk his voice to a whisper, and said: "That gag bides in your mouth, let me tell you.
I will risk no more calling to the shipmaster."

He cast his eyes over me and grunted, and went out, leaving the low door open so that he could
see me at any time. It was plain that he thought his men had fastened my arm.

Now I tried to get rid of the gag again, and I will say that the outlaw knew how to manage
that business. It filled my mouth, and the bandage round the jaw held it firmly. In no way
could I get it out, or so much as loosen it enough to speak. And then I was worn out, and the
little heave of the ship lulled me, and I forgot my troubles in sleep that came suddenly.

I was waked by the clapping to of the cabin door and the thunder of the wind in the great square
sail as the ship went on the other tack. We had a fair breeze from the southwest over our quarter
as the tide set up channel, but now it had turned and Thorgils was wearing ship. The new list
of the deck flung the door to, and none noticed it, for it was dark now except for the light
of the rising moon, and I suppose that the other noises of the ship prevented Evan hearing
that the door had closed.

I felt rested with the short sleep, and now seemed the time to try to get free if ever. I got
my left hand out of the bandages where I had hidden it, and began to claw at my chin to try
to free it from the swathings that kept my mouth closed, but I could hardly get at them, so
tightly were my elbows lashed behind my back, and it became plain that I must get them loose
first if I could. It was easy to get the bandages loose, but the knotted cord was a different
matter, for the men who tied it knew something of the work, and the cord was not a new one
and would not stretch.

Then I heard two of the Norseman talking close to the cabin bulkhead.

"This is as good a passage as we shall ever make in the old keel," one said; "but we shall
not fetch Tenby on this tide. Will Thorgils put in elsewhere, I wonder?"

"We could make the old landing place in an hour," was the answer, "and we had better wait for
tide there than box about in the open channel in this cold. There is snow coming, I think."

I heard the man flap his arms across his chest, and the other said:

"Where do these merchants want to get ashore? I expect that Thorgils will do as they think
best. He is pretty good natured."

They went away, and it seemed that I might have an hour before me. I was sure that if he had
a chance Evan would land as soon as he could, and at some other place than at the Danes' town
if possible, so that he might get me away without questions that might be hard to answer.

So I strained at the cords which bound my elbows with all my might, but I only hurt myself
as the lashings drew tighter. I twisted from side to side as I did this, and presently hit
my elbow hard against some metal fitting of the ship that seemed very sharp. Just at first
I did not heed this, but by and by, when I had fairly tired myself with struggling, I minded
it again, and so turned on my side and set my free hand to work to find out what it was.

There was a stout post which came from beneath and through the rough flooring of the cabin
on which I lay, and went upward to the deck. I daresay it was to make the cable fast to, but
I could not see that, nor did it matter to me what it might be for. But what I had felt was
a heavy angle iron that was bolted by one arm to the post and by the other to a thick beam
that crossed the ship from side to side, so as to bind the two together. It had a sharp edge
on the part which crossed the floor, and it seemed to me as if it had been set there on purpose,
for if I could manage to reach it rightly I might chafe through the cords at my back. Of course,
there was the chance of Evan coming in and seeing what I was at, but I could keep my covering
on me, maybe, and if Thorgils came, so much the better. He would see that something was amiss.

It was no easy task to get myself in such wise that the cord was fairly on the edge of the
iron, but I did it at last, and, moreover, I got the thick blanket that was over me to cover
me afresh. Then I started to try to chafe the cord through, and of course I could only move
a little at a time, and I could not be sure that I was always rubbing it on the same place.
And the great post was sorely in my way, over my shoulder more or less, so that I must needs
hurt myself now and then against it. But as this seemed my one chance I would not give up until
I must.

Every now and then I stayed my sawing and had a great tug at the cords, in hopes that they
would give way, but at last I knew I must saw them through almost to the last strand. It would
have been easy if I could keep at work on the same spot, but that was impossible, for I could
not see behind me, and the post kept shifting me as I struck it.

I wondered now that I had seen nothing of Evan for so long. Maybe if I had not been so busy
the wonder would have passed, for I should have been seasick as he was. There was some sea
over on this coast, and quite enough to upset a landsman. However, I was content that he did
not come, without caring to know why.

Then I became aware that the movement of the ship had changed in some way. There was less of
it, and the roll was longer. Soon I heard Thorgils calling to his men, and then the creak of
the blocks and the thud of folds of canvas on deck told me that the sail was lowered. After
that the long oars rattled as they were run out, and their even roll and click in the rowlocks
seemed to say that they were making up to some anchorage or wharf. The end of the voyage was
at hand, and I worked harder than ever at my bonds. I began to fear that the cords would never
chafe through enough for me to snap them, and my heart fell terribly.

Now there was a shout from Thorgils, and his men stopped rowing. I heard another shout from
on shore, as it seemed, and the sound of breakers on rocks was not so very distant as we slipped
into smooth water. The men trampled across the deck over my head and cast the mooring ropes
ashore, and then the ship scraped along a landing stage of some sort and came to rest. I worked
wildly at the rope.

Judging from the voices I heard, there seemed to be a number of people on shore, and soon I
heard steps coming along the deck towards the cabin door. Hastily I straightened myself, and
got a fold of my blanket over my free forearm just as it opened, and Evan peered in. Past his
shoulder I could see that it was bright moonlight, and I had a glimpse of tall snow-covered
cliffs that towered over us.

"How goes it, friend?" he cried in a loud voice. "Hast slept well? We are in your own land,
and will be ashore soon."

That was for others to hear. Then he stood aside to let a little more light into the cabin,
and it seemed that he had no suspicions that all was not as he would have it. He came inside
and felt me carelessly enough.

"Well," he said. "You are warm in here, and no mistake. If I mistake not, you have been trying
to wriggle out of these bonds."

He set his hand under some of the lashings and pulled them without uncovering me much, though
it would not have mattered if he had done so, as it was very dark in here.

As I knew only too well, they were fast as ever, and he said:

"Well, we can tie a knot fairly. Presently we will loosen you a bit--in the morning maybe."

He went and closed the door, and I fell to work again. He would leave me now for a while.

There was a long talk from ship to shore before the gangplank was run out, and presently Thorgils
spoke to Evan, seemingly close to the cabin door:

"Here's a bit of luck for your princess," he said. "Her father is up in the camp yonder, with
his guards behind him. Maybe there is trouble with the Tenby Danefolk, or going to be some.
It is as well that we put in here. Now he bids us take the lady up to him and bide to feast
with him, Will you come with me?"

"I stay by my goods," answered Evan, with a laugh. "If there is a levy in the camp there will
be men who will need watching among them."

"Why, then, we six Norsemen can go, and leave you to tend the ship."

"That will be all right," said Evan, somewhat gladly, as I thought; "so long as we are here
you need have no fear. Every one knows that a chapman will fight for his goods if need be.
But a Welshman will not meddle with a Welshman's goods."

"So long as he is there to mind them," laughed Thorgils. "Then we can go. I do not know how
soon we can be back, though."

"That is no matter. We are used to keeping watch."

"Ay. How is that hurt friend of yours after the voyage?"

"Well as one could expect," answered Evan, "He says he has slept almost all the way. He is
comfortable where he is."

They went aft, and soon I heard the princess speaking with them. Then the well-known click
and clash of armed men marching in order came to me, as the chief sent a guard for his daughter.
It was terrible to hear the voices of honest men so close to me and to be helpless, and I worked
at the rope feverishly.

I heard the princess and her party leave the ship, and almost as the last footstep left the
deck one strand of the cord went. I worked harder yet, with a great hope on me.

"Presently the Norsemen will be full of Howel's mead," I heard Evan say to one of his men.
"Then we will get ashore and leave swiftly. I think we need not stay to pay Thorgils for the
voyage."

"Let us tell some of the shore men to bide here to help us," said the other--"we have the Saxon
to carry."

"That is a good thought."

They clattered over the plank ashore, and another strand of the rope went at that time. I thought
it was but one of another turn of the line, however. Five minutes more of painful sawing and
straining and I felt another strand give way. That made three, and now one of the two turns
of line that held my arms could have but one strand left, and that ought to be no more than
I could break by force. Then I wrestled with it with little care if my struggles as I bent
and strove made noise that might call attention to me, for it was my last chance. The lines
bruised and cut me sorely, even through my mail, but I heeded that no more than I did the hardness
of the timbers against which I rolled; and at last it did snap, with a suddenness that let
my elbow fly against the iron that had been my saving, almost forcing a cry from me.

I was yet bound to my splints, but with my arms free it was but the work of a few seconds to
cast off the last of my bonds, and within five minutes after the strand had parted I was on
my feet, and rubbing and stretching my bruised and cramped limbs into life again. Then I felt
in the darkness for the bale that held my gear, and found it and tore it open.

How good it was to gird the sword on me again, and to feel the cold rim of the good helm round
my hot forehead! I was myself again, and as I slipped Gerent's gold ring on my arm I thought
that it was almost worth the bondage to know what pleasure can be in the winning of freedom.
I forgot that I was troubled with thirst and hunger, having touched nothing since I broke my
fast with Owen; though, indeed, there was little matter in that, for I had done well at that
meal with the long ride before me, and one ought to be able to go for a day and a night without
food if need be, as a warrior.

Still, I was not yet out of the trouble. Thorgils had gone to some place that I knew nothing
of, and I had yet to learn if there was any hope from Evan's shore going, which might make
things easier or might not. I could hear no one moving about the ship, so I pushed the door
open for an inch or two, and looked out into the moonlight, with my drawn sword ready in my hand.

We were in a strange place. The ship's bows were landward, so that as I looked aft I could
see that we lay just inside the mouth of a little cove, whose guarding cliffs towered on either
side of the water for not less than ten-score feet above the fringe of breakers, falling sheer
to the water with hardly so much as a jutting rock at their feet. There was no sign of house
or man at the hilltop, so that it was plain that we were not at Tenby.

Then I was able to see that we were alongside a sort of landing place that was partly natural
and partly hewn and smoothed from the living rock into a sort of wharf at the foot of the cliff.
From this landing place a steep road, hewn with untold labour at some ancient day, slanted
sharply upward and toward the head of the cove along the face of the rocks, which were somewhat
less steep on this side than across the water. I could not see the top of this road, but no
doubt it was that along which Thorgils and the princess had gone, and no doubt also Evan thought
to carry me up it before long.

I had a hope that my friend would return too soon for that, but it was a slender one. It was
plain that he had gone too far for me to call to him. Yet could I win clear of the ship I might
find or fight my way up after him, and that seemed easy with only these three Welshmen against
me, and they expecting no attack.

I looked for the two who were left if I slew Evan. One sat under the weather gunwale, wrapped
in a great cloak, and seemed to be sleeping. The other was not far off on the landing place,
watching Evan, who was speaking with a dozen men at the foot of the rock-hewn road. I suppose
that the coming in of the ship had drawn idlers from the camp I had heard of to see her, for
they all had arms of some sort.

This was bad, for it seemed certain that the whole crowd would join with Evan in falling on
me if he called on them. If I came forth now I had full twenty yards to cover before I reached
them from the ship's side after I had settled with the men on watch. In that space all would
be ready for me, and they were too many for me to cut through to the roadway. I thought too
that I heard the voices of more who came downward toward the ship, though I could not see them
whence I was.

Then it came into my mind that if there was any place where I could hide myself on deck I would
try to creep to it while none had their eyes on the ship. Then Evan, as he went to the cabin
to seek me, would have to deal with me from the rear. But that I soon saw was hopeless. The
deck was clear of lumber big enough to shelter me, and the moonlight was almost as bright as
day on everything, and all the clearer for the snow that covered all the land. So I began to
turn over many other plans in my mind, and at last it seemed that the only thing was to wait
in the cabin for the best chance that offered. Most likely Evan would do even as he had said,
and try and get away at once, with all he could lay hands on. If so, I thought it would be
certain that in his hurry he would bring all these men on board in order to get his goods,
and maybe those belonging to Thorgils also, out and away with all haste, and so I could cut
through them with a rush that must take them unawares, and so win to the camp with none to
hinder me. There might be sentries who would stay me, but I should be within calling distance
of my friend. Moreover, a sentry would see that I was some sort of a leader of men, and might
help me. So I began to wish for Evan to act, for my fingers itched to get one downward blow at him.

I had not long to wait. He finished his talk with the men, and they all came to the ship, even
as I had hoped. But only half of them came on board, leaving the rest alongside on the rock
so that they might help the goods over the side. That was not all that I could have wished,
but I thought that I might get through them in the surprise that was waiting for them. So I
drew my sword, and for want of shield wrapped the blanket from the floor round my left arm,
and stood by for the rush.

Evan walked in a leisurely way toward the door, talking to one of the newcomers as he came.
The rest straggled behind him.

"I wonder how my sick man fares now," he said, and set his hand to the latch.

Then he opened the door and I shouted and sprung forth, aiming a blow at him as I came. But
I was not clear of the low deck, and my sword smote the beam overhead so that I missed him,
and he threw himself on the deck out of reach of a second blow, howling. I was sorry, but I
could not stop, for I had to win to the shore and to the road yet.

The other men shrank from me, and I went through them easily, and so reached the shoreward
gunwale. There I was stayed, for Evan had never ceased to cry to his fellows to stop me, and
there was a row of ready swords waiting for me. And there were more men coming down the path,
Welshmen as I could see by their arms, and by their white tunics which glimmered in the moonlight.
So that was closed to me, and it seemed that here I must fight my last fight.

Then as I could not go over the side I went to the high stern and leapt on it, half hoping
that the men on shore might not be quick enough to stay me from a leap thence, but they were
there alongside before me. Evan was up now, and cheering on the men on deck to attack me, but
not seeming to care to lead them. They gathered together and came aft to me slowly, planning,
as it would seem, how best to attack me, for the steering deck on which I was raised me four
feet or so above them. The men on shore could not reach me at all unless I got too near the
gunwale, when some of them who had spears might easily end me.

Something alongside the ship caught my eyes, and I glanced at it with a thought that here might
be fresh foes. But it was only the little boat that belonged to the ship. The wind had caught
her, and was drifting her at the length of her painter as if she wanted to cross the cove to
its far side. Perhaps the men saw that my eyes were not on them for that moment, for they made
a rush from the deck to climb the steering platform.

Then I had a good fight for a few minutes, until I swept them back to their place. Two had
won to the deck beside me, and there they stayed. Now I had a hope that the men on shore would
come round to the ship and leave the way clear for me, but Evan called to them to bide where
they were. He had not faced me yet, and I bade him do so, telling him that this was his affair,
and that it was nidring to risk other men's lives to save his own skin. But even that would
not bring him on me.

Now the men whom I had seen coming down from the cliffs' top had hurried to see what all the
shouting meant, and I saw that they were well-armed warriors and mostly spearsmen. Evan cried
to them to come and help, and they ranged up alongside. He told them that I was a Norseman
who had gone berserk, and must needs be slain.

"That is easily managed," said the leader. "Get to your bows, men."

I saw half a dozen unslinging them, and I knew that without shield I was done, and in that
moment a thought came to me. I suppose that danger sharpens one's wits, for I saw that in the
little boat was my last chance. I had not time to draw her to the side, and so I cut her painter,
which was fast to a cleat close to me, and as I did so the first arrow missed my head.

Then I shouted and leapt from the high stern straight among the crowd at Evan, felling one
of his outlaw comrades as I lit on the deck. But I could not reach him, and in a few seconds
I should have been surrounded. So I cleared a way to the seaward side and went overboard, amid
a howl from my foes. I thought that I should never stop sinking, for I had forgotten my mail;
but I came to the surface close to the ship, and looked for the boat. She was drifting gently
away from me, and I knew that I should have all that I could do to reach her before the bowmen
got to work again from the ship's deck. Some one threw an axe at me as I swam, which was waste
of a good weapon, and I hoped that it was not Thorgils' best. Strange what thoughts come to
a man when in a strait.

The water struck icy cold to me, and I felt that I could not stand it long, but I gained on
the boat with every stroke, though it was hard work swimming in my mail and with a sword in
my hand. I got rid of the blanket that was hampering my left arm, and by that time I was far
enough from the ship for my foes to be puzzled by it. The moonlight was bright on the water,
but the little waves tossed it so that it must have been hard for them to know which was I
and which the floating stuff. Certainly, the first arrows that were shot when the bowmen got
a chance at me from the ship or over her were aimed at the blanket, for I heard them strike
it. Then one leapt from wave to wave past me.

I won to the boat just in time, for I could not have held on much longer. The cold was numbing
me, and if I stopped swimming I must have sunk with the weight of mail. None of our old summer
tricks of floating and the like were of any use with that weight on me. The arrows were coming
thickly by that time, and I was glad to get to the far side of the boat and rest my hand on
the gunwale, while I managed to sheathe my sword. The men could not see plainly where I was,
and the arrows pattered on the planks of the boat and hissed into the water still, on the chance
of hitting me. So I thought it well to get out of range before I tried to get on board, and
so held the gunwale with one hand and paddled on with the other, until the arrows began to
fall short, and at last ceased. A Welshman's bow has no long range, so that I had not far to
go thus. But all the while I feared most of all to hear the plash of oars that would tell me
that they had put off another boat in chase of me.

A little later and I should have been helpless, as I found when I tried to get into the boat.
The cold was terrible, and it had hold of my limbs in spite of the swimming. It was hard work
climbing over the bows, as I must needs do unless I wanted to capsize the light craft as I
had overset a fisher's canoe more than once, by boarding her over the side, as we sported in
the Glastonbury meres in high summer; but I managed it, and was all the better for the struggle,
which set the blood coursing in my veins again. Then I got out the oars and began to pull away
from the ship, with no care for direction so long as I could get away from her.

The foe had no boat, for they were all clustered in the ship or close to her on the rock, and
there was a deal of noise going on among them. When I was fairly out of their way, and I could
no longer make out their forms, I began to plan where I had best go, and at first I thought
of a little beach that I had seen on the far side of the cove, thinking that I could get up
what seemed a gorge to the cliff's top, and so hide inland somewhere. But when I could see
right into the gorge, I found that it was steep and higher than I thought. My foes would be
able to meet me by the time I was at the top.

There was no other place that I could see, for none could climb from the foot of the cliffs
elsewhere, since if he reached the rocks he would have to stay where he leapt to them. So as
there was no help for it, I headed for the open sea. No doubt, I thought, I should find some
landing place along the coast before I had gone far, and meanwhile I was getting a fair start
of the enemy, who would have to follow the windings of the cliffs if they cared to come after me.

I pulled therefore for the eastern end of the cove, opposite to the place where the ship lay,
and so rounded the point and was out in the open and tossing on the waves in a way that tried
my rowing sorely, for I am but a fresh-water boatman. Lucky it was for me that there was little
sea on, or I should have fared badly. Then I pulled eastward, and against the tide also, but
that was a thing that I did not know.

The boat was wonderfully light and swift, and far less trouble to send along than any other
I had seen. There are no better shipwrights than the Norsemen, and we Saxons have forgotten
the craft.

The terrible numbness passed off as I worked, but now the wind grew cold, and the clouds were
working up from the southwest quickly, with wind overhead that was not felt here yet. I knew
that I must make some haven soon, or it was likely that I should be frozen on the sea, but
the great cliffs were like walls, and at their feet was a fringe of angry foam everywhere.
I could see no hope as yet. Far away to the east of me a great headland seemed to bar my way,
but I did not think that I should ever reach it. And all the while I looked to see the black
forms of men on the cliffs in the moonlight, but they did not come. That was good at least.

Then at last my heart leapt, for I saw, as a turn of the cliffs opened out to me, another white
beach with a cleft of the rocks running up from it, and I thought it best to take the chance
it gave me, for I feared the blinding snow that would be here soon, and I felt that the sea
was rising. If my foes were after me they would have been seen before now, as they came to
the edge of the cliffs to spy me out, and anyway I dreaded them less than the growing cold.
Moreover, I thought that Evan would hardly get many men to follow him on a chase of what he
had told them was a madman, and a dangerous one at that. He had his goods to see to also.

So I ran the boat into the black mouth of the gorge, and beached her well by good chance. I
had little time to lose, but I tied her painter to a rock at the highest fringe of tide wrack,
in hopes that she might be safe. It was so dark here that I did not think that Evan would see
her from above. And then I began to climb up the rugged path that led out of the gorge to the
hilltops.

There were bones everywhere in it. Bones and skulls of droves of cattle on all the strand above
the tide mark for many score yards. Their ribs stuck out from the snow everywhere, and the
sightless eye sockets grinned at me as I stumbled over them. But I had no time to wonder how
they came there, for I must get to the summit before Evan and his men reached it by their way
along the cliff. I ate handfuls of the snow and quenched my thirst that was growing on me again,
and my strength began to come back to me as I hurried upward. I was a better man when at last
I reached the top of the gorge than when I came ashore.

Now I halted before I lifted my head above the skyline, and listened with a fear on me lest
I should hear the sound of running feet, and I was the more careful because I knew that the
snow which lay white and deep on all the open land might deaden any sounds thereof. But I heard
nothing save the wail of the wind overhead as it rose in gusts. I wondered if Thorgils would
be able to bide in this little cove, or must needs put out to seek some other haven. There
seemed to be a swell setting into it.

So I crept yet farther up the path, crouching behind a point of rock, and thence I saw a dark
line on the snow that seemed to promise a road, and that must surely lead to some house or
village. I went forward to it with all caution, and with my head over my shoulder, as they
say, but I saw no man. This track led east and west, and was well trodden by cattle, but there
were few footprints of men on it, so far as I could see. So I turned into it, going ever away
from the ship, and hurrying. I had a thought that I heard shouts behind me, but there was more
wind here on the heights than I had felt on the sea, or it was rising, and it sung strangely
round the bare points of rock that jutted up everywhere. Maybe it was but that.

Inland I could see no sign of house or hut where I might find food at least, but the cloud
wrack had drifted across the moon, and I could not see far now. It was a desolate coast, all
unlike our own.

Then I came to a place where the track crossed stony ground and was lost in gathered snow.
When I was across that I had lost the road altogether, and had only the line of the cliffs
to guide me to what shelter I could not tell. And now a few flakes of snow fluttered round
me, and I held on hopelessly, thinking that surely I should come to some place that would give
me a lee of rock that I could creep under.

Then the snow swooped down on me heavily, with a whirl and rush of wind from the sea, and I
tried to hurry yet more from the chill. Then I was sure that I heard voices calling after me,
and I ran, not rightly knowing where to go, but judging that the coastline would lead me to
some fishers' village in the end. There seemed no hope from the land I had seen.

Again the voices came--nay, but there was one voice only, and it called me by my name: "Oswald,
Oswald!"

I stopped and listened, for I thought of Thorgils. But the voice was silent, and again I pressed
on in the blinding snow, and at once it came, wailing:

"Oswald, Oswald!"

It was behind me now and close at hand, and I turned with my hand on my sword hilt. But there
was nothing. Only the snow whirled round me, and the wind sung in the rocks. I called softly,
but there was no answer, and I was called no more as I stood still.

"Oswald, Oswald!"

I had turned to go on my way when it came this time, and now I could have sworn that I knew
the voice, though whose it was I could not say.

"Who calls me," I cried, facing round.

Then a chill that was not of cold wind and snow fell on me, for there was silence, and into
my mind crept the knowledge of where I had last heard that voice. It was long years ago--at
Eastdean in half-forgotten Sussex.

"Father!" I cried. "Father!"

There was no reply, and I stood there for what seemed a long time waiting one. I called again
and again in vain.

"It is weakness," I said to myself at last, and turned.

At once the voice was wailing, with some wild terror as it seemed, at my very shoulder, with
its cry of my name, and I must needs turn once more sharply:

"Oswald, Oswald!"

My foot struck a stone as I wheeled round, and it grated on others and seemed to stop. But
as I listened for the voice I heard a crash, and yet another, and at last a far-off rumble
that was below my very feet, and I sprang with a cry away from the sound, for I knew that I
stood on the very brink of some gulf. And then the snow ceased for a moment and the moon shone
out from the break in the clouds, and I saw that my last footprint whence the voice had made
me turn was on the edge of an awesome rift that cleft the level surface on the downland, clean
cut as by a sword stroke, right athwart my path. Even in clear daylight I had hardly seen that
gulf until I was on its very brink, for I could almost have leapt it, and nought marked its
edge. And in its depths I heard the crash and thunder of prisoned waves.

I do not know that I ever felt such terror as fell on me then. It was the terror that comes
of thinking what might have been, after the danger is past, and that is the worst of all. I
sank down on the snow with my knees trembling, and I clutched at the grass that I might not
feel that I must even yet slip into that gulf that was so close, though there was no slope
of the ground toward it. Sheer and sudden it gaped with sharp edges, as the mouth of some monster
that waited for prey.

There on the snow I believe that I should have bided to sleep the sleep of the frozen, for
I hardly dared to move. The snow whirled round me again, but I did not heed it, and with a
great roar the wind rose and swept up the rift with a sound as of mighty harps, but it did
not rouse me. Only my father's voice came to me again and called me, and I rose up shaking
and followed it as it came from time to time, until I was once more on the track that I had lost.

There it left me, but the sadness that had been in its tones was gone when it last came. And
surely that was the touch of no snowflake that lit on my hand for a moment and was gone.

Now I grew stronger, and the fear of the unseen was no longer on me, and I battled onward with
wind and snow for a long way. Thanks to the wind, the track was kept clear of the snow, and
I did not lose it again until it led me to help that was unlooked for.

There came the sound of a bell to me, strange sounding indeed, but a bell nevertheless, and
I knew that somewhere close at hand was surely some home of monks who would take me in with
all kindness. And presently the track led me nearer to the sound of the sea, and at last bent
sharply to the right and began to go downhill, while the sound of the bell grew plainer above
the roar of nearer breakers yet. I felt that I was passing down such a gorge as that up which
I had come from the boat, but far narrower, for I had not gone far before I could touch the
rocky walls with either hand. Then I came to steps, and they were steep, but below me still
sounded the bell, and the hoarse breakers were very near at hand. I expected to see the lights
of some little fishing village every moment, but the wind that rushed up the narrow space between
the cliff walls and brought the salt spray with it almost blinded me.

Suddenly the stairway turned so sharply that I almost fell, and then I found my way downward
barred by what seemed a great rough-faced rock that was right across the gorge, if one may
call a mere cleft in the cliffs so, and barred my way, while the strange bell sounded from
beyond it. But it was sheltered under this barrier, and I felt along it to find out where I
had to climb over, thinking that the stairway must lead up its face. But there was no stair,
and as I groped my hand came on cut stone, and when I felt it I knew that I had come to a doorway,
for I found the woodwork, but in no way could I find how it opened.

I kicked on it, therefore, and shouted, but it seemed that none heard. The bell went on and
then stopped, and I thought I heard footsteps on the far side of the barrier. They came nearer,
and then were almost at the door, paused for a moment, and then the door was opened and the
red light from a fire flashed out on me, showing the tall form of a man in monk's dress in
its opening.

"Come in, my son," said a grave voice, speaking Welsh, that had no wonder in it, though one
could hardly have expected to see an armed and gold-bedecked Saxon here in the storm.

I stumbled into what I had thought a rock, and found when my eyes grew used to the light that
I was in a house built of great stones, uncemented but wonderfully fitted together, and warm
and bright with the driftwood fire, though I heard the spray rattle on the roof of flat stones,
and the wind howled strangely around the walls. Both ends of this house were of the living
rock of the sides of the gorge, and at one end seemed to be a sort of cave with a narrow entrance.

The man who had bidden me in stood yet at the open door looking out on his staircase, but he
did not bide there long. With a sigh he turned and closed the door and came in, hardly looking
at me, but turning toward the cave I had just noticed. He was an old man, very old indeed,
with a long white beard and pale face lined with countless wrinkles, and he stooped a little
as he walked. But his face was calm and kind, though he did not smile at me, and I felt that
here I was safe with one of no common sort.

"Come, my son," he said, "it is the hour of prime. Glad am I to have one with me after many days."

He waited for no answer, and I followed him for the few steps that led to the rock cavern;
and there was a tiny oratory with its altar and cross, and wax lights already burning.

The old man knelt in his place and I knelt with him, and as he began the office straightway
I knew how worn out I was, and of a sudden the lights danced before me and I reeled and fell
with a clatter and clash of arms on the rocky floor. I seemed to know that the old man turned
and looked and rose up from his knees hastily, and I tried to say that I was sorry that I had
broken the peace of this holy place; but he answered in his soft voice:

"Why, poor lad, I should have seen that you were spent ere this. The fault is mine."

He raised me gently, and seemed to search me for some wound. And as he did so I came more to
myself, and begged him to go on with his office.

"First comes care of the afflicted, my son, and after that may be prayer. In truth, to help
the fainting is in itself a prayer, as I think. Come to the fireside and tell me what is amiss."

"Fasting and fighting and freezing, father," I said, trying to laugh.

"Are you wounded?" he asked quickly.

"No, not at all."

"That is well. It is a brave heart that will jest in such a case as yours, for you are ice
from head to foot. Well, I had better hear your story, if you will tell it me, in the daylight.
Now get those wet garments off you and put on this. I will get you food, and you shall sleep."

This was surely the last place where my foes would think of looking for me, and the snow would
hide every trace of my path. So I made no delay, but took off my byrnie and garments. There
was a pool on the floor where I stood, for it was true enough that I had been ice covered.
Then I put on a rough warm brown frock with a cord round the waist, so that I looked like a
lay brother at Glastonbury, and all the while I waxed more and more sleepy with the comfort
of the place. But I wiped my arms carefully while the old priest was busy with a cauldron over
the fire, and we were ready at the same time.

Then I had a meal of some sort of stew that seemed the best I ever tasted, and a long draught
of good mead, while the host looked on in grave content. And then he spread a heap of dry seaweed
in a corner near the fire, and blessed me and bid me sleep. Nor did I need a second bidding,
and I do not think that I can have stirred from the time that I lay down to the moment when
I woke with a feeling on me that it was late in the daylight.

So it was, and I looked round for my kind host, but he was not to be seen. Outside the wind
was still strong, but not what it had been, for the gale was sinking suddenly as it rose, and
into the one little window the sun shone brightly enough now and then as the clouds fled across
it. There was a bright fire on the hearth, and over it hung a cauldron, whence steam rose merrily,
and it was plain that my friend of last night was not far off, so I lay still and waited his
return.

Then my eyes fell on my clothes and arms as they hung from pegs in the walls over against me,
and it seemed as if the steel of mail and helm and sword had been newly burnished. Then I saw
also that a rent in my tunic, made when my horse fell, had been carefully mended, and that
no speck of the dust and mire I had gathered on my garments from collar to hose was left. All
had been tended as carefully as if I had been at home, and I saw Elfrida's little brooch shining
where I had pinned it.

That took me back to Glastonbury in a moment, but I had to count before I could be sure that
it was but a matter of hours since I took that gift in the orchard, rather than of months.
And I wondered if Owen knew yet that I was lost, or if my men sought me still. Then my mind
went to Evan, the chapman outlaw, and I thought that by this time he would have given me up,
and would be far away by now, beyond the reach of Thorgils and his wrath.

Now the seaward door opened, and a swirl of spray from the breakers on the rocks came in with
my host, who set a great armful of drift wood on the floor, closed it, and so turned to me.

"Good morrow, my son," he said. "How fare you after rest?"

"Well as can be, father," I answered, sitting up. "Stiff I am, and maybe somewhat black and
blue, but that is all. I have no hurt. But surely I have slept long?"

"A matter of ten hours, my son, and that without stirring. You needed it sorely, so I let you
be. Now it is time for food, but first you shall have a bath, and that will do wonders with
the soreness."

Thankful enough was I of the great tub of hot water he had ready for me, and after it and a
good meal I was a new man. My host said nought till I had finished, and then it was I who broke
the silence between us.

"Father," I said, "I have much to thank you for. What may I call you?"

"They name me Govan the Hermit, my son."

"I do not know how to say all I would, Father Govan," I went on, "but I was in a sore strait
last night, and but for your bell I think I must have perished in the snow, or in some of the
clefts of these cliffs."

"I rang the bell for you, my son, though I knew not why. It came on me that one was listening
for some sign of help in the storm."

"How could you know?" I asked in wonder.

Govan shook his head.

"I cannot tell. Men who bide alone as I bide have strange bodings in their solitude. I have
known the like come over me before, and it has ever been a true warning."

Now it was my turn to be silent, for all this was beyond me. I had heard of hermits before,
but had never seen one. If all were like this old man, too much has not been said of their
holiness and nearness to unseen things.

So for a little while we sat and looked into the fire, each on a three-legged stool, opposite
one another. Then at last he asked, almost shyly, and as if he deemed himself overbold, how
it was that I had come to be on the cliffs. That meant in the end that he heard all my story,
of course, but my Welsh halted somewhat for want of use, and it was troublesome to tell it.
However, he heard me with something more than patience, and when I ended he said:

"Now I know how it is that a Saxon speaks the tongue of Cornwall here in Dyfed. You have had
a noble fostering, Thane, for even here we lamented for the loss of Owen the prince. We have
seen him in Pembroke in past years. You will be most welcome there with this news, for Howel,
our prince, loved him well. They are akin, moreover. It will be well that you should go to
him for help."

He rose up and went to the seaward door again, and I followed him out. The sea was but just
below us, for the tide was full, and the breakers were yet thundering at the foot of the cliffs
on either hand. But I did not note that at first, for the thing which held my eyes at once
was a ship which was wallowing and plunging past us eastward, under close reefed sail, and
I knew her for the vessel in which I had crossed. Thorgils had left the cove, and was making
for Tenby while he might. I should have to seek him there.

"How far is it to the Danes' town, Father Govan?" I asked. "Yonder goes my friend's ship."

"Half a day's ride, my son, and with peril for you all the way. Our poor folk would take you
for a Dane in those arms, and you have no horse. Needs must that you seek Howel, and he will
give you a guard willingly."

Then he turned toward a great rock that lay on the beach, as if it had fallen from the cliffs
that towered above us.

"Here is the bell that you heard last night," he said.

He took a rounded stone that lay on the rock and struck it, and I knew that the clear bell
note that it gave out was indeed that which had been my saving.

"Once I had a bell in the cote on the roof yonder," he said, "but the Danes caught sight of
it when they first passed this way, and took it from me. Then as I sorrowed that the lonely
shepherds and fishers might no more hear its call, I seemed to see a vision of an angel who
bade me see what had been sent me instead. And when I went out as the vision bade me, I could
see nought but this rock newly fallen, and was downcast. And so, from the cliff rolled a little
stone and smote it, and it rang, and I knew the gift. To my hearing it has a sweeter voice
than the bell made with hands."

Then he showed me his well, roofed in with flat stones because the birds would wash in it,
and so close to the sea salt that it seemed altogether wonderful that the water was fresh and
sweet. And then I saw that the cell did indeed stretch from side to side of the narrow cleft
down which I had come, so that each end of the building was of living rock.

"I built it with my own hands, my son," he said. "I cannot tell how long ago that was, for
time is nought to me, but it was many years. Once I wore arms and had another name, but that
also I care not to recall."

Then there came footsteps from above us, and looking up I saw a man in a rough fisher's dress
coming in haste down the long flight of rock-hewn steps that led from the cliff top down the
cleft to the door that I had found last night, and soon we heard him calling to the hermit.

Govan left me, and went through the cell to speak with him, but was back very shortly.

"Howel the prince is coming hither," he said. "The man you saw has seen him on the way, and
came to warn me to be at hand for him. It is well for you, my son, as I am sure."

So we went together into the house, and I thought to arm myself, but Govan smiled and asked
me not to do so, saying that hither even Howel would come without his weapons, in all likelihood.

I understood him, and did but see that my sword was in reach before I sat down and waited for
the coming of the Welsh prince, and I thought that all I need ask him was for help to reach
Tenby, whither Thorgils must have gone. It was quite likely that Evan might have raised the
country against me in hopes of taking me again. And maybe I would ask for justice on the said
Evan. Also I wanted to hear what had happened after my going.

It was not long that I had to wait. There came the tramp of horses at the top of the gorge,
and the sound of a voice or two, and then the tread of an armed man came slowly down the stair,
and Govan went to meet him. I rose and waited for his entry.

Now there came in, following Govan, unhelmed as he had greeted the holy man, a handsome, middle-aged
warrior, black haired and eyed and active looking. He wore the short heavy sword of the Roman
pattern, gold hilted and scabbarded, at his side, and the helm he carried had a high plumed
crest and hanging side pieces that seemed like those pictured on the walls of Gerent's palace.
He had no body armour on, and his dress was plain enough, of white woollen stuff with broad
crimson borders, but round his neck was a wonderful twisted collar of gold, and heavy golden
bracelets rang as his arms moved. I saw that his first glance went to me, and that his face
changed when he saw that I was not one of his own people, but a foreigner, as he would hold
me. I saw too that he noted my arms as they hung on the wall behind me.

Govan saw it also, and made haste to tell him who I was.

"This is one who should be welcome to you, Prince, for the sake of old days, for he has come
by mischance from Dyvnaint, being foster son of one of the princes of Gerent's court, though
a Saxon by birth. Nevertheless he speaks our tongue well. He will tell you all that presently,
and I think that he needs your help."

"I thought you one of our troublesome neighbours, the Danes," he said, with a smile now in
place of the look of doubt. "But if you are from Dyvnaint there are many things that you can
tell me. But I have come here to see that all is well with Father Govan, for there is talk
of a mad Norseman who is roving the country, unless the cold has ended him in the night. It
is good to see that nought is wrong here."

Now I stood apart, and Govan and his guest spoke together for a few moments before my turn
to tell Howel of my plight should come, and almost the next thing that the prince said made
me wonder that I had not thought who he was at once. Of course, he was the father of the kindly
princess who had crossed the sea with Thorgils, and had so nearly been the means of my earlier
rescue.

"Nona, my daughter, is here at the cliff top, Father Govan," Howel said. "She came home in
the Norse ship last night, as we planned; but tide failed for Tenby, and it chanced that the
ship had to put in at the old landing place. Now she wants to thank you for your prayers for
her, and also to beg them for some sick man about whom she is troubling herself--some poor
hurt knave of a trader who crossed in the ship with her."

"I will go out and speak with her," Govan said, smiling. "It is ever her way to think of the
troubled."

"Tell her that I will not keep her long in the cold," Howel said. "Bid her keep her horse walking,
lest he take chill, if I may ask as much, Father."

Govan threw his cowl over his head, and answered:

"I will tell her. Now, Prince, this friend of mine has come here in a strange way, and I think
he needs help that you can give him."

He passed out of the cliffward door and went his way up the long stairway. Then Howel asked
me how he could help me.

"Tell me about Dyvnaint also, for when I was a boy I was long at Gerent's court. Did not Govan
say that you were fostered by one of the princes? It is likely that I knew your foster father
well, if so; was he Morgan?"

"Not Morgan, but Owen," I answered, and at that Howel almost started to his feet.

"Owen!" he cried. "Does he yet live? Surely we all thought him dead, or else he had come hither
to us when he was banished. I loved him well in the old days, and glad I am that you are not
Morgan's charge. Tell me all about Owen. Is he home again?"

"Morgan is dead," I answered, feeling that here I had met with a friend in all certainty. "And
because of that, Owen is in his place again, and I am here. It has all happened in this week,
and to tell you of it is to tell you all my trouble."

Now he was all impatience to hear, and I told him all that needed to be told, until I came
to the time when Owen was back at Norton with the old king. Then he asked me some questions
about matters there, and in the midst of my answers sprang up.

"Why," he cried, "here I have forgotten the girl, and she ought to be hearing all this, instead
of sitting in the cold on the cliff. She is Owen's goddaughter, moreover, and he was here only
a little time before he was banished. She can remember him well."

"Stay, though," he said, sitting down again. "There is your own tale yet. Let us hear it. Maybe
that is not altogether so pleasant."

My own thought was that I was glad I might tell it without the wondering eyes of the fair princess
on me, being afraid in a sort of way of having her think of me as the helpless sick man she
had pitied. So I hastened to tell all that story.

And when I came to the way in which Evan brought me, Howel's eyes flashed savagely, and a black
scowl came over his handsome face, sudden as a thunderstorm in high summer.

"It will be a short shrift and a long rope for that Evan when I catch him," he said. "He comes
here every year, and I suppose that the goods I have had from him at times have been plunder.
I would that you had ended him last night. Now he has got away in peace, and is out of my reach,
maybe, by this time. Well, how went it?"

Then I told him the end of the tale, wondering how it was that Thorgils had let him go. I asked
the prince if he could explain that for me.

"Not altogether," he said. "Evan sent to me to ask me for men to guard the ship presently,
after we began the feast, saying that he was going ashore with his goods, and was responsible
to the shipmaster. I told Thorgils, and he said it was well. So I sent a guard, and presently
Evan came and spoke with Thorgils for a little while, and drank a cup of wine, and so went
his way. Next morning, before he sailed, Thorgils came and grumbled about the loss of his boat,
saying that Evan had taken some sick friend of his ashore in her, and that she had not come
back. I paid him for it too, because I like the man, and so does my daughter. He sailed, and
then I heard of the fight for the first time."

Howel laughed a little to himself.

"Master Evan must have paid my rascals well to keep up the story of the sick man to Thorgils,
for he said nothing to me of any fight. Maybe, however, he never spoke to any of them, and
it is likely that they would not say much to him. And now, by the Round Table! if you are not
the mad Norseman they prated of to me when I wanted to know who slew the two men, and if you
are not the sick man that Nona is so anxious about! Here, she must come and see you!"

With that he got up and went to the door before I could stay him, and called gaily to the princess,
whose horse I could hear stamping high above us.

"Ho, Nona, here is a friend of yours whom you will be glad to see. Ask Father Govan to let
you come hither, and bid the men take your horse."

So I must make the best of it, and I will say that I felt foolish enough. It was in my mind,
though, that I owed many thanks to the princess for all her kind thought for me as sick man.
I had already said as much to Howel. So I began to try to frame some sort of speech for her.
One never remembers how such speeches always fail at the pinch.

The light footsteps came down the steps in no long time, and then the princess entered, dressed
much as yesterday, with a bright colour from the wind, and looking round to see the promised
friend.

"I have kept you long, daughter," Howel said, taking her hand, "but I have been hearing good
news. Here is Oswald of Wessex, a king's thane, but more than that to us, for he is the adopted
son of your own godfather, Owen of Cornwall, and he brings the best of tidings of him."

Now the maiden's face flushed with pleasure, and she held out her hand to me in frank welcome.
Yet I saw a little wondering look on her face as she let her eyes linger on mine for a moment,
and that puzzled me.

"You are most welcome, Thane," she said. "It is a wonderful thing that here I should learn
that my lost godfather yet lives. You will come to Pembroke with us, and tell me of him there?"

Then Howel laughed as if he had a jest that would not keep, and he cried: "Why, Nona, that
is a mighty pretty speech, but surely one asks a sick man of his health first."

She blushed a little, and glanced again at me.

"Surely the thane is not hurt?" she said.

"Yesterday he was, and that sorely. What was it, Thane?--Slipped shoulder, broken thigh, and
broken jaw? All of which a certain maiden pitied most heartily, even to lending a blanket to
the poor man."

Then Nona blushed red, and I made haste to get rid of some of the thanks that were heartfelt
enough if they came unreadily to my lips, and Howel laughed at both of us. I think that the
princess found her way out of the little constraint first, for she began to smile merrily.

"There must be a story for me to hear about all this," she said. "But I was sure that I had
seen your eyes before. I was wondering where it could have been."

"Well," said Howel, "I have sat with the thane for close on an hour, and now I do not know
what colour his eyes are."

"They were all that I could see of him, father," laughed the princess, and then she put the
matter aside. "Now we have been here long enough, and good Govan shivers on the hilltop. Surely
the thane will ride home with us, and we can talk on the way."

Howel added at once that this was the best plan for me, and what he was about to ask me himself.

"I know you will want to get home again as soon as may be," he said. "No doubt Thorgils will
take you at once. I will have word sent to him at Tenby to stay for you."

"Father, you have forgotten," the princess said, somewhat doubtfully, as I thought.

"Nay, but I have not," answered Howel grimly. "But honest Thorgils is a white heathen, and
those Tenby men are black heathen. He does not come into our quarrels, and will heed me, if
they will not."

I minded that I had heard of trouble between the Tenby Danes and this prince, and it seemed
that he spoke of it again. However, that I might hear by and by. So I thanked him, and said
that I could wish for nothing better than to be his guest until I could go on my way hence.

Now the princess went to the cliff top and called Govan, while I armed myself. The hermit came
back, and I bade him farewell, with many thanks for his kindnesses during the hours I had been
with him; and so I went from the little cell with the blessing of Govan the Hermit on me, and
that was a bright ending to hours which had been dark enough. Govan the Saint, men call him,
now that he has gone from among them, and rightly do they give him that name, as I think.

Howel dismounted one of his men, and set me on the horse in his place, and then we rode to
the camp at the landing place by the track which had led me hither, passing the head of the
rift from which I had escaped, so that I saw its terrors in full daylight. And they were even
more awesome to me than as I hung on the brink with the depths unknown below me. Then Howel
told me how once a hunter had come suddenly on that gulf with his horse at full gallop, and
had been forced to leap or court death by checking the steed. He had cleared it in safety,
but the terror of what he had done bided with him, so that he died in no long time; I could
well believe it.

Then the princess told me many things of Govan, and among others that the poor folk held that
when the Danes came and stole the bell from him he had been hidden from them in the rock wall
of the chapel, which had gaped to take him in, closing on him and setting him free when danger
was past. Certainly there was a cleft in the rock wall of the chapel wall that had markings
as of the ribs of a man in its sides, and was just the height and width for one to stand in,
but Govan said nought to me about it when he told of the taking of the bell. Danes also slew
all these cattle whose bones I had passed among.

Then we came in sight of the camp, over which the red dragon banner of Wales floated, and Howel
told me how it was that he had met us there with his guards.

"Men saw Thorgils' ship from the lookout, and so I came here, for they said that she could
not make Tenby on this tide and must needs come in here. Nona has been for three months with
her mother's folk in Cornwall--ay, she is half Cornish, and kin to Gerent and Owen. I was married
over there, at Isca, and Owen was at the wedding as my best man, though he is ten years younger
than I. That is how he came to be the girl's godfather, you see. Now I wanted her back, for
it is lonely at Pembroke without her, and I am apt to wax testy with folk if she is not near
to keep things straight. So I sent word by Thorgils six weeks ago that she was to come back,
and he was to bring her. I have had the men watching for the ship ever since. Good it is to
see her again, and she has brought good news also, with yourself. I have a mind to keep you
with us awhile, and let the Norseman take back word of your safety."

But I said that, however pleasant this would be, it seemed plain that I must get back to Owen
with all speed, to warn him of this trouble that was somewhat more than brewing. It could not
be thought that I would send word and yet never move to his side to help.

"If I might say what comes into my mind," said the fair princess, "it seems almost better that
none but Owen and yourself know that the plot is found out, while you guard against it. The
traitors will be less careful if they deem that nought is known. Thorgils is somewhat talkative,
you know."

"That is right," said Howel. "I have a good counsellor here, Thane, as you see. However, Thorgils
will not sail today, for he has just put in, and I know that he was complaining of some sort
of damage done, as the gale set a bit of a sea into the cove, and he had some ado to keep clear
of the rocks for a time. We will even ride to Pembroke, and I will send for Thorgils that he
may speak with you."

And then he added grimly:

"Moreover, I will send men on the track of Evan, the chapman, forthwith."

So we called out the guards from the camp, where there were lines of huts with a greater building
in the midst as if it were often used thus, and so rode across the rolling land northwards
till we came to Pembroke. And there Howel of Dyfed dwelt in state in such a palace as that
of Gerent, for here again the hand of the Saxon had never come, and the buildings bore the
stamp of Imperial Rome.

So once again I was lodged within stone walls, and with a roof above me that I could touch
with my hand, and I need not say how I fared in all princely wise as the son of Owen. I suppose
there could be no more frank and friendly host than Howel of Dyfed.

Tired I was that night also, and I slept well. But once I woke with a fear for Owen on me,
for I had dreamed that I saw some man creeping and spying along the wide ramparts of Norton
stronghold. And it seemed that the man had a bow in his hand.

I thought Pembroke a very pleasant place when I came to see it in the fair winter's morning.
The gale had passed, but it had brought a thaw with it, and there was a softness in the air
again, and the light covering of snow had gone when I first looked abroad. There had been no
such heavy fall here as we had in Wessex beyond the sea.

Maybe pleasant companionship had something to do with my thought of the place, for none can
deny that a good deal does depend on who is with one. And, seeing that after the morning meal
her father was busy with his counsellors for a time, Nona the princess would shew me all that
was to be seen while we waited the coming of Thorgils.

Whoever chose the place for the building of this palace stronghold chose well, for it is set
on a rocky tongue of land that divides the waters of an inland branch of the winding Milford
Haven, so that nought but an easily defended ridge of hill gives access to the fortress. All
the tongue itself has sheer rock faces to the water, and none might hope to scale them. They
and the wall across the one way from the mainland, as one may call it, make Howel's home sure,
and since the coming of the Danes into the land he had strengthened what had fallen somewhat
into decay in the long years of peace that had passed.

We had never reached Dyfed, either from land or sea. So I saw hawks and hounds, stables and
guardrooms and all else, and at last we walked on the terraced edge of the cliffs in the southern
sun, and there a man came and said that Thorgils the Norseman had come.

"Oh," said Nona with a little laugh, "he knows not that you are here! Let us see his face when
he meets you!"

"The prince is busy," said the servant. "Is it your will that the stranger should be brought here?"

"Yes, bring him. Tell him that I would speak with him, but say nought of any other."

The man bowed and went his way, and the princess turned to me with a new look of amusement
on her face.

"Pull that cloak round you, Thane, and pay no heed to him when he comes; we may have sport."

They had given me a long Welsh cloak of crimson, fur bordered, and a cap to wear with it instead
of my helm. And of course I had not on my mail, though Ina's sword was at my side, and Gerent's
bracelet on my arm, setting off a strange medley of black-and-blue bruises and red chafed places
from the cords, moreover. So I laughed, and did as she bade me, even as I saw Thorgils brought
round the palace toward us from the courtyard where they had taken charge of his horse. There
were two other men with him, tall, wiry looking warriors, and all three were well armed, but
in a fashion which was neither Welsh nor Saxon, but more like the latter than the former.

"Danes from Tenby," said Nona; "I know them both, and like them. See what wondrous mail they
have, and look at the sword hilt of the elder man. That is Eric, the chief, and I think he
comes to speak with my father."

The two Danes hung back as they saw that Howel was not present, but Thorgils unhelmed and came
forward quickly, with the courtly bow he knew how to make when he chose, as he saluted the
princess. Then he turned slightly to me with his stiff salute, and as I nodded to him I saw
him start and look keenly at me. Then he looked away again, and tried to seem unheeding, but
it was of no use; his eyes came back to me.

"You seem to have met our friend before, Shipmaster," said Nona, whose eyes were dancing.

"I cannot have done so, Princess," he answered. "But on my word, I never saw so strange a likeness
to one I do know."

"I trust that is a compliment to my friend," she said.

"Saving the presence of the one who is like the man I know, I may say for certain that it is
nought else to him."

I turned away somewhat smartly, for I wanted to laugh, and this was getting personal. The princess
was not unwilling, I think, that it should be more so.

"Now you have offended the present, and I shall have to say that the absent need not be so."

"Nor the present either, Princess. See here, Lord, the man you are so wondrous like in face
did the bravest deed I have seen for many a day. Moreover, he saved the life of a king thereby.
Shall I tell thereof?"

Now this was a new tale to Nona, for, as may be supposed, I had not said that it was myself
who handled Morgan so roughly, as I told the tale of his end. It would have seemed like boasting
myself somewhat, as I thought, so I did but say that he was dragged away from the king in time.
Nor had I spoken of Elfrida. The tale was told hurriedly, and when it was done there had been
no thought but of Owen. It was greater news here that he lived than that Ina had narrowly escaped.

So she glanced round at me in some surprise, and then turned again to Thorgils.

"Some time you shall, for I love your songs. Not now, for we have not time."

"Thanks, Lady. It will be a good song, and is shaping well in my mind. There is a brave lady
therein also."

"Well, you have not told us who the brave man is.

"Did I not know that Oswald, son of Owen the Cornish prince, was by this time in Glastonbury,
I should have said he was here, so great is the likeness. It is a marvel.

"Now, Lord, you will forgive me, no doubt."

"Ay, freely," I said, turning round sharply. "That is, if your friend has a sword as good as
this," and I shewed him the gemmed hilt of Ina's gift from beneath the folds of my great cloak.

He stared at it, and then at my face again, and I took off my cap to him with a bow.

"It is strange that a shipmaster knows not his own passenger," I said.

But he was dumb for a moment, and his mouth opened. Nona laughed at him and clapped her hands
with glee, and I must laugh also.

"By Baldur," he gasped, "if it is not Oswald, in the flesh! What witchcraft brought you here?
To my certain knowledge there is no ship but mine afloat now in the Severn Sea."

"Why, then, I crossed with you, friend," I said.

"That you did not--" he began, but stopped short.

"Thorgils, Thorgils--the sick man!" cried Nona.

"Oh!" said Thorgils, "can you have been Evan's charge?"

"Ay. Mind you that it was your own word that there might be danger from the friends of Morgan?"

Then I told him all, and he heard with growls and head shakings, which but for the presence
of the lady might have been hard sayings concerning my captors.

But when I ended he said:

"If ever I catch the said Evan there will be a reckoning. All the worse it will be for him
that for these five years past I have known him, and deemed him a decent and trustworthy man,
for a Welsh trader. I have fetched him back and forth with his goods twice or thrice a year
for all that time, and now I suppose he has made me a carrier of stolen wares! Plague on him.
I mind me now that betimes I have thought he dealt in cast-off garments somewhat, but that
was not my affair. Now one knows how that was."

"I liked the man well, also," said the princess, with a sigh. "He has come here every year,
and betimes as he shewed me his goods--not those you spoke of, Thorgils--it has seemed to me
that he was downcast, and as one who had sorrow in his heart. Maybe he had, for his ill doings.
He deserves to be punished, but yet I would ask that--that if you lay hands on him you will
be merciful."

"He shewed little mercy to Oswald the thane," growled Thorgils. "However, Princess, I think
that you may be easy. He will not risk aught, and we shall see him no more. But the knave would
beguile Loki. Never a word did I hear of any trouble, but he came and spoke to me as I sat
with your men yonder, and paid me his passage money, and said he had asked for a guard for
the ship as he wanted to be away with the sick man. Also he said he would borrow the boat for
his easier passage ashore. I supposed she was smashed in the gale, as she came not back, and
Howel paid me for her when I grumbled."

"I wonder he went near you," I said.

"Therein was craft. If he had not paid passage I would have let every shipmaster beware of
him, and he would have fared ill. He thought you done for, no doubt, and so fell back on certainty,
as one may say. It is a marvel you escaped the great rifts in yon cliffs in the storm. Now
he will hear that you are none the worse, and he will be sorry he paid me."

Thorgils laughed grimly, but Nona sighed at the downfall of the man she had liked. As for myself,
it mattered little what became of him, so far as I was concerned. Howel's men were hunting
him as I knew, and I only hoped they might catch him, for then we might learn more of the plotting
that was on hand from him. He would tell all to save his skin, no doubt.

But now I told Thorgils how I needed to be back in Norton with all speed, and it sent a sort
of chill through me to see him shake his head.

"There is need, truly," he said, "and all that may be done I will do. But yestermorn we found
that we had sprung a plank or two just above the waterline, as we were in a bad berth for shelter.
I made shift to get the ship to Tenby, but on one tack she leaks like a basket, and she must
be repaired. It will take all today, and maybe tomorrow; but it shall be done, if we have to
work double tides, or to make a cobbler's job of it in haste. I must be off therefore to see
to it. But I hope, if wind will serve us we may sail for home tomorrow night. Tide serves about
midnight, and waits for no man. You had better be with us betimes."

He saw that I seemed downcast, and added thoughtfully enough: "It is in my mind that you need
have little care yet. Gerent will not let Owen out of his sight for some time, as I think,
and danger begins when he is abroad alone, and carelessly. Maybe not till he is at Exeter."

Then he beckoned to the two Danes who were waiting him, and made them known to me after they
had saluted the princess. Eric the chief was a fine old warrior, iron grey and strong, and
the other was his son, who bade fair to be like his father in time. He was a sturdy young man,
and wore his arms well. They shook hands with me frankly, and from their words it was plain
that Thorgils had told my story at Tenby already.

"This is the sick man I told you of," he said now. "He turns out to be a Thane of Glastonbury,
and Evan had a hand in some plot of the friends of Morgan. Took him by craft and brought him
here for ransom, doubtless. I had not thought that man such a knave, and shall distrust my
judgment of men sorely in future."

Then Nona asked them what they would with the prince, and Eric told her.

"The deer are in the valleys, Lady, and we came to tell the prince that we have harboured the
great stag of twelve points in the woods beyond Caerau. Will it please him to join our hunt?"

"Doubtless," she said. "Now there is no time to be lost, for the day is high already."

"None the worse, Princess," said Eric. "The last snow is passing hourly."

So we went round to the front of the palace toward the gates, and there waited half a dozen
more men and horses by a gathering of men on foot with a pack of great hounds, the like of
which I had never seen. They were the Danish hounds, which had come hither with their masters,
and were big and strong enough for any quarry, even were it the bear that yet lurked in the
Welsh mountain wilds.

Then Howel came, and would have me mounted well, and in less than half an hour we were riding
eastward along the ancient way they call the Ridgeway, which crowns the long hill between the
sea and the valleys where lie the windings of Milford Haven. And so we went till we could see
Tenby itself far off on its rocky ness, and at that point left Thorgils to go his way, while
we turned northward into the inland valleys, and sought the deep combe where they had harboured
the stag.

The snow lay here and there yet, but it was almost gone, and the going was somewhat heavy,
but overhead the sky was soft and grey, and the wind was pleasant if chill. North and west
it was, and that would be fair for our crossing, if only it would hold, as Thorgils deemed
that it surely would.

Now it was good to hear the horn and the cheer of the hunters as they drew the deep cover for
the deer, and the half-dozen couple of hounds that were held back in leash while the rest were
at their work strained and whimpered to be with them. And at last the great stag broke from
the cover, in no haste, but in a sort of disdain of those who had disturbed him, and after
him came a few scurrying hinds who huddled to him for safely. They trotted to another cover,
and after them streamed the hounds, and then the great stag was driven alone from his hiding,
and so the pack was laid on and we were away.

He headed for the far waters of the haven I had seen glittering from the hilltop, even as Howel
told me was likely, and the pace was fast at the first. So I settled myself to the work and
rode as one should ride on another man's horse, and a good one, moreover, carefully enough.
But these hills were easier than ours, for heather was none, and the loose stones that trouble
us on Mendips and Quantocks were not to be seen. It was fair grass land mostly. So I let my
horse go, and in a little while had forgotten aught but the sheer joy of the pace, and the
cry of the great hounds, and the full delight of such a run as one dreams of. Whereby I have
little more to tell thereof.

For a country may seem to be open enough as one looks down on it from a height, but as one
crosses it the difference in what has seemed easy riding is soon plain. Long swells of rolling
ground rise as it were from nothing, and deep valleys that had been unseen cross the path,
and the clustered trees are found to be deep woods as they are neared. Then the man who knows
the country has the advantage, and it is as well to follow him. But I was well mounted, and
the pace was good where the gale had thinned the snow, and it came about that before I had
time to think what Howel and Eric and the Danes who were on horseback were doing I rode down
one side of a little cover, past which the deer had gone with the hounds close on him, while
the rest went on the other. I heard one shout, but it did not come into my mind that it was
to me, for I thought that they needs must follow, and did not look round. Then I had to turn
off yet more to the right as the best way seemed to take me, and meanwhile they were off to
the left.

So when I was clear of the thicket and could see across the open again I had lost them. Unless
I could hear the hounds I had nothing to guide me, and I drew rein and listened for them. As
I heard nothing I rode on until I had a stretch of open country before me, but there I could
see no more. Afterwards I learned that the deer had turned and made for the hill again, but
it did not seem likely that he would do so with the waters of the haven so close at hand as
I could see them. It was more likely that he would head straight for them, and so I spurred
on once more in that direction. It was certainly the best thing that I could do, and I had
not far to go before a mile of the open water was before me. But there was nought on its banks
but a row of patient herons, fishing or sleeping, and the sight of them told me that no man
had passed this way for many a long hour.

I waited in that place for a few moments, to see if the deer made for the refuge of the water
from some cover that as yet hid him from me, but he did not come. It was plain to me then that
the hunt had doubled back and that I was fairly thrown out, and I went no farther. By this
time Eric might be miles away, and I knew nothing of the lie of the land, save that along the
crest of the Ridgeway ran the road from Tenby to Pembroke, and that once on that road I could
make my way back in no long time. That, as it seemed to me, was the best thing that I could
do, and I headed my horse at once for the hill, going slowly, for it was no great distance,
and it was heavy going in the places where the snow had gathered in drifts. I thought that
maybe I should cross the track of the horses and hounds, or hear Eric's horn before I had gone
far, but I reached the foot of the hill without doing either.

Then I came to a place where the land began to draw upward more sharply, thickly timbered,
with scattered rocks among the roots of the trees. Fox and badger and wildcat had their hiding
places here, for I could trace them on all sides, and then I saw the track of a wolf, and that
minded me, as that track in snow ever must, of Owen and the day when he came to my help at
Eastdean. That is the clearest memory I have of my childhood.

Then I thought that I heard the horn, and stopped to listen, nor was it long before what I
had heard came to my ears again. It was not the sound of the horn, however, but somewhat strange
to me, and for a while I wondered what forest bird or beast had a note like that.

For the third time I heard it, and now it was plainly like the half-stifled cry of some one
in pain among the trees to the right of me, and not far distant either. So I rode toward the
place whence the cry seemed to come, and as I went I called. At that the voice rose more often,
with some sound of entreaty in its tone, and it seemed to be trying to form words. I hastened
then, crossing more wolf tracks on the way, and then I struck the trail of many men and a few
horses; but these were not Eric's, for the hoof marks were rather those of ponies than of his
tall steeds. I followed that track, for it seemed to lead toward the weary voice that I heard,
and so I came to a circle of great oaks with a clear space of many paces wide between them,
and there I found what I was seeking. It was piteous enough.

A man was tied to the greatest of the trees, with knees to chin, and bound ankles, while round
his knees his hands were clasped and fastened so that a stout stake was thrust through, under
his knees and over his elbows, trussing him helplessly. The cords that bound him to the tree
were round his body in such wise that he could by no means fall on his side and so work himself
free from the stake, and round his mouth was a ragged cloth tied, but not closely enough to
prevent him from calling out as I heard him. I think that he must have gnawed it from closer
binding than I saw now. Across the snow behind him the paws of some daring wolf had left marks
as if the beast had sniffed at his very back not so long since, and surely but for the chance
of my coming that way nought but his bones had been left in that place by the pack before morning
came again.

It was a strange cry that this man gave when he saw me, for in no way could I take it for a
cry of joy for rescue. I could rather think that he had raised the same when the wolf came
near him. And when I dismounted and led my horse after me toward him he seemed to try to shrink
from me, as if I also meant him harm. I thought that the poor soul had surely gone distracted
with the fear of the forest beasts on him, so that he no longer knew friend from foe, and I
wondered how long he had been bound here in this lonely place. I had seen no house or trace
of men between here and Tenby.

I hitched the bridle rein over a low bough, and leaving my horse went toward him to set him
loose, wondering who had left him here. And as I drew my seax and went to cut the lashings
he writhed afresh and cried piteously for mercy in what sounded like bad Saxon from behind
the cloth across his face, as though he deemed that I came to slay him. I did not notice the
strangeness of his using my own tongue here in the heart of a Welsh land at the time, but thought
he took me for one of those who had bound him.

"Fear not," I said, speaking in Welsh to comfort him.

And if anything, that seemed to terrify him yet more.

"Mercy, good Thane--mercy!" he mumbled from his half-stifled lips.

Then it seemed to me that it was strange that he knew what I was, and before I cut the bonds
I took the cloth from his face, and lo! the man was Evan the outlaw, my enemy!

That told me why he feared me in good truth, for he had need to do so, and I stood back and
looked at him with the bright weapon still in my hand, and he cried and begged for mercy unceasingly.
It seemed but right that he should be bound helplessly as he had bound me, yet he had not the
bitterness of seeing a friend look on him without knowing him as had I. It was a foe whom he
saw, and that a righteous one.

Then I was minded to turn away and leave him where he was, until the foe from the forest looked
on him for the last time, for it was all that he deserved, and I set my seax back in my belt
and turned away to my horse with a great loathing of the man in my mind; and seeing that, he
begged for mercy again most pitiably.

That is a hard thing to hear unmoved, and I stayed and looked at him again. My first wrath
was leaving me as I saw the fullness of the end of his plans, and I do not think that it is
in me to be utterly revengeful.

"What mercy can you hope from me!" I said coldly.

"None, Thane--none. But let me go hence with you. Better the rope than these wild beasts. Or
slay me now, and swiftly."

"Who, of all your friends, tied you here?" I asked him.

"Howel's men," he answered. "They took my goods at the ford of Caerau yonder, and so brought
me here and left me. That was early this morning."

"I marvel that you bided in reach of any who might speak with me," I said.

"My comrades left me, for fear of that same. I must hire ponies to get the goods away. I thought
you had died on the wild sea that night."

"It seems to me that this is but justice on you. The goods you have lost were stolen from honest
men. And it were just if I left you bound as you bound me."

Then the man said slowly: "Ay, it is justice. But will you treat me even as I treated you, Thane?"

I looked at him in some wonder. The man's face had grown calm, though it was yet grey and drawn,
and this seemed as if he would own his fault without excuse. I minded that Nona the princess
and her father, ay, and Thorgils, had said that they thought well of Evan the merchant up till
this time.

"Supposing I let you go--What then?" I said.

"First of all, I would tell you somewhat for which you will thank me, Thane."

"Tell me that first," I said, not altogether believing that he had anything which could be
worth my hearing, but with a full mind now to let him go.

Plainly, he had some sort of faith in me, or in the worth of what he had to say, for he began
eagerly:

