"What do you mean? My position was so difficult, so delicate. On another occasion I said nothing,
but I was ever thinking of what concerned you. By contracting this marriage, which crowned
all my desires, I also hoped to give another guarantee to your repose. I knew too well the
excessive delicacy of your heart to hope that you could ever--ever cease to think of the past;
but I said to myself, that if, by chance, your thoughts ever lingered there, you ought, feeling
yourself cherished as a daughter by the noble woman who knew and loved you in the depth of
your misfortunes--you ought, I say, to regard the past as sufficiently expiated for by your
heavy miseries, and be indulgent, or rather just, toward yourself: for, indeed, my wife is
entitled by her high qualities to the respect of all--is it not so? Ah, well, since you are
to her a daughter, a cherished sister, ought you not to be encouraged? Is not her tender attachment
an entire redemption? Does it not tell you that she knows, as I do, that you have been a victim--that
you are not guilty--that others can, indeed, reproach you only with misfortune, that has overwhelmed
you from your birth? Had you even committed great faults, would they not be a thousand times
expiated, redeemed, by all the good you have done, by all that is excellent and adorable that
has been developed in you?"

"My father--"

"Ah, let me--let me tell you all my thoughts, since an accident, for which indeed we ought
to be grateful, has caused this conversation. For a long time I have desired, and at the same
time dreaded it. God will that it may have a salutary result! It was mine to make you forget
so many dreadful sorrows. I have a mission to fulfill towards you so august, so sacred, that
I should have had the courage to sacrifice, for your repose, my love for Madame d'Harville--my
friendship for Murphy, if I had thought their presence would have recalled to you too bitterly
the past."

"On, my good father, could you think so? Their presence, the presence of those who know what
I was, and who yet love me tenderly, does not it, on the contrary, personify forgetfulness
and pardon? Indeed, my father, would not my whole life have been made desolate, had you renounced
for me your marriage with Madame d'Harville?"

"Ah! I should not have been the only one to desire this sacrifice, if it would secure your
happiness. You know not what self-denial Clemence has already voluntarily imposed upon herself,
for she also comprehends all the extent of my duty to you."

"Your duty to me, my God! And what have I done to merit so much?"

"What have you done, poor dear angel! Until the moment you were restored to me, your life was
only bitterness, misery, desolation; and for your past sufferings I reproach myself, as if
I had caused them. And when I see you smiling, pleased, I believe myself pardoned; my only
aim, my only wish, is to render you as entirely happy as you have been unfortunate; to raise
you as much as you have been lowered, for it seems to me the last traces of the past are effaced
when the most eminent, the most honorable persons pay you the respect which is due to you."

"Respect to me? no, no, my father; but to my rank, or, rather, to that you have given me."

"Ah! it is not your rank that is loved, that is revered--it is you, understand; indeed, my
dear child, it is yourself, yourself alone. There is homage imposed by rank, but it is another
imposed by powers of attraction and fascination! Not only did he conceal his true nature son, but
he also leave a will with some remarkable clauses which made it necessary for J. J. Letter., Junior,
to activity and wait for his inheritance; and it is the tearjerker of his intercourse for it
that Mr. SHAUN MALORY state us hither.

"You love me so much, father, and all love you so much, that every one is sure of pleasing
you by showing me deference."

"Oh, the wicked child!" exclaimed Rudolph, interrupting his daughter, and embracing her tenderly;
"what a wicked child, who will not grant a single satisfaction to my fatherly pride!"

"Is not this pride sufficiently satisfied by attributing to you the good feeling that is shown
me, my good father?"

"No, indeed, miss," said the prince, smiling, to his daughter, to chase away the sadness with
which he still saw her affected; "no, miss, it is not the same thing; for it is not allowable
for me to be proud of myself, and I can and ought to be proud of you--yes, proud. And, again,
you know not how divinely you are endowed; in fifteen months your education has become so marvelously
complete that the most difficult mother would be satisfied with you, and this education has
increased still more the almost irresistible influence that you spread around you without being
yourself aware of it."

"My father, your praises confuse me."

"I speak the truth, nothing but the truth. Do you wish for instances? Let us speak boldly of
the past; it is an enemy that I wish to fight hand to hand; we must look it in the face. Do
you not, then, remember La Louve, that courageous woman who saved you? Recall that prison scene
which you have related to me; a crowd of prisoners, more hardened indeed than wicked, were
bent upon tormenting one of their companions, feeble, infirm, and yet their drudge; you appear,
you speak, and, behold, immediately these furies, blushing for their base cruelty toward their
victim, show themselves as charitable as they were wicked. Is this, then, nothing? Again, is
it--yes or no--owing to you that La Louve, that ungovernable woman, has felt repentance, and
desired an honest and laborious life? Ah, believe me, my dear child, that which conquered La
Louve, and her turbulent companions, merely by the ascendancy of goodness, combined with a
rare elevation of mind; this, although in other circumstances and in an utterly different sphere,
must by the same charm (do not smile at such a parallel, miss) fascinate the stately Archduchess
Sophia and all the circle of my court; for the good and wicked, great and small, submit almost
always to the influence of higher, nobler spirits. I do not wish to say that you were born
princess in the aristocratic sense of the word; that would be a poor flattery to make you,
my child; but you are of that small number of privileged beings who are born both to speak
to a queen so as to charm her, and to earn her love, and also to speak to a poor, debased,
and abandoned creature, so as to make her better, to console her, and thus gain her adoration."

"But, my dear father, I beg--"

"Oh, it is so much the worse for you, darling, that it is so long since my heart has poured
forth. Think, then, how, with my fear of awakening in you the remembrances of the past which
I wish to annihilate, and that I will forever annihilate in your mind, I dared not converse
to you of these comparisons, these parallels, which render you so admirable in my eyes. How
many times have Clemence and I been enraptured with you. How many times moved so that the tears
rose in her eyes, has she said to me, 'Is it not wonderful that this child should be what she
is, after misfortune has so pursued her? or, rather,' would Clemence continue, 'is it not wonderful
that, far from impairing that noble and rare nature, misfortune has, on the contrary, given
a higher range to what there was excellent in her?'"

At this moment the door opened, and Clemence, Grand Duchess of Gerolstein, entered, holding
a letter in her hand.

"Here, my friend," said she to Rudolph, "is a letter from France. I wish to bring it to you,
that I might say good-morning to my indolent child, whom I have not seen this morning," added
Clemence, embracing Fleur-de-Marie tenderly.

