It has said through its representatives, that you Northerners are becoming too bold in speaking
of our sin, and we will use brute force to repel it-- an argument with which we are familiar.
You have told us that we ought not to hold slaves, nor extend slave territory, which will in
a measure destroy our slave market, and prove injurious to our slave-breeding population. You
have told us we have no right to usurp Kansas,--no right to murder "Free State men," and no
right to sustain there, a set of "ruffians" to make Kansas a slave State. You have told us,
that we have no right to live on the unrequited toil of our slaves; nor to sell them to the
highest bidder; nor spend the proceeds of the sale in idle extravagance. Now know, all ye Northerners,
by this cowardly blow on the devoted head of your honored and respected Senator, that we shall
no longer permit you to tell us such unpalatable truths, nor allow you the privilege of free
speech! We have too long held the balance of power in the government to yield it now; and we
give you to know, that whatever we ask of this government, we expect to obtain; nor will we
hear any of your objections. When we desire you to turn blood-hound, and hunt for us our fugitive
slaves, we expect you to do it, and to see them returned to their masters, without a murmur
on your part. Should you object or dare refuse, we shall certainly cane somebody, or else do
what we have threatened for the last quarter of a century,--"DISSOLVE THE UNION!" Bah!

My house has ever been open to the fugitive slaves; but more particularly when I resided in
Rochester, did I have occasion to see and feel the distresses of that class of persons; and
it appears to me, that the heart must be of adamant, that can turn coldly away from the pleadings
of the poor, frightened, flying fugitive from Southern bondage.

For many years past, I have been a close and interested observer of my race, both free and
enslaved. I have observed with great pleasure, the gradual improvement in intelligence and
condition of the free colored people of the North. In proportion as prejudice has diminished,
they have gradually advanced; nor can I believe that there is any other great impediment in
the way to a higher state of improvement. That prejudice against color is not destroyed, we
very well know. Its effects may be seen in our down-cast, discouraged, and groveling countrymen,
if no where else. Notwithstanding the late diminution, it exists in many of our hotels: some
of them would as soon admit the dog from his kennel, at table, as the colored man; nevertheless,
he is sought as a waiter; allowed to prepare their choicest dishes, and permitted to serve
the white man, who would sneer and scorn to eat beside him. Prejudice is found also, in many
of our schools,--even in those to which colored children are admitted; there is so much distinction
made by prejudice, that the poor, timid colored children might about as well stay at home,
as go to a school where they feel that they are looked upon as inferior, however much they
may try to excel.

Nor is that hateful prejudice--so injurious to the soul, and all the best interests of the
negro--excluded from the professed church of Christ. Oh, no; we often find it in the house
of worship, in all its cruel rigor. Where people assemble to worship a pure and holy God, who
can look upon no sin with allowance--the creator of all, both white and black,--and where people
professing to walk in the footsteps of the meek and quiet Jesus, who has taught us to esteem
others better than ourselves; we often see the lip of some professed saint, curled in scorn
at a dusky face, or a scowl of disapprobation if a colored person sits elsewhere than by the
door or on the stairs. How long, O Lord, must these things be!

Of my enslaved brethren, nothing so gratifies me, as to hear of their escape from bondage;
and since the passage of that iniquitous "Fugitive Slave Bill," I have watched with renewed
interest the movements of the fugitives, not only from Slavery direct, but those who have been
compelled to flee from the nominally free States, and ask the protection of a monarchial government,
to save them from their owners in a land of boasted liberty!

The knowledge I have of the colored men in Canada, their strength and condition, would cause
me to tremble for these United States, should a war ever ensue between the English and American
governments, which I pray may never occur. These fugitives may be thought to be a class of
poor, thriftless, illiterate creatures, like the Southern slaves, but it is not so. They are
no longer slaves; many of whom have been many years free men, and a large number were never
slaves. They are a hardy, robust class of men; very many of them, men of superior intellect;
and men who feel deeply the wrongs they have endured. Driven as they have been from their native
land; unprotected by the government under which they were born, and would gladly have died,--they
would in all probability, in case of a rupture, take up arms in defense of the government which
has protected them and the country of their adoption. England could this day, very readily
collect a regiment of stalwart colored men, who, having felt the oppression of our laws, would
fight with a will not inferior to that which actuated our revolutionary forefathers.

And what inducement, I ask, have colored men to defend with their lives the United States in
any case; and what is there to incite them to deeds of bravery?

Wherever men are called upon to take up arms in defense of a country, there is always a consciousness
of approaching wrong and oppression, which arouses their patriotism and incites to deeds of
daring. They look abroad over fields of their own cultivation; they behold too, churches, schools,
and various institutions, provided by their labor, for generations yet to come; they see their
homes, their cherished hearthstone, about to be desecrated, and their wives and little ones,
with their aged sires, exposed to the oppression of a ruthless foe. Then, with what cheerful
and thrilling enthusiasm, steps forward the husband, the father, the brother, and bares his
bosom to the sword,--his head to the storm of the battle-field, in defence of his country's
freedom, and the God-given rights of himself and family! But what sees the oppressed negro?
He sees a proud and haughty nation, whose Congressmen yearly meet to plot his ruin and perpetuate
his bondage! He beholds, it is true, a few Christ-like champions, who rise up with bleeding
hearts to defend his cause; but while his eye kindles with grateful emotion, he sees the bludgeon
of the South-- already reeking in the blood of freemen--raised and ready to fall with murderous
intent upon the head of any one, who, like the illustrious Sumner, dare open his mouth in defence
of Freedom, or speak of the wrongs of the poor negro, and the sins of the Southern autocrat!

What inducement then, has the slave to shoulder his musket, when the American drum beats the
call, "To Arms! To Arms!" Does he not remember that the wife of his bosom; the children,--"bone
of his bone, and flesh of his flesh,"--and the rude hearth-stone they for a time are allowed
to surround, belong not to himself, but to the tyrannical master, who claims dominion over
all he possesses. As his property then, let the slave owner go forth in defence of his own,
and lay down his life if he please; but the poor slave has no home, no family to protect; no
country to defend; nor does he care to assist in sustaining a government that instead of offering
him protection, drives him from the soil which has been cultivated by his own labor,--to beg
at the hand of England's Queen, "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."

Humiliating as it is for an American citizen to name these things, they are nevertheless true;
and I would to God that America would arise in her native majesty, and divest herself of the
foul stain, which Slavery has cast upon her otherwise pure drapery! Then would she be no longer
a hissing and by-word among the nations; but indeed what she professes to be, "the land of
the free, and the home of the brave;" an asylum for the oppressed of every clime.

But should the monarchial government of England call for the services of the colored man, freely
would his heart's blood be poured out in her defence,--not because he has a particular preference
for that form of government; not because he has ceased to love his native country,--but because
she has acknowledged his manhood, and given him a home to defend. Beneath the floating banner
of the British Lion, he finds inducements to lay down his life, if need be, in defence of his
own broad acres, his family and fireside,--all of which were denied him under the Stars and
Stripes of his fatherland. But a short time ago, the colored men of Cincinnati, O., were promptly
denied the privilege they had solicited, to join with other citizens, in celebrating the anniversary
of WASHINGTON'S Birth Day! Oh, no; there must be no colored man in the company, met to honor
him who still lives in the heart of every American citizen,--"the father of his country,"--and
yet, who scorned not to sleep beside his faithful negro! Nor did the nephew of the illustrious
General, despise the command of the black regiment, which Gen. Jackson so proudly commended
for their bravery, and bestowed upon it his personal thanks, for their services on the field
of battle.

Do the Northern or Free States of the Union think to clear their skirts of the abomination
of Slavery, by saying that they own no slaves? Very true. But is the poor, flying fugitive
from the house of bondage, safe one moment within your borders? Will he be welcomed to your
homes, your tables, your firesides? Will your clergymen bid you clothe and feed him, or give
him a cup of cold water, in the name of a disciple of that holy Christ, who has said,--"inasmuch
as ye have done it unto one of the least of these little ones, ye have done it unto me?"--Or
will your own miserable Fugitive Slave Law, close the mouth of your clergy; crush down the
rising benevolence of your heart; and convert you into a human blood-hound, to hunt down the
panting fugitive, and return him to the hell of Slavery? Oh, my God!--the fact is too horrible
to acknowledge, and yet it is a stubborn one. Not on one foot of land under the broad folds
of Columbia's banner, can the slave say, "I am free!" Hungry, naked, and forlorn, he must flee
onward; nor stop short of the outstretched arms of an English Queen. Yet, thanks be to our
Heavenly Father, that all have not bowed the knee to the Southern autocrat or slave power.
A few noble souls, thank God, remain, who, in defiance of iniquitous laws, throw open wide
their doors to the trembling, fleeing bondman, whose purses are freely emptied to supply his
wants, and help him on in his flight to the British dominion. But can these out-gushings of
a benevolent heart--the purest impulses of a noble nature--be permitted to flow out spontaneously,
in open daylight? Alas, no! You must be quiet; make no noise, lest an United States' Marshal
wrest from you the object of your Christian sympathy, and impose on you a heavy fine, for your
daring to do to another as you would he should do to you.

Is not the necessity of an "under ground railroad," a disgrace to the laws of any country?
Certainly it is; yet I thank God, that it does afford a means of escape to many, and I pray
that the blessings of Heaven may ever rest upon those who willingly superintend its interests.
Oh, my country! When will thy laws, just and equal, supersede this humiliating necessity!

Is my reader about to throw the blame of our nation's wrong on England, and accuse her of first
tolerating Slavery? We admit it; but did she not repent of the evil she had done, and speedily
break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free? Certainly; no slave now breathes in England's
atmosphere. But, say you, her white poor are slaves to the aristocracy, from which sentiment
I beg leave to differ. Oppressed they may be, and doubtless are, as the poor are apt to be
in any and every country; but they are not sold in the market, to the highest bidder, like
beasts of burden, as are the American slaves. No Englishman, however poor, destitute, or degraded
he may be, but owns himself, his wife and children; nor does he fear that they be sold and
torn from his embrace, while he is laboring for their support. Poverty, my friend, does not
comprise the bitterness of Slavery, no more than "one swallow makes a summer,"--nor does it
consist solely in ignorance and degradation. Its bitterness arises from a consciousness of
wrong; a sense of the violation of every right God has given to man, and the uncertainty of
his future, over which he has no control.

If the American people flatter themselves with the idea of getting rid of the hated negro race,
by colonizing them on the sickly soil of Liberia, or any other country, they will surely find
themselves mistaken. They are Americans; allied to this country by birth and by misfortune;
and here will they remain,--not always as now, oppressed and degraded,--for all who have any
interest in the matter, well know that the free colored people, are rapidly advancing in intelligence,
and improving their condition in every respect. Men of learning and genius, are now found among
those with fleecy locks, and good mechanics with dusky complexion.

This marked improvement in the condition and rapid advancement in intelligence among our people,
seems to have alarmed the colonizationists, and made them fearful that those very down-trodden
slaves, who have for years labored for nought; whose blood and tears have fertilized the Southern
soil, may, perchance, become their equals in intelligence, and take vengeance on their oppressors
for the wrongs done them; and lest they should do so, they would gladly remove them to some
far-off country.

Yet here, in North America, will the colored race remain, and ere long in my opinion, become
a great people, equal with the proud Anglo-Saxon in all things. The African has once been a
powerful nation, before Christian Englishmen invaded her coasts with rum, and incited her chiefs
to war, by purchasing with gaudy, but worthless trinkets, her conquered captives; and we have
every reason to believe, that though her glory as a nation has departed, that her sons will
yet be acknowledged free men by the white population of this country.

There have been black generals in the world before Napoleon was born, and there may be again;
and to-day, notwithstanding all the prejudice against color, that everywhere exists in this
guilty nation, there are men of talent among us, inferior to none on the earth; nor are their
numbers few, though rapidly increasing.

Well may the South arouse herself, form societies, replenish its treasury with a tax imposed
on the free colored people, to defray the expense of sending manumitted slaves to Liberia!

Listen a moment to the cant of the colonizationist. Hear him talk of the duty he owes to Africa,
and how happy, how intelligent, how prosperous everything is in Liberia. But when that delightful
country asks to be taken into fellowship with the United States, and to have her independence
recognized--ah, then he lifts his hands in horror and begs to be excused from so close a relation.

This is all cant, in my humble opinion; and when I see men so anxious to send the negro out
of their sight, I feel quite certain that they are conscious of having deeply wronged him,
and think to remove him, to atone for their guilty consciences. Would they refuse to acknowledge
the independence of Liberia, if their interest in the colored people was genuine, especially
when several other nations had done so? Oh, no. But that is not "the rub." How could one of
our lordly nabobs of the South, sit in Congress with perhaps one of his own manumitted slaves
as a representative from Liberia or Hayti! He would die of mortification. Very well then; but
let him talk no more of sending colored men to that country to make them free men.

The colored people generally, I am happy to say, have a right conception of the colonization
plan, and will never be induced to go to Africa, unless they go as missionaries to the heathen
tribes, who certainly should have the gospel preached to them. Some, from a sense of duty,
may go as teachers,--which is all well enough,--but certain it is, that no amount of prejudice
or abuse, will ever induce the colored race to leave this country. Long have they been oppressed;
but they are rising-coming up to an elevated standard, and are fast gathering strength and
courage, for the great and coming conflict with their haughty oppressors.

That there must be ere long, a sharp contest between the friends of Freedom and the Southern
oligarchy, I can no longer doubt.

When our worthy ministers of the gospel, are sent back to us from the South, clothed with a
coat of tar and feathers; when our best and most sacrificing philanthropists are thrown into
Southern dungeons; when our laboring men are shot down by haughty and idle Southern aristocrats,
in the hotels of their employers, and under the very eye of Congress; when the press is muzzled,
and every editor, who has the manliness to speak in defence of Freedom, and the wickedness
of the slaveholder, is caned or otherwise insulted by some insignificant Southern bully; and
when at last, our Mr. SUMNER is attacked from behind, by a Southern, cowardly scoundrel, and
felled senseless on the floor of the Senate chamber, for his defence of Liberty,--then, indeed,
may Northern men look about them! Well may they be aroused by the insolence and tyranny of
the South!

And for what is all this? Do not our Southern men know, that if light and truth are permitted
to reach the minds of the people, that Kansas will be lost to them as slave territory, wherein
the Southern slave-breeder can dispose of his own flesh to the highest bidder! Hear them talk
as they do, in their pious moments, with upturned faces, in solemn mockery, of returning the
negro to his native Africa! How many pure Africans, think you, can be found in the whole slave
population of the South, to say nothing of their nativity? Native Africa, indeed! Who does
not know, that in three-fourths of the colored race, there runs the blood of the white master,--the
breeder of his own chattels! Think you, that a righteous God will fail to judge a nation for
such flagrant sins? Nay, verily. If the All-wise God, who has created of one blood all nations
of the earth, has designed their blood to commingle until that of the African is absorbed in
that of the European,--then is it right, and amalgamation of all the different races should
be universally practiced and approved. If it be right for the Southern slaveholder, to cruelly
enforce the mixture of the races, to gratify his lust, and swell the enormity of his gains,
certainly it cannot be wrong to amalgamate from choice and affection. Let us ask then, why
did our Omnipotent Creator make the marked distinction? Certainly not for the purpose that
one race might enslave and triumph over another; but evidently, that each in his own proper
sphere might glorify God, to whom their respective bodies and spirits belong. Why, indeed,
was the black man created, if not to fulfil his destiny as a negro, to the glory of God?

Suffer me then to exhort you, my countrymen, to cease looking to the white man for example
and imitation. Stand boldly up in your own national characteristics, and show by your perseverance
and industry, your honor and purity, that you are men, colored men, but of no inferior quality.
The greatest lack I see among you, is unity of action, pardonable, to be sure, in the eyes
of those who have seen your oppression and limited advantages; but now that many of you have
resolved to gain your rights or die in the struggle, let me entreat you to band yourselves
together in one indissoluble bond of brotherhood, to stand shoulder to shoulder in the coming
conflict, and let every blow of yours tell for Freedom and the elevation of your race throughout
the land. Speak boldly out, for the dumb and enslaved of your unfortunate countrymen, regardless
of the frowns and sneers of the haughty tyrants, who may dare lift their puny arm, to frustrate
the design of the Almighty, in preserving you an unmixed and powerful race on the earth.

While I would not that you depend on any human agency, save your own unyielding exertion, in
the elevation of our race; still, I would not have you unmindful of, nor ungrateful for, the
noble exertions of those kind white friends, who have plead the cause of the bondman, and have
done all in their power to aid you, for which, may the God of the oppressed abundantly bless them.

Let your attention be given to the careful training and education of the rising generation,
that they may be useful, and justly command the respect of their fellow-men. Labor for a competency,
but give not your whole attention to amassing the wealth that perishes; but seek to lay up
for yourselves "treasures where moth doth not corrupt, nor thieves break through and steal."

Suppose not, my brethren, that your task is a light one, or one that can be performed without
years of patient toil and unyielding perseverance. Our oppressors are not very ready to credit
our exertion,--too often forgetting the effects of our long degradation, and vainly expecting
to see us arise at once, to the highest standard of elevation, able to cope successfully with
those who have known no such discouragements or disadvantages, as has been our lot to bear.

These and many other obstacles must be bravely met, and assiduously removed,--remembering that
Slavery has robbed some of us, and prejudice many others, of that perseverance so necessary
to the accomplishment of any enterprize; but in the elevation of ourselves and race, let us
never falter and grow weary, until we have reached the elevated station God designed us to
occupy, and have fitted the rising generation to fill and improve it after our earthly course
is finished and we leave to them the stage of action.

Allow me, however, to entreat, that no success which may attend your determined efforts; no
position which you may attain,--may ever so occupy your mind, as to cause you to forget for
one moment, the afflictions of your countrymen, or to cease to remember the groaning millions
in bonds, until every slave shall triumphantly chant the song of deliverance from Slavery's
dark prison house.

Bear with me, my dear brethren, while I claim a friend's license, to say, that I would not
that you place implicit confidence in any of the political organizations of the present time;
but remember that the majority of those parties are diligently laboring for their own interest.
Look you then to yours; are you less capable of securing your rights than they? Never was there
a time when indolence and supineness among us, would be so unpardonable as now, nor when so
much depended on our active and judicious exertions.

Let us not forget, that in the past, we could and did truthfully complain, that we had no helper,--bound
and crushed beneath an overwhelming weight of prejudice and ignorance, we lay helpless at the
feet of our political spoilers. A favorable change has since been effected in the public sentiment;
and now that we see thousands who are willing to aid us, and as many more who will not hinder
our labor,--shall we fold our hands in idleness?--or shall we renew our energies, in the cause
of freedom and of our own advancement? Although we may not implicitly rely upon the political
exertion of others, let us not fear to co-operate with the friends of liberty everywhere, as
far as a good conscience will permit, and our limited privileges will allow, by our determined
zeal for the right, make our influence felt in the nation. See what wrong and oppression our
white brethren have met in Kansas, from the slave power; and let their noble deeds of patriotism;
their liberal sacrifices for freedom, be not only our example, but an incentive to do our duty.
Have they more at stake in that mighty struggle than we, that they should leave their homes
of refinement and comfort, take their lives in their hands and bravely contend for their rights,
surrounded by scenes of blood and carnage? Certainly not. No people on the earth can have greater
incentives to arouse them to action, than the colored people of this country now have; I trust
therefore, that our future independence and prosperity, will suffer nothing from the inactivity
of our race.

Some may entertain the belief that the African slave trade is entirely abandoned. I think not.
Often are seen strange, suspicious looking vessels, lying along the African coast, for no other
purpose than that of kidnapping the poor, ignorant natives. Stealthily the slave-trader lands
his wicked crew, in the vicinity of some negro village or cluster of huts, and when a favorable
opportunity occurs, he and his men rush upon the frightened African, burn their huts, and amid
the shrieks of the captives, and the groans of the helpless and aged, who have been trampled
down in their rude haste to secure the young and able-bodied natives, bear them to the vessel,
where they are stowed away in the hold of the ship, which bears them to Christian (?) America,
where they are sold as slaves.

Some years ago, a woman engaged in washing clothes, near the sea coast, had a lad with her
to take care of her two younger children--one a young babe--while she was at work. They wandered
away a short distance, and while amusing themselves under some bushes, four men, to them strange
looking creatures, with white faces, surrounded them; and when the lad attempted to run away,
they threw the infant he held in his arms, on the ground, and seizing the other two children,
bore them screaming with fear, to the ship. Frantic and inconsolable, they were borne to the
American slave market, where they were sold to a Virginia planter, for whom they labored sorrowfully
and in tears, until old age deprived them of farther exertion, when they were turned out, like
an old horse, to die; and did die destitute and uncared for, in their aged infirmity, after
a long life of unrequited toil. That lad, stolen from Africa's coast, was my grand-father.

It is not, however, necessary for us to look beyond our own country, to find all the horrors
of the slave traffic! A tour through the Southern States will prove sufficient to satisfy any
one of that fact; nor will they travel over one of them, before--if they have a heart of flesh--they
will feel oppressed by the cruel outrage, daily inflicted on their fellow-beings. The tourist
need not turn aside to seek evidences: he will very readily observe the red flag of the auctioneer
floating over the slave pen, on which he may read in large letters, waving in the pure air
of heaven, "SLAVES, HORSES, AND OTHER CATTLE, in lots to suit purchasers!" He may halt a moment,
and look at the multitude, collecting under the folds of that infamous banner, where will be
found a few gentlemanly appearing slave holding planters, superbly mounted, and perhaps with
their servants in waiting; but the larger number he will find to be drunken, coarse, brutal
looking men, swaggering about in the capacity of slave-traders.

Let him enter the low, dingy, filthy building, occupied by human merchandize, and he will there
behold husbands and wives, parents and children, about to be sold, and perhaps separated forever!
See the trader, as he examines with inhuman indifference the bones and sinews, the teeth and
joints of the articles on hand, even of females, and hear him make inquiries concerning her
capabilities, that would make a savage blush! And see the miserable woman lift her red and
swollen eyes to the face of the heartless trader, and the next moment cast a despairing glance
over the motley crowd, in search of a compassionate look--a pitying eye. Should she see one
countenance wearing a kind, humane expression, it will most likely bring her frantically to
his feet, where, kneeling, with uplifted hands, she pleads: "Oh, Massa, do buy me! Do buy me
and little Sam! He be all of the chil'ens I got left! O, Lord! O, Lord! Do, Massa, buy me,
and this one baby! Oh, do Massa!" But the weight of the cow-hide drives her to the auction
block, where in mock solemnity she is represented as "an article of excellent breed, a good
cook, a good seamstress, and withal a good Christian, a ra'al genewine lamb of the flock!"--and
then she is struck off to the highest bidder, who declares that he "won't have the young'un
any how, 'cause he's gwine to drive her down to Lousianny."

He may see, too, the wild, despairing look of some frightened young slave girl, passing under
the lustful gaze of some lordly libertine, who declares himself "in search of a fancy article
for his own use!"

One after another is taken from the block, until all are disposed of, amid the agonized wail
of heartbroken wives and mothers, husbands and fathers, and the piercing screams of helpless
children, torn from a parent's embrace, to be consigned to the care of strangers.

Nor need I inform our traveler of the inhuman method generally approved, in hunting with trained
blood-hounds, kept and advertised for the purpose of recapturing any poor slave who may attempt
to escape from this cruel bondage. He may perchance, come across the mangled and lifeless body
of some fugitive, which has just been run down and torn in pieces by the dogs of the hunter!
Should he stop a few moments, he will soon see a hole dug in the ground, and the remains of
the slave pitched into it, covered sufficiently to hide the unsightly mass from view, and there
will be an end of the whole matter! "Shall I not visit for these things? saith the Lord; and
shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?"

In giving to the public this unvarnished, but truthful narrative, of some of the occurrences
of my humble and uneventful life, I have not been influenced by a vain desire for notoriety,
but by a willingness to gratify a just and honorable request, repeatedly made by numerous and
respected friends, to learn the truth concerning my connection with the Wilberforce colony;
the events which there transpired during my stay, and the cause of my losing a hard-earned
property. Regarding the affairs of the colony, I have, therefore, endeavored to be particular,--believing
that duty to myself and brethren, required me to give them the within information; but nothing
have I set down in malice. Much more might have been said relative to some of the leading characters
in that settlement, had I not been fearful of its assuming the character of a personal enmity
or retaliation. He who knows and will judge the actions of men, will bear me witness, that
I have cherished no such feelings toward any of those who then lived, but now sleep in death.

In justification, however, of my statements regarding the character of Mr. Lewis, I will call
the attention of the reader to some of the many letters received from good and eminent men,
to show that I was not alone in the low estimate of his virtues. Gladly I leave that unpleasant
subject, hoping that nothing in our past history will serve to becloud the bright future beginning
to dawn on the prospects of our disfranchised and oppressed countrymen.

CORRESPONDENCE.

LETTER FROM A. STEWARD TO WM. L. GARRISON.

MR. GARRISON,

Dear Sir:--In a recent examination of the business transactions between the Board of Managers
of the Wilberforce Colony, and their agent Rev. N. Paul, I find a charge made by him, and allowed
by the board, of the sum of two hundred dollars, which he paid to yourself. Finding no receipt
or acknowledgment from you, I write to ask you to favor me with one, or an explanation of the
facts in the case, either of which will greatly oblige me, as I design to make it public. Truly
Yours, &c.,

A. STEWARD.

Canandaigua, N.Y., May, 1856.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. GARRISON'S REPLY TO A. STEWARD.

DEAR SIR:

You state that Rev. N. Paul, as agent for the Wilberforce Settlement, U.C., in rendering his
accounts on his return from England, charged the Board of Managers with the sum of two hundred
dollars, paid by him to me while in England; that said sum was allowed by the board; adding
that you do not recollect of my acknowledging or giving credit to the Settlement for it.

In reply, I can only assure you that there must be a mistake in regard to this item. I borrowed
no money, nor had I any occasion to ask a loan of my friend Paul, my expenses being defrayed
by funds contributed by friends in this country; nor could I with propriety receive, nor he
give me any part of the money contributed for the benefit of the Wilberforce Settlement; hence,
a loan or gift from him, could have been nothing more than a personal matter between ourselves.
Moreover, had he at that time or any other, given me in good faith the sum named as belonging
to the Settlement, (believing that as we were laboring together, for the interest of one common
cause, the board would not hesitate to allow it,) he would certainly have demanded a receipt,
which it would have pleased me to give, of course, that he might satisfy the board that their
liberality had been disbursed according to their wishes, or his judgment. But receiving no
money from your agent, will be a sufficient reason for not acknowledging it, or giving due
credit to the Settlement.

I can account for this charge on his part, in no way, except that as he was with me a part
of the time I was in London, and we traveled together a part of the time, during which, he
ably and effectively assisted me in exposing that most iniquitous combination, "The American
Colonization Society,"--he charged to me, (that is, to my mission) sundry items of expense
which he undoubtedly believed justly incurred by his helping me to open the eyes of British
philanthropists to the real design of that society; and I shall ever remember with gratitude,
his heartiness and zeal in the cause and in my behalf. I owe much to the success that so signally
crowned my mission, to his presence, testimony, and eloquent denunciation of the colonization
scheme. I, however, received no money from him, and can but think that the above explanation
was the occasion of his making the charge, and which I trust will leave on his memory, no intentional
[final word missing from text].

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM MR. BAKER TO A. STEWARD.

MR. A. STEWARD,

Dear Sir:--Israel Lewis, the former agent of your Settlement, last spring represented to me
the suffering condition of your poor, and requested that I should forward some goods, for which
I should be paid; I did so, and sent goods to the amount of one hundred thirty-six dollars
and ninety-eight cents. The goods were sold at cost.

I am also endorsed on a note for two hundred thirteen dollars and ten cents, which falls due
24th of this month, and which I shall have to pay. This note was given by Lewis for the purpose
of raising money to fit out Mr. Paul, on his mission to England. I was promised that the money
should be here to meet it.

I have heard nothing from Lewis or this business since, and as I understand you are the agent,
I must look to you to make provision to meet the note, and pay for the goods. Good faith requires
that all contracts by your agency be fulfilled.

Yours, Respectfully,

CORNAL BAKER.

New York City, Dec., 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM MR. L.A. SPALDING TO A. STEWARD

DEAR FRIEND:

In August last, Israel Lewis, accompanied by Rev. Nathaniel Paul called upon me and exhibited
a power of attorney, signed by you as president of the trustees of the colony, authorizing
Lewis to take loans, &c., for the benefit of the colony.

Feeling a deep interest in the progress of the colony, I agreed to become security with E.
Peck, at the Bank of Rochester, for the payment of seven hundred dollars, which soon was raised
by Lewis on the note, for the benefit of the colony. I was in hopes to have seen you. E. Peck
and myself, both are willing to aid you in your noble enterprise,--and may others feel the
same disposition. But as we have families and friends, who look to us for support and protection,
it is proper that we should have your personal pledge to save us from embarrassment.

We know your character well, and we have also great confidence in Israel Lewis, and the others
engaged with you,--but none of them are so thoroughly known to us as yourself.

Our asking for your personal pledge, does not arise from any fears that the note will not be
paid; but as it was signed to aid you, we think it proper that you should respond by guaranteeing
that we shall not be injured.

I accordingly copy the note in question, and write a guarantee which I wish you to sign and
hand to my brother.

I feel much anxiety in regard to your progress; in your forming schools; religious and temperance
societies; and in your taking every measure to elevate the unfortunate colored man who may
go to your colony for protection and improvement.

Very Respectfully Yours,

LYMAN A. SPALDING.

AUSTIN STEWARD.

Lockport, N.Y. 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM THE CONVENTIONAL BOARD, PHILADELPHIA, PA., TO A. STEWARD.

MR. AUSTIN STEWARD, Wilberforce, U.C.,

Esteemed Friend:--I am charged by the conventional board, to inform you that at the last session
of the general convention, you was duly elected their General Corresponding Agent, for the
Wilberforce Settlement and parts adjacent. Respectfully and in an official capacity, would
I ask you to accept the appointment.

And in pursuance of the said appointment, the board would be happy to have at least a monthly
correspondence from you, on all such matters as may, in your opinion, be thought conducive
to the prosperity of the settlement, the elevation and future happiness of the free people
of color.

In particular, we would wish you to give as accurate an account as possible, of the number
of settlers; the number of acres as purchased; at what price; what number are improved and
under culture; what number of houses or tenements are in the Settlement, &c., &c.

What are your present prospects in regard to crops; your political advantages or disadvantages.

We would also respectfully ask you to inform us, what number of settlers might emigrate there
each year, without injuring the Settlement. Also, what kind of machines you most need; also,
what are the terms for which laborers are contracted for and how paid.

The board have been thus particular, because they rely with full confidence on your patriotism
and capability, which have been unanimously assigned to you.

You will perceive our object is, to contribute, as far as lays in our power, pecuniary aid,
and assist in securing you such agricultural and mechanical emigrants as, in your opinion,
the Settlement may need; and in all our recommendations to you, we shall endeavor to have an
eye to character, knowing full well that by that alone you must stand or fall.

We have been informed here by a letter (purporting to be written by a Mr. Stover), that the
Canada Company actually refuses to sell land to colored persons; and that they are anxious
to buy out the colored settlers at Wilberforce.

Be pleased to inform me if that be a fact, with its particulars; and if there be any disadvantages
in purchasing land by colored emigrants.

The board would be happy to know if you have had any news from your agent in England. If any,
what are his prospects?

You will please be particular and candid in stating your wants (as well as disadvantages) to
us, as we will do our utmost to satisfy them, as well as promote the happiness of the settlers,
and the prosperity of the Settlement.

Be pleased to answer as soon as possible, for we as brothers in common, feel deeply interested.

With sentiments of sincere friendship,

I remain, yours,

JUNIUS C. MORRELL.

A true copy from the record.

       *       *       *       *       *

RESOLUTIONS PASSED BY THE BOARD OF MANAGERS OF THE WILBERFORCE COLONY.

At a meeting of the Board of Managers, held September 30th, 1831, to call the Agents to an account:

Resolved, That the Report of N. Paul be accepted, and unanimously agreed to.

At a meeting of the Board of Directors, all the members present, March 18th, 1832:

Resolved, That we disapprove of the conduct of Israel Lewis, in his being absent so long, and
also his not communicating with the Board of Directors, and not informing them from time to
time, how he is prosecuting his agency.

Resolved, That the chairman of this board be instructed to write to said Lewis, to return home,
and lay before this board his doings.

At a meeting of the Board, held April 1st, 1832, all the members and Israel Lewis present with
them, he made the following Report, and resigned his office as agent, which was accepted:

Lewis said that seven hundred dollars was all that he had collected. That he paid one hundred
and fifty dollars for board in New York, thirty-five dollars for clothes, and two hundred dollars
to N. Paul, as an out-fit for England.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIRCULAR.

THE BOARD OF MANAGERS FOR THE COLONY,

To the Christians and Philanthropists in the United States:

We, the undersigned inhabitants and Board of Managers for the Colony of Wilberforce, beg leave
to state that the frost cut off the crops in this part of the country last year, and some of
the colonists are in great need of assistance. And we flatter ourselves that when the peculiar
circumstances of this infant Settlement are duly considered, this appeal, to a generous and
discriminating public, will not be made in vain.

The board are sensible from the cause above stated, that the inhabitants of Wilberforce will
be compelled to ask aid from the friends of humanity in the States, or they must suffer.

Under these circumstances they commissioned the Rev. James Sharp, as their agent, and sent
him to the States; but owing to the opposition of Israel Lewis,--who had been formerly employed
as agent, but was removed from the agency--his labors were almost wholly lost to the board.

We would simply say, that Lewis was acting for a certain company here; but we have made inquiries,
and find but one man in Wilberforce that belongs to said company, and he is an old man, in
his dotage. That man is Simon Wyatt. We might say more, but we think there has been enough
written to satisfy the public.

In consequence of the unfaithfulness of Israel Lewis, and the numerous agents that may be looking
around the country after him, the board have come to the conclusion to dispense with a traveling
agent for the present.

And we would humbly request Lyman A. Spalding, Esq., of Lockport; E. Peck, Esq., of Rochester;
Rev. Dr. Budd, of Auburn; Charles Davis, Esq., of Ludlowville, Tompkins County, N.Y.; Arthur
Tappan, Esq., city of New York; to act as receivers for the Colony. The above named gentlemen,
will see that the funds which they may receive, be faithfully applied according to the wishes
of the donors.

All money placed in each of the banks at Rochester and a duplicate sent on to the Colony, may
be cashed here without any discount.

To Christians we appeal: by the brotherhood of Christ, and by their own hopes of being united
in him, to extend to us the means of obtaining bread; give us, in the name of Jesus, of your
abundance; give us, as God has blessed you, for the poor among us want bread and clothing.

It is to be hoped that every clergyman in the States, will lay this circular before their respective
congregations, and give every person an opportunity to throw in their mite into the treasury
of the Lord!

AUSTIN STEWARD, Pres't JOSEPH TAYLOR, Sec'y. PHILIP HARRIS,

JOHN WHITEHEAD, PETER BUTLER, SAMUEL PETERSON, WILLIAM BROWN.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM REV. J. BUDD TO A. STEWARD AND OTHERS.

MESSRS. PAUL AND STEWARD:

I have ever taken a great degree of interest in the welfare of your colony, and have in various
ways, brought it before the public.

It has pained me deeply to learn that there are divisions among you. The whole deportment and
manner of Lewis, who has been here, has evidently impressed the public in his favor. Although
I do not wish to take ground as his advocate, to the extinction of others, I am not inclined
to think him dishonest from the testimony now before me.

But, apart from him, my present impression is that the most effectual way for you to promote
the cause of the Colony, is not, at this stage of the business, to appear before the public
in a hostile attitude to Lewis.

I know some excellent and prominent gentlemen in this quarter, who think he is unkindly treated;
at any rate, while the investigation, lately commenced at Albany, is going on, it appears to
me not wise in you to put forth any further publication reflecting upon Lewis. He may have
acted imprudently; but he has excited himself very much, and should the idea prevail that you
and he are in a state of collision, it would be very bad for you.

I consider your Colony as a very important matter, and will do all in my power to promote your
welfare, but it is very material not to prejudice the public against you.

Before I move in the matter, I wish to know the real state of the matter between Lewis and
the Colony. As soon as I can know that he has defrauded you and deceived the public, I will
not hesitate to give my views on the subject, and put forth any efforts in my power for your
advancement.

There should no sectarian or party feeling be allowed to creep into your institution.

I thank you for naming me as a receiver for your Colony, and should anything come to me, I
shall hand it over to James S. Seymour, Esq., Cashier of the Bank of Auburn, who should have
been named instead of me. I hope you will put his name in my place, or at any rate, name him
with me, for he has been from the first, much interested in your behalf.

If you will allow me, I will briefly say, that my opinion is, your best way to relieve your
immediate wants, would be to issue a brief circular, stating the failure of your crops, your
newness of settlement, &c., &c.; and call upon the public for help, without naming Lewis or
alluding to your difficulty with him; let your papers be properly authorized, and say that
the agent you employ is not engaged in getting funds to pay for land, found schools, &c., but
to get immediate provisions for the Colony.

If you will send an agent here and prepare your circular in this way--let it be short--and
I will print it and give copies of it to him for circulation, free of charge.

With many prayers for the prosperity of your Colony,

I am your Friend,

JOHN BUDD.

Auburn, N.Y., May, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLY TO J. BUDD BY A. STEWARD.

To THE REV. J. BUDD,

Sir:--We feel under renewed obligation to you, for you friendly advice; but we have already
sent out several copies of our circular to different places, and probably some of them have
been printed before this time.

We have no object in view, but truth, justice,--the greatest good of the Settlement, and of
our brethren in general. Israel Lewis has, however, collected large sums of money, for our
relief, of which we have not had the benefit. Nearly two years ago, he was appointed agent
for the Colony, to collect funds to build a meeting-house, to endow schools, &c. In less than
one year he received more than two thousand dollars, which he squandered; and we have neither
meeting-house nor schools, nor never will have, so long as the money goes into the hands of
Lewis. All that we would have forgiven him gladly, if he would consent to be still and not
usurp the agency against the wishes of the people.

Sir, is it not expected that he would appear well; as you say, that "the whole deportment and
manner of Lewis, who has been in this place, evidently have impressed the people in his favor,"--while
collecting money with the eye of the public upon him. But follow him home into another kingdom,
and there see the man in his true character; stripped of his borrowed plumage,--and we will
guarantee that you would agree with us, in believing that he is an arch hypocrite.

We should be sorry to prejudice the public against our Settlement, more especially when we
are actuated by the purest motives,--that of preventing the Christian public from being imposed
upon, by drawing large sums from them for us, as they suppose, when in truth such sums never
reach us at all.

Sir, we know that you are actuated by the purest motives, but you are deceived in the character
of the man, (Lewis). When I was living in the States and only saw him there, collecting money
for the poor, I thought him honest as you now do; but two or three years' residence in Wilberforce
Colony, has abundantly satisfied me that his object is to get money, that he may live in a
princely style, and not for the benefit of the poor as he pretends.

Such are the true facts in the case. We should be glad to have the name of James S. Seymour,
Esq., added to the list, and any other prominent citizen you may think would help the cause.

In regard to the investigation at Albany, we do not see how the public are to arrive at the
facts in the case from any statement Lewis may make; for all his statements that I have seen
in print, are positively void of truth, in the most essential part, so that they are of little
or no importance at all unless substantiated by other testimony.

The circular contains no testimony that has not been heretofore laid before the public. Mr.
Benjamin Paul recently wrote a letter to the editors of "The Baptist Register," in which he
stated that Lewis had fed and clothed the colonists like a father, which is not true; and so
sensible was Paul of the fact, that when the letter reached here, together with the surprise
it created wherever Lewis was known, that Paul cheerfully contradicted it, confessed that he
was mistaken, and thus made it known to the public.

We certainly have no sectional feelings in the matter, though Lewis has labored hard to impress
the public with a contrary belief; and he has even brought false charges of the basest kind
against our more respectable citizens, all to draw the attention of the public from the true
facts in the case.

It is a general time of health here in the Colony. The season is very favorable; our crops
look well, and with the blessings of God we shall raise enough to supply our wants this year.

Yours, with due respect,

In behalf of the Colonists,

A. STEWARD.

Wilberforce, June, 1833.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM A. STEWARD TO G. BANKS AND OTHERS.

MESSRS. BANKS, WILBER, BROCKENBERG & HARRIS:

I have received a communication through your corresponding secretary, Mr. James C. Brown, and
I hasten to answer it. The last communication I have received from Mr. N. Paul, was in December,
1833, at which time he was vigorously prosecuting his mission, as will more fully appear by
the annexed copy of said letter, which I cheerfully send you. His return is expected daily.

[Copy OF N. PAUL'S LETTER.]

MY DEAR BROTHER STEWARD:

When I last addressed you, I informed you that I expected to leave this country before a return
letter from you could be expected. I therefore stated, if I remember correctly, that you need
not write.

I now find that I shall be detained much longer than I then calculated; and this detention
is owing to the Slavery question. The friends of the cause, advised me to forego my object,
until that question was settled; and then they would turn their attention to my cause, and
render me what assistance they could.

All their united strength was needed now, while that question was pending. But thanks be to
God, that is now settled. On the first day of August next, will be the proudest day that ever
Britain knew; for from that time henceforth, there will not remain a single slave throughout
His Majesty's dominions.

The friends of the cause are now turning their attention to Slavery in the United States, and
are about to form a society for the abolition of Slavery throughout the world. They all think
highly of our Settlement, and will give it their cordial support.

The leading abolitionists have given me letters of recommendation throughout the Kingdom, and
have appointed one of their most effective men to travel with me,--his name is John Scoble,
a very ready, intelligent, earnest, and an eloquent speaker. I think I can do more now in one
month, than I could in three before the question was settled in regard to their own slaves.

You will at once see that although the people concluded my object to be an important one, yet,
they generally thought that they ought to lend all their aid in removing the stain from their
own land first This stain is now effectually effaced, and my meetings are exceedingly crowded.
I addressed an audience at Norwich of from three to four thousand persons, week before last,
when about five hundred dollars was collected. So you see I am getting on. I start, the Lord
willing, next week for Scotland, and shall spend the winter there and in the North of England.
In the spring I shall return and take passage for Canada. I doubt not, that you are anxiously
looking for my return; yet, you cannot want to see me more than I want to return; but I tell
you now as I have told you before, that I shall not return until I have done all that can be
done by my labor.

Yours,

N. PAUL.

SIRS:

The above copy will give you all the recent information we have received concerning the mission
of our foreign agent.

Please accept my kindest regards, with my acknowledgments of your distinguished consideration,
while I remain,

Yours truly,

AUSTIN STEWARD.

Wilberforce, U.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM A. STEWARD TO MR. NELL.

DEAR SIR:

We are glad to acknowledge your favor of October last, and to hear of your safe arrival in
England, your health and fair prospects.

Since my removal to Wilberforce, I have opened a school, which Mrs. Steward has engaged to
teach for one year; while I shall probably devote my time to traveling through the States,
for the benefit of the Colony, which is indeed poor, and in want of some assistance; and yet,
not a dollar have we in the treasury to help them with.

Mr. Paul has not returned, though we are daily expecting him. Our friends in New York, still
have confidence in his pledge to do right; and we are anxiously expecting its fulfilment.

Your wife, Mrs. Nell, and the children are well, and we are still doing all in our power for
their comfort; but my means, in consequence of having been so much abroad the past season,
are limited; by which you will see, my dear Sir, the necessity of remitting funds to me, that
I may make your family more comfortable in all things, without distressing my own.

The settlers are well, and are looking with hopeful expectancy for you to do something handsome
for them, in which I do hope they may not be disappointed. Lewis is still in New York. We have
appointed another agent, named Scott, but who is doing nothing for the Colony now.

May the blessings of God rest upon you, and your endeavors; your good deportment put to silence
your enemies; may they who foresee that you will cheat the poor colored children, be sadly
mistaken, and your good deeds finally enrol your name on the proud list of philanthropists,
headed by a Wilberforce and a Clarkson.

Yours, in great haste,

AUSTIN STEWARD.

Wilberforce, Dec., 1835.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM L.A. SPALDING TO A. STEWARD AND OTHERS.

DEAR FRIENDS:

I have received a letter from Israel Lewis, New York, requesting me to forward fifty dollars
to the treasurer of the Wilberforce Colony, which I will do at the first convenience. I sent
fifty dollars some time since, which I presume was received.

I have also received a letter from B. Lundy, who speaks very flatteringly of the Settlement;
but gives me some information relating to Lewis, which will injure you, unless you act wisely.

Now I suggest for your consideration, whether it would not be best to keep perfectly quiet
relative to him, until after he returns and settles with the directors. If he cannot then satisfy
you, he will no doubt surrender up his documents and agency like a man, and leave you to appoint
another.

By all means you must agree among yourselves, not suffering any difference of opinion to become
public. Your enemies will seize upon this, and injure your prospects; besides, you gain nothing
by it. Your friends too, could then say that you acted imprudently. I hope to have a good account
of the settlement of your difficulties if any should exist.

Respectfully your Friend,

LYMAN A. SPALDING.

AUSTIN STEWARD & BENJ. PAUL.

Lockport, N.Y., 2d Mo., 4th, 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM REV. S.E. CORNISH TO A. STEWARD.

DEAR STEWARD:

I have this day received your letter, and God willing, I will be with you in the course of
ten or twelve days. Please to keep your people together, until I come. I will see that they
be not oppressed by that notorious Israel Lewis. I believe him to be one of the worst men living,
whose deeds will yet come to light. Do stay in the Colony and keep all things as they are until
I come.

Yours, with high esteem,

SAMUEL E. CORNISH.

P.S.--I am glad that Mrs. Steward is in Rochester; your Colony is by no means suited to her
talents and refined mind. She never could be happy there. My love to all the Colonists; I will
do every thing for them in my power. S.E.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM B. LUNDY TO A. STEWARD AND OTHERS.

ESTEEMED FRIENDS:

Again I take this method of communicating some private information to my personal friends,
relative to my proceedings in Mexico. My last visit to that country, (like the one preceding),
having been prolonged far beyond the time which I had anticipated, I feel it incumbent on me
to explain the causes thereof especially to such as take an interest in the enterprize in which
I have engaged, and those who have kindly assisted me with, means to defray the expenses of
my journey, &c.

Soon after the date of my last printed letter, which was issued from this place, I went to
New Orleans, with the intention of taking a passage by sea, to some port in Mexico; but after
waiting in that city about two weeks, and finding no opportunity to obtain one, I proceeded
up the Red River, and journeyed through Texas again by land. My health continued very good
for some length of time; but when I reached the middle part of the Texas country, it was my
misfortune to come again in contact with the direful "cholera," and again I was the subject
of its virulent attacks. My detention was great, and affliction severe; though I finally expelled
the disorder as I had done before. My sufferings were somewhat aggravated in several instances,
by the fearful prejudices of the people among whom I traveled. I was very anxious to get through
my journey, and often assayed to travel before I was in fact well enough. The consequence was,
that I frequently took relapses, and sometimes had to lie out under trees, even in time of
rain, within sight of houses, the people being unwilling to give me shelter therein, fearing
that my disorder was contagious.

At length I reached the Mexican town of San Antonio de Bexar, and there I tarried, until I
had got pretty well rid of the cholera. I then pursued my journey to Monclova, the seat of
government for the State of Coahuila and Texas, in company with several Mexican gentlemen and
foreigners. Previous to this time, I had traveled several hundred miles entirely alone, and
generally encamped in the woods or plains at night. On my arrival at Monclova, I was doomed
to encounter "misfortune" of a very different character. Here I found that the Englishman,
(mentioned in my other letter), with whom I had contracted to petition for two grants of land,
had totally failed in his application. The petition had been laid before the Governor, and
he was about issuing the grants, when he received a decree from the Legislature--which was
then in session--forbidding him to grant any more land, under any pretext. This measure was
taken to prevent the great land speculators from carrying on their swindling operations in
Texas. An act was soon after passed by that body, repealing all their Colonization laws; and
thus every hope that I had so fondly entertained, and each fair prospect, seemingly so near
its realization, was instantly blasted and utterly destroyed! If ever the fortitude of man
was tried, mine was then. If ever stoic philosophy might be successfully called to the aid
of human courage, I felt the necessity of invoking it upon that occasion. Nearly two years
of toil, privation and peril, have been wasted. My sufferings had been great, though my spirit
soared on the bouyancy of hope. Now the fair superstructure of an important enterprise, whose
ideal magnitude had employed my mind, to the exclusion of many hardships endured, suddenly
vanished from my sight, and left before me a hideous and gloomy void with no other encouragement
than total disappointment, conscious poverty and remediless despair! What should I then have
done? My health was restored, but my detention and consequent expenses had been so great that
my funds were nearly exhausted. I came to the country for an important purpose; and I reasoned
with myself thus; although my way is closed in this State, cannot something be done elsewhere?
I will not boast of the stoutest heart among men, but mine must not quail. Something further
must be done if possible, and I will try.

In the course of my travels, I had seen a part of the adjoining State of Tamaulipas, and had
been informed that the colonization laws thereof were liberal. I was even aware that some parts
of it are more suitable for the culture of the sugar cane, than any tract I could have obtained
in Coahuila and Texas. And upon a little reflection, I determined to make further investigations
in Tamaulipas, and had been informed of the State. As soon as my horse was a little rested,
I set out, alone, on a journey of between four and five hundred miles, part of the way through
an awfully mountainous region, and much of it an uninhabited wilderness. I encamped out almost
every night, during the whole journey; very seldom near any human habitation. I had no fire-arms
nor anything to defend myself against the ferocious beasts of the forest, which I had evidence
to convince me were frequently numerous, and not far distant. In two weeks I reached the city
of Matamoras, in the State of Tamaulipas, quite destitute of funds, after parting with almost
every disposable article belonging to my wardrobe, &c. The people of this place being all perfect
strangers to me, I did not for a while unfold to them the real object of my visit; but instead
thereof, I opened a shop, and commenced working at my old trade-- the saddling business. I
soon got as much work as I could do--supported myself, replenished my pocket, made some acquaintance
with a number of people, and obtained more information respecting the Colonization laws of
the State. A few weeks elapsed, while I was employed in this way. I then mounted my horse again,
and proceeded to the capital of the State; and after negotiating for some time with the Governor
and Council of the State, I succeeded in obtaining a grant of land, upon advantageous terms.
I then performed another journey of almost two hundred and fifty miles, "alone," to Matamoras
again; and soon thereafter embarked for the United States.

My friends will thus perceive that I have not been idle; though much time has been occupied
in my last expedition. I shall not attempt to excite their sympathy by exhibiting the twentieth
part of what I have suffered. I do not even like to look back upon some of the scenes through
which I have passed. But thanks to a kind and all-sustaining Providence, complete success has
at last crowned my exertions. I strove hard to command it; and I leave it to others to say
whether I have deserved it or not.

The terms upon which I have obtained my grant of land will be noticed in a public address,
which I shall forward with this letter.

Since my arrival in this place, I have been confined by sickness; but am now convalescent,
and shall visit my friends to the eastward, as soon as circumstances will permit. I cannot
close this communication without an expression of my sincere thanks to those kind friends who
rendered me assistance in defraying the expenses of my last Mexican tour. Their favors will
be most gratefully remembered, and I shall feel myself under additional obligations to labor
for the melioration of the condition of the poor and suffering slave.

In the next number of the "Genius of Universal Emancipation," I shall insert the names of those
who contributed to aid me in the prosecution of my enterprise; and correct information relative
to all proceedings therein, will be given in the pages of that work, as the business connected
with it progresses.

I am, most respectfully, your Friend,

B. LUNDY.

N. & B. PAUL, AUSTIN STEWARD, REV. J. SHARP.

Nashville, 5th Mo., 1835.

THE END.