Mr. Gilbreth's method of bricklaying furnishes a simple illustration of true and effective
cooperation. Not the type of cooperation in which a mass of workmen on one side together cooperate
with the management; but that in which several men in the management (each one in his own particular
way) help each workman individually, on the one hand, by studying his needs and his shortcomings
and teaching him better and quicker methods, and, on the other hand, by seeing that all other
workmen with whom he comes in contact help and cooperate with him by doing their part of the
work right and fast.

The writer has gone thus fully into Mr. Gilbreth's method in order that it may be perfectly
clear that this increase in output and that this harmony could not have been attained under
the management of "initiative and incentive" (that is, by putting the problem up to the workman
and leaving him to solve it alone) which has been the philosophy of the past. And that his
success has been due to the use of the four elements which constitute the essence of scientific
management.

First. The development (by the management, not the workman) of the science of bricklaying,
with rigid rules for each motion of every man, and the perfection and standardization of all
implements and working conditions.

Second. The careful selection and subsequent training of the bricklayers into first-class men,
and the elimination of all men who refuse to or are unable to adopt the best methods.

Third. Bringing the first-class bricklayer and the science of bricklaying together, through
the constant help and watchfulness of the management, and through paying each man a large daily
bonus for working fast and doing what he is told to do.

Fourth. An almost equal division of the work and responsibility between the workman and the
management. All day long the management work almost side by side with the men, helping, encouraging,
and smoothing the way for them, while in the past they stood one side, gave the men but little
help, and threw on to them almost the entire responsibility as to methods, implements, speed,
and harmonious cooperation.

Of these four elements, the first (the development of the science of bricklaying) is the most
interesting and spectacular. Each of the three others is, however, quite as necessary for success.

It must not be forgotten that back of all this, and directing it, there must be the optimistic,
determined, and hard-working leader who can wait patiently as well as work.

In most cases (particularly when the work to be done is intricate in its nature) the "development
of the science" is the most important of the four great elements of the new management. There
are instances, however, in which the "scientific selection of the workman" counts for more
than anything else.

A case of this type is well illustrated in the very simple though unusual work of inspecting
bicycle balls.

When the bicycle craze was at its height some years ago several million small balls made of
hardened steel were used annually in bicycle bearings. And among the twenty or more operations
used in making steel balls, perhaps the most important was that of inspecting them after final
polishing so as to remove all fire-cracked or otherwise imperfect balls before boxing.

The writer was given the task of systematizing the largest bicycle ball factory in this country.
This company had been running for from eight to ten years on ordinary day work before he undertook
its reorganization, so that the one hundred and twenty or more girls who were inspecting the
balls were "old bands" and skilled at their jobs.

It is impossible even in the most elementary work to change rapidly from the old independence
of individual day work to scientific cooperation.

In most cases, however, there exist certain imperfections in working conditions which can at
once be improved with benefit to all concerned.

In this instance it was found that the inspectors (girls) were working ten and one-half hours
per day (with a Saturday half holiday.)

Their work consisted briefly in placing a row of small polished steel balls on the back of
the left hand, in the crease between two of the fingers pressed together, and while they were
rolled over and over, they were minutely examined in a strong light, and with the aid of a
magnet held in the right hand, the defective balls were picked out and thrown into especial
boxes. Four kinds of defects were looked for-dented, soft, scratched, and fire-cracked--and
they were mostly so minute as to be invisible to an eye not especially trained to this work.
It required the closest attention and concentration, so that the nervous tension of the inspectors
was considerable, in spite of the fact that they were comfortably seated and were not physically
tired.

A most casual study made it evident that a very considerable part of the ten and one-half hours
during which the girls were supposed to work was really spent in idleness because the working
period was too long. It is a matter of ordinary common sense to plan working hours so that
the workers can really "work while they work" and "play while they play," and not mix the two.

Before the arrival of Mr. Sanford E. Thompson, who undertook a scientific study of the whole
process, we decided, therefore, to shorten the working hours.

The old foreman who had been over the inspecting room for years was instructed to interview
one after another of the better inspectors and the more influential girls and persuade them
that they could do just as much work in ten hours each day as they had been doing in ten and
one-half hours. Each girl was told that the proposition was to shorten the day's work to ten
hours and pay them the same day's pay they were receiving for the ten and one-half hours.

In about two weeks the foreman reported that all of the girls he had talked to agreed that
they could do their present work just as well in ten hours as in ten and one-half and that
they approved of the change.

The writer had not been especially noted for his tact so he decided that it would be wise for
him to display a little more of this quality by having the girls vote on the new proposition.
This decision was hardly justified, however, for when the vote was taken the girls were unanimous
that 10 1/2 hours was good enough for them and they wanted no innovation of any kind.

This settled the matter for the time being. A few months later tact was thrown to the winds
and the working hours were arbitrarily shortened in successive steps to 10 hours, 9 1/2, 9,
and 8 1/2 (the pay per day remaining the same); and with each shortening of the working day
the output increased instead of diminishing.

The change from the old to the scientific method in this department was made under the direction
of Mr. Sanford E. Thompson, perhaps the most experienced man in motion and time study in this
country, under the general superintendence of Mr. H. L. Gantt.

In the Physiological departments of our universities experiments are regularly conducted to
determine what is known as the "personal coefficient" of the man tested. This is done by suddenly
bringing some object, the letter A or B for instance, within the range of vision of the subject,
who, the instant he recognizes the letter has to do some definite thing, such as to press a
particular electric button. The time which elapses from the instant the letter comes in view
until the subject presses the button is accurately recorded by a delicate scientific instrument.

This test shows conclusively that there is a great difference in the "personal coefficient"
of different men. Some individuals are born with unusually quick powers of perception accompanied
by quick responsive action. With some the message is almost instantly transmitted from the
eye to the brain, and the brain equally quickly responds by sending the proper message to the hand.

Men of this type are said to have a low "personal coefficient," while those of slow perception
and slow action have a high "personal coefficient."

Mr. Thompson soon recognized that the quality most needed for bicycle ball inspectors was a
low personal coefficient. Of course the ordinary qualities of endurance and industry were also
called for.

For the ultimate good of the girls as well as the company, however, it became necessary to
exclude, all girls who lacked a low "personal coefficient." And unfortunately this involved
laying off many of the most intelligent, hardest working, and most trustworthy girls merely
because they did not possess the quality of quick perception followed by quick action.

While the gradual selection of girls was going on other changes were also being made.

One of the dangers to be guarded against, when the pay of the man or woman is made in any way
to depend on the quantity of the work done, is that in the effort to increase the quantity
the quality is apt to deteriorate.

It is necessary in almost all cases, therefore, to take definite steps to insure against any
falling off in quality before moving in any way towards an increase in quantity.

In the work of these particular girls quality was the very essence. They were engaged in picking
out all defective balls.

The first step, therefore, was to make it impossible for them to slight their work without
being, found out. This was accomplished through what is known as over-inspection, Each one
of four of the most trust-worthy girls was given each day a lot of balls to inspect which had
been examined the day before by one of the regular inspectors; the number identifying the lot
to be over-inspected having been changed by the foreman so that none of the over-inspectors
knew whose work they were examining. In addition to this one of the lots inspected by the four
over-inspectors was examined on the following day by the chief inspector, selected on account
of her especial accuracy and integrity.

An effective expedient was adopted for checking the honesty and accuracy of the over-inspection.
Every two or three days a lot of balls was especially prepared by the foreman, who counted
out a definite number of perfect balls, and added a recorded number of defective balls of each
kind. Neither the inspectors nor the over-inspectors had any means of distinguishing this prepared
lot from the regular commercial lots. And in this way all temptation to slight their work or
make false returns was removed.

After insuring in this way against deterioration in quality, effective means were at once adopted
to increase the output. Improved day work was substituted for the old slipshod method. An accurate
daily record was kept both as to the quantity and quality of the work done in order to guard
against any personal prejudice on the part of the foreman and to insure absolute impartiality
and justice for each inspector. In a comparatively short time this record enabled the foreman
to stir the ambition of all the inspectors by increasing the wages of those who turned out
a large quantity and good quality, while at the same time lowering the pay of those who did
indifferent work and discharging others who proved to be incorrigibly slow or careless. A careful
examination was then made of the way in which each girl spent her time and an accurate time
study was undertaken, through the use of a stop-watch and record blanks, to determine how fast
each kind of inspection should be done, and to establish the exact conditions under which each
girl could do her quickest and best work, while at the same time guarding against giving her
a task so severe that there was danger from over fatigue or exhaustion. This investigation
showed that the girls spent a considerable part of their time either in partial idleness, talking
and half working, or in actually doing nothing.

Even when the hours of labor had been shortened from 10 1/2  to 8 1/2 hours a close observation
of the girls showed that after about an hour and one-half of consecutive work they began to
get nervous. They evidently needed a rest. It is wise to stop short of the point at which overstrain
begins, so we arranged for them to have a ten minutes period for recreation at the end of each
hour and one quarter. During these recess periods (two of ten minutes each in the morning and
two in the afternoon) they were obliged to stop work and were encouraged to leave their seats
and get a complete change of occupation by walking around and talking, etc.

In one respect no doubt some people will say that these girls were brutally treated. They were
seated so far apart that they could not conveniently talk while at work.

Shortening their hours of labor, however, and providing so far as we knew the most favorable
working conditions made it possible for them to really work steadily instead of pretending
to do so.

And it is only after this stage in the reorganization is reached, when the girls have been
properly selected and on the one hand such precautions have been taken as to guard against
the possibility of over-driving them, while, on the other hand, the temptation to slight their
work has been removed and the most favorable working conditions have been established, that
the final step should be taken which insures them what they most want, namely, high wages,
and the employers what they most want, namely, the maximum output and best quality of work,
-which means a low labor cost.

This step is to give each girl each day a carefully measured task which demands a full day's
work from a competent operative, and also to give her a large premium or bonus whenever she
accomplishes this task.

This was done in this case through establishing what is known as differential rate piece work.
*begin footnote* See paper read before the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, by Fred.
W. Taylor, Vol. XVI, p. 856, entitled "Piece Rate System." *end footnote* Under this system
the pay of each girl was increased in proportion to the quantity of her output and also still
more in proportion to the accuracy of her work.

As will be shown later, the differential rate (the lots inspected by the over-inspectors forming
the basis for the differential) resulted in a large gain in the quantity of work done and at
the same time in a marked improvement in the quality.

Before they finally worked to the best advantage it was found to be necessary to measure the
output of each girl as often as once every hour, and to send a teacher to each individual who
was found to be falling behind to find what was wrong, to straighten her out, and to encourage
and help her to catch up.

There is a general principle back of this which should be appreciated by all of those who are
especially interested in the management of men.

A reward, if it is to be effective in stimulating men to do their best work, must come soon
after the work has been done. But few men are able to look forward for more than a week or
perhaps at most a month, and work hard for a reward which they are to receive at the end of
this time.

The average workman must be able to measure what he has accomplished and clearly see his reward
at the end of each day if he is to do his best. And more elementary characters, such as the
young girls inspecting bicycle balls, or children, for instance, should have proper encouragement
either in the shape of personal attention from those over them or an actual reward in sight
as often as once an hour.

This is one of the principal reasons why cooperation or "profit-sharing" either through selling
stock to the employees or through dividends on wages received at the end of the year, etc.,
have been at the best only mildly effective in stimulating men to work hard. The nice time
which they are sure to have to-day if they take things easily and go slowly proves more attractive
than steady hard work with a possible reward to be shared with others six months later. A second
reason for the inefficiency of profit-sharing schemes had been that no form of cooperation
has yet been devised in which each individual is allowed free scope for his personal ambition.
Personal ambition always has been and will remain a more powerful incentive to exertion than
a desire for the general welfare. The few misplaced drones, who do the loafing and share equally
in the profits, with the rest, under cooperation are sure to drag the better men down toward
their level.

Other and formidable difficulties in the path of cooperative schemes are, the equitable division
of the profits, and the fact that, while workmen are always ready to share the profits, they
are neither able nor willing to share the losses. Further than this, in many cases, it is neither
right nor just that they should share either the profits or the losses, since these may be
due in great part to causes entirely beyond their influence or control, and to which they do
not contribute.

To come back to the girls inspecting bicycle balls, however, the final outcome of all the changes
was that thirty-five girls did the work formerly done by one hundred and twenty. And that the
accuracy of the work at the higher speed was two-thirds greater than at the former slow speed.

The good that came to the girls was, First. That they averaged from 80 to 100 per cent higher
wages than they formerly received.

Second. And they were given four recreation periods properly distributed through the day, which
made overworking impossible for a healthy girl.

Third. Each girl was made to feel that she was the object of especial care and interest on
the part of the management, and that if anything went wrong with her she could always have
a helper and teacher in the management to lean upon.

Fourth. All young women should be given two consecutive days of rest (with pay) each month,
to be taken whenever they may choose. It is my impression that these girls were given this
privilege, although I am not quite certain on this point.

The benefits which came to the company from these changes were:

First. A substantial improvement in the quality of the product.

Second. A material reduction in the cost of inspection, in spite of the extra expense involved
in clerk work, teachers, time study, over-inspectors, and in paying higher wages.

Third. That the most friendly relations existed between the management and the employees, which
rendered labor troubles of any kind or a strike impossible.

These good results were brought about by many changes which substituted favorable for unfavorable
working conditions. It should be appreciated, however, that the one element which did more
than all of the others was, the careful selection of girls with quick perception to replace
those whose perceptions were slow--(the substitution of girls with a low personal coefficient
for those whose personal coefficient was high)--the scientific selection of the workers.

The illustrations have thus far been purposely confined to the more elementary types of work,
so that a very strong doubt must still remain as to whether this kind of cooperation is desirable
in the case of more intelligent mechanics, that is, in the case of men who are more capable
of generalization, and who would therefore be more likely, of their own volition, to choose
the more scientific and better methods. The following illustrations will be given for the purpose
of demonstrating the fact that in the higher classes of work the scientific laws which are
developed are so intricate that the high-priced mechanic needs (even more than the cheap laborer)
the cooperation of men better educated than himself in finding the laws, and then in selecting,
developing, and training him to work in accordance with these laws.

A doubt, for instance, will remain in the minds perhaps of most readers (in the case of an
establishment which manufactures the same machine, year in and year out, in large quantities,
and in which, therefore, each mechanic repeats the same limited series of operations over and
over again), whether the ingenuity of each workman and the help which he from time to time
receives from his foreman will not develop such superior methods and such a personal dexterity
that no scientific study which could be made would result in a material increase in efficiency.

A number of years ago a company employing about three hundred men, which had been manufacturing
the same machine for ten to fifteen years, sent for us to report as to whether any gain could
be made through the introduction of scientific management. Their shops had been run for many
years under a good superintendent and with excellent foremen and workmen, on piece work. The
whole establishment was, without doubt, in better physical condition than the average machine-shop
in this country. The superintendent was distinctly displeased when told that through the adoption
of task management the output, with the same number of men and machines, could be more than
doubled. He said that he believed that any such statement was mere boasting, absolutely false,
and instead of inspiring him with confidence, he was disgusted that any one should make such
an impudent claim. He, however, readily assented to the proposition that he should select any
one of the machines whose output he considered as representing the average of the shop, and
that we should then demonstrate on this machine that through scientific methods its output
could be more than doubled.

The machine selected by him fairly represented the work of the shop. It had been run for ten
or twelve years past by a first-class mechanic who was more than equal in his ability to the
average workmen in the establishment. In a shop of this sort in which similar machines are
made over and over again, the work is necessarily greatly subdivided, so that no one man works
upon more than a comparatively small number of parts during the year. A careful record was
therefore made, in the presence of both parties, ox the time actually taken in finishing each
of the parts which this man worked upon. The total time required by him to finish each piece,
as well as the exact speeds and feeds which he took, were noted and a record was kept of the
time which he took in setting the work in the machine and removing it. After obtaining in this
way a statement of what represented a fair average of the work done in the shop, we applied
to this one machine the principles of scientific management.

