A strange mistake occurred on both sides. Whenever the French soldiers shouted 'God save the
King and Montcalm,' the ensigns carrying the colours of the regiment of Guienne waved them
high in the air. The flags were almost white, and some of the British mistook them for a sign
of surrender. Calling out 'Quarter, Quarter!' the redcoats held their muskets above their heads
and ran in towards the wall. The French then thought it was the British who wished to surrender,
and called out 'Ground Arms!' But Pouchot, the officer who had marched night and day from the
Mohawk valley to join Montcalm, seeing what he thought a serious danger that the British would
break through, called out 'Fire!' and his men, most of them leaning over the top of the wall,
poured in a volley that cut down more than a hundred of the British.

The Canadians in the separate trench on the low ground, at the extreme right, were not closely
engaged at all. They and the American rangers took pot-shots at each other without doing much
harm on either side. In the middle of the battle the Canadians were joined by 250 of their
friends, just come in from Lake Champlain. But even with this reinforcement they made only
a very feeble attack on the exposed left flank of the British column nearest to them on the
higher ground, in spite of the fact that this column was engaged in a keen fight with the French
in its front, and was getting much the worse of it. When Levis sent two French officers down
to lead an attack on the British column the Canadian officers joined it at once. But the mass
of the men hung back. They were raiders and bush-fighters. They had no bayonets. Above all,
they did not intend to come to close quarters if they could help it. Ticonderoga was no attack
by men from the British colonies and no French-Canadian defence and victory. It was a stand-up
fight between the French and the British regulars, who settled it between themselves alone.

About five o'clock the two left columns of the British joined forces to make a supreme effort.
They were led by the Highlanders, who charged with the utmost fury, while the two right columns
made an equally brave attack elsewhere. The front ranks were shot down as before. But the men
in rear rushed forward so fast--every fallen man seeming to make ten more spring over his body--that
Montcalm was alarmed, and himself pressed down at the head of his grenadiers to the point where
the fight was hottest. At the same time Levis, finding his own front clear of the old fourth
column, brought over the regiment of La Reine and posted it in rear of the men who most needed
its support. These two reinforcements turned the scale of victory, and the charge failed.

Abercromby, unlike Montcalm, never exposed himself on the field at all. But, for the second
time, he sent word that the trenches must be taken with the bayonet. The response was another
attack. But the men were tired out by the sweltering heat and a whole afternoon of desperate
fighting. They advanced, fired, had their front ranks shot down again; and once more retired
in sullen silence. The last British attack had failed. Their sharp-shooters and the American
rangers covered the retreat. Montcalm had won the day, the most glorious that French arms had
seen in the whole of their long American career.

The British had lost 2,000 men, nearly all regulars. But they still had 4,000 regulars left,
more than Montcalm's entire command could muster now. He went into action with 3,500 French
regulars, 150 Canadian regulars, 250 Canadian militia, and 15 Indians: a total of 3,915. At
four o'clock 250 more Canadians arrived. But as his loss was 400 killed and wounded, nearly
all French regulars, he had not 4,000 fit for action, of all kinds together, at any one time;
and he ended the day with only 3,765. On the other hand, Abercromby still had nearly all his
9,000 militia, besides 500 Indians; who, though worthless in the battle, were dangerous in
the bush. Under these conditions it would have been sheer madness for Montcalm to have followed
the British into their own country, especially as he lacked food almost more than he lacked men.

The losses of the different kinds of troops on both sides show us by whom most of the fighting
was done. The Indians had no losses, either from among the 15 French or the 500 British. The
Canadians and the American militia each lost about one man in every twenty-seven. The French
regulars, fighting behind entrenchments and under a really great general; lost in proportion
about three times as many as these others did, or one man in every nine. The British regulars,
fighting in the open against entrenchments and under a blundering commander, lost nearly one
man in every three.

Abercromby, having been pig-headed in his advance, now became chicken-hearted in his retreat.
He was in no danger. Yet he ran like a hare. Had it not been for his steady regulars and some
old hands among the rangers his return would have become a perfect rout. Pitt soon got rid
of him; and he retired into private life with the well-earned nickname of 'Mrs. Nabby-Cromby.'

Montcalm was a devout man.
   Behold the conquering Cross!
        'Tis God the triumph wrought!'

But the glorious joy of victory did not last long. Vaudreuil claimed most of the credit for
himself and the Canadians. He wrote lying dispatches to France and senseless orders to Montcalm.
Now that reinforcements were worse than useless, because they ate up the food and could not
attack the enemy, he kept on sending them every day. Montcalm was stung to the quick by the
letters he received. After getting three foolish orders to march into the British colonies
he wrote back sharply: 'I think it very strange that you find yourself, at a distance of a
hundred and fifty miles, so well able to make war in a country you have never seen!' Nor was
this all. Vaudreuil had also sent Indians, of course after the need for them had passed. They
were idle and a perfect nuisance to the French. They began stealing the hospital stores and
all the strong drink they could lay hands on. Montcalm checked them sharply. Then they complained
to Vaudreuil, and Vaudreuil reproached Montcalm.

It was the same wretched story over and over again: the owls and foxes in the rear thwarting,
spiting and robbing the lions at the front. Montcalm was more sick at heart than ever. He saw
that anything he could say or do was of little use; and he again asked to be recalled. But
he soon heard news which made him change his mind, no matter what the cost to his feelings.
The east and the west had both fallen into British hands. Louisbourg and the Ohio were taken.
Only Canada itself remained; and, even now, Pitt was planning to send against it overpowering
forces both by sea and land. Montcalm would not, could not, leave the ruined colony he had
fought for so long against such fearful odds. In the desperate hope of saving it from impending
doom, he decided to stay to the end.

CHAPTER VI

QUEBEC 1759

