In the centre of the table, upon a coffin, sat the Judge of that awful tribunal, arrayed from
head to foot in a blood-red robe: he wore no mask--why need he? What mask could exceed in hideousness
the countenance of the Dead Man?

Sydney was compelled to mount the table, and seat himself before his Judge, who thus addressed
him:--

'Prisoner, you are now in the presence of our august and powerful band,--the Knights of the
Round Table, of which I have honor to be the Captain. I am also Judge and Executioner.--The
charges I have against you are already known to every Knight present. It but remains for them
to pronounce you guilty, and for me to pass and execute sentence upon you. Attention, Knights!
those of you who believe the prisoner to be guilty, and worthy of such punishment as I shall
choose to inflict upon him, will stand up!'

Every masked figure arose, excepting one! and that one remained silent and motionless. To him
the judge turned with a savage scowl.

'How now, Doctor!' he cried in a voice of thunder--'do you dare dissent from the decision of
your comrades? Stand upon your feet, or by G---- I'll spring upon you and tear you limb from limb!'

But the Doctor stirred not.

'By hell!' roared the Dead Man, foaming with rage--'dare you disobey the orders of your Captain?
Villain, do you seek your own death?'

'Dare?' exclaimed the Doctor, tearing off his mask, and confronting his ruffian leader with
an unquailing eye--'dare! Why, thou white-livered hound, I dare spit upon and spurn ye! And
forsooth, ye call me a villain--you coward cut-throat, traitor, monster, murderer of weak women
and helpless babes! I tell you, Dead Man, your Power is at an end in these Vaults. There are
robbers, there may be murderers here--although thank God, I never shed human blood--but bad
as we are, your damnable villainy, your cruelty and your tyranny have disgusted us. I for one
submit to your yoke no longer; so may the devil take you, and welcome!'

Sydney now for the first time recognized in the speaker, the same individual who sought to
rob him one night in the Park, and whose gratitude he had won by presenting him with a fifty
dollar bill.

The Dead Man glared from some moments in silence upon the bold fellow who thus defied him.
At length he spoke--

'Fool! you have presumed to dispute my authority as Captain of this band, and your life is
forfeit to our laws. But, by Satan! I admire your courage, and you shall not die without having
a chance for your life. You shall fight me, hand to hand--here to-night, at once; the Knights
shall form a ring, and we will arm ourselves with Bowie knives; cut and slash shall be the
order of the combat; no quarters shall be shown; and he who cuts out his adversary's heart,
and presents it to the band on the point of his knife, shall be Captain of the Round Table.
Say do you agree to this?'

'Yes!' replied the Doctor, much to the disappointment of his challenger, who would have been
glad had the offer been rejected. However, there was no retracting, and instant preparations
were made for the combat. Sydney was placed in charge of two men, in order to prevent his escape;
and the Knights formed themselves into a large ring, while the combatants prepared for the
encounter. Both men stripped to the skin; around their left arms they wrapped blankets to serve
as shields; and in their right hands, they grasped long, sharp Bowie knives, whose blades glittered
in the brilliant light of the many candles. All was soon ready, and the adversaries entered
the ring, amid profound silence.--Poor Sydney contemplated the scene with painful interest;
how sincerely he prayed that the Doctor might prove victorious in the combat!

Gaunt and bony, the Dead Man looked like a skeleton; yet the immense muscles upon his fleshless
arms, indicated prodigious strength. He looked terribly formidable, with his livid face, deadly
eye and jaws firmly set--his long fingers clutching his knife with an iron grasp, and his left
arm raised to protect himself.--The Doctor was a large, dark-complexioned, handsome man--an
Apollo in beauty and a Hercules in strength, presenting a singular contrast to the hideous,
misshapen being with whom he was about to engage in deadly conflict.

Cautiously they advanced towards each other, with knives upraised. Standing scarce five feet
apart, they eyed each other for two minutes; not a muscle moved; with a howl like that of a
hyena, the Dead Man sprang upon his enemy, and gave him a severe gash upon his shoulder; but
the Doctor, who was an accomplished pugilist, knocked his assailant down, and favored him with
a kick in the jaw that left its mark for many a day, and did not enhance his beauty.

The Dead Man arose, grinding his teeth with passion, but advancing with extreme caution. By
a rapid and dexterous movement of his foot, he tripped the Doctor down, and having him at that
disadvantage, was about to bury his knife in his heart, when several of the band rushed forward
and prevented him, exclaiming--

'When you were down, the Doctor suffered you to regain your feet, and you shall allow him the
same privilege. Begin again on equal terms, and he who gets the first advantage, shall improve it.'

'Curses on you for this interference,' growled the ruffian, as he reluctantly suffered the
Doctor to arise. The combat was then renewed with increased vigor on both sides. Severe cuts
were given and received; two of the Doctor's fingers were cut off, and Sydney began to fear
that he would be vanquished, when, rallying desperately, he closed with the Dead Man, and with
one tremendous stroke, severed the miscreant's right hand from his wrist! Thus disabled, he
fell to the ground, bathed in blood.

'I'll not take your life, miserable dog,' cried the Doctor, as he surveyed his fallen adversary
with a look of contempt--'as I have deprived you of that murderous hand, you shall live. You
are now comparatively harmless--an object of pity rather than of fear. I am a surgeon, and
will exert my skill to stop the effusion of blood.'

The Dead Man had fainted. He was laid upon the Round Table, and the Doctor dressed the wound.
Then he turned to his comrades, and said, 'Gentlemen of the Round Table, you will admit that
I have fairly conquered our leader; I have spared his life not in the hope that he will ever
become a better man, for that is impossible--but that he may be reserved for a worse fate than
death by my knife. He shall live to die a death of horror.'

The band crowded around the Doctor, clapping their hands, and exclaiming--'Hail to our new
Captain!'

'Not so,' cried the Doctor--'to-night I leave this band forever. Nay, hear me, comrades--you
know that I am not a bad man by nature--you are aware that I have been driven to this life
by circumstances which I could not control. You are satisfied that I never will betray you;
let that suffice. Should any of you meet me hereafter, you will find in me a friend, provided
you are inclined to be honest.--I have a word to say in regard to this prisoner; he is my benefactor,
having once supplied my wants when I was in a condition of deep distress. I am grateful to
him, and wish to do him a service. He has been brought before you by the Captain, for some
private wrongs, which have not affected you as a band. Say, comrades, will you set him free?'

Many of the band seemed inclined to grant this favor; but one, who possessed much influence,
turned the current of feeling against Sydney, by saying--

'Comrades, listen to me. Though our Captain is conquered, we will not do him injustice. This
man is his prisoner, captured by his hand, and he alone can justly release him. Let the Doctor
depart, since he wishes it; but let the prisoner be kept in custody; to be disposed of as our
Captain may see proper.'

This speech was received with applause by the others. The Doctor knew it would be useless to
remonstrate; approaching Sydney, he whispered--

'Have courage, sir--in me you have a friend who will never desert you. I shall be constantly
near you to aid you at the first opportunity. Farewell.'

He pressed Sydney's hand, bade adieu to his comrades, and left the Vaults.

The Dead Man slowly revived; on opening his eyes, his first glance rested upon his prisoner,
and a gleam of satisfaction passed over his ghastly visage. At his request, two of the band
raised him from the table, and placed him in a chair; then, in a feeble voice, he said--

'Eternal curses on you all, why have you suffered the Doctor to escape? Hell and fury--my right
hand cut off!--But no matter; I shall learn to murder with the other. Ha, Sydney! you are there,
I see; the Doctor may go, in welcome, since you are left to feel my vengeance. I am too weak
at present to enjoy the sight of your torture, and the music of your groans. Back to your dungeon,
dog; yet stay--the dwarf may kill you, and thus cheat me of my revenge; it is not safe to confine
you with him any longer. Maggot and Bloodhound, take Sydney and shut him up in the Chamber
of Death.'

Two of the worst villains of the gang, who answered to the singular names of Maggot and Bloodhound,
seized Sydney by his arms, and dragged him along one of the dark passages which branched off
from the Vault. The Dead Man himself followed, bearing a lantern in his only remaining hand.

They arrived at a low iron door, in which was a grating formed of thick bars of the same metal.
This door being opened, the party descended a flight of stone steps, and entered an apartment
of great extent where the damp, chill air was so charged with noxious vapours, that the light
of the lantern was almost extinguished. The stone walls and floor of this dungeon were covered
with green damp; and from the ceiling in many places dripped a foul moisture. The further extremity
of the place was involved in a profound darkness which could not be dissipated by feeble rays
of the lamp.

'Here,' said the Dead Man, addressing his prisoner--'you will be kept in confinement for the
rest of your life--a confinement varied only by different modes of torture which I shall apply
to you, from time to time. This dungeon is called the Chamber of Death--for what reason you
will ere long find out. It is built directly under the sewers of the city, which accounts for
the liquid filth that oozes through the ceiling. Many persons have been shut up in this place,
for offences against our band and against me; and not one of them has ever got out, either
alive or dead! To-morrow I shall visit you, and bring you food--for I do not wish you to die
of hunger; I will endeavor to protract, not shorten your life, so that I may longer enjoy the
pleasure of torturing you. To-morrow, perhaps, you shall receive your first lesson in my methods
of torture. Adieu--come, comrades, let's leave him the lamp, that he may contemplate the horrors
of the place--for darkness here is bliss.'

The three villains ascended the steps and left the dungeon, having first carefully locked the door.

Poor Sydney fell upon his knees on the cold, damp floor, and prayed earnestly for either a
safe deliverance from that awful place, or a speedy death. Somewhat comforted by the appeal
to a Supreme Being, whose existence all men acknowledge in times of peril, he arose, and taking
the lamp resolved to explore the dungeon. He had not proceeded far before a spectacle met his
gaze which caused him to pause in horror and affright.

Seated around a vast table, was a row of figures fantastically dressed and in every extravagant
attitude. At first, Frank thought that they were living creatures; but observing that they
did not move, he approached nearer, and discovered that they were skeletons. Some were dressed
as males, others as females; and many of them, in fearful mockery of death, had been placed
in attitudes the most obscene and indecent. Presiding over this ghastly revel, was a gigantic
skeleton, arrayed in what had once been a splendid theatrical dress, and grasping in its fleshless
hand a large gilt goblet; this figure was seated on a sort of throne, made of rough boards.

These were the skeletons of those who had died in the Vaults, as well as of those persons who,
having fallen into the power of the band of villains, had been murdered in that dungeon, by
starvation or torture. With infernal ingenuity, the Dead Man had arrayed the skeletons in fanciful
costumes, which had been plundered from the wardrobe of a theatre; and placed them in the most
absurd and indecent positions his hellish fancy could devise. The large skeleton, which seemed
to preside over the others, was the remains of a former Captain of the band, celebrated for
his many villainies and gigantic stature.

While gazing upon this figure, Sydney distinctly saw the head, or skull, nod at him. Astonished
at this, yet doubting the evidence of his own eyesight, he approached nearer, and held the
lamp close up to it; again it moved, so plainly as to admit of no further doubt. Our hero was
not superstitious, but the strangeness of this incident almost terrified him, and he was about
to make a rapid retreat to the other side of the dungeon, when the mystery was explained in
a manner that would have been ludicrous under any other circumstances: a large cat leaped from
the skull, where it had taken up an abode, and scampered off, to the great relief of Sydney,
who was glad to find that the nod of the skeleton proceeded from such a trifling cause.

On the back of each chair whereon was seated a member of the ghostly company was written the
name which he or she had borne during life. Judges, magistrates and police officers were there,
who had rendered themselves obnoxious to the gang, in years past, by vigilance in detecting,
or severity in passing sentences upon many of its members. These individuals had been waylaid
by their ruffian enemies, and made to die a lingering death in that dungeon; their fate was
never known to their friends, and their sudden and unaccountable removal from the world, was
chronicled in the newspapers, at the time, under the head of mysterious disappearance. Ladies,
whose testimony had tended to the conviction of the band, were there; but their fate had been
doubly horrible, for previous to their imprisonment in the dungeon, they had been dishonored
by the vile embraces of almost every ruffian in the Vaults; and even after death, they had
been placed in attitudes unseemly and shameful. But the horror of Sydney, while beholding these
things, was soon absorbed in a discovery which to him was ten times more horrible than all
the rest; for written on the chair of a female figure, was the name of his aunt Mrs. Stevens!

It will be remembered that this lady was murdered by the Dead Man, at her residence in Grand
Street; on the night of the masquerade ball, in order to prevent her giving favorable testimony
at the trial of Sydney. Having been found, suspended by the neck, it was at first supposed
that she committed suicide; but that belief was removed from the public mind, when it was found
that a robbery had been committed in the house. It was then apparent that she had been inhumanely
murdered. Her servant testified that a strange man had called on her mistress that evening
whom she would not be able to recognize, his face having been concealed in the folds of his
cloak. After admitting him into the house, and calling Mrs. Stevens, the girl had gone out
on a short errand, and on her return, found her mistress in the situation described, and quite
dead. The old lady was buried; but her murderer broke open the tomb, and carried the corpse
to the dungeon of the Vaults, where he had placed her with the other victims, in the position
in which Sydney, her nephew, now found her.

'It is as I suspected,' thought our hero, as he sadly viewed the remains of his poor aunt--'that
villain murdered her, and now it is forever out of my power to avenge her blood. Ha! what's
this?--my name, upon an empty chair.'

And so it was; the name, Francis Sydney, was written out on the back of an unoccupied chair;
he comprehended that this was designated to be his seat when he should form one of that awful
crew, in the chamber of Death.

Suddenly, the damp, foul air of the place extinguished the light of his lamp, and he found
himself in total darkness.

CHAPTER XXIII

Showing how Sydney was tortured in the Chamber of Death, and how he made his escape through
the City Sewers.

Groping his way to the extremity of the dungeon, Frank sat down upon the stone steps, his mind
a prey to feelings of keenest horror and despair. His soul recoiled from the idea of suicide,
as a heinous crime in the sight of Heaven, or he would have dashed his brains out against the
walls of his prison, and thus put an end to his misery. Vainly he tried to forget his sorrows
in sleep; no sooner would he close his eye-lids, than the band of skeletons would seem to rush
towards him, and with fleshless arms beckon him to join their awful company.

Slowly, slowly passed the hours away. Numbed with cold, and paralyzed with the terrors of his
situation, Sydney was at last sinking into a state of insensibility, when he was aroused by
the loud noise caused by the opening of the dungeon door, and the gleam of a lantern flashed
upon him. He staggered to his feet, and saw that his visitors were the two villains, Maggot
and Bloodhound. One of them came down the steps and deposited upon the floor a small basket
and a lamp.

'Here,' said he--'is some grub for you, and a light to scare away the ghosts. Eat your fill--you
will need it; for in an hour from this time, our captain will visit you to commence his tortures,
in which I and my comrade will be obliged to help him.'

'Why will you aid that wretch in his cruelties?' asked Sydney--'I never injured you; pray act
like a man of heart and feeling, and release me from this dreadful place.'

'Release you!' cried the man--'I dare not. True, I have no animosity against you, young man;
but our Captain has, and were I to let you go, life would not be worth a minute's purchase.
I'd not incur that man's wrath for a million of money. No, no, make up your mind to the worst--you
can never go out of this dungeon.'

With this consoling assurance, the man and his comrade took their departure. On examining the
contents of the basket, our hero found an ample supply of good, wholesome food, and a jug of
water; and while heartily partaking of these necessities, (of which he stood in great need,)
he could not help comparing his situation with that of an animal being fattened for slaughter!

An hour elapsed; the dungeon was again opened, and the Dead Man entered, followed by Maggot
and Bloodhound. The two latter worthies carried between them an apparatus of singular appearance
and construction.

'Well, dog,' cried the Dead Man, 'how do you like your new kennel? Not so comfortable, I'll
swear, as your fine house on Broadway! Faith, a fine prayer you made last night, after we left
you; you called on God to help you--ha, ha! Fool--he cannot help you!--I alone can do it. Down,
then, on your marrow bones and worship me!'

And saying this, he raised his right arm, and with it struck his victim heavily on his head;
the extremity of the arm, where the hand had been cut off, had been furnished with a piece
of iron like a sledge-hammer, to enable the ruffian to possess the means of attack and defence.
Fortunate it was that the blow did not fracture Sydney's skull.

Meanwhile Maggot and Bloodhound had placed the machine which they had brought with them upon
the floor and began to prepare it for use. The vaults of the Spanish Inquisition never contained
a more horrible instrument of torture. It was a box made of iron and shaped like a coffin;
the sides and bottom were covered with sharp nails, firmly fixed with their points outwards;
beneath the box was a sort of furnace, filled with shavings and charcoal. This apparatus was
called by the ruffians--The Bed of Ease.

Sydney was made to strip himself entirely naked, and lie down in the box; then the cover was
fastened on. The points of the nails penetrated his flesh, causing him the most excruciating
torture; blood started profusely from all parts of his body, and he could scarce repress groans
of the most heart-felt anguish. But this was nothing to what he was doomed to endure; for the
demons in human shape kindled a fire beneath him, and when nature could hold out no longer,
and he screamed with agony, his tormentors roared with laughter.

They released him when a cessation of his cries warned them that he could hold out no longer
without endangering his life--for they wished him to live to endure future torments. He was
truly a pitiable object when taken from the box--his flesh torn and bleeding, and horribly
burnt. They rubbed him with oil, assisted him to dress and laid him upon a heap of straw which
one of them brought. They then left him, after assuring him that, as soon as he was healed,
they had tortures in store for him much more severe than the one just inflicted. The iron box
they left behind them in the dungeon, probably intending to use it again on some future occasion.

In what a deplorable situation did poor Sydney now find himself placed! Nearly dead with the
torments which he had just undergone, his mind was harassed by the dread of other and more
severe tortures yet in store for him. How gladly would he have bared his bosom to the deadly
stroke of the knife, or the fatal discharge of the pistol!

But exhausted nature could hold out no longer, and he fell into a deep sleep, from which he
was awakened by the entrance of some person into the dungeon. Starting up, he was confronted
by the dark and menacing visage of the Dead Man. The villain was alone and held in his left
hand a large knife; Sydney perceived, by his unsteady gait, his wildly rolling eyes, and his
thick, indistinct utterance, that he was much intoxicated.

'I am come, dog,' said he, with a look that a demon might have envied--'to feast upon your
heart, and drink your blood. My soul is hungry. I wish you had a thousand lives for me to take.
Sit up, and let me dig out your eyes, and cut off your nose, ears and fingers--for you must
die by inches! Get up, I say!'

'The monster is drunk,' thought Sydney; 'had I a weapon and sufficient strength, I might perhaps
overcome him; but alas! I am weak and sore--'

'Get up!' again roared the ruffian,'that I may sacrifice ye upon the flaming altar of Satan,
my deity. My heart is a coal of fire; it burns me, and blood alone can quench it!'

With the howl of a wild beast, he threw himself upon his victim.

But ere he could strike the deadly blow, he was writhing and struggling in the powerful grasp
of a tall, stout man, who at that crisis rushed into the dungeon.

'Now, reptile, I have thee!' muttered the Doctor, (for it was he) as with mighty and resistless
strength he dashed the miscreant to the floor and deprived him of his knife.

But the Dead Man struggled with all the fury of desperation; with his iron hand he made rapid
and savage passes at the head of his assailant, knowing that a single well-directed blow would
stun him. But the Doctor's science in pugilism enabled him to keep off the blows with ease,
while he punished his antagonist in the most thorough and satisfactory manner. Finding himself
likely to be overcome, the villain yelled at the top of his voice--'Treason! murder! help!'

'Your handkerchief, Mr. Sydney--quick!' cried the Doctor. Frank, who had already arisen from
his bed of straw, handed his gallant protector the article he had called for--and, though very
weak, assisted in gagging the vanquished ruffian, who, breathless and exhausted, could now
offer but a slight resistance.

'Into the box with him!' exclaimed the Doctor, and the next minute the Dead Man was stretched
upon the points of the sharp nails; the lid was closed upon him, the fire was lighted beneath,
and he writhed in all the torture he had inflicted upon poor Sydney.

Suddenly, the Doctor assumed a listening attitude, and whispered to his companion--

'By heavens, the band is aroused, and the Knights are coming to the rescue. If they capture
us, we are lost! There is but one way for us to escape--and that is through the sewers, a dreadful
avenue! Will you dare it?'

'I will dare anything, to escape from this earthly hell!' cried our hero, vigor returning to
his frame as he thought of liberty.

'Follow me, then,' said the Doctor, taking up the lamp, and hurrying up the dungeon steps;
he led the way, at a rapid pace, up another high flight of steps, to a point which overlooked
the city sewers. By the dim light of the lamp, Frank saw, twenty feet below, the dark, sluggish
and nauseous stream of the filthy drainings of the vast city overhead, which, running thro'
holes under the edges of the sidewalk, collect in these immense subterranean reservoirs, and
are slowly discharged into the river.

'Leap boldly after me--you will land in the mud, and break no bones,' said the Doctor--'our
enemies are at our heels!' A fact that was demonstrated by the sound of many footsteps hurrying
rapidly towards them.

The Doctor leaped into the dark and terrible abyss. Sydney heard the splash of his fall into
the muddy water, and nerving himself for the deed, jumped in after him; he sank up to his chin
in the loathsome pool. His friend grasped his hand, and whispered--'We are now safe from our
pursuers, unless they follow us, which is hardly probable; for I confess these sewers are so
full of horrors, that even those villains would hesitate to pass through them, unless under
circumstances as desperate as ours.' Frank shuddered. 'Will they not fire upon us?' he asked.
The Doctor answered:--

'No, they dare not; for the noise of fire-arms would be heard in the streets above, and people
might be led to inquire into the cause of such a phenomena. Fortunately my lamp is not extinguished,
and as the mud is not over our heads, we may make our way out of this infernal trap, provided
we are not devoured by rats and reptiles, which swarm here. Ah, by Jupiter, there are our pursuers!'

And as he spoke, some fifteen or twenty men appeared above them, on the point from which they
had jumped. On seeing the fugitives, they setup a shout of surprise and anger.

'A pretty trick you've served us, Doctor,' called out the fellow known as Bloodhound--'you've
nearly roasted the Dead Man, and carried off his prisoner; however, we rescued our Captain
just in time to save his life. You had better come back, or we'll blow your brains out!'--and
he levelled a pistol.

'Blow and be d----d,' coolly remarked the Doctor, who knew very well that he dare not fire--'come,
Mr. Sydney, follow me, and leave these fellows to talk to the empty air.'

With much difficulty the two fugitives began to move off through the mud and water.

'What, cowards, will you let them escape before your eyes?' roared the Dead Man, as he rushed
up to the brink of the chasm, and glared after Sydney and his friend with flaming eyes. 'Plunge
in after them, and bring them back, or by G----every man of you shall die the death of a dog!'

Not a man stirred to obey the order; and the miscreant would have leaped into the sewers himself,
had they not forcibly held him back.

'No, no, Captain,' cried Maggot--'the Doctor's too much for you; you've only got one hand now,
and you'd be no match for him, for he's the devil's pup at a tussle. Let them both slide this
time; you may catch them napping before long. As it is, they've got but a devilish small chance
of escape, for it rains terribly overhead, which will fill up the sewers, and drown them like
kittens.'

Meanwhile, Frank and his brave deliverer struggled manfully through the foul waters which encompassed
them. Soon an angle in the wall concealed them from their enemies; and they entered a passage
of vast extent, arched overhead with immense blocks of stone. This section of the sewers was
directly under Canal street, and pursued a course parallel with that great avenue, until its
contents were emptied into the North river. Our subterranean travellers could distinctly hear
the rumbling of the carts and carriages in the street above them, like the rolling of thunder.

It was an awful journey, through that dark and loathsome place. At every few steps they encountered
the putrid carcase of some animal, floating on the surface of the sickening stream. As they
advanced, hundreds of gigantic rats leaped from crevices in the wall, and plunged into the
water. Their lamp cast its dim rays upon the green, slimy stone-work on either side of them;
and their blood curdled with horror as they saw, clinging there, hideous reptiles, of prodigious
size, engendered and nourished there. They imagined that at every step they took, they could
feel those monsters crawl and squirm beneath their feet--and they trembled lest the reptiles
should twine around their limbs, and strike deadly venom to their blood. But a new terror came
to increase their fears; the water was growing deeper every instant, and threatened to overwhelm
them. Sydney overcome by the awful effluvia, grew too sick and faint to proceed further; he
requested the Doctor to leave him to his fate--but the gallant man raised his sinking form
in his powerful arms, and struggled bravely on. 'Courage, my friend,' cried the Doctor--'we
are near the river, for I see a light ahead, glimmering like a star of hope!' In ten minutes
more they emerged from the sewers, and plunged into the clear waters of the North river.

Without much difficulty they got on board of a sloop which lay moored at the wharf; and as
Sydney had money, he easily procured a change of raiment for himself and friend, from the skipper,
who was too lazy to ask any questions, and who was very well satisfied to sell them two suits
of clothes at five times their value. Frank took the Doctor to his home, resolved never to
part with so faithful and gallant a friend, whose faults had been the faults of unfortunate
circumstances, but whose heart, he felt assured, was 'in the right place.'

Poor Clinton, the dumb boy, welcomed his master and his old acquaintance the Doctor, with mute
eloquence. Dennis, the Irish footman, was almost crazy with delight at Mr. Sydney's safe return,
swearing that he thought him 'murthered and kilt intirely.'

That awful night was so indelibly stamped upon the memory of our hero, that often, in after
times, it haunted him in his dreams.

CHAPTER XXIV

The Marriage--The Intoxicated Rector--Miseries of an aged Bridegroom on his Wedding Night.

Mrs. Belmont was seated in the elegant parlor of her residence in Reade street. It was the
evening appointed for her marriage with Mr. Hedge, and she was dressed in bridal attire--a
spotless robe of virgin white well set off her fine form and rich complexion, while a chaplet
of white roses made a beautiful contrast with the dark, luxuriant hair on which it rested.

A superb French clock on the marble mantel piece proclaimed in silvery tones, the hour of seven.

'He will soon be here,' she murmured--'to carry me to the house of the clergyman, there to
be made his wife. How little the fond, foolish old man suspects the snare in which he is about
to fall! How admirably have my artifices deceived him! And the other evening when in the heat
of passion, he pressed me to grant him a certain favor in advance of our marriage, how well
I affected indignation, and made him beg for forgiveness! Oh, he thinks me the most virtuous
of my sex--but there is his carriage; now for the consummation of my hopes!'

Mr. Hedge entered the room, and raising her jewelled hand to his lips, kissed it with rapture.
The old gentleman was dressed in a style quite juvenile;--his coat was of the most modern cut,
his vest and gloves white, and his cambric handkerchief fragrant with eau de cologne. To make
himself look as young as possible, he had dyed his gray hair to a jet black, and his withered
cheeks had been slightly tinged with rouge, to conceal the wrinkles, and give him a youthful,
fresh appearance. He certainly looked twenty years younger than ever, but he could not disguise
his infirm gait and the paralytic motions of his body.

But let not the reader suppose that he was either a superannuated coxcomb or a driveling dotard.
He was a man of sense and feeling, but his passion for Julia had, for the time, changed all
his manner and habits.--He saw that she was a young and lovely woman, about to give herself
to the arms of a man thrice her age; and he wished to render the union less repugnant to her,
by appearing to be as youthful as possible himself. Therefore, he had made up his toilet as
we have described, not from personal vanity, but from a desire to please his intended bride.

We wish not to disguise the fact that Mr. Hedge was an exceedingly amorous old gentleman; and
that in taking Julia to his matrimonial embrace, he was partially actuated by the promptings
of the flesh. But in justice to him we will state that these were not the only considerations
which had induced him to marry her; he wanted a companion and friend--one whose accomplishments
and buoyancy of spirits would serve to dispel the loneliness and ennui of his solitary old
age. Such a person he fancied he had found in the young, beautiful 'widow,' Mrs. Belmont.

'Sweetest Julia,' said the aged bridegroom, enclosing her taper waist with her arm--'the carriage
is at the door, and all is in readiness to complete our felicity. To-night we will revel in
the first joys of our union in my own house--to-morrow, as you have requested, we depart for
Boston.'

'Ah, dearest,' murmured Julia, as her ripe lips were pressed to his--'you make me so happy!
How young you look tonight! What raptures I anticipate in your arms! Feel how my heart beats
with the wildness of passion!'

She placed his hand into her fair, soft bosom, and he felt that her heart was indeed throbbing
violently; yet 'twas not with amorous passion, as she had said; no, 'twas with fierce triumph
at the success of her schemes.

The contact of his hand with her voluptuous charms, inflamed him with impatient desire.

'Come,' cried he,--'let us no longer defer the blissful hour that gives you to my arms.'

In a few minutes Julia was ready; and the happy pair, seating themselves in the carriage, were
driven to the abode of Dr. Sinclair, who was to perform the marriage ceremony.

We said happy pair--yes, they were indeed so; the old gentleman was happy in the prospect of
having such a beautiful creature to share his fortune and bed; and the young lady was happy
in the certainty of having secured a husband whose wealth would enable her to live in luxury
and splendor.

They arrive at the rector's residence, and are ushered into a spacious apartment. Everything
is handsome and costly, yet everything is in disorder; judging from appearances one would suppose
that the place was occupied by a gentleman of intemperate habits--not by a minister of the
gospel. The rich carpet is disfigured with many stains, which look marvelously like the stains
produced by the spilling of port wine. The mirror is cracked; the sofa is daubed with mud;
a new hat lies crushed beneath an overturned chair. An open Bible is upon the table, but on
it stand a decanter and a wine-glass; and the sacred page is stained with the blood-red juice
of the grape. On the mantle-piece are books, thrown in a confused pile; the collection embraces
all sorts--Watts' hymn book reposes at the side of the 'Frisky Songsters,' the Pilgrim's Progress
plays hide-and-seek with the last novel of Paul de Kock; while 'Women of Noted Piety' are in
close companionship with the 'Voluptuous Turk.'

Soon the rector enters, and there is something in his appearance peculiar, if not suspicious.
His disordered dress corresponds with his disordered room. His coat is soiled and torn, his
cravat is put on awry, and his linen is none of the cleanest. He salutes Brother Hedge and
his fair intended, in an unsteady voice, while his eyes wander vacantly around the apartment,
and he leans against a chair for support.

'How very strangely he looks and acts,' whispered Julia to her frosty bridegroom--'surely he
can't be tipsy?'

'Of course not,' replied Mr. Hedge--'such a supposition with reference to our beloved pastor
would be sacrilege. He is only somewhat agitated; he is extremely sensitive, and deep study
has doubtless operated to the injury of his nervous system. My dear Brother Sinclair, we are
waiting for you to perform the ceremony,' he added, in a louder tone.

'Waiting--ceremony--' said the rector, abstractedly, gazing upward at the ceiling--'Oh, marriage
ceremony, you mean? Ah, yes, I had forgotten. Certainly. Quite right, Brother Hedge, or Ditch--ha,
ha! Excuse me. All ready.'

We shall not attempt to imitate the rector, in his manner of performing the ceremony, as we
deem the matter to be too serious for jest; but we will say, never before was ceremony performed
in so strange a manner. However, to all intents and purposes, they were married; and at the
conclusion of the service, the bridegroom slipped a fifty-dollar note into the rector's hand,
and then conducted his lovely bride to the carriage, in which they were soon driven to Mr.
Hedge's residence in Hudson street.

In explanation of the singular conduct of Dr. Sinclair, we will state that he became a wine-bibber
and a drunkard. Remorse for his amorous follies with Josephine, and horror at her crimes, had
driven him to drown such painful remembrances in the bottle. The very next day after he had
accused the mother and daughter of the murder, he drank himself into a state of intoxication,
and each subsequent day witnessed a renewal of the folly. On the Sabbath, he managed to preserve
a tolerably decent degree of sobriety, but his appearance plainly indicated a recent debauch,
and his style of preaching was tame and irregular. His congregation viewed him with suspicion
and distrust privately; but as yet, no public charge had been made against him. He knew very
well that he could not long continue in his own unworthy course, and be a minister of the gospel;
he plainly saw the precipice over which he hung--but with mad infatuation he heeded not the
danger, and rushed onwards to his ruin. His house became the scene of disorder and revelry.
His servants neglected their duties when he so far forgot himself as to make them familiar
associates of his orgies. The voice of prayer was no longer heard in his dwelling: the Bible
was cast aside. Blasphemy had supplanted the one and obscene books had taken the place of the
other. We shall see how rapid was his downfall, and to what a state of degradation he sunk at last.

But we return for the present to Mr. Hedge and his newly-made wife. They alighted at the old
gentleman's princely mansion in Hudson street and entered a magnificent apartment in which
a bridal supper had been prepared for them. Julia, as the mistress of the house, was received
with the most profound respect by half a score of domestics, clad in plain but costly livery.
Everything betokened unbounded wealth, and the repast was served on a scale of splendid luxury--every
article of plate being of massive silver. Viands the most recherche graced the board, and wines
the most rare added zest to the feast. There, sparkling like the bright waters of the Castalian
fountain, flowed the rich Greek wine--a classic beverage, fit for the gods; there, too, was
the delicate wine of Persia, fragrant with the spices of the East; and the diamond-crested
champagne, inspiring divinities of poesy and Love.

'Drink, my Julia,' cried the happy bridegroom--'one cup to Hymen, and then let us seek his
joys in each other's arms. I have a chamber prepared for us, which I have dedicated to Venus
and to Cupid; there hath Love spread his wing, and beneath it shall we enjoy extatic repose.
Come, dearest.'

He took her hand, and preceded by a female domestic bearing candles, conducted her up a broad
marble staircase; they entered an apartment sumptuously furnished--it was the bridal chamber.
The footstep fell noiseless upon the thick and yielding carpet; each chair was a gilded throne,
and each sofa a luxurious divan, cushioned with purple velvet. Vast paintings, on subjects
chiefly mythological, were reflected in immense mirrors, reaching from floor to ceiling. The
bed was curtained with white satin, spangled with silver stars; and a wilderness of flowers,
in exquisite vases, enriched the atmosphere with their perfume.

The old gentleman kissed his bride, whispered a few words in her ear, and left the chamber,
followed by the domestic. Then Julia was waited upon by two young ladies, dressed in white,
who saluted her respectfully, and signified their desire to assist her in disrobing.

'We are only servants, madam,' said they, modestly,--'we perform the duties of housekeepers
for Mr. Hedge, and are highly honored if we can be of service to his lady.'

But the truth is, these young ladies were the illegitimate daughters of the old gentleman.
Tho' Julia was his first wife, in his young days he had formed an attachment for a poor but
lovely young woman; circumstances would not admit of his marrying her, and as she loved him
in return, they tasted the joys of Venus without lighting the torch of Hymen. The young woman
became enciente, and died in giving birth to twins--both daughters. Mr. Hedge brought these
children up under his own roof, and educated them liberally; yet while he treated them with
the most indulgent kindness, he never acknowledged himself to be their father, fearing that
if the fact became known, it would injure his reputation as a man and a Christian, he being
a zealous church member. The girls themselves were ignorant of their parentage, and only regarded
Mr. Hedge as their generous benefactor. They had been taught to believe that they had been
abandoned by their parents in their infancy, and that the old gentleman had taken them under
his protection from motives of charity. They were of a gentle disposition, beloved by all who
knew them, and by none more so than by Mr. Hedge, who maintained them as ladies although he
suffered them to superintend the affairs of his extensive bachelor establishment. Their names
were Emma and Lucy.

While these young ladies are engaged in disrobing the fair (but not blushing) bride, let us
seek the newly-elected husband, in the privacy of his library.

A library--How we love to linger in such a place, amid the thousands of volumes grown dingy
with the accumulated dust of years!--We care not for one of your modern libraries, with its
spruce shelves, filled with the sickly effusions of romantic triflers--the solemn, philosophical
nonsense of Arthur, the dandified affectation of Willis, and the clever but wearisome twittle-twattle
of Dickens--once great in himself, now living on the fading reputation of past greatness; we
care not to enter a library made up of such works, all faultlessly done up in the best style
of binder. No--we love to pass long solitary hours in one of those old depositories of choice
literature made venerable by the rich mellowing of time, and the sombre tapestry of cobwebs
which are undisturbed by the intrusive visitation of prim housemaids. There, amid antique volumes,
caskets of thought more precious than gems, how delightful to commune with the bright spirit
of dead authors, whose inspired pens have left behind them the glorious scintillations of immortal
genius, which sparkle on every page! When the soft light of declining day steals gently into
the dusky room, and dim shadows hover in every nook, the truly contemplative mind pores with
a quiet rapture over the sublime creations of Shakespeare, the massive grandeur of Scott, and
the glowing beauties of Byron. Then are the dull realities of life forgotten, and the soul
revels in a new and almost celestial existence.

In such a place do we now find Mr. Hedge, but he is not feasting on the delicacies of an elevated
literature. Far differently is he engaged: he is entirely undressed, and reclining at full
length in a portable bath, which is one-third full of wine. Such luxurious bathing is often
resorted to by wealthy and superannuated gentlemen, who desire to infuse into their feeble
limbs a degree of youthful activity and strength, which temporarily enables them to accomplish
gallantries under the banner of Venus, of which they are ordinarily incapable.

'Oh that I were young!' ejaculated the bridegroom, as with a melancholy air he contemplated
his own wasted frame. 'Would that thro' my veins, as in days of yore, there leaped the fiery
current of vigorous youth! Alas seventy winters have chilled my blood and while my wishes are
as ardent as ever, my physical organization is old, and weak, and shattered--and I fear me,
cannot carry out the warm promptings of my enamored soul. How gladly would I give all my wealth,
for a new lease of life, that I might revel in the joys of youth again!'

He rang a small bell, and a valet entered, bearing a dish containing a highly nutritious broth,
which he had caused to be prepared on account of its invigorating properties. After partaking
of this rich and savory mess, and having drank a glass of a certain cordial celebrated for
its renovating influence, he arose, and his valet rubbed him vigorously with a coarse towel,
then slipping on a few garments and a dressing-gown, he repaired to the bridal chamber with
a beating heart.

The two young ladies, having performed their task, had retired, and Julia was on the couch
awaiting her husband's coming. As he entered, she partly rose from her recumbent posture, with
a smile of tender invitation lighting up her charming face; and rushing forward, he strained
her passionately to his breast.

Then came a torrent of eager kisses, and a thousand whispered words of tenderness and love--sincere
on the part of the old gentleman, but altogether affected on the part of Julia, who felt not
the slightest degree of amorous inclination towards him. Yet he imagined her to be, like himself,
fired with passion, and full of desire. His eyes feasted upon the beauties of her glorious
form, which, so seductively voluptuous, was liberally exposed to his gaze; and his trembling
hand wandered amid the treasures of her swelling bosom, so luxuriant in its ripened fullness.

Soon the withered form of the aged bridegroom is encircled by the plump, soft arms of his beautiful
young bride. There are kisses, and murmurings, and sighs--but there is a heavy load of disappointment
on the heart of the husband, who curses the three score and ten years that bind his warm wishes
with a chain of ice; and he prays in vain for the return--even the temporary return--of glad
youth, with its vigor, and its joys.

Julia comprehends all, and secretly congratulates herself on his imbecility which releases
her from embraces that are repugnant to her, though she assumes an air of tender concern at
his distress. Maddened at a failure so mortifying, Mr. Hedge half regrets his marriage.

Oh, why does weak tottering age seek to unite itself with warm, impetuous youth! The ice of
winter is no congenial mate for the fresh, early flower of spring. How often do we see old,
decrepit men wooing and wedding young girls, purchased by wealth from mercenary parents! Well
have such sacrifices to Lust and Mammon, been termed legalized prostitution. And does not such
a system excuse, if not justify, infidelity on the part of the wife? An old, drivelling dotard
takes to his home and bed a virgin in her teens, whom he has purchased, but as he has gone
through a formal ceremony, law and the world pronounce her wife. His miserable physical incapacity
provokes without satisfying the passions of his victim; and in the arms of a lover she secretly
enjoys the solace which she cannot derive from her legal owner. Then, if she is detected, how
the world holds up its ten thousand hands in pious horror!--Wives who have young husbands are
eloquent in their censure; old women who have long passed the rubicon of love and feeling,
denounce her a shameless hussey; while the old reprobate who calls himself her husband, says
to his indignant and sympathizing friends--'I took her from a low station in life; I raised
her to a position of wealth and rank, and see how ungrateful she is.'

Irritated by the disappointment, he arose, threw on his garments, and muttering a confused
apology, left the chamber, taking with him a light. As he closed the door behind him, Julia
burst into a gay silvery laugh.

'Poor old man!' she said to herself,--'how disconcerted he is!' I could scarce keep myself
from laughing. Well, he is not likely to prove very troublesome to me as a husband, and I'm
glad of it, for really, the pawings, and kisses, and soft nonsense of such an old man are disgusting
to me. Heigho! when we get to Boston, I must look out for a lover or two, to atone for the
lamentable deficiencies of that withered cypher.'

When Mr. Hedge quitted the chamber, he went directly to his library, and rang the bell violently.
In a few minutes the summons was answered by his valet. This man was of middle age, and rather
good-looking, but possessed what is generally called a wicked eye.

'Brown,' said his master--'make a fire in this room, and bring up some wine and refreshments.
I shall pass the night here.'

'The devil!' thought Brown, as he sat about obeying these orders--'master going to pass the
night in his library, and just married to a woman so handsome that one's mouth waters to look
at her! They've either had a quarrel, or else the old man has found himself mistaken in some
of his calculations. I'm a fool if I don't turn things to my advantage. I see it all; she has
cheated old Hedge into marrying her, although she has a husband already. She did not know me,
in this livery; but she soon shall know me. Why, she's in my power completely, and if she don't
do just as I want her to, d----n me if I don't blow on her, and spoil all her fun!'

We may as well enter into an explanation at once. This valet, called Brown, was no other than
Davis--Frank Sydney's former butler--who had been sent to the State Prison for the term of
five years, for his participation in the attempt to rob his master's house. In less than a
month after his removal to Sing Sing, he was pardoned out by the Governor, who, being a good-natured
man, could not refuse to grant the request of the prisoner's friends. On being set at liberty,
Davis assumed the name of Brown, and entered the service of Mr. Hedge as valet. He had instantly
recognized in the newly-made wife of his master, his former mistress, Mrs. Sydney;--but she
knew him not, as his appearance was greatly changed. Being a shrewd fellow, he saw through
the whole affair, and understanding her exact position, was resolved to take advantage of it,
as soon as a proper opportunity should present itself.

The fire was made, the refreshments were brought, and the valet stood as if awaiting further
orders.

'Sit down, Brown,' said his master, 'and take a glass of wine. You know that I was married
to-night to a young lady--you saw her. Ah, she's a beautiful creature; and yet she might as
well be a stick or a stone, for I am too old and worn-out to enjoy her charms. I did wrong
to marry her; she's an estimable lady, and deserves a husband capable of affording her the
satisfaction which I cannot--Yet I'll do my utmost to make her happy; I know that she will
be faithful to me. Hereafter we will occupy separate chambers; and as I cannot discharge the
duties of a husband, I will become a father to her. To-morrow we depart for Boston; and as
I still need the services of a valet, you can go with me if you choose.'

'Thank'ee, sir; I shall be glad to go with you,' said Brown.

'Then that matter is settled,' rejoined Mr. Hedge--'you can leave me now; I shall not want
you again to-night. I will stretch myself upon this sofa, and try to sleep.'

The valet bade his master good night, and left the library; but instead of going to his own
room, he crept stealthily towards the chamber of Julia, now Mrs. Hedge. At the door he paused
and listened; but hearing nothing, he softly opened the door, and glided in with noiseless
steps, but with a palpitating heart, for it was a bold step he was taking--he, a low menial,
to venture at midnight into the bed-chamber of his master's wife! Yet he was a daring fellow,
lustful and reckless; and he fancied that his knowledge of the lady's true history, and her
fear of exposure, would render her willing to yield her person to his wishes.

He approached the bed, and found that she was sleeping. The atmosphere of the room was warm
and heavy with voluptuous perfumes; and the dying light of the wax candles shed but a dim and
uncertain ray upon the gorgeous furniture, the showy drapery of the bed, and the denuded form
of the fair sleeper; denuded of everything but one slight garment, whose transparent texture
imperfectly concealed charms we dare not describe. How gently rose and fell that distracting
bosom, with its prominent pair of luscious twin sisters, like two polished globes of finest
alabaster! A soft smile parted her rosy lips, disclosing the pearly teeth; and her clustering
hair lay in rich masses upon the pillow. So angelic was her appearance, and so soft her slumbers
that a painter would have taken her as a model for a picture of Sleeping Innocence. Yet, within
that beautiful exterior, dwelt a soul tarnished with guilty passion, and void of the exalted
purity which so ennobles the exquisite nature of woman.

Long gazed the bold intruder upon that magnificent woman; and the sight of her ravishing charms
made his breath come fast and thick, and his blood rushed madly through his veins. Trembling
with eager wishes and a thousand fears, he bent over her and, almost touching his lips to hers,
inhaled the fragrance of her breath, which came soft as a zephyr stirring the leaves of a rose.
Then he laid his hand upon her bosom, and passed it daringly over the swelling and luxuriant
outlines. Julia partially awoke, and mistaking the disturber of her slumbers for Mr. Hedge,
languidly opened her eyes, and murmured--'Ah, dearest, have you returned?'

The valet replied by imprinting a hot kiss upon her moist, red lips; but at that moment the
lady saw that it was not her husband who had ravished the kiss. Starting up in bed she exclaimed,
in mingled surprise and alarm--

'Good heavens, who is this?--Fellow, what do you want, how dare you enter this chamber?'

'Why, ma'am,' said Brown, doggedly--'I knew that master is old, and no fit companion for such
a lively young woman as you be, and I thought--'

'No more words, sir!' cried Julia, indignantly--'leave this room instantly--go at once, and
I am willing to attribute your insolence to intoxication--but linger a moment, and I will alarm
the house, and give you up to the anger of your master!'

'Oh, no missus,' said the fellow, coolly--'If that be your game, I can play one worth two of
it. Give the alarm--rouse up the servants--bring your husband here--and I'll expose you before
them all as the wife of Mr. Sydney, turned out by him, for a nasty scrape with a negro footman!
Missus you don't remember me, but I've lived in your house once, and know you well enough.
I am Davis, the butler, very much at your service.'

'I recollect you now,' rejoined Julia, scornfully--'You are the scoundrel who treacherously
admitted burglars into the house, and who was captured and sent to the State Prison, from which
you were pardoned, as I saw stated in the newspapers. You are mistaken if you think that a
dread of exposure will induce me to submit to be outraged by you. Heavens, I will not yield
my person to every ruffian who comes to me with threats of exposure! Vile menial, I will dare
ruin and death sooner than become the slave of your lust!'

As she uttered these words with a tone and air of indignant scorn, she looked more superbly
beautiful than ever--her dark eyes sparkled, her cheeks glowed, and her uncovered bosom heaved
with excitement and anger.

But Brown was a determined ruffian, and resolved to accomplish his purpose even if obliged
to resort to force. Grasping the lady by both arms, he said, in a stern whisper--

'Missus, I am stronger than you be--keep quiet, and let me have my way and you shan't be hurt;
but if you go to kicking up a rumpus, why d----n me if I won't use you rather roughly.'

He forced her back upon the bed, and placed his heavy hand over her mouth, to prevent her from
screaming. Holding her in such a position that she could not move, he covered her face, neck
and breasts with lecherous kisses; and was preparing to complete the outrage, when the report
of a pistol thundered through the chamber, and the ruffian fell upon the carpet, weltering
in his blood. His body had been perforated by a ball from a revolver, in the hands of Mr. Hedge.

'Die, you d----d treacherous villain,' cried the old gentleman, swearing for the first time
in his life.

The dying wretch turned his malignant eyes upon Julia, and gasped, faintly--

'Mr. Hedge--your wife--false--negro--Sydney--'

He could say no more, for the hand of death was upon him; and gnashing his teeth with rage
and despair, he expired.

Mr. Hedge had paid no attention to the ruffian's dying words; for he had caught Julia in his
arms, and was inquiring anxiously if she were hurt.

'No, dearest,' she replied--'only frightened. But how came you to arrive so opportunely to
my rescue?'

'I was endeavoring to get some sleep on the sofa in my library,' answered the old gentleman--'when
suddenly I fancied I heard a noise in your chamber. Thinking that robbers might have got into
the house, I grasped a pistol, and cautiously approached the door of this room. Pausing a moment
to listen, I heard the villain threaten you with violence in case you resisted; the door being
open a little, I stepped into the room without making any noise, and saw him preparing to accomplish
the outrage. Then I raised my pistol with unerring aim, and put a ball through his infernal
carcass. Thank heaven, I have reserved my Julia from a fate worse than death.'

Fortunately for Julia, he had not heard what had passed between her and the valet, in reference
to her exposure. He believed her to be the most virtuous of her sex; while she was beyond measure
rejoiced that Davis, who might have ruined her, was now dead.

The next day the newly-married pair left New York for the city of Boston, according to previous
arrangement. Arrived in that great metropolis, they took up their quarters at the most fashionable
hotel, there to remain until Mr. Hedge should purchase a suitable house in which to take up
their permanent residence.

Julia had not neglected to bring her maid Susan with her, as that discreet abigail might be
of service to her in any little matter of intrigue she might engage in. Nero, the black, she
had discharged from her service.

Her greatest happiness now arose from the belief that she had now escaped from the persecutions
of the Dead Man.

CHAPTER XXV

Servants' Frolics--a Footman in Luck--a Spectre--a Footman out of Luck--the Torture--the Murder,
and Destruction of Franklin House.

We left Franklin House in charge of Simon, the favorite footman of Mrs. Franklin, who was to
take care of the house until it should be sold, and then join his mistress in Boston.

Now, although Simon was an honorable, faithful fellow enough, he soon grew intolerably lonesome,
and heartily tired of being all alone in that great mansion. To beguile his time, he often
invited other servants of his acquaintance to come and sup with him; and regardless of the
orders of his mistress, several of his visitors were females. These guests he would entertain
in the most sumptuous manner; and Franklin House became the scene of reckless dissipation and
noisy revels, such as it had seldom witnessed before.

One evening Simon invited a goodly number of his friends to a 'grand banquet,' as he pompously
termed it; and there assembled in the spacious parlor about twenty male and female domestics
from various houses in the neighborhood. The males included fat butlers, gouty coachman, lean
footmen and sturdy grooms; and among the females were buxom cooks, portly laundresses and pretty
ladies' maids. Simon had well nigh emptied the cellar of its choice contents, in order to supply
wine to his guests; and towards midnight the party became uproarious in the extreme.

We shall not attempt to sketch the toasts that were offered, nor the speeches that were made;
neither shall we enter too minutely into the particulars of the game of 'hide-and-seek,' in
which they indulged--or tell how our handsome footman chased some black-eyed damsel into a
dark and distant chamber, and there tussled her upon the carpet, or tumbled her upon the bed,
or perpetrated other little pleasantries of a similar nature. Suffice it to say, all these
amusements were gone through with by the company, until tired of the sport, they reassembled
in the parlor, and gathering around the fire, began to converse on ghosts.

Reader, have you ever, at the solemn hour of midnight, while listening to the recital of some
fearful visitation from the land of spirits, felt your hair to bristle, and your flesh to creep,
and your blood to chill with horror, as you imagined that some terrible being was at that moment
standing outside the door, ready to glide into the room and stand beside your chair? Did you
not then dread to look behind you as you drew close to your companions, and became almost breathless
with painful interest in the story?

Solemn feeling prevailed among Simon's guests, as Toby Tunk, the fat coachman, who had been
relating his experience in ghosts uttered the following words:--

'Well, I was sitting by the coffin, looking at the corpse, when the door slowly opened, and--'

Toby was fearfully interrupted, for the door of that room DID slowly open and there entered
a being of so terrible an aspect, that all the assembled guests recoiled from its presence
with horror and affright. It advanced towards the fireplace, seated itself in an unoccupied
chair, and surveyed the company with menacing eyes.

The form of the spectre was tall, and its countenance was ghastly and awful to behold; it was
enveloped in a cloak, and where its right hand should have been, was a massive piece of iron
which joined the wrist.

At length, after an interval, during which all the guests came near dying with fear, it spoke
in a harsh and threatening tone:--

'Those of ye that belong not in this house, depart instantly, on peril of your lives; and if
any there be who do belong here, let them remain, and stir not!'

All, with the exception of poor Simon, tremblingly left the room and the house, resolved never
again to cross the threshold of a place visited by such fearful beings. The spectre then turned
to the affrightened footman, and said, with a hideous frown--

'Now, rascal, tell me what has become of your mistress and her daughter--where have they gone--speak!'

But Simon, imagining that he had to do with a being from the other world, fell upon his knees
and began to mutter a prayer.

'Accursed fool!' cried the supposed spectre, striking him with his iron hand--'does that feel
like the touch of a shadowy ghost? Get up, and answer me; I am no ghost, but a living man--living,
though known as the Dead Man. Where have the two Franklin ladies gone?'

Now Simon, convinced that his visitor was indeed no ghost, was beginning to regain his natural
shrewdness: and remembering the injunctions of his mistress, not to reveal where she had gone,
with her daughter, he replied, in accordance with the instructions which he had received--

'The ladies have gone to Philadelphia.'

'Liar!' cried the Dead Man--'you betray yourself; had you answered with more hesitation, I
might have believed you--the readiness of your reply proves its falsehood. Now, by hell! tell
me correctly where the ladies have gone, or I'll murder you!'

'Not so fast, old dead face,' cried Simon, who was a brave fellow, and had by this time recovered
all his courage--'perhaps you mightn't find it so easy to murder me, as you imagine. Once for
all, I'll see you d----d before I will tell you where the ladies have gone.'

The Dead Man smiled grimly as he surveyed the slight form of the footman; then, in a fierce
tone, he demanded--

'Are you mad?--Do you want to rush on headlong to ruin and death? Do you know me? I am one
whose awful presence inspires fear in my friends, consternation in my foes. Puny wretch, will
you give me the required information, ere I crush you as a worm?'

'No!' replied Simon, decidedly.

'Bah! I shall have work here,' said the other, calmly: then he sprung upon the footman, who,
altogether unprepared for so sudden an attack, could make but a feeble resistance, especially
in the grasp of a man who possessed more than twice his strength.

The struggle was brief, for the Dead Man handled him as easily as if he were a child. Soon
he was gagged and bound fast to a chair;--then the miscreant, with a diabolical grin, thrust
the poker into the fire, and when it became red-hot, he drew it forth, saying--

'I have found a way to loosen your tongue, d----n you! When you get ready to answer my question,
nod your head, and the torture shall cease.'

The monster applied the iron to various parts of his victim's body, burning through the clothes,
and deep into the flesh. Simon winced with intense torture, yet he did not give the designated
sign in token of submission until the skin was entirely burnt from his face, by the fiery ordeal.

Then the Dead Man removed the gag from his mouth, and asked--

'Where have the Franklin ladies gone, you infernal, obstinate fool?'

'To Boston,' gasped the miserable young man, and fainted. Ah! Simon, thy faithfulness to thy
worthless mistress was worthy of a better cause!

'Boston, hey?' growled the villain--'then, by G----, I must go to Boston, too. Ah, I'm not
at all surprised at their selecting that city for their place of refuge--for it is the abode
of hypocrisy and lust; and they no doubt anticipate reaping a rich harvest there. But ere I
depart for that virtuous and Christian city, I must finish my business here. And first to silence
this fool's tongue forever!'

He drew forth his deadly knife, and plunged it up to the hilt in his victim's throat. With
scarce a groan or struggle, poor Simon yielded his spirit into the hands of his Maker.

The murderer viewed his appalling work with satisfaction. His eyes seemed to feast upon the
purple stream that gushed from the wound, and stained the carpet. It seemed as if, in the ferocity
of his soul, he could have drank the gory flood!

'Would that the human race had but one single throat, and I could cut it at a stroke,' he cried,
adopting the sentiment of another: then, taking a lamp, he left the room, with the intention
of exploring the house.

One apartment he found carefully locked; and he was obliged to exert all his strength to break
in the door. This room was furnished in a style of extravagant luxury; it was of great extent,
and adorned with a multitude of paintings and statues, all the size of life.

A silken curtain, suspended across the further end of the room, bore in large gilt letters,
the words 'Sanctuary of the Graces.' And behind the curtain were collected a large number of
figures, exquisitely made of wax, representing males and females, large as life, and completely
nude, in every imaginable variety of posture, a few classical, others voluptuous, and many
positively obscene.

In this curious apartment--a perfect gallery of amorous conceptions--Josephine and her mother
were in the habit of consummating those intrigues which they wished to invest with extraordinary
eclat and voluptuousness. Here they loved to feed their impure tastes by contemplating every
phase of licentious dalliance; and here they indulged in extravagant orgies which will admit
of no description.

The intruder into this singular scene noticed a small iron apparatus attached to the wall;
a sudden idea struck him--advancing, he touched a spring, and instantly every wax figure was
in motion, imitating the movements of real life with wonderful fidelity! A closet in one corner
contained the machinery of these automatons; and the whole affair was the invention of an ingenious
German, whose talents had been misapplied to its creation. It had formerly constituted a private
exhibition; but, after the murder of her husband, Mrs. Franklin had purchased it at a large cost.

'By Satan!' cried the Dead Man--'those Franklins are ladies after my own heart; lecherous,
murderous and abandoned, they are meet companions for me. What a splendid contrivance! It needs
but the additions of myself and the superb Josephine, to render it complete!'

He left the room, and entered an elegant bed-chamber which adjoined it. It was the chamber
of Josephine; and her full-length portrait hung upon the wall; there was her proud brow, her
wanton eyes, her magnificent bust, uncovered, and seeming to swell with lascivious emotions.
Everything was sumptuous, yet everything lacked that beautiful propriety which is so charming
a characteristic of the arrangements of a virtuous woman--one whose purity of soul is mirrored
in all that surrounds her. The bed, gorgeous though it was, seemed, in its shameless disorder,
to have been a nest of riotous harlotry. Costly garments lay trampled under foot; a bird in
a golden-wired prison, was gasping and dying for want of nourishment; splendidly-bound books,
with obscene contents, were scattered here and there, and a delicate white slipper, which Cinderella
might have envied, was stuffed full with letters. The Dead Man examined the documents; and
among them was a paper, in the handwriting of Josephine, which we shall take the liberty of
transcribing:--

     'PRIVATE JOURNAL.--'Monday. Passed last evening with Signor
     Pacci, the handsome Italian Opera singer. Was rather
     disappointed in my expectations; he is impetuous, but * * * *.'

     'Tuesday. Have just made an appointment with ---- the actor;
     he came to my box last night, between the acts, and made a
     thousand tender pretensions. Mem.--must try and get rid of
     Tom the coachman--am tired of him; besides it is outre to
     permit liberties to a menial.'

     'Thursday. Am bored to death with the persecutions of Rev. Mr.
     ----. I cannot endure him, he is so ugly. Mem.--His son is a
     charming youth of sixteen; must try and get him.'

     'Saturday. Dreadfully provoked with mother for her disgraceful
     liaison with her new coachman. She promised to discharge the
     fellow--did not perceive my drift. Mem.--Am to admit him
     to-night to my chamber.'

     'Sunday. Heard Mr. ---- preach; he visits me to-night.'

Having perused this precious morceau, the Dead Man thrust it into his pocket, and then, after
a moment's reflection, deliberately applied the flame of the lamp to the curtains of the bed;
and having waited to see the fire fairly started, he ran rapidly down stairs, and escaped from
the house.

Within a quarter of an hour afterwards, Franklin House was entirely enveloped in flames; and
notwithstanding every effort was made to save the building, it was completely destroyed. In
one short hour that magnificent and stately pile was reduced to a heap of smoking ruins.

The destruction of this house and the property contained in it, brought Mrs. Franklin and her
daughter to absolute poverty. When the news of the event reached them in Boston they were far
from supposing that it was caused by the hideous ruffian whom they had so much reason to fear;
they attributed the conflagration to the carelessness of Simon, and knew nothing of his having
been murdered, but thought that, being intoxicated, he had perished in the flames.

The mother and daughter held a long consultation as to the best means of retrieving their ruined
fortunes; and the result was, they determined to send for Sophia, in order to make use of her
in a damnable plot, which, while it would supply them abundantly with cash, would forever ruin
the peace and happiness of that innocent and pure-minded girl.

In answer to the summons, Sophia left the home of her relative in New Jersey, and joined her
mother and sister in Boston. They received her with every demonstration of affection; and little
did she suspect that an infamous scheme had been concocted between them, to sacrifice her upon
the altars of avarice and lust.

CHAPTER XXVI

Scene on Boston Common--George Radcliff--the Rescue--Two Model Policemen--Innocence protected--the
Duel, and the Death--the Unknown.

After Frank Sydney's escape from the Dark Vaults, through the City Sewers, he did not deem
it prudent to remain longer in New York. Accordingly, accompanied by the Doctor, the dumb boy
Clinton, and his faithful servant Dennis, he left the city, to take up his abode elsewhere.
None of his friends knew the place of his destination; some supposed that he had gone to Europe;
others thought that he had emigrated to the 'far West'; while many persons imagined that he
had exhausted his fortune, and been obliged to leave by the persecutions of creditors. Those
who had been accustomed to borrow money from him, regretted his departure; but those who had
been afflicted with jealousy at his good looks and popularity with la belle sex, expressed
themselves as 'devilish glad he'd gone.'

But, in truth, Frank had neither gone to Europe, nor to the far West, neither had he been driven
away by creditors; his fortune was still ample, and adequate to all his wants, present and
to come. Where, then, was our hero flown? impatiently demands the reader. Softly, and you shall
know in good time.

It was a beautiful afternoon, in spring, and Boston Common was thronged with promenaders of
both sexes and all conditions. Here was the portly speculator of State street, exulting over
the success of his last shave; here was the humble laborer, emancipated for a brief season
from the drudgery of his daily toil; here was the blackleg, meditating on future gains; and
here the pickpocket, on the alert for a victim. Then there were ladies of every degree, from
the poor, decent wife of the respectable mechanic, with her troop of rosy children, down to
the languishing lady of fashion, with her silks, her simperings, and her look of hauteur. Nor
was there wanting, to complete the variety, the brazen-faced courtezan, with her 'nods,' and
becks, and wreathed smiles, tho' to class her with ladies of any grade, would be sacrilege.

The weather was delicious; a soft breeze gently stirred the trees, which were beginning to
assume the fair livery of spring, and the mild rays of the declining sun shone cheerily over
the noble enclosure. In the principal mall a young lady was slowly walking with an air pensive
and thoughtful.

She could scarce have been over sixteen years of age--a beautiful blonde, with golden hair
and eyes of that deep blue wherein dwells a world of expression. In complexion she was divinely
fair; her cheeks were suffused with just enough of a rich carnation to redeem her angelic countenance
from an unbecoming paleness. Her figure, petite and surpassingly graceful, had scarce yet attained
the matured fullness of womanhood; yet it was of exquisite symmetry.--Her dress was elegant
without being gaudy, and tasteful without being ostentatious.

Have you noticed, reader, while perusing this narrative, that nearly all the characters introduced
have been more or less tainted with crime?--Even Sydney, good, generous and noble as he was,
had his faults and weaknesses. Alas! human excellence is so very scarce, that had we taken
it as the principal ingredient of our book, we should have made a slim affair of it, indeed.

But you may remember, that in the former portions of our story, we made a slight allusion to
one Sophia Franklin. She, excellent young lady! shall redeem us from the imputation of total
depravity. Her virtue and goodness shall illumine our dark pages with a celestial light--even
though her mother and sister were murderesses!

Sophia Franklin it was, then, whom we have introduced as walking on the Common, with thoughtful
and pensive air, on that fine afternoon in early spring.

But why thoughtful, and why pensive? Surely she must be happy.--There certainly cannot exist
a creature made in God's glorious image, who would plant the thorn of unhappiness in the pure
breast of that gentle girl?

There is. Her worst enemies are her nearest relatives. Her mother and sister are plotting to
sacrifice her to the lust of a rich villain, for gold.

Oh, GOLD!--Great dragon that doth feed on human tears, and human honor, and human blood! Thou
art the poor man's phantom--the rich man's curse. Magic is thy power, thou yellow talisman;
thou canst cause men and women to forget themselves, their neighbors, their God! See yon grey-headed
fool, who hugs gold to his breast as a mother hugs her first born; he builds houses--he accumulates
money--he dabbles in railroads. A great man, forsooth, is that miserly old wretch, who stoops
from manhood to indulge the dirty promptings of a petty avarice. But is he happy? NO; how can
such a thing be happy, even tho' he possess thousands accumulated by his detestable meanness--when
men spit on him with contempt; decency kicks him, dishonorable care will kill him, infamy will
rear his monument, and the devil will roast him on the hottest gridiron in hell--and he knows it!

But to resume. Slowly did Sophia pursue her walk to the end of the mall, and as slowly did
she retrace her steps; then, crossing a narrow path, she approached the venerable old elm,
whose antique trunk is a monument of time. She had scarcely made two circuits around this ancient
tree, when a gentleman who had espied her from a distance, advanced and greeted her with a
familiar air. On seeing him, she became much agitated, and would have walked rapidly away,
had he not caught her by the arm and forcibly detained her.

This gentleman was a person of distinguished appearance, tall, graceful figure, and fashionably
dressed.--His countenance though eminently handsome, was darkly tinged with Southern blood,
and deeply marked with the lines of dissipation and care. He wore a jet-black mustache and
imperial and his air was at once noble and commanding. 'My pretty Sophia,' said the stranger,
in a passionate tone--'why do you fly from me thus? By heavens, I love you to distraction,
and have sworn a solemn oath that you shall be mine, though a legion of fiends oppose me!'

'Pray let me go, Mr. Radcliff,' said the young girl entreatingly--'you wish me to do wrong,
and I cannot consent to it, indeed I cannot. As you are a gentleman, do not persecute me any more.'

'Persecute you--never!' exclaimed the libertine; 'become mine, and you shall have the devotion
of my life-time to repay you for the sacrifice. Consent, sweet girl.'

'Never!' said Sophia, firmly; 'had you honorably solicited me to become your wife, I might
have loved you; but you seek my ruin, and I despise, detest you. Let me go, sir, I implore--I
command you!'

'Command me!' exclaimed the libertine, his eyes sparkling with rage--'silly child, it is George
Radcliff who stands before you; a man whom none dare presume to command, but whom all are accustomed
to obey! I am a monarch among women, and they bow submissive to my wishes. Listen, Sophia;
I have for years plucked the fairest flowers in the gardens of female beauty, but I am sated
with their intoxicating perfume, and sick of their gaudy hues. Your luxurious mother and fiery
sister were acceptable to me for a time, and I enjoyed their voluptuous caresses with delight;
but the devil! the conquest was too easily achieved. I soon grew tired of them and was about
to withdraw my patronage, when to retain it, they mentioned you, describing you to be a creature
of angelic loveliness; my passions were fired by the description, and I longed to add so fair
and sweet a lily to the brilliant bouquet of my conquests. They sent for you to New Jersey;
you came, and surpassed my highest anticipations. I paid your mother and sister a large sum
for you, promising to double the amount as soon as you should become mine. I have so far failed
in my efforts; unwilling to use violence, I have tried to accomplish my object by entreaty.--Now,
since you will not listen to my entreaties, I shall resort to force.--This very night I have
arranged to visit you, and then--and then, sweet one--'

He drew the shrinking girl towards him, and in spite of her resistance, profaned her pure lips
with unholy kisses. During the conversation just related, day had softly melted into dim twilight,
and the loungers on the Common had mostly taken their departure; very few were in the vicinity
of Radcliff and Sophia--and there was but one person who saw the scene of kissing and struggling
that we have described. That person was a young and handsome man, well-dressed, and possessing
an open, generous and manly countenance. Observing what was going on between the pair, and
seeing that the young lady was suffering violence from her companion, he silently approached,
nobly resolved to protect the weaker party, at all hazards.

Sophia had partially escaped from the grasp of Radcliff, and he was about to seize her again,
when the young man just mentioned stepped forward, and said, calmly--

'Come, sir, you have abused that young lady enough; molest her no further.'

'And who the devil may you be, who presumes thus to interfere with a gentleman's private amusements?'
demanded the libertine, with savage irony: but the bold eyes of the other quailed not before
his fierce glance.

'It matters not particularly who I am,' replied the young man, sternly--'suffice it for you
to know that I am one who is bound to protect a lady against the assaults of a ruffian, even
if that ruffian is clad in the garb of a gentleman.'

'Oh, sir,' said Sophia, bursting into tears--'God will reward you for rescuing me from the
power of that bad man.'

Radcliff's eyes literally blazed with fury as he strode towards the young lady's protector.

'You called me a ruffian,' said he, 'take that for your impudence,' and he attempted to strike
the young man--but the blow was skillfully warded off, and he found himself extended on the
grass in a twinkling.

Two policeman now ran up and demanded the cause of the fracas. The young man related everything
that had occurred, whereupon the officers took Radcliff into custody.

'Fellow,' said the individual, haughtily addressing his antagonist,--'you are, I presume, nothing
more than a shopman or common mechanic, beneath my notice; you therefore may hope to escape
the just punishment of your insolence to-night.'

'You are a liar,' calmly responded the other--'I am neither a shopman nor a mechanic, and if
I were, I should be far superior to such a scoundrel as you. I am a gentleman; your equal in
birth and fortune--your superior in manhood and in honor. If you desire satisfaction for my
conduct to-night, you will find me at the Tremont House, at any time. My name is Francis Sydney.
I shall see this lady in safety to her residence.'

Radcliff was led away by the two officers. They had proceeded but a short distance, when he
thus addressed them--

'My good fellow, it is scarcely worth while to trouble yourselves to detain me on account of
this trifling affair. Here's five dollars a piece for you--will that do?'

'Why, sir,' said one of the fellows, pocketing his V, and giving the other to his companion--'we
can't exactly let you go, but if you tip us over and run for it, perhaps we shan't be able
to overtake you.'

'I understand you,' said Radcliff, and he gave each of those faithful officers a slight push,
scarce sufficient to disturb the equilibrium of a feather, whereupon one of them reeled out
into the street to a distance of twenty feet, while the other fell down flat on the sidewalk
in an apparently helpless condition, and the prisoner walked away at a leisurely pace, without
the slightest molestation.

Meanwhile, Frank Sydney escorted Sophia to the door of her residence in Washington street.
The young lady warmly thanked her deliverer, as she termed him.

'No thanks are due me, miss,' said Frank--'I have but done my duty, in protecting you from
the insults of a villain. I now leave you in safety with your friends.'

'Friends!' said the fair girl, with a deep sigh--'alas, I have no friends on earth.'

The tone and manner of these words went to the heart of our hero; he turned for a moment to
conceal a tear--then raised her hand respectfully to his lips, bade her farewell, and departed.

Sophia entered the house, and found her mother and sister in the parlor. They greeted her with
smiles.

'My darling Soph,' said Mrs. Franklin--'that charming fellow was much disappointed to find
that you had gone out. We told him that you had probably gone to walk on the Common, and he
went in search of you.'

Sophia related all that had occurred to her during her absence. She complained of the libertine's
treatment of her with mingled indignation and grief.

'Pooh! sis,' exclaimed Josephine,--'you mustn't think so hard of Mr. Radcliff's attentions.
You must encourage him, for he is very rich, and we need money.'

'Must you have money at the expense of my honor?' demanded Sophia, with unwonted spirit.

'And why not?' asked her mother in a severe tone. 'Must we starve on account of your silly
notions about virtue, and such humbug? Your sister and I have long since learned to dispose
of our persons for pecuniary benefit, as well as for our sensual gratification--for it is as
pleasurable as profitable; and you must do the same, now that you are old enough.'

'Never--never!' solemnly exclaimed Sophia--'my poor, dead father--'

'What of him?' eagerly demanded both mother and daughter, in the same breath.

'He seems to look down on me from Heaven, and tell me to commit no sin,' replied the young girl.

'Nonsense,' cried the mother--'but go now to your chamber, and retire to bed; to-night at least,
you shall rest undisturbed.'

Sophia bade them a mournful good night, and left the room. When the door closed upon her, Josephine
glanced at her mother with a look of satisfaction.

'Radcliff will be here to-night at twelve,' said she--'according to his appointment, for he
will find no difficulty in procuring his discharge from custody. Once introduced into Sophia's
chamber, he will gain his object with little trouble; then he will pay us the remaining thousand,
as agreed upon.'

'And which we need most desperately,' rejoined her mother--'how unfortunate about the burning
of our house! It has reduced us almost to our last penny.'

'The loss is irreparable,' sighed Josephine--'what divine raptures we used to enjoy in the
'Sanctuary of the Graces!' And there, too, was my elegant wardrobe and that heavenly French bed!'

These two abandoned women then retired to their respective chambers, to await the coming of
Radcliff. At midnight he came. He was admitted into the house by Mrs. Franklin, and conducted
to the chamber of Sophia, which he entered by means of a duplicate key furnished him by the
perfidious mother.

The libertine had not observed, on entering the house, that he was followed by a man at a short
distance. He was too intent upon the accomplishment of his vile desire, to notice the close
proximity of one who was determined to oppose him in its execution. Sydney had expected that
Radcliff would be liberated, and felt assured that he would seek his victim again that night.
He comprehended that the poor girl resided with those who would not protect her, and he nobly
resolved to constitute himself her friend. He had lingered around the house for hours, and
when he saw the libertine approaching, followed him to the very door, at which he stationed
himself, and listened.

Soon a piercing shriek proceeding from an upper chamber, told him that the moment for his aid
had arrived. The street door was fortunately not locked, and was only secured by a night latch;
this he broke by one vigorous push, and rushing through the hall, mounted the stairs, and entered
the chamber from which he judged the cry of distress had issued.

Then what a sight presented itself! Sophia, in her night dress, her hair in wild disorder,
struggling in the arms of the villain Radcliff, whose fine countenance was rendered hideous
by rage and passion.

'What!' he exclaimed--'you here? By G----, you shall rue your interference with my schemes.
How is it that you start up before me just at the very moment when my wishes are about to be
crowned with success?'

'I will not parley with you,' replied Frank--'the chamber of this young lady is no fitting
place for a dispute between us. As you claim to be a gentleman, follow me hence.'

'Lead on, then,' cried the libertine, foaming with rage. 'I desire nothing better than an opportunity
to punish your presumption.'

As they descended the stairs, Josephine and her mother, alarmed by the noise of the dispute,
issued from their rooms, and when Frank had given them a hasty explanation, the latter angrily
demanded how he dared intrude into that house, and interfere in a matter with which he had
no business.

'Madam,' replied our hero--'you are, I presume, the mother of that much abused young lady up
stairs. I see that you countenance the ruin of your daughter. I tell you to beware--for I shall
take proper measures to expose your vileness, and have her placed beyond the reach of your
infernal schemes.'

He then left the house followed by Radcliff. After proceeding a short distance, the latter
paused, and said--

'We can do nothing to-night, for we have no weapons, and to fight otherwise would scarce comport
with the dignity of gentlemen. Meet me to-morrow morning, at the hour of six, upon this spot;
bring with you a friend, and pistols; we will then repair to some secluded place, and settle
our difficulty in honorable combat.'

'But what assurance have I that you will keep the appointment?' demanded Sydney; 'how do I
know that this is not a mere subterfuge to escape me?'

'Young man, you do not know me,' rejoined Radcliff, and his breast swelled proudly. 'Do you
think I'd resort to a base lie? Do you think that I fear you? I confess I am a libertine, but
I am a man of honor--and that honor I now pledge you that I will keep the appointment; for,
let me tell you, that I desire this meeting as much as you do.'

Strange inconsistency of terms!--'A libertine--but a man of honor!' This creed is preached
by thousands of honorable adulterers. A seducer is of necessity a liar and a scoundrel--yet,
forsooth, he is a man of honor!

'Very well, sir,' said Sydney--'I have no doubt you will come.' And with a cool 'good night,'
they separated.

The next morning early, at a secluded spot in Roxbury neck, four men might have been seen,
whose operations were peculiar. Two of them were evidently preparing to settle a dispute by
the 'code of honor.' The other two (the seconds) were engaged in measuring off the distance--ten
paces.

The morning was dark and cloudy, and a drizzling rain was falling. It was a most unpleasant
season to be abroad, especially to execute such business as those four men had in hand.

Sydney had chosen for his second 'the Doctor'; while Radcliff had brought with him a tall individual,
whose countenance was mostly concealed by an enormous coat collar and muffler, and a slouched
hat. Two cases of pistols had been brought, and as 'the Doctor' was an accomplished surgeon,
it was deemed unnecessary to have the attendance of another.

At length all was ready, and the antagonists took their places, with their deadly weapons in
their hands. Both men were cool and collected; Radcliff was a most accomplished duelist, having
been engaged in many similar encounters; and his countenance was expressive of confidence and
unconcern. Sydney had never before fought a duel, yet, feeling assured of the justice of his
cause, he had no apprehension as to the result. It may be asked why he so interested himself
in a young lady he had never before seen, as to engage in a bloody encounter for her sake.
We answer, he was prompted so to do by the chivalry of his disposition, and by a desire to
vindicate the purity of his motives, and the sincerity of his conduct. He wished to let that
unprincipled libertine see that he was no coward, and that he was prepared to defend the rights
of a helpless woman with his life.

The word was given to fire, and both pistols were discharged at once. Sydney was wounded slightly
in the arm; but Radcliff fell, mortally wounded--his antagonist's ball had pierced his breast.

Sydney bent over the dying man with deep concern; his intention had been merely to wound him--he
had no desire to kill him; and when he saw that his shot had taken a fatal effect, he was sincerely
grieved. He could not deny to himself that he felt a deep interest in the splendid libertine,
whose princely wealth, prodigal generosity, magnificent person, and many amours, and rendered
him the hero of romance, and the most celebrated man of the day. He knew that Radcliff's many
vices were in a slight degree palliated by not a few excellent qualities which he possessed;
and he sighed as he thought that such a brilliant intellect and such a happy combination of
rare personal advantages should cease to exist, ere the possessor could repent of the sins
of his past life.

Radcliff's second, the tall man with the shrouded countenance, walked to a short distance from
the melancholy group, with a gloomy and abstracted air. While the Doctor made vain efforts
to alleviate the sufferings of Radcliff, that unhappy man raised his dying eyes to Sydney's
face, and said, faintly:--

'Young man, my doom is just.--Continue to be kind to Sophia Franklin, whom I would have wronged
but for your timely interference; but beware of her mother and sister--they are devils in the
shape of women. They would have sold her to me for gold--wretches that they were, and villain
that I was!'

'Can I do anything for you?' asked Frank, gently.

'Nothing--but listen to me; the pains of death are upon me, and my time is short. You see my
second--that tall, mysterious-looking person? I have known him, for many years--he is a villain
of the deepest dye--one whom I formerly employed to kidnap young girls for my base uses. Last
night I met him for the first time for a long period; I told him that I was to fight a person
named Sydney this morning; he started at the mention of your name, and eagerly desired to act
as my second. I consented. He is your most inveterate enemy, and thirsts for your blood. He
seeks but an opportunity to kill you. He fears your second, and that prevents him from attacking
you at once. Beware of him, for he is--is--is--the--'

Radcliff could not finish the sentence, for the agonies of death were upon him. His eyes glazed,
his breath grew fainter and fainter; and in a few moments he expired.

Thus perished George Radcliff--the elegant roue--the heartless libertine--the man of pleasure--brilliant
in intellect, beautiful in person, generous in heart--but how debased in soul!

They laid the corpse down upon the smooth, green sward, and spread a handkerchief over the
pale, ghastly features. Then they turned to look for the mysterious second; he was seated,
at some distance, upon a large rock, and they beckoned him to approach. He complied, with some
hesitation; and the Doctor said to him--

'Sir, you seem to manifest very little interest in the fate of your friend; you see he is dead.'

'I care not,' was the reply--'his death causes me no grief, nor pleasure; he was no enemy of
mine, and as for friends, I have none. Grief and friendship are sentiments which have long
since died in my breast.'

'By heavens!' exclaimed the Doctor--'I know that voice! The right hand jealously thrust into
your breast--your face so carefully concealed--the dying words of Radcliff--tell me that you are--'

'The Dead Man!' cried the stranger, uncovering his face--'you are right--I am he! Doctor, I
did not expect to find you with Sydney, or I should not have ventured. I came to execute vengeance--but
your presence restrains me; crippled as I am, I fear you. No matter; other chances will offer,
when you are absent. That escape of yours through the sewers was done in masterly style. Doctor,
you are a brave fellow, and your courage inspires me with admiration; you are worthy to follow
my reckless fortunes. Let the past be forgotten; abandon this whining, preaching Sydney, and
join me in my desperate career. Give me your hand, and let us be friends.'

The Doctor hesitated a moment, and, to Sydney's unutterable amazement, grasped the Dead Man's
hand, and said--

'Oh, Captain, I will re-enlist under your banner; I am tired of a life of inactivity, and long
for the excitement and dangers of an outlaw's career! We are friends, henceforth and forever.'

The Dead Man grinned with delight; but poor Sydney was thunderstruck.

'Good God!' he exclaimed--'is it possible that you, Doctor, will desert me, after swearing
to me an eternal friendship? You, whom I once benefitted--you, who have since benefitted me--you,
whom I thought to be one of the best, bravest, and most faithful men under the sun--notwithstanding
your former faults--to prove traitor to me now, and league yourself with my worst enemy? Oh,
is there such a thing as honesty or truth on earth?'

The Doctor was silent; the Dead Man whispered to him--

'Let us kill Sydney--he is no friend to either of us, and why should he live?'

'No,' said the Doctor, decidedly--'we will harm him not, at least for the present. At some
future time you may do with him as you will. Let us go.'

And they went, leaving our hero in a frame of mind almost distracted with remorse and sorrow--remorse,
that he had killed a fellow creature--sorrow, that a man whom he had regarded as a friend,
should prove so perfidious.

He retraced his way to the city, and returned to his hotel. The body of poor Radcliff was shortly
afterwards found by several laborers, who conveyed it to the city, where an inquest was held
over it. A verdict of suicide was rendered by the jury, who, short-sighted souls, comprehended
not the mysteries of duelling; and the 'rash act' was attributed by the erudite city newspapers
to 'temporary insanity'!

For three or four days after these events, Sydney was confined to his bed by illness. His wounded
arm pained him much, and he had caught a severe cold upon the wet, drizzly morning of the duel.
Clinton, the dumb boy, attended him with the most assiduous care. This poor youth had learned
the 'dumb alphabet,' or language of signs, to perfection; and as his master had also learned
it, they could converse together with considerable facility. Sydney was beginning to recover
from his indisposition, when one evening Clinton came into his room, and communicated to him
a piece of information that astounded him. It was, that Julia, his wife, was then stopping
at that very same hotel, as the wife of an old gentleman named Mr. Hedge--that she was dressed
superbly, glittering with diamonds, appeared to be in the most buoyant spirits, and looked
as beautiful as ever.

CHAPTER XXVII

The Ruined Rector--Misery and Destitution--the All Night House--A Painful Scene--Inhospitality--the
Denouement.

We now return to Dr. Sinclair, whom we left on the downward path to ruin. The unfortunate man
was now no longer the rector of St. Paul's; a committee of the congregation had paid him an
official visit, at which he had been dismissed from all connection with the church. His place
was supplied by a clergyman of far less talent, but much greater integrity.

Mr. Sinclair (for such we shall hereafter call him,) was not possessed of wealth--for though
he had lived in luxury, he had depended entirely upon his salary for subsistence; and now that
he was turned from his sacred occupation, dishonored and disgraced, he found himself almost
penniless. He had no friends to whom he could apply for assistance, for his conduct had been
noised abroad, and those who formerly had loved and reverenced him, now turned their backs
upon him with cold contempt.

Instead of endeavouring to retrieve his fallen reputation by repentance and good conduct, he
no sooner found himself shorn of his clerical honors, than he abandoned himself to every species
of degraded dissipation. In two weeks after his removal from the church he was without a home;
then he became the associate of the most vile. Occasionally he would venture to the house of
some one of his former congregation, and in abject tones implore the gift of some trifling
sum; moved by his miserable appearance, though disgusted by his follies, the gentleman would
perhaps hand him a dollar or two, and sternly bid him come there no more. Sinclair would then
hasten to the low pot house in Water Street which he made his resort, and amid his vagabond
companions expend the money in the lowest debauchery.

Perhaps the reader may say the thing is impossible--no man could fall so rapidly from a high
and honorable position, as to become in a few short weeks the degraded creature Sinclair is
now represented to be. But we maintain that there is nothing exaggerated in the picture we
have drawn. Here is a church congregation eminently aristocratic, wealthy, and rigidly particular
in the nicest points of propriety. The pastor proves himself unworthy of his sacred trust;
he disgraces himself and them by indulgence in vice, which is betrayed by his looks and actions.
Too haughty and too impatient to take the erring brother by the hand, and endeavor to reclaim
him, they at once cast him off with disgust, and fill his place with a more faithful pastor.
Humbled and degraded, rendered desperate by his unhappy situation, the miserable man abandons
himself yet more recklessly to the vice; his self-respect is gone, the finger of scorn is pointed
at him, and to drown all consciousness of his downfall, he becomes a constant tipple and an
irreclaimable sot.

The low groggery in Water street where poor Sinclair made his temporary home, was extensively
known as the 'All Night House,' from the fact of its being kept open night and day. As this
establishment was quite a feature in itself, we shall devote a brief space to a description of it.

It was situated on the corner of Catherine street, opposite the Catherine Market--a region
remarkable for a very 'ancient and fish-like smell.' This Market was a large, rotten old shanty,
devoted to the sale of stale fish, bad beef, dubious sausages, suspicious oysters, and dog's
meat. Beneath its stalls at night, many a 'lodger' often slumbered; and every Sunday morning
it was the theatre of a lively and amusing scene, wherein was performed the renowned pastime
of 'niggers dancing for eels.' All the unsavory fish that had been accumulated during the week,
was thus disposed of, being given to such darkies as won the most applause in the science of
the 'heel and toe.' The sport used to attract hundreds of spectators, and the rum shops in
the vicinity did a good business.

Suppose it to be midnight; let us enter the All Night House, and take a view. We find the place
crowded with about forty men and boys, of all ages, conditions and complexions. Here is the
veteran loafer, who had not slept in a bed for years--his clothes smelling of the grease and
filth of the market stalls; here is the runaway apprentice, and here the dissipated young man
who has been 'locked out,' and has come here to take lodgings. The company are all seated upon
low stools; some are bending forward in painful attitudes of slumber; others are vainly trying
to sit upright, but, overcome by sleep, they pitch forward, and recover themselves just in
time to avoid falling on the floor.

Notice in particular this young man who is seated like the rest, and is nodding in an uneasy
slumber. His clothes are of broadcloth, and were once fashionable and good, but now they are
torn to rags, and soiled with filth. His hands are small and white; his hair, luxurious and
curling naturally, is uncombed; his features are handsome, but bruised and unwashed. This is
Sinclair!

The bar-keeper of this place is quite a character in his way. He rejoices in the title of 'Liverpool
Jack,' and is the bully of Water street--that is, he is considered able to thrash any man that
travels in that region. He is a blustering, ruffianly fellow, full of 'strange oaths.' He wears
a red flannel shirt and tarpaulin hat; and possesses a bull-dog countenance expressive of the
utmost ferocity.

'Hello, you fellers,' cries Liverpool Jack, savagely surveying the slumbering crowd--'yer goin'
to set there all night and not paternize de bar--say? Vake up, or by de big Jerusalem cricket
I'm bound to dump yer all off de stools!'

Some of the poor devils arouse themselves, and rub their eyes; but the majority slumbered on.
Liverpool Jack becomes exasperated, and rushing among them, seizes the legs of the stools,
and dumps every sleeper upon the floor. Having accomplished this feat, he resumes his place
behind the bar.

The door opens, and a party of young bloods enter, who are evidently 'bound on a time.'--They
are all fashionably dressed; and one of them, drawing a well-filled purse from his pocket,
invites all hands up to drink--which invitation, it is needless to say, was eagerly accepted.
Sinclair crowded up to the bar, with the others and one of the new comers, observing him, cries
out--

'By jingo, here's parson Sinclair! Give us a sermon, parson, and you shall have a pint of red-eye!'

'A sermon--a sermon!' exclaimed the others. Sinclair is placed upon a stool, and begins a wild,
incoherent harangue, made up of eloquence, blasphemy and obscenity. His hearers respond in
loud 'amens,' and one of the young bloods, being facetiously inclined, procures a rotten egg,
and throws it at the unhappy man, deviling his face with the nauseous missile. This piece of
ruffianism is immediately followed by another; the stool on which he stands is suddenly jerked
from beneath him, and he falls violently to the floor, bruising his face and head shockingly.

Roars of laughter follow this deed of cruelty; poor Sinclair is raised from the floor by Liverpool
Jack, who thrusts him forth into the street with a curse, telling him to come there no more.

It is raining--a cold, drizzly rain, which penetrates through the garments and strikes chill
to the bones. On such a night as this, Sinclair was wont to be seated in his comfortable study,
before a blazing fire, enveloped in a luxurious dressing gown, as he perused some interesting
volume, or prepared his Sabbath sermon; then, he had but to ring a silver bell, and a well-dressed
servant brought in a tray containing his late supper--the smoking tea urn, the hot rolls, the
fresh eggs, the delicious bacon, the delicate custard, and the exquisite preserves. Then, he
had but to pass through a warm and well--lighted passage, to reach his own chamber; the comfortable
bed, with its snowy drapery and warm, thick coverlid, invited to repose; and his dreams were
disturbed by no visions of horror or remorse. All was purity, and happiness, and peace.

Now, how different! Houseless, homeless, shelterless--ragged, dirty, starving--diseased, degraded,
desperate! Unhappy Sinclair, that was a fatal moment when thou did'st yield to the fascinations
of that beautiful Josephine Franklin!

It was near one o'clock, and the storm had increased to a perfect hurricane. The miserable
man had eaten nothing that day; he tottered off with weakness, and was numbed with the cold.
By an irresistible impulse he wandered in the direction of his former home in Broadway. He
found the house brilliantly illuminated--strains of heavenly music issued from it--lovely forms
flitted past the windows, and peals of silvery laughter mingled with the howling of the tempest.
A grand party was given there that night; the occupant of the house was a man of fashion and
pleasure, and he was celebrating the eighteenth birth-day of his beautiful daughter.

Sinclair lingered long around the house--it seemed as if some invisible power attracted him
there. From the basement there arose the grateful, savory odor of extensive cooking.

'I am starving,' said he to himself--'and they have plenty here. I will go to the door, like
a beggar, and implore a morsel of food.'

With feeble steps he descended to the basement, and with a trembling hand he knocked at the
door. It was opened by a fat, well-fed servant, in livery, who demanded, in a surly tone, what
he wanted?

'In heaven's name, give me food, for I am starving.'

'Ugh--a beggar!' said the servant, with disgust--'get you gone, we've nothing for you; master
never encourages vagrants.'

The door was shut in Sinclair's face; with an aching heart he crawled up the steps, and then,
as if suddenly nerved with a desperate resolve, he approached the front door, and rang the
bell. The door was opened by a footman, who stared at the intruder with surprise and suspicion.

'Tell your master,' said Sinclair, faintly, 'that a person is here who must speak with him.
It is a matter of life and death.'

The servant did as requested; in a few minutes he returned and said:

'Master says that if your business is particular you must come into the drawing room; he's
not coming out here in the cold.'

He followed the servant thro' the hall; and in a moment more found himself standing in the
brilliantly lighted drawing-room, in the presence of a numerous party of ladies and gentlemen.
His miserable appearance created quite a sensation in that fashionable circle.

'Aw, 'pon my honor,' lisped a dandy, raising his eye-glass and taking a deliberate survey of
the intruder, 'what have we heah? quite a natural curiosity, dem me!'

'Oh, what an odious creature;' exclaimed a young lady with bare arms, naked shoulders, and
the reddest possible hair.

'Quite shocking!' responded her admirer, a bottle-nosed specimen of monkeyism.

'I shall positively faint,' cried an old tabby, in a large turban; but as nobody noticed her,
she didn't faint.

The host himself now advanced, and said, sternly,

'Well, fellow, what d'ye want?--Speak quickly and begone, for this is no place for you. You
d----d stupid scoundrel,' (to the servant,) 'how dare you bring such a scare-crow here?'

'I wish to speak with you alone, sir,' said Sinclair, humbly.

The host motioned him to step out into the hall, followed him there, and commanded him to be
as brief as possible.

Sinclair told him who he was, and the circumstances of misery and destitution in which he was
placed. His listener shook his head incredulously, saying,

'It is a good game, my fine fellow, that you are trying to play off; you are an excellent talker,
but you will find it hard to make people believe that you are Dr. Sinclair. In one word, you're
an imposter. What, you a clergyman! Pooh, nonsense!--There, not another word, but clear out
instantly. John, show this fellow the door, and never admit him again!'

As poor Sinclair passed out of the door, he heard the company laugh long and loud at the supposed
imposition he had attempted to practise upon Mr. Grump, the 'worthy host.' Now be it known
that this Mr. Grump was one of the most arrant scoundrels that ever went unhung. Low-bred and
vulgar, he had made a fortune by petty knavery and small rascalities. He was a master printer;
one of those miserable whelps who fatten on the unpaid labor of those in their employ. An indignant
'jour' once told him, with as much truth as sarcasm, that 'every hair on his head was a fifty-six
pound weight of sin and iniquity!' He well knew that the poor wretch who had applied to him
for relief, was no impostor; for he had heard Dr. Sinclair preach a hundred times, and he had
recognized him instantly, notwithstanding his altered aspect. But he had pretended to believe
him an impostor, in order that he might have a good excuse for withholding assistance from
the unfortunate man.

Rudely did the servant thrust forth poor Sinclair into the inhospitable street and the fearful
storm. The rain now fell in torrents; and the darkness was so intense, that the hapless wanderer
cou'd only grope his way along, slowly and painfully.--Upon one corner of the street the foundation
for a house had recently been dug, forming a deep and dangerous pit, lying directly in Sinclair's
path: no friendly lantern warned him of the peril--no enclosure was there to protect him from
falling. Unconscious of the danger, he slowly approached the brink of the pit; now he stood
upon the extreme edge, and the next instant he fell! There was a dull, dead sound--then a stifled
groan--and all was still!

Morning dawned, bright and clear, the storm had subsided during the night, and the glorious
sun arose in a cloudless sky. A crowd was collected on the corner of Broadway and one of the
narrow streets which cross its lower section. They were gazing at a terrible spectacle: the
body of a man lay in a deep pit below them, shockingly mangled; he had fallen upon a heap of
stones--his brains were dashed out, and his blood scattered all around. Among the spectators
was a portly, well-dressed man, who looked at the body steadfastly for some time, and then
muttered to himself--

'By G----, it is Dr. Sinclair, and no mistake! Too bad--too bad!--When he came to my house
last night, I little thought to see him dead this morning! Plague on it, I ought to have given
the poor devil sixpence or a shilling. No matter--he's better off now. He was a talented fellow--great
pity, but can't be helped.'

Yes, it could have been helped, Mr. Grump; had you kindly taken that poor unfortunate by the
hand, and afforded him food and shelter for a brief season, he never would have met that tragical
end, but might have lived to reform, and lead a life of usefulness and honor; yes, he might
have lived to bless you for that timely aid.

Reader, 'speak gently to the erring.' Do not too hastily or too harshly condemn the follies
or faults of others. A gentle word, spoken in kindness to an erring brother, may do much towards
winning him back to the path of rectitude and right. Harsh words and stern reproofs may drive
him on to ruin.

But let us return to the crowd collected around the mangled body of Sinclair.

'It's a sin and a shame,' said a stout man, in working clothes, 'that there wasn't some kind
of a fence put around this infernal trap. Where was the Alderman of this ward, that he didn't
attend to it?'

'Be careful what you say, fellow,' said Mr. Grump, turning very red in the face, 'I'd have
you to know that I am the Alderman of this ward!'

'Are you?--then let me tell you,' said the man, contemptuously, 'that you bear the name of
being a mean, dirty old scamp; and if it was not for fear of the law, I'd give you a d----d
good thrashing!'

Alderman Grump beat a hasty retreat while the crowd set up a loud shout of derision--for he
was universally hated and despised.

The Coroner arrived--the inquest was held; and a 'verdict rendered in accordance with the facts.'
The body was taken to the 'Dead House;' and as no friend or relative appeared to claim it,
it was the next day conveyed to Potter's Field, and there interred among city paupers, felons
and nameless vagrants.

CHAPTER XXVIII

The Disguised Husband--the False Wife--the Murder--the Disclosure, and Suicide.

Reader, let thy fancy again wing its flight from New York to our own city of Boston.

It was a strange coincidence that Frank Sydney and his wife Julia should tarry again beneath
the same roof; yet they were not destined to meet under that roof--for the next day after Frank
made the discovery, Mr. Hedge and the young lady removed from the Hotel to a splendid house
which had been fitted up for them in the most aristocratic quarter of the city.

