"And have I not an assurance of it at this very moment?"  returned the Doctor.  "My outward
ear fails me; yet I seem to hear as formerly the sound of the wind in the pines.  I close my
eyes; and the picture of my home is still before me.  I see the green hill slope and meadows;
the white shaft of the village steeple springing up from the midst of maples and elms; the
river all afire with sunshine; the broad, dark belt of woodland; and, away beyond, all the
blue level of the ocean.  And now, by a single effort of will, I can call before me a winter
picture of the same scene.  It is morning as now; but how different!  All night has the white
meteor fallen, in broad flake or minutest crystal, the sport and plaything of winds that have
wrought it into a thousand shapes of wild beauty.  Hill and valley, tree and fence, woodshed
and well-sweep, barn and pigsty, fishing-smacks frozen tip at the wharf, ribbed monsters of
dismantled hulks scattered along the river-side,--all lie transfigured in the white glory and
sunshine.  The eye, wherever it turns, aches with the cold brilliance, unrelieved save where.
The blue smoke of morning fires curls lazily up from the Parian roofs, or where the main channel
of the river, as yet unfrozen, shows its long winding line of dark water glistening like a
snake in the sun.  Thus you perceive that the spirit sees and hears without the aid of bodily
organs; and why may it not be so hereafter?  Grant but memory to us, and we can lose nothing
by death. The scenes now passing before us will live in eternal reproduction, created anew
at will.  We assuredly shall not love heaven the less that it is separated by no impassable
gulf from this fair and goodly earth, and that the pleasant pictures of time linger like sunset
clouds along the horizon of eternity.  When I was younger, I used to be greatly troubled by
the insecure tenure by which my senses held the beauty and harmony of the outward world.  When
I looked at the moonlight on the water, or the cloud-shadows on the hills, or the sunset sky,
with the tall, black tree-boles and waving foliage relieved against it, or when I heard a mellow
gush of music from the brown-breasted fife-bird in the summer woods, or the merry quaver of
the bobolink in the corn land, the thought of an eternal loss of these familiar sights and
sounds would sometimes thrill through me with a sharp and bitter pain.  I have reason to thank
God that this fear no longer troubles me.  Nothing that is really valuable and necessary for
us can ever be lost.  The present will live hereafter; memory will bridge over the gulf between
the two worlds; for only on the condition of their intimate union can we preserve our identity
and personal consciousness.  Blot out the memory of this world, and what would heaven or hell
be to us?  Nothing whatever.  Death would be simple annihilation of our actual selves, and
the substitution therefor of a new creation, in which we should have no more interest than
in an inhabitant of Jupiter or the fixed stars."

The Elder, who had listened silently thus far, not without an occasional and apparently involuntary
manifestation of dissent, here interposed.

"Pardon me, my dear friend," said he; "but I must needs say that I look upon speculations of
this kind, however ingenious or plausible, as unprofitable, and well-nigh presumptuous.  For
myself, I only know that I am a weak, sinful man, accountable to and cared for by a just and
merciful God.  What He has in reserve for me hereafter I know not, nor have I any warrant to
pry into His secrets.  I do not know what it is to pass from one life to another; but I humbly
hope that, when I am sinking in the dark waters, I may hear His voice of compassion and encouragement,
'It is I; be not afraid.'"

"Amen," said the Skipper, solemnly.

"I dare say the Parson is right, in the main," said the Doctor.  "Poor creatures at the best,
it is safer for us to trust, like children, in the goodness of our Heavenly Father than to
speculate too curiously in respect to the things of a future life; and, notwithstanding all
I have said, I quite agree with good old Bishop Hall: 'It is enough for me to rest in the hope
that I shall one day see them; in the mean time, let me be learnedly ignorant and incuriously
devout, silently blessing the power and wisdom of my infinite Creator, who knows how to honor
himself by all those unrevealed and glorious subordinations.'"

                              CHAPTER VI.

                          THE SKIPPER'S STORY.

"WELL, what's the news below?"  asked the Doctor of his housekeeper, as she came home from
a gossiping visit to the landing one afternoon. "What new piece of scandal is afloat now?"

"Nothing, except what concerns yourself," answered Widow Matson, tartly. "Mrs. Nugeon says
that you've been to see her neighbor Wait's girl--she that 's sick with the measles--half a
dozen times, and never so much as left a spoonful of medicine; and she should like to know
what a doctor's good for without physic.  Besides, she says Lieutenant Brown would have got
well if you'd minded her, and let him have plenty of thoroughwort tea, and put a split fowl
at the pit of his stomach."

"A split stick on her own tongue would be better," said the Doctor, with a wicked grimace.

"The Jezebel!  Let her look out for herself the next time she gets the rheumatism; I'll blister
her from head to heel.  But what else is going?"

"The schooner Polly Pike is at the landing."

"What, from Labrador?  The one Tom Osborne went in?"

"I suppose so; I met Tom down street."

"Good!" said the Doctor, with emphasis.  "Poor Widow Osborne's prayers are answered, and she
will see her son before she dies."

"And precious little good will it do her," said the housekeeper. "There's not a more drunken,
swearing rakeshame in town than Tom Osborne."

"It's too true," responded the Doctor.  "But he's her only son; and you know, Mrs. Matson,
the heart of a mother."

The widow's hard face softened; a tender shadow passed over it; the memory of some old bereavement
melted her; and as she passed into the house I saw her put her checked apron to her eyes.

By this time Skipper Evans, who had been slowly working his way up street for some minutes,
had reached the gate.

"Look here!" said he.  "Here's a letter that I've got by the Polly Pike from one of your old
patients that you gave over for a dead man long ago."

"From the other world, of course," said the Doctor.

"No, not exactly, though it's from Labrador, which is about the last place the Lord made, I
reckon."

"What, from Dick Wilson?"

"Sartin," said the Skipper.

"And how is he?"

"Alive and hearty.  I tell you what, Doctor, physicking and blistering are all well enough,
may be; but if you want to set a fellow up when he's kinder run down, there's nothing like
a fishing trip to Labrador, 'specially if he's been bothering himself with studying, and writing,
and such like.  There's nothing like fish chowders, hard bunks, and sea fog to take that nonsense
out of him.  Now, this chap," (the Skipper here gave me a thrust in the ribs by way of designation,)
"if I could have him down with me beyond sunset for two or three months, would come back as
hearty as a Bay o' Fundy porpoise."

Assuring him that I would like to try the experiment, with him as skipper, I begged to know
the history of the case he had spoken of.

The old fisherman smiled complacently, hitched up his pantaloons, took a seat beside us, and,
after extracting a jack-knife from one pocket, and a hand of tobacco from the other, and deliberately
supplying himself with a fresh quid, he mentioned, apologetically, that he supposed the Doctor
had heard it all before.

"Yes, twenty times," said the Doctor; "but never mind; it's a good story yet.  Go ahead, Skipper."

"Well, you see," said the Skipper, "this young Wilson comes down here from Hanover College,
in the spring, as lean as a shad in dog-days.  He had studied himself half blind, and all his
blood had got into brains. So the Doctor tried to help him with his poticary stuff, and the
women with their herbs; but all did no good.  At last somebody advised him to try a fishing
cruise down East; and so he persuaded me to take him aboard my schooner.  I knew he'd be right
in the way, and poor company at the best, for all his Greek and Latin; for, as a general thing,
I've noticed that your college chaps swop away their common sense for their larning, and make
a mighty poor bargain of it.  Well, he brought his books with him, and stuck to them so close
that I was afraid we should have to slide him off the plank before we got half way to Labrador.
So I just told him plainly that it would n't do, and that if he 'd a mind to kill himself ashore
I 'd no objection, but he should n't do it aboard my schooner.  'I'm e'en just a mind,' says
I, 'to pitch your books overboard.  A fishing vessel's no place for 'em; they'll spoil all
our luck.  Don't go to making a Jonah of yourself down here in your bunk, but get upon deck,
and let your books alone, and go to watching the sea, and the clouds, and the islands, and
the fog-banks, and the fishes, and the birds; for Natur,' says I, don't lie nor give hearsays,
but is always as true as the Gospels.'

"But 't was no use talking.  There he'd lay in his bunk with his books about him, and I had
e'en a'most to drag him on deck to snuff the sea- air.  Howsomever, one day,--it was the hottest
of the whole season,-- after we left the Magdalenes, and were running down the Gut of Canso,
we hove in sight of the Gannet Rocks.  Thinks I to myself, I'll show him something now that
he can't find in his books.  So I goes right down after him; and when we got on deck he looked
towards the northeast, and if ever I saw a chap wonder-struck, he was.  Right ahead of us was
a bold, rocky island, with what looked like a great snow bank on its southern slope; while
the air was full overhead, and all about, of what seemed a heavy fall of snow.  The day was
blazing hot, and there was n't a cloud to be seen.

"'What in the world, Skipper, does this mean?' says he.  'We're sailing right into a snow-storm
in dog-days and in a clear sky.'

"By this time we had got near enough to hear a great rushing noise in the air, every moment
growing louder and louder.

"'It's only a storm of gannets,' says I.

"'Sure enough!' says he; 'but I wouldn't have believed it possible.'

"When we got fairly off against the island I fired a gun at it: and such a fluttering and screaming
you can't imagine.  The great snow-banks shook, trembled, loosened, and became all alive, whirling
away into the air like drifts in a nor'wester.  Millions of birds went up, wheeling and zigzagging
about, their white bodies and blacktipped wings crossing and recrossing and mixing together
into a thick grayish-white haze above us.

"'You're right, Skipper,' says Wilson to me; 

               Nature is better than books.'

"And from that time he was on deck as much as his health would allow of, and took a deal of
notice of everything new and uncommon.  But, for all that, the poor fellow was so sick, and
pale, and peaking, that we all thought we should have to heave him overboard some day or bury
him in Labrador moss."

"But he did n't die after all, did he?" said I.

"Die?  No!" cried the Skipper; "not he!"

"And so your fishing voyage really cured him?"

"I can't say as it did, exactly," returned the Skipper, shifting his quid from one cheek to
the other, with a sly wink at the Doctor.  "The fact is, after the doctors and the old herb-women
had given him up at home, he got cured by a little black-eyed French girl on the Labrador coast."

"A very agreeable prescription, no doubt," quoth the Doctor, turning to me.  "How do you think
it would suit your case?"

"It does n't become the patient to choose his own nostrums," said I, laughing.  "But I wonder,
Doctor, that you have n't long ago tested the value of this by an experiment upon yourself."

"Physicians are proverbially shy of their own medicines," said he.

"Well, you see," continued the Skipper, "we had a rough run down the Labrador shore; rainstorms
and fogs so thick you could cut 'em up into junks with your jack-knife.  At last we reached
a small fishing station away down where the sun does n't sleep in summer, but just takes a
bit of a nap at midnight.  Here Wilson went ashore, more dead than alive, and found comfortable
lodgings with a little, dingy French oil merchant, who had a snug, warm house, and a garden
patch, where he raised a few potatoes and turnips in the short summers, and a tolerable field
of grass, which kept his two cows alive through the winter.  The country all about was dismal
enough; as far as you could see there was nothing but moss, and rocks, and bare hills, and
ponds of shallow water, with now and then a patch of stunted firs.  But it doubtless looked
pleasant to our poor sick passenger, who for some days had been longing for land. The Frenchman
gave him a neat little room looking out on the harbor, all alive with fishermen and Indians
hunting seals; and to my notion no place is very dull where you can see the salt-water and
the ships at anchor on it, or scudding over it with sails set in a stiff breeze, and where
you can watch its changes of lights and colors in fair and foul weather, morning and night.
The family was made up of the Frenchman, his wife, and his daughter,--a little witch of a girl,
with bright black eyes lighting up her brown, good-natured face like lamps in a binnacle. They
all took a mighty liking to young Wilson, and were ready to do anything for him.  He was soon
able to walk about; and we used to see him with the Frenchman's daughter strolling along the
shore and among the mosses, talking with her in her own language.  Many and many a time, as
we sat in our boats under the rocks, we could hear her merry laugh ringing down to us.

"We stayed at the station about three weeks; and when we got ready to sail I called at the
Frenchman's to let Wilson know when to come aboard. He really seemed sorry to leave; for the
two old people urged him to remain with them, and poor little Lucille would n't hear a word
of his going.  She said he would be sick and die on board the vessel, but that if he stayed
with them he would soon be well and strong; that they should have plenty of milk and eggs for
him in the winter; and he should ride in the dog-sledge with her, and she would take care of
him as if he was her brother.  She hid his cap and great-coat; and what with crying, and scolding,
and coaxing, she fairly carried her point.

"'You see I 'm a prisoner,' says he; 'they won't let me go.'

"'Well,' says I, 'you don't seem to be troubled about it.  I tell you what, young man,' says
I, 'it's mighty pretty now to stroll round here, and pick mosses, and hunt birds' eggs with
that gal; but wait till November comes, and everything freezes up stiff and dead except white
bears And Ingens, and there's no daylight left to speak of, and you 'll be sick enough of your
choice.  You won't live the winter out; and it 's an awful place to die in, where the ground
freezes so hard that they can't bury you.'

