How delicious was that English morning after their voyage; the slant rays of the sun silvering
the turf, and casting rainbows across the gossamer threads from one brown bent to another;
the harvest fields on the slopes dotted with rich sheaves of wheat; the coppices, in their
summer glory, here and there touched with the gold of early autumn, and the slopes and meadows
bright with lively green, a pleasant change for eyes fresh from the bare, rugged mountain-side
and the rank unwholesome vegetation of Panama.  Shaggy little Scottish oxen were feeding on
the dewy grass, their black coats looking sleek in the sun beyond the long shadows of the thorns;
but as Mary said, laughing, 'Only Farmer Fitzjocelyn's cattle came here now,' and she stopped
more than once to be introduced to some notable animal, or to hear the history of experiments
in fatting beasts.

'There! they have found you out!  That's for you,' said Louis, as a merry peal of bells broke
out from the church tower, and came joyously up through the tranquil air.  'Yes, Ormersfield,
you are greeting a friend!  You may be very glad, old place!  I wish Mr. Holdsworth would come
up to breakfast!  Is it too wet for you this way, Mary?'

This way was into Fernydell, and Mary answered, 'Oh, no--no; it is where I most wanted to go
with you.  We have never been there together since--'

'No, you never would walk with me after I could go alone!' said Louis, with a playful tone
of reproach, veiling deep feeling.

In silence he handed her down the rocky steps, plunging deeper among the hazels and rowan-trees;
then pausing, he turned aside the luxuriant leaves of a tuft of hartstongue, and showed her,
cut on a stone, veiled both by the verdure and the form of the rock, the letters--

                  Deo Gratias,
                   L. F. 1847.

'I like that!' was all that Mary's full heart allowed her to say.

'Yes,' said Louis, 'I feel quite as thankful for the accident as for the preservation.'

'And that dear mamma was with us,' added Mary.  'Between her and you, it was a blessing to
us all.  I see these letters are not new; you must have cut them out long ago.'

'As soon as I could get here without help,' he answered.  'I thought I should be able to find
the very spot where I lay, by remembering the cross which the bare mountain-ash boughs made
against the sky; but by that time they were all leaf and flower; and now, do you see, there
they are, with the fruit just formed and blushing.'

'Like other things,' said Mary, reaching after the spray, 'once all blossom, now--'

'Fruit very unripe,' as he said, between a smile and a sigh; 'but there is some encouragement
in the world after all, and every project of mine has not turned out like my two specimens
of copper ore.  You remember them, Mary and our first encounter?'

'Remember it!' said Mary.  'I don't think I forgot a day of that summer.'

'What I brought you here for,' said Louis, 'was to ask you to let me do what I have long wished--to
let me put the letter M here?'

'I think you might have done it without leave,' said Mary.

'So I might at first, but by the time I came here again, Mary, you had become in my estimation
'a little more than kin,' and less than--no, I wont say that, but one could not treat you as
comfortably as Clara.  I lost a cousin one August day, and never found her again!'

'Never?'

'Never--but the odd thing is, that I cannot believe that what I did find has been away these
seven years.'

'Yes, that is very strange,' said Mary; 'I have felt it so.  Wo do seem to understand and guess
each other's thoughts as if we had been going on together all this time.  I believe it is because
you gave me the first impulse to think, and taught me the way.'

'And I know who first taught me to think to any purpose,' said Louis, smiling.  'But who is
this descending on us?'

It was the Spanish gentleman, reddening all over at such an encounter, in mid-career towards
her at the Terrace, and muttering something, breathless and almost surly, about begging pardon.

'Look here, Tom,' said Louis, lifting the leaves to show the letters. 'That is all I ever could
feel on that matter, and so should you. There, no more about it,--you want to be on your way;
and tell Mr. Frost that we shall be at Northwold in the afternoon.'

About half an hour after, Clara was delicately blowing the dust out of the wreath of forget-me-nots
on the porcelain shepherdess's hat, when a shriek resounded through the house, and, barely
saving the Arcadian in her start, she rushed downstairs.  James, in his shirt-sleeves, was
already on his way to the kitchen.  There Kitty was found, too much frightened, to run away,
making lunges with the toasting-fork at a black-bearded figure, who held in his arms Charlotte
Arnold, in a fit of the almost forgotten hysterics.  The workhouse girl shrieked for the police;
Jane was at Master Oliver's door, prepared for flight or defence; Isabel stood on the stairs,
with her baby in her arms, and her little flock clinging to her skirts, when Clara darted back,
laughing too much to speak distinctly, as she tried to explain who the ruffian really was.

'And Louis is coming, and Mary!  Oh! Isabel, he has her at last!  Oh! Jem! Jem! did we ever
want dear granny so much!  I always knew it would come right at last!  Jane, Jane, do you hear,
Lord Fitzjocelyn is married!  Let me in; I must go and tell Uncle Oliver!'

James looked at Isabel, and read in her smile Clara's final acquittal from all suspicions beneath
the dignity of both.  Uncle Oliver would have damped her joy, had it been in his power.  He
gave up his affairs as hopeless, as soon as he found that young Fitzjocelyn had only made them
an excuse for getting married, and he was so excessively angry with her for being happy, that
she found she must carry her joyous face out of his sight.

It was not easy to be a dignified steady governess that morning, and when the lessons were
finished, she could have danced home all the way. She had scarcely reached the Terrace gate,
when the well-known sound of the wheels was heard, and in another moment she was between the
two dear cousins; Fitzjocelyn's eyes dancing with gladsomeness, and Mary's broad tranquil brow
and frank kindly smile, free from the shadow of a single cloud!  Clara's heart leapt up with
joy, joy full and unmixed, the guerdon of the spirit untouched by vanity or selfishness, without
one taint that could have mortified into jealous, disappointed pain. It was bliss to one of
those whom she loved best, it was the winning of a brother and sister, and perhaps Clara's
life had never had a happier moment.

Lord Ormersfield could have thanked her for that joyous, innocent welcome.  He had paid her
attentions for his son's sake, of which he had become rather ashamed; and as Louis and Mary
hastened on to meet James and Isabel, he detained her for a moment, to say some special words
of kindness.  Clara, perhaps, had an intuitive perception of his meaning, and reference to
her past heiress state, for she laughed gaily, and said, 'Yes, I never was more glad of anything!
He was so patient that I was sure he deserved it!  I always trusted to such a time as this,
when he used to talk to me for want of dear grandmamma.'

Mary was led upstairs to be introduced to the five children, while the gentlemen went over
the accounts in Oliver's room.  Enough had been rescued from the ruin to secure, not wealth,
but fair competence; the mines were disposed of to a company which would pay the value by instalments,
and all the remainder of the business was in train to be easily wound up by Mr. Ward.  Mr.
Dynevor's gratitude was not overpowering: he was short and dry, privately convinced that he
could have managed matters much better himself, and charging all the loss on Fitzjocelyn's
folly in letting Robson escape.  But, though James was hurt at his unthankfulness, and Lord
Ormersfield could have been very angry, the party most concerned did not take it much to heart;
he believed he had done his best, but an experienced eye might detect blunders, and he knew
it was hard to trust affairs out of one's own hands.

Even the Earl was glad to escape to the sitting-room, though every one was talking at once,
and Mercy the loudest; and Louis, as the children would call him in spite of their mamma, was
at once seized on by Kitty to be introduced to 'our brother.'

'And what is his name, Kitty?'

'Woland!' shouted all the young ladies in chorus.

'Sir Woland is in the book that mamma did make,' said Kitty.

Louis looked at Isabel with laughing eyes.

'It was Uncle Oliver's great wish,' she said, 'and we did not wish to remember the days of
Sir Hubert.'

Before Lord Ormersfield was quite deafened, Louis recollected that they must show Mary at the
House Beautiful; and they took leave.  The Earl begged James to come back to dinner with them,
and Louis asked if Clara could not find room in the carriage too.  It was the earnest of what
Ormersfield was to be to her henceforth, and she was all delight, and earnestness to be allowed
to walk home with James by starlight.  And the evening realized all she could wish.  The gentlemen
had their conversation in the dining-room, and Mary and Clara sat on the steps together in
the warm twilight, and talked of granny; and Clara poured out all that Mary did not yet know
of Louis.

'I hear you have been in hysterics again,' had been Lord Fitzjocelyn's greeting to Charlotte.
'You are prepared for the consequences.'

Charlotte was prepared.  The mutual pardon had not been very hard to gain, and Tom had only
to combat her declarations that it was downright presumptuous for her to have more than master
had a year, and her protests that she could not leave her mistress and the dear children in
their poverty.  The tidings that they were relieved from their present straits answered this
scruple, and Charlotte was a pretty picture of shrinking exultation when she conducted her
betrothed to Mrs. Martha, who, however, declared that she would not take his hundred and eighty
pounds a year--no, nor twice that,--to marry him in that there black beard.

Mrs. Beckett made him exceedingly welcome, and he spent the chief part of his time at No. 5,
where he was much more at ease than at Ormersfield.  He confessed that, though not given to
bashfulness before any man, there was something in Mr. Frampton's excessive civility that quite
overcame him, and made him always expect to be kicked out of doors the next minute for sauciness.

Charlotte's whirlwinds of feeling had nearly expended themselves in that one shock of meeting.
The years of cheerful toil, and the weeks of grief and suspense, had been good training for
that silly little heart, and the prospect of her new duties brought on her a sobering sense
of responsibility.  She would always be tender and clinging, but the fragrant woodbine would
be trained round a sound, sturdy oak, and her modesty, gentleness, and sincerity, gave every
promise of her being an excellent wife.

Tom had little time to spare before undertaking his new office, and it was better that the
parting should be speedy, for it was a grievous one, both to the little bride and to Isabel
and the children.  Friend rather than servant, her place could be ill supplied by the two maids
who were coming in her room, and Isabel could have found it in her heart to sympathize with
Mercy and Salome in their detestation of the black man who was coming to take away their dear
Charlotte.

Clara's first outlay, on her restoration to comparative wealth, was on Charlotte's wedding-dress.
It was a commission given to Mary, when with Fitzjocelyn, she went to London for one day, to
put the final stroke to the dissolution of the unfortunate firm, and to rejoice Aunt Melicent
with the sight of her happiness.

Good old Miss Ponsonby's heart was some degrees softer and less narrow than formerly.  She
had a good many prejudices left, but she did not venture on such sweeping censures as in old
times, and she would have welcomed Lord Ormersfield with real cordiality, for the sake of his
love to her Mary.  Indeed, Louis's fascinations and Mary's bright face had almost persuaded
her into coming home with them; but the confirmed Londoner prevailed, and she had a tyrant
maid-servant, who would not let her go, even to the festival at Ormersfield in honour of her niece.

The Earl was bent on rejoicings for his son's marriage, and Louis dexterously managed that
the banquet should take place on the day fixed for Tom's wedding, thus casting off all oppressive
sense of display, by regarding it as Madison's feast instead of his own. Clara, who seemed
to have been set free from governess tasks solely to be the willing slave of all the world,
worked as hard as Mary and Louis at all the joyous arrangements; nor was the festival itself,
like many such events, less bright than the previous toils.

The wedding took place in Ormersfield Church, on a bright September morning; James Frost performed
the marriage, Lord Fitzjocelyn gave the bride away, and little Kitty was the bridesmaid.  The
ring was of Peruvian gold, and the brooch that clasped the bride's lace collar was of silver
from the San Benito mine.  In her white bonnet and dove-coloured silk, she looked as simple
and ladylike as she was pretty, and a very graceful contrast to her Spanish gentleman bridegroom.

The Ormersfield bowling-green, which was wont to be so still and deserted, hemmed in by the
dark ilex belt, beheld such a scene as had not taken place there since its present master was
a boy.  There were long tables spread for guests of all ranks and degrees.  Louis had his own
way with the invitations, and had gathered a miscellaneous host. Sir Miles Oakstead had come
to see his old friend made happy, and to smile as he was introduced to the rose-coloured pastor
in his glass case.  Mr. Calcott was there, and Mrs. Calcott, all feuds with Mrs. James Frost
long since forgotten; and Sir Gilbert Brewster shone in his colonel's uniform,--for Lady Fitzjocelyn
had intimated a special desire that all the members of the yeomanry should appear in costume;
and many a young farmer's wife and sister came all the more proudly, in the fond belief that
her own peculiar hero looked in his blue and silver 'as well as Lord Fitzjocelyn himself.'
And Miss Mercy Faithful was there, watching over Oliver, to make up for the want of her sister.
And old Mr. Walby was bowing and gossiping with many a patient; and James, with his little
brown woman in his hand, was looking after the party of paupers for whom he had obtained a
holiday; and Mr. Holdsworth was keeping guard over his village boys, whose respectable parents
remained in two separate throngs, male and female; and Clara Frost was here, there, and everywhere--now
setting Mrs. Richardson at ease, now carrying little Mercy to look at the band, now conveying
away Salome when frightened, now finding a mother for a village child taken with a sobbing
fit of shyness, now conducting a stray schoolboy to his companions, now running up for a few
gay words to her old uncle, to make sure that he was neither chilly nor tired.  How pleasant
it was to her to mingle with group after group of people, and hear from one and another how
handsome and how happy Lord Fitzjocelyn looked, and Lady Fitzjocelyn quite beautiful; and,
then, as they walked from party to party, setting all at ease and leaving pleased looks wherever
they went, to cross them now and then, and exchange a blithe smile or merry remark.

No melancholy gaps here! thought she, as she helped her uncle to the easy chair prepared for
him at the dinner-table; no spiritless curiosity, no forced attempts to display what no one felt!

There must needs be toasts, and such as thought themselves assembled for the sake of the 'marriage
in high life,' were taken by surprise when Lord Fitzjocelyn rose, and began by thanking those
assembled for assisting in doing honour to the event of the day--the marriage of two persons,
for each of whom he himself as well as those most dear to him felt the warmest respect and
gratitude for essential services and disinterested attachment, alike in adversity and in prosperity.
Unpleasant as he knew it was to have such truths spoken to one's face, he could not deny himself
the satisfaction of expressing a portion of the esteem and reverence he felt for such noble
conduct as had been displayed by those whose health he had the pleasure to propose--Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas Madison.

'There,' was his aside, as he sat down, 'I only hope I have not made him surly; poor fellow,
I have put him in a predicament, but it could not be otherwise!'

Clara had tears in her eyes, but not like those she had shed at Cheveleigh; James gave Louis
a look of heartfelt gratitude, bowed the lowest to the happy pair, and held up little Kitty
that her imitative nod and sip might not be lost upon them.

Mrs. Beckett said, 'Well, I never!  If ever a girl deserved it,' choked, and flourished her
white handkerchief; Frampton saluted like my Lord and Louis XIV. rolled into one; and Warren
and Gervas privately agreed that they did not know what was coming of the world, since Marksedge
poachers had only to go to foreign parts to be coined goold in the silver mines.  Mrs. Madison's
pretty face was all blushes, smiles, and tears.  Mr. Madison rose to reply with unexpected
alacrity, and Louis was soon relieved from anxiety, at least, as far as regarded his eloquence,
for he thought in the majestic Spanish idiom, and translated as he went--

'My Lords,' he began, 'gentlemen and ladies and neighbours, my Lord Fitzjocelyn has done my
wife and myself an honour as unlooked-for as undeserved; and the manner of the favour is such
that we shall carry the grateful remembrance to the end of our lives.  He has been so condescending
as to speak of such services as it was in our power to render; but he has passed over in silence
that which gives him a claim to the utmost that I could place at his feet.  He will forgive
me for speaking openly, for I cannot refrain from disburthening my mind, and letting you know,
even more than you are at present aware of, what your Senor--what your Lord truly is.  Most
of you have known me but too well.  It is not ten years since I was a rude, untaught boy upon
the heath, such as a large proportion of those present would deem beneath their notice: Lord
Fitzjocelyn did not think so.  His kindness of manner and encouraging words awakened in me
new life and energy.  He gave me his time and his teaching, and, what was far more, he gave
me his sympathy and his example.  It was these which gave vitality to lessons dimly understood,
or which had fallen dead on my ears, when only heard in my irregular attendance at school.
But the work in me was tardy, and at first I requited his kindness with presumption, insubordination,
and carelessness.  Then, when I had been dismissed, and when my wilful neglect had occasioned
the accident of which the traces are still only too visible, then, did I not merit to be exposed
and cast off for ever?  I knew it, and I fled, as if I could leave behind me my grief and my
shame.  Little did I dare to guess that he was dealing with me as though I had been his own
brother, and scrupulously concealing my share in the misfortune.  When I returned, sullen and
overwhelmed, he alone--yes! and while still suffering severely--spoke a kind word to me, and
exerted himself to rescue me from the utter ruin and degradation to which despair would have
led me. He placed me in the situation which conducted me to my present position; he gave me
the impulse to improve myself; and, above all, he infused into me the principles without which
the rest would have been mere temptations.  If I have been blest beyond my deserts--if I have
been prosperous beyond reasonable expectation--if, among numerous failures, I have withstood
some evils--all, under the greatest and highest Benefactor, is owing to the kindness, and,
above all, to the generous forbearance of Lord Fitzjocelyn.  I wish I could testify my gratitude
in any better manner than by speaking of him to his face; but I am sure you will all drink
his health more heartily, if possible, for knowing one more trait in addition to your own personal
experience of his character!'

Alas! that all things hidden, and yet to be proclaimed on the house-tops, would bear the light
as well as Fitzjocelyn's secret!  The revelation of this unobtrusive act of patience and forbearance
excited a perfect tumult of enthusiasm among persons already worked up to great ardour for
one so beloved; and shouts, and even tears, on every side strove in vain to express the response
to Madison's words.

'Too bad, Tom!' was Louis's muttered comment.

'You are paid in your own coin,' retorted Mary, raising her glistening eyes, full of archness.

'I perceive it is no surprise to you, Lady Fitzjocelyn!' said Sir Miles Oakstead; 'and, I own,
nothing from that quarter' (nodding at Louis) 'surprises me greatly.'

'She practised eavesdropping,' said Louis, 'when the poor fellow was relieving his mind by
a confession to the present Mrs. Madison.'

'And I think Mrs. Madison and I deserve credit for having kept the secret so long,' said Mary.

'It explains,' observed Mr. Holdsworth.  'I did not understand your power over Madison.'

'It was the making of us both,' said Louis; 'and a very fine specimen of the grandeur of that
rough diamond.  It elucidates what I have always said, that if you can but find the one vulnerable
place, there is a wonderful fund of nobleness in some of these people.'

'Do you take this gentleman as an average specimen?'

'Every ploughboy is not an undeveloped Madison; but in every parish there may be some one with
either the thinking or the rising element in his composition; and if the right ingredient be
not added, the fermentation will turn sour, as my neglect had very nearly made it do with him.
He would have been a fine demagogue by this time, if he had not had a generous temper and Sunday-school
foundation.'

'Hush!' said Mary, smiling--'you must not moralize.  I believe you are doing it that poor Farmer
Norris may not catch your eye.'

Louis gave a debonnaire glance of resignation; and the farmer, rising in the full current of
feeling caused by Madison's speech, said, with thorough downright emotion, that he knew it
was of no use to try to enhance what had been already so well expressed, but he believed there
was scarcely a person present who did not feel, equally with Mr. Madison, the right to claim
Lord Fitzjocelyn as a personal friend,--and an irrepressible hum of fervent assent proved how
truly the farmer spoke.  'Yes,--each had in turn experienced so much of his friendly kindness,
and, what was more, of his sympathy, that he could confidently affirm that there was scarcely
one in the neighbourhood who had not learnt the news of his happiness as if some good thing
had happened to himself individually.  They all as one man were delighted to have him at home
again, and to wish him joy of the lady, whom many of them know already well enough to rejoice
in welcoming her for her own sake, as well as for that of Lord Fitzjocelyn.'

Again and again did the cheers break forth--hearty, homely, and sincere; and such were the
bright, tearful, loving eyes, which sought those of Fitzjocelyn on every side, that his own
filled so fast that all seemed dazzled and misty, and he hastily strove to clear them as he
arose; but the swelling of his heart brought the happy dew again, and would scarcely let him
find voice.  'My friends, my dear, good friends, you are all very kind to me.  It is of no
use to tell you how little I deserve it, but you know how much I wish to do so, and here is
one who has helped me, and who will help me.  We thank you with all our hearts. You may well
wish my father and me joy, and yourselves too.  Thank you; you should not look at me so kindly
if you wish me to say more.'

The Earl, who had studied popularity as a useful engine, but had never prized love beyond his
own family, was exceedingly touched by the ardour of enthusiastic affection that his son had
obtained,--not by courting suffrages, not by gifts, not by promises, but simply by real open-hearted
love to every one.  Lord Ormersfield himself came in for demonstrations of warm feeling which
he would certainly never have sought nor obtained ten years ago, when he was respected and
looked up to as an upright representative of certain opinions; but personally, either disliked
or regarded with coldness.

He knew what these cheers were worth, and that even Fitzjocelyn might not long be the popular
hero; but he was not the less gratified and triumphant, and felt that no success of his whole
life had been worth the present.

'After all, Clara,' said Oliver Dynevor, as his nephew and niece were assisting him to the
carriage, 'they have managed these things better than we did, though they did not have Gunter.'

'Gunter can't bring heart's love down from town in a box,' said Clara, in a flash of indignation.
'No, dear uncle, there are things that can't be got unless by living for them.'

'Nor even by living for them, Clara,' said James; 'you must live for something else.'

Lord Ormersfield had heard these few last words, and there was deep thought in his eye as he
bade his cousins farewell at the hall door.

Clara was the last to take her place; and, as she turned round with a merry smile to wish him
goodbye, he said, 'You have been making yourself very useful, Clara, I am afraid you have had
no time to enjoy yourself.'

'That's a contradiction,' said Clara, laughing; 'here's busy little Kitty, who never is thoroughly
happy but when she thinks she is useful, and I am child enough to be of the same mind.  I never
was unhappy but when I was set to enjoy myself.  It has been the most beautiful day of my life.
Thank you for it.  Goodbye!'

The Earl crossed the hall, and found Mary standing alone on the terrace steps, looking out
at the curling smoke from the cottage chimneys, and on the coppices and hedge-rows.

'Are you tired, my dear?' he said.

'Oh no!  I was only thinking of dear mamma's persuading Louis to go on with the crumpled plans
of those cottages.  How happy she would be.'

'I was thinking of her likewise,' said the Earl.  'She spoke truly when she told me that he
might not be what I then wished to make him, but something far better.'

Mary looked up with a satisfied smile of approval, saying, 'I am so glad you think so.'

'Yes,' said Lord Ormersfield, 'I have thought a good deal since.  I have been alone here, and
I think I see why Louis has done better than some of his elders.  It seems to me that some
of us have not known the duties that lay by the way-side, so to speak, from the main purpose
of life.  I wish I could talk it over with your mother, my dear, what do you think she would say?'

Mary thought of Louis's vision of the threads.  'I think,' she said, 'that I have heard her
say something like it.  The real aim of life is out of sight, and even good people are too
apt to attach themselves to what is tangible, like friendship or family affection, or usefulness,
or public spirit; but these are like the paths of glory which lead but to the grave, and no
farther.  It is the single-hearted, faithful aim towards the one thing needful, to which all
other things may be added as mere accessories.  It brings down strength and wisdom.  It brings
the life everlasting already to begin in this life, and so makes the path shine more and more
unto the perfect day!'

THE END.