Jewdwine had wired from London, "Thanks. Letter received; will write." That was on the seventeenth,
and it was now the twenty-seventh and Jewdwine had not written. Rickman should have been back
in London long before that time; he had allowed himself four days to finish his horrible work;
and he had finished it. But as it happened the end of twelve days found him still in Harmouth.
Seven of them passed without his being very vividly aware of them, though up till now he had
kept a strict account of time. Two weeks once struck off the reckoning, he had come down to
calculating by days, by hours, by half hours, to measuring minutes as if they had been drops
of some precious liquid slowly evaporating. And now he had let a whole week go by without comment,
while he lay in bed in his room at the Marine Hotel, doing nothing, not even sleeping. For
seven days Mr. Rickman had been ill. The broad term nervous fever was considered to have sufficiently
covered all his symptoms.

They were not improved by the discovery that Jewdwine had failed to give any sign; while the
only reply sent by Rickman's was a brief note from his father to the effect that Keith's letter
should have his very best consideration, and that by the time he saw him he would no doubt
be in a better position to answer it. There was a postcard written on the twenty-first, inquiring
the cause of his non-appearance on the twentieth. This had been answered by the doctor. It
had been followed by a letter of purely parental solicitude, in which all mention of business
was avoided. Avoided; and it was now the twenty-seventh.

Rickman literally flung from his sick-bed a feverish and illegible note to Horace Jewdwine.
"For God's sake, wire me what you mean to do," an effort which sent his temperature up considerably.
He passed these days of convalescence in an anxious watching for the post. To the chambermaid,
to the head waiter, to the landlord and landlady of the Marine Hotel, to the friendly commercial
gentleman, who put his head twice a day round the door to inquire "'ow he was gettin' on,"
Mr. Rickman had during his seven days' illness put the same unvarying question. These persons
had adopted a policy of silence, shaking their heads or twisting their mouths into the suggestion
of a "No," by way of escape from the poignancy of the situation. But on the afternoon of the
twenty-ninth, Mr. Rickman being for the first time up and dressed, Tom, the waiter, replied
to the accustomed query with a cheerful "No sir, no letters; but a lady was inquiring for you
this morning, sir." In Tom's mind a lady and a letter amounted to very much the same thing.

"Do you know who it was?"

"Yes sir, Miss Palliser."

"Miss Parry? I don't know any Miss Parry," said Rickman wearily.

"I didn't say Miss Parry, sir I said Miss Palliser, sir. Wanted to know 'ow you was; I said
you was a trifle better, sir."

"I? I'm all right. I think I shall go out and take a walk." The violent excitement of his veins
and nerves gave him the illusion of recovered strength.

His walk extended from the hotel door to a seat on the seafront opposite. He repeated it the
next morning with less difficulty, and even succeeded in reaching a further seat beyond the
range of the hotel windows. There he sat looking at the sea, and watching without interest
the loiterers on the esplanade. At last, by sheer repetition, three figures forced themselves
on his attention; two ladies, one young, the other middle-aged, and a clergyman, who walked
incessantly up and down. They were talking as they passed him; he caught the man's steep-pitched
organ monotone, "Yes, I shall certainly go up to the house and see her," and the girl's voice
that answered in a hard bright trill, "You won't see her. She hasn't seen any body but Kitty
Palliser."

The blood boiled in his brain. She? She? Was it possible that they were talking about her?
He sat there debating this question for ten minutes, when he was aware that he himself had
become an object of intense interest to the three. The two ladies were, in fact, staring rather
hard. The stare of the younger was so wide that it merely included him as an unregarded detail
in the panorama of sea and sky; but the stare of the elder, a stout lady in a florid gown,
was concentrated, almost passionate; it came straight at him through a double eye-glass elevated
on a tortoiseshell stem. The clergyman endeavoured to suggest by his attitude that he took
no part in the staring or the talk; he smiled out to sea with an air of beatific union with Nature.

Harmouth beach is a safe place for scandal; for even a steep-pitched organ monotone with a
brilliant feminine flourish on the top of it are lost in the accompaniment of the sea. So happily
for him no word of the dialogue reached Rickman. All the same, to have a pair of blank blue
eyes, and a tortoiseshell binocular levelled at him in that fashion is a little disturbing
to a young man just recovering from a nervous fever; and Rickman got up and dragged himself
to the other end of the esplanade out of the reach of the enemy's fire. Therefore he did not
see that Miss Palliser, who had been watching the scene from a balcony on the front, had come
down and joined the group; neither did he hear her cheerful replies to a volley of inquiries.

"Yes; I've seen her. Nice day isn't it? What? No, I wouldn't if I were you. I say, what a swagger
eye-glass! Jolly, those long stems, aren't they? You can stare for ever without pinching your
nose or gouging your next door neighbour's eye out with your elbow--Oh yes, rather; he's a
friend of Horace Jewdwine's. Do observe Tubs bathing; his figure is not adapted--Did you say
a gentleman? Yes, no, yes; ask somebody else. It entirely depends on the point of view. He's
an awfully good sort. Really, Tubs ought to be made to bathe before breakfast, when there's
nobody about. Yes, of course she did. She gave him the work to please Mr. Jewdwine, I suppose.
He's been ill, poor little beggar; I must go and speak to him."

After having thus first harried, then effectually baffled the enemy, Miss Palliser started
with a swinging stride in pursuit of Mr. Rickman. He sat alone in an attitude of extreme dejection,
on the stones of an unfinished and forsaken jetty that marked the farthest western limit of
the esplanade. Having turned his back on that public rendezvous, he was unaware of Miss Palliser's
approach until she stood beside him.

"Glad to see you out again," said she.

He sprang to his feet and raised his hat. At the first sight of his face Miss Palliser had
a shrewd idea of the cause and nature of his illness.

"Thank you so much for your kind messages. I'm all right again, as you see."

"I see nothing of the sort, as yet." She had meant to tell him that it was Lucia who had sent
her to inquire; but she thought better of it.

"Oh, well, I ought to get round in this bracing air."

"Harmouth air," said Kitty, "is not particularly bracing. In fact it's very relaxing. It probably
helped you to break down."

"Well, I shall be out of it soon, anyway." He sighed. "Miss Palliser, can you tell me if Miss
Harden has come back?"

"She came back the day before yesterday."

"Have you seen her?"

"Yes, I've seen her."

There was a long pause, filled by the insistent clamour of the sea. His next question was less
audible to the outer than to the inner ear.

"How is she?"

Miss Palliser was seldom at a loss for a word; but this time she hesitated. "She--she is very
plucky."

There was another and a longer pause in which neither had the courage to look at the other.

"Can I--Would it be possible for me to see her?"

Miss Palliser did not answer.

"I wouldn't dream of asking her, except that I've got something on my mind."

"And she--my dear man, she's got everything on her mind."

"I know. I--I want to see her on business."

Miss Palliser's lithe figure grew rigid. She turned on him a look of indignation and contempt.
"Everybody wants to see her on business. But some of them have had the grace to wait."

He smiled in the faint tolerant manner of a man so steeped in the bitterness of the situation
that no comment on it can add a further sting.

"I can't wait. My business hasn't much to do with me; but it has a great deal to do with Miss
Harden."

She looked at him as he spoke. Something in his face and in his voice too made her feel that
her judgement of him had been unspeakably, unpardonably coarse.

"I beg your pardon," she said gently.

"Oh don't. I'm not surprised that you thought that of me."

"I didn't think it. I don't quite know what I'm saying. I've spent the last two days trying
to keep fools from worrying her. I hate the people who want to go to her; I hate the people
who keep away; I hate them all. But I'm sorry I spoke like that to you. You look horribly ill."

"I'm not ill. But I'm nearly out of my mind about this business."

"What is it? Tell me, has it anything to do with the library?

"Yes."

"Well; the library's going to be sold."

"I know. That's what I want to speak to her about."

"There's not a bit of good in speaking to her. There are at this moment," said Kitty incisively,
"two persons in the house who call themselves the men in possession."

"The brutes--"

"You may as well sit down. You can't turn them out, they're two to one, and their position
is, I believe, legally sound."

"I must go to her at once--I knew this would happen--Miss Palliser, is any one with her?"

"I am with her. I'm going back to her in a minute; but I want to talk to you first. Everybody's
looking at us, but that can't be helped. Did you say you knew this would happen?"

"Yes--Miss Palliser, I'm in the most intolerable position with regard to Miss Harden."

"You knew they were making these arrangements?"

"Oh yes, I knew it all the time I was working for her. What's more, I'm supposed to be the
agent for the sale."

"Well--if it's got to be sold, why not?"

"Well, you see, my father's only an ordinary dealer. I'm about the only person concerned who
knows the real value and I know that it's been undervalued. Of course, without the smallest
dishonesty on Mr. Pilkington's part."

"Mr. who?" Kitty had not yet heard of Mr. Pilkington.

"Pilkington."

"What's his address?"

He gave it her.

Kitty made a note of the name and address.

"Unfortunately Mr. Pilkington has an absolute right to sell it, and my father has an absolute
right to buy it."

"Well, somebody's got to buy it, I suppose?"

"Yes, but it seems to me we oughtn't to do anything till we know whether any of Miss Harden's
people will come forward."

"She is the last of her people."

"How about Mr. Jewdwine? He's her cousin."

"On her mother's side."

"Still he's her cousin. I wrote to him ten days ago; and I haven't got any answer as yet."

"What did you say to him?"

"I invited him to step in and buy the library over our heads."

"And how much would he have had to pay for it?"

"Probably more than one thousand two hundred."

"Well--if you think that Mr. Jewdwine is the man to deal so lightly with two hundred pounds,
let alone the thousand! Really, that's the quaintest thing you've done yet. May I ask if this
is the way you generally do business?"

"No, I can't say that it is."

"Well, well, you were very safe."

"Safe? I don't want to be safe. Don't you see how horrible it is for me? I'd give anything
if he or anyone else would come in now and walk over us."

"Still, I don't wonder that you got no answer to your very remarkable proposal."

"It seemed to me a very simple and obvious proposal."

"I don't know much about business," said Kitty, "but I can think of a much more simple and
obvious one. Why can't your people buy in the library and sell it again for Miss Harden on
commission?"

"Do you suppose I haven't thought of that? It would be very simple and obvious if it rested
with me, but I'm afraid my father mightn't see it in the same light. You see, the thing doesn't
lie between Miss Harden and me, but between my father and Mr. Pilkington."

"I don't understand."

"It's this way. My father won't be buying the library from Miss Harden, but from Mr. Pilkington.
And--my father is a man of business."

"And you most certainly are not."

"So he isn't likely to give any more for it than he can help."

"Of course not."

"Well, but--do you know what the library was valued at?"

Kitty did, and she would have blurted it out had not an inner voice told her to be discreet
for once. He took her silence for a confession of ignorance.

"Would you think a thousand pounds an absurdly high valuation?"

"I don't know."

Kitty tried to banish all expression from her face. She really knew very little about business
and was as yet unaware of the necessary publicity of bills of sale. The suspicion crossed her
mind that Rickman, in his father's interests, might be trying to pump her as to the smallest
sum that need be offered.

"Because," he added, "it isn't. Miss Harden stands to lose something like three thousand pounds
by it."

Kitty's evil surmises vanished utterly. "Good Heavens!" she exclaimed, "how do you make that out?"

"It's only the difference between what the library ought to fetch and what will be given for
it. Of course no dealer could give the full value; still, between one thousand and four thousand
there's a considerable difference."

"And who pockets it?"

"My fa--the dealer, if he succeeds in selling again to the best advantage. He might not, and
my father, as it happens, considers that he's taking a great risk. But I know more about it
than he does, and I don't agree with him. That's why I don't want him to get hold of those
books if I can help it."

Kitty was thoughtful.

"You see," he continued, "I know he'd like to do what he thinks generous under the circumstances,
but he isn't interested in Miss Harden, and he is interested in the Harden library. It's a
chance that a dealer like him only gets once in a lifetime and I'm afraid it isn't in human
nature to let it go."

"But," said Kitty wildly, "he must let it go. You must make him. Do you mean to say you're
going to sit and look on calmly while Miss Harden loses three thousand pounds?"

"I'm not looking on calmly. On the contrary, I've lost my head."

"What's the good of losing your head, if Miss Harden loses her money? What do you propose to
do besides losing your head? Lose time I suppose? As if you hadn't lost enough already."

"I wrote to Mr. Jewdwine as soon as I heard of Sir Frederick Harden's death. Still, you're
right, I did lose time; and time was everything. You can't reproach me more than I reproach
myself."

"My dear man, I'm not reproaching you. I only want to know what you're going to do?"

"Do? Is there anything left for me to do?"

"Not much, that I can see."

"If I'd only spoken straight out in the beginning--"

"Do you mean to her?"

"To her." He whispered the pronoun so softly that it sounded like a sigh.

"Why didn't you?"

"Why didn't I? I can see it was the one honest thing to do. But I thought I'd no business to
know about her father's affairs if she didn't; and certainly no business to talk about them."

"No. I don't see how you could have done it."

"All the same I'd made up my mind to do it that morning--when the telegram came. That stopped me."

"You were well out of it. You don't know what an awful thing it would have been to do. She
worshipped her father. Is this what you've been making yourself ill about?"

"I suppose so. You know how adorably kind she was to me?"

"I can guess. She is adorably kind to every one," said Kitty, gentle but astute.

"And, you see, I've behaved dishonourably to her."

"No. I don't see that."

"Don't you? Don't you? Why, my father sent me partly as his agent, and all the time she believed
I was only working for her."

"Did you behave as your father's agent?"

"No. But I let her slave from morning till night over that catalogue."

"Which she would have done in any case."

"Don't you see that I ought to have backed out of it altogether, in the very beginning?"

"Ah yes--if everybody did what they ought."

"I tried twice, but it was no good. I suppose I didn't try hard enough."

"What good would you have done by going, if she wanted you to stay?"

"That's how I argued. But the fact is, I stayed because I couldn't go away. Of course, it was
an abominable position, but I assure you it felt like heaven when it didn't feel like 'ell."

His anguish, mercifully, was too great for him to feel the horror of his lapse. And Kitty hardly
noticed it; at any rate she never felt the smallest inclination to smile, not even in recalling
it afterwards.

It was, if you came to think of it, an unusual, a remarkable confession. But she remembered
that he had had a nervous fever; it was his nerves, then, and his fever that had cried out,
a cry covered, made decent almost, by the clangour of the sea.

She wondered how it came that, when her mind was as full as it could be of Lucia and her affairs,
it could give such concentrated attention to him and his. If he had been what the tortoiseshell
eye-glass took him for, a common man, it ought to have been easy and natural to dismiss him.
But she could not dismiss him. There was some force in him, not consciously exerted, which
held her there on that conspicuous seat beside him under the gaze of the tortoiseshell eye-glass.
Kitty was by no means deficient in what she had called "profane fancy," and she felt to her
finger tips that she was making a spectacle of herself at the end of the esplanade. Their backs
at this moment she knew must be standing out very clear and bold against the sky-line. But
she herself was losing the keen sense she had once had of his inappropriateness to the scenes
he moved in. Wherever he was he was natural; he was (she had it in one word) sincere, as few
people are sincere nowadays. He was not a common man. That was it. All along it had been the
justification of their strange proceedings, this fact that he was not common, that he was indeed
unique. On that ground Lucia had always met him, and she had ignored the rest. Kitty was trying
to sympathize with Lucia.

"But," he went on, simply, "I can't tell her that."

"No, you can't tell her that, but you can tell her everything else. Look here, supposing that
instead of sitting here tearing your nervous system to tatters you go straight away and do it."

"What will she think of me?"

"Think of you? If she thinks of you at all, she'll bless you for having spared her father's
memory up to the last possible minute."

"Has it occurred to you that my motives are open to the worst construction?"

"Well, frankly, it has. But it won't occur to Miss Harden. Go to her and tell her everything."

"After all, what am I to tell her?"

"Oh, it doesn't matter much what you tell her now."

"It matters a great deal to me. I don't want her to think me more dishonourable than I am."

"Oh, she won't do that."

"Perhaps she can't?"

"Well, you see, I don't know how dishonourable you've been. I only know if I'd done a dishonourable
thing--if I'd done--oh, the most disgraceful thing I can imagine, a thing I couldn't possibly
tell to anybody else, I wouldn't mind telling Lucia Harden. I should have to tell her. It wouldn't
matter. She's so perfectly good, that your own little amateur efforts in that line simply aren't
in it; so when it comes to telling her things, you may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
And wait a minute; you're not likely to make a lamb of your sheep; but don't go to the other
extreme, and make a full-grown sheep of your lamb."

"I shall not deceive her."

"You couldn't. She's not only a good woman, but a very clever one, though she doesn't let you
see it. Mind you, you won't find her clever about stupid things. I doubt if you'll be able
to make her understand all this library affair. But she'll understand your business."

They rose, and walked together, forgetful of the eagerly observant group.

"Could she see me to-day--this evening? I'm going to-morrow."

"Yes, I'll tell her you're coming. When you do see her, don't be afraid--speak out."

"I'm not afraid of speaking to her--I'm afraid--"

"Of what?"

"Simply of seeing her."

"You mean you are afraid of seeing her changed?" She understood him; for it was what she herself
had been afraid of.

"Horribly afraid."

"My dear Mr. Rickman, people in great trouble don't change to other people. They only change
to themselves."

He raised his hat and turned from her without speaking.

Kitty felt remorseful as she looked after him, for she had not scrupled to sacrifice him to
her idea. Kitty's idea was to get as high a price as possible out of Rickman Senior, and Rickman
Junior was the only man who could get it. If the object was to shunt Rickman Senior altogether,
Rickman Junior could be depended on for that, too. She could see that under the influence of
his unhappy passion he had absolutely detached himself from his father's interests and his
own. Kitty was profoundly sorry for him, and if she had yielded to her impulses of mercy and
pity she would have kept him from Lucia as she would have kept a poor insane moth from the
candle. It might be necessary to turn the moth out of doors in order to save it, and--well,
she would have turned him out of doors, too, in sheer mercy and pity. But Kitty had a practical
mind, and that practical mind perceived the services that might be rendered by a person so
suicidally inspired. If she had read him aright, fire and water were nothing to what Mr. Rickman
was prepared to go through for Lucia. Therefore she sent him to Lucia.

But it was on his own account, for his healing and his consolation, that she advised him to
make a clean breast of it.

CHAPTER XXIX

Lucia was in the library and alone. Everything was as she had left it that morning two weeks
ago; she saw the same solid floor and ceiling, the same faded Persian rugs, the same yellow
pale busts on their tall pedestals, the same bookshelves, wing after wing and row upon row.
The south lattice still showed through its leaded lozenge panes the bright green lawn, the
beech tree and the blue sky; the west lattice held the valley and the hills, with the river,
a sinuous band of silver between the emerald and the amethyst. These things were so woven with
the tissue of her mind that the sense of them had remained with her during the terrible seven
days at Cannes. But now they appeared to her stripped of their air of permanence and familiarity.
They were blurred and insubstantial, like things remembered rather than actually seen. All
that subdued and tender loveliness belonged only to her young past, and she had been torn from
it so violently, it had been flung so far behind her, that it seemed to her at the moment incredible
and impossible. Life, that had hitherto dealt with her so gently and so graciously, had in
the last two weeks turned hideous and brutal.

She had no very clear idea of how she had got to Cannes. The going was wiped out. She had been
driven through the garden of the Villa des Palmes and had recognized it as the garden of her
dream. She had passed (through the doors of the Villa) into a state of stupor in which she
had recognized nothing, and thence into a sequence of states which she could now too well recall.
There had been a state of waking, in which she had found herself in a little gilt and velvet
salon. There was another woman in it, a vast woman in a thin black dress twinkling all over
with little black eyes. She had a great white powdered face, and they called her Madame. Then
followed a state of hallucination, in which she believed Madame to be an innocent person, the
housekeeper; a state of obsession, in which Madame, as she looked at her, seemed to grow vaster,
to become immense; a state of imbecility in which her mind feebly tried to grapple with the
details of her father's death as presented brokenly by Madame. Last had come a state of frenzy,
in which she had freed herself from Madame. After that something had appeared to her in vivid
violent illumination.

So vivid and so violent that it seemed to her even now that she was still sitting in the gilt
and velvet salon in the Villa des Palmes; she still saw the thin green light that came slanting
through the half-closed shutters; warm southern smells floated in, they mixed with the thick
stifling scent of patchouli and orris root wafted from Madame as she went to and fro, and with
some other odour, bitter and sickly, that came from the room beyond.

She had made out certain familiar objects in this unfamiliar scene. Her father's travelling
rug lay folded on the red velvet sofa; his cap and gloves were there, just as he had flung
them down; his violin, dumb in its black coffin-like case, stood propped up against the wall.
Everywhere else (only gradually discerned) were things belonging to Madame, evidence of her
supreme and intimate occupation of the room.

And outside was the garden of sharp aloes and palms, where, as she believed, her father's spirit
had gone looking for her, and had not found her. His body lay in the inner room behind the
closed door.

That horrible little gilt and velvet salon! Whenever she thought of it she saw Madame; she
saw Madame's little dry eyes blinking in her great white powdered face; she saw the vast heaving
of Madame's bust where the little jet sequins shivered and shook; she heard her voice cooing
and purring voluptuous condolence; and she felt again her own passion of disgust and fear as
she wrenched herself free from the warm scented body, quivering in its thin black sheath.

Then she saw the inner room behind the closed door. Nothing was obscure and secret there. The
slats of the shutter let in great shafts of daylight; the coffin stood in the middle of the
room, raised on trestles, and covered with a white sheet. A crucifix stood at the head of the
coffin, propped against a chest of drawers. Three candles, flickering in their sockets, were
set on the table at its foot. On each knob of the two top-drawers hung a wreath of yellow immortelles.

That long coffin, raised high on its trestles, seemed to fill the little room. Lucia saw it
now, she saw the face in it turned up to the ceiling, sharp and yellow, the limp red moustache
hanging like a curtain over the half-open mouth. No trace of the tilted faun-like smile.

She would never get away from that terrible room. The pattern of its walls (garlands of pink
rosebuds between blue stripes) was stamped upon her brain. There too, as in the salon, abode
the inextinguishable odour shaken from Madame's dress, it mixed with the hot reek of carbolic
and the bitter stabbing odour of the coffin.

On the floor by the trestles lay a glove, a long enormous glove, Madame's glove; it was greyish
white, and wrinkled like the cast skin of a snake. The finger of its fellow hung from the chest
of drawers beside the crucifix. It pointed downwards at the dead man.

Within the gay garlanded walls, surrounded by those symbols and souvenirs of Madame, he lay
with his face turned up to the ceiling, and his mouth half open, as if it still gasped piteously
for breath. One more breath to beg for forgiveness, to defend himself, explain; while bit by
bit the place he had lived in gave up his secret.

She could not tell whether she forgave him or not. When she stood by him there she could have
implored his forgiveness for having thus come upon him unawares, for having found what he had
taken such pains to hide from her. It seemed somehow cruel and unfair. She did not tax him
with hypocrisy, because he had so long contrived to keep himself clean in her sight; she was
grateful to him for having spared her this knowledge. But whether she forgave him or not--no,
looking back on it at this moment she could not tell. Lucia was too young for the great forgiveness
that comes of understanding.

She walked up and down the library, staring at the books, at the tables piled with papers;
she stood at each window in turn and looked out on the garden, the valley and the hills, Harmouth
Gap, and the long brown rampart line of Muttersmoor. It was simply impossible for her to realize
their once intimate relation to her life.

She was unaware that her mood was chiefly the result of physical and mental exhaustion. It
seemed to her rather that she had acquired strange powers of insight, that she had pierced
to the back of the illusion. Never had she possessed so luminous a sense of the unreality of
things. She found this view consoling, for it is the desire of unhappy youth that there shall
be no permanence where there is pain.

On this unreal and insubstantial background faces came and went all day long, faces solemn
and obsequious, faces glazed and feverish with emotion; Robert's face with red-rimmed eyes
hiding Robert's unutterable sympathy under a thin mask of fright; Kitty's face with an entirely
new expression on it; and her own face met them with an incomprehensible and tearless calm.
For she was not even sure of that, not even sure of her own sorrow. She had had to do with
sorrow once before, when her grandfather died, and she thought she would be sure to know it
when it came to her again; but she had no name for this new feeling, and at times it seemed
to her that it was not sorrow at all.

Whatever it was, she had determined to bear it as far as possible alone. She was almost sorry
that she had not refused Kitty's offer to stay with her; she suffered so from Kitty's inability
to conceal the truth. Not that Kitty said anything; it was her unnatural silence that was so
terrible. With that extraordinary acuteness that had come upon her now Lucia saw, in the involuntary
hardening and flushing of Kitty's face, that in Kitty's mind her father was not only suspected,
but condemned. She was afraid lest she herself should in some moments of weakness betray him;
and Kitty's strange unusual tenderness inspired her with terror. She shrank even from old Mrs.
Palliser, Kitty's mother, with her soft trembling face and clinging hands. Their sympathy was
poignant and unnerving, and she needed all her strength for the things she had to do.

She did them, too. While one half of her brain had slackened its grip of the world, the other
half retained the most perfect grasp of certain necessary details. She spent the morning with
her father's solicitor, while he explained to her the first principles of finance, and the
inner meaning of mortgages and bills of sale. She understood clearly that the things which
would naturally have come to her on her father's death belonged in a certain sense to Mr. Richard
Pilkington of Shaftesbury Avenue. Mr. Schofield, poor man, had approached this branch of his
subject gently and gingerly, with every delicacy of phrasing that his fancy could suggest.
He leaned back in his chair and looked at her through half-closed eyes, respectfully veiling
the shrewdness of his gaze. Lucia had at first displayed so little interest and intelligence
that he felt himself compelled to a broader and simpler statement of the facts. With the exception
of her own personal possessions, nothing in Court House remained to her, nothing, not a book,
not a solitary piece of drawing-room furniture. Mr. Pilkington's bill of sale was, he grieved
to say, inclusive of everything, from the Harden library and the great gallery of portraits,
to the glass and china in the pantry, and the blankets on the beds. "Not even," he had said,
"that little paper weight that you have in your hand, Miss Harden." And Lucia had examined
the paper weight as if she saw it for the first time; she put it down and smiled. It struck
her as incomprehensible, ludicrous almost that any one could spend so much passion and solemnity
on things so unimportant, so irrelevant; she was not in the least surprised to hear that they
did not belong to her; the inconceivable thing was that they ever had belonged to her.

And as the solicitor looked at her the corners of his mouth twitched with a little spasm of
pity; his eyes lost their veiled shrewdness, and when she smiled they stared in frankest fright.
For a moment he supposed that the shock of his announcement had turned her brain. It never
occurred to that astute intelligence that she was smiling at his own simplicity.

When he had left she returned to the writing-table; she sorted and arranged a disordered heap
of business letters, letters of condolence and tradesmen's bills. She pushed aside the letters
of condolence--Kitty would answer those. She unlocked a drawer and took from it two open envelopes
scored with many postmarks and addressed to Harmouth, to Cannes and to Harmouth again; these
she scrutinized anxiously, as if they disclosed some secret guarded by their contents. Then
she read the letters carefully all over again.

One was from her cousin Edith Jewdwine. Edith's sympathy covered two sheets; it flowed from
her pen, facile and fluent. Edith had had the influenza, otherwise Edith would have come to
Lucia at once. Could not Lucia come to her instead? Edith could not bear to think of Lucia
alone there in her trouble, in that great big house. She was glad that Kitty Palliser was with
her. If only she had not been so unfortunate as to catch influenza, and so on!

Lucia was sorry that Edith had influenza, but she was not sorry that she had not come. She
did not want Edith with her.

The other letter was from Horace. Horace had refined his expressions of condolence into one
faultless phrase. The rest of his letter consisted of apologies and offers of service. These
his close cramped handwriting confined to the centre of the sheet, leaving a broad and decent
margin to suggest the inexpressible. He had heard of his uncle's death indirectly; why had
she not sent for him? If she had wired to him at once he could have made arrangements to meet
and take her to Cannes, or he could have joined her there and brought her home. At present
he was overwhelmed with business; but he hoped to run down to Harmouth at the end of the week,
and travel up to town with her. He understood that she was going to stay with Edith. Busy as
he was, he would come now, at any minute, if he could be of any immediate use. She had only
to wire if she wanted him.

She laid down that letter, pushed it aside, took it up again, and read it a second time, as
if to satisfy herself as to the writer's meaning. She was not sure as to what Horace was or
was not willing to do, but there could be no doubt that he was deeply sorry for her. Why had
she not sent for him? Why indeed? Her first instinct had been to send for him. She had only
to let him know that she was in trouble, and he would have come to her at any inconvenience
to himself. And that, of course, was why she had not sent. It would have been so impossible
for him to refuse.

And now she was thankful that she had spared him, and that he had not followed her to those
terrible rooms in the Villa des Palmes, that he knew nothing of those seven days. She would
have endured any suffering, paid any price to obliterate the memory of them. It was horrible
to think how nearly Horace had been there. Horace of all people--the fastidious, the immaculate,
the merciless. If she had found it hard to judge her dead father tenderly, she knew what Horace's
judgement would have been.

She had "only to wire if she wanted him." Oh no; he was the last person that she wanted now.

Those two letters she answered without more delay. To Horace she wrote in a reassuring manner,
so as to absolve him from any sense of obligation he might happen to feel. She would rather
he came down a little later than he proposed. Meanwhile he was not to be anxious, for Mr. Schofield
was managing her affairs extremely well. She admitted that when those wonderful affairs were
settled her income would be but small (she considered that this was a thing Horace ought to
be told before--before he wrote any more letters). She added that the library, the pictures
and the furniture would have to be sold. And Court House, too, she was afraid. (That also was
a fact that must not be concealed from him for a moment. It seemed to concern Horace so much
more than it did her.) These things, which it was her duty to tell him, she told simply and
plainly. But she omitted to mention that two men in possession were sitting in the housekeeper's
room, in attitudes of more or less constraint. She ended by assuring Horace of her gratitude,
with a fervency which suggested that he had some cause to doubt it. And indeed, at the moment,
she could hardly tell whether she were more grateful to him for offering to come to her or
for having stopped away.

All this necessary business Lucia transacted with one half of her mind; while the other stood
far off, possessed by its sense of unreality, of illusion.

Next she went through the tradesmen's bills. There were a great many people to be paid, and
unless Court House were sold there would be nothing to pay them with. It was at this point
that Robert came in with the announcement that Mr. Rickman had called and wished to see her.

At first (the active intelligence being busy with accounts), her only idea was that she owed
Mr. Rickman fifteen pounds and that when all debts were paid fifteen pounds would represent
a very solid portion of her income. Then her dreaming self awoke to the memory of something
unachieved, an obligation rashly incurred, a promise that could never be fulfilled.

Yes. She would see Mr. Rickman.

CHAPTER XXX

Lucia had risen and was standing in the embrasure of the south window. She had her back to
the door, so that she could not see him as he came in.

He wondered how on earth he was going to get over the space between the window and the door.
A sudden wave of weakness went through his body; he had horrible sensations of sinking at the
middle and of giving way altogether at the knees. He had been afraid of seeing her suffer;
now he knew that what he was really afraid of was her fear of seeing him. He expected to see
her face set in abhorrence of his sympathy, her body shrink in anticipation of a touch on her pain.

Lucia spared him all the embarrassments of that approach As if she had divined his feeling,
she turned, she came forward to meet him, she held out her hand and smiled as she would have
smiled if nothing had happened.

His hand trembled visibly as it dropped from hers. He hid it in his breast pocket, where it
pretended to be looking for things.

"Miss Palliser said she thought you would see me--"

"Yes, I wanted to see you; I would have sent for you if you had not come. Sit down, please."

She sat down herself, in her old place at the writing table.

He took the chair beside her and leaned back, resting his arm on the table. She turned so as
to face him.

She was not so changed but that his hungry and unhappy eyes could rest on her, appeased and
comforted. And yet she was changed, too. Her girlhood, with all its innocence of suffering,
had died in her. But the touch of that death was masterly, it had redeemed her beauty from
the vagueness of its youth. Grief, that drags or sharpens or deforms the faces of older women,
had given to hers the precision that it lacked. There was a faint sallow tinge in the whiteness
of her skin, and her eyelids drooped as if she were tired to the point of exhaustion. He noticed,
too, the pathetic tension that restrained the quivering of her mouth. It was the upper lip
that trembled.

"You have been ill?" she said.

And as he answered that, "Oh, it was nothing," he was aware for the first time how very much
it had been. She too was aware of it.

She expressed her concern; she hoped that they had looked after him well at the hotel.

Decidedly she had grown older and her manner had grown older too. It suggested that it was
she who was the protector; that she wished, as far as possible, to spare him in an interview
which must necessarily be painful. It was as if she remembered that he at any rate was young,
and that these gloomy circumstances must be highly distasteful to his youth. In that she was
the same as ever; every nerve in her shrank from the pain of giving pain.

At least that was his first impression. And then (no consoling view being really open to him)
he told himself he was a fool to suppose that in the circumstances she could think of him at
all. He had nothing tangible to go upon. He could see through it. He could see perfectly through
the smile, the self-possession, even the air of polite and leisurely interest in his illness.
She dwelt on him because he was of all themes the one most indifferent to her. She was simply
holding herself in, according to the indestructible instincts of her race.

He need not have been afraid of seeing her suffer; that, at any rate, he would not see. To
let him see it would have been to her an extreme personal degradation, an offence against the
decencies of her class. This sorrow of hers, this invisible, yet implacable sorrow, stood between
them, waving him away. It opened up again the impassable gulf. He felt himself not only a stranger,
but an inferior, separated from her beyond all possibility of approach. She had not changed.
She had simply reverted to her type.

Her eyes waited for him to speak. But they were not the eyes he knew, the eyes that had drawn
him to confession. It was borne in upon him that this (though it might be his last moment with
her) was not the moment to confess. There was a positive grossness in the idea of unburdening
himself in the presence of this incommunicable grief. It was like putting in a claim for consideration
as an equal sufferer. He had no right to obtrude himself upon her at all. In her calm-eyed
attention there was a hint--a very delicate and gentle one--that he would do well to be impersonal,
business-like, and, above all, brief.

"It was about the library that I wanted to see you, Miss Harden."

"Was it? I was just going to ask you not to do anything more to the catalogue if you have not
finished it."

"I finished it ten days ago--before the twenty-seventh."

She smiled faintly. "Then you kept your promise. It doesn't matter. What I most wanted to speak
to you about was the secretaryship I offered you. I'm afraid we must give it up."

"Oh--Miss Harden--" his tone expressed that he had always given it up, that it was not to be
thought of for an instant. But evidently she was possessed with the idea that he had a claim
upon her.

"I'm very sorry, but as things have turned out I shan't be able to keep a secretary. In fact,
as you may have heard, I'm not able to keep anything hardly--not even my promises."

"Please--please don't think of it--"

"There is no use thinking of it. Still, I wanted you to know that I really meant it--I believed
it could be done. Of course I don't know how much you really wanted it."

"Wanted it? I'd 'ave given half my life for a year of it."

Lucia's hand, laid lightly on the table's edge, felt a strong vibration communicated to it
from Mr. Rickman's arm. She looked up, in time to see his white face quiver before he hid it
with his hand.

"I'm so sorry. Did it mean so much to you?"

He smiled through his agony at the cause assigned to it. "I'm not thinking of that. What it
means to me--what it always will mean is your goodness--in thinking of it. In thinking of it now."

It was his nearest approach to a sympathetic allusion.

She did not wince (perceptibly), but she ignored the allusion.

"Oh, that's nothing. You would have been of great use to me. If I thought of helping you at
all, my idea was simply--how shall I put it?--to make up in some way for the harm I've done you."

"What harm have you ever done me?"

For one moment he thought that she had discovered his preposterous passion, and reproached
herself for being a cause of pain. But she explained.

"I ought to say the harm the catalogue did you. I'm afraid it was responsible for your illness."

He protested. But she stuck to it. "And after all I might just as well have let you go. For
the library will have to be sold. But I did not know that."

"I knew it, though."

"You knew it? How did you know it?"

"I know Mr. Pilkington, who knows my father. He practically gave him the refusal of the library.
Which is exactly what I want to speak to you about."

He explained the situation to her as he had explained it to Miss Palliser, only at greater
length and with considerably greater difficulty. For Lucia did not take it up as Miss Palliser
had done, point by point, she laid it down, rather, dismissed it with a statement of her trust
in the integrity of Rickman's.

"If," she said, "the library must be sold, I'm very glad that it's your father who is going
to buy it."

He tried to make her see (without too deeply incriminating his father) that this was not the
destiny most to be desired for it.

It was in approaching this part of his subject that he most diverged from his manner of treating
it before Miss Palliser.

Miss Palliser had appreciated the commercial point of view. Her practical mind accepted the
assumption that a dealer was but human, and that abnegation on his part in such a matter would
amount to nothing less than a moral miracle. But Miss Harden would have a higher conception
of human obligation than Miss Palliser; at any rate he could hardly expect her sense of honour
to be less delicate than his own, and if he considered that his father was morally bound to
withdraw from the business she could only think one thing of his remaining in it. Therefore
to suggest to Miss Harden that his father might insist upon remaining, constituted a far more
terrible exposure of that person than anything he had said to Miss Palliser.

"Why shouldn't he buy it?" she asked.

"Because, I'm afraid, selling it in--in that way, you won't make much money over it."

"Well--it's not a question of making money, it's a question of paying a debt."

"How much you make--or lose--of course, depends on the amount of the debt--what it was valued at."

Lucia, unlike Kitty, was neither suspicious nor discreet. She had the required fact at her
fingers' ends and instantly produced it. "It was valued at exactly one thousand pounds."

"And it should have been valued at four. My father can't give anything like that. We ought
to be able to find somebody who can. But it might take a considerable time."

"And there is no time. What do you advise me to do then?"

"Well, if we could persuade Mr. Pilkington to sell by auction that would be all right. If we
can't, I advise you to buy it back, or a part of it, yourself. Buy back the books that make
it valuable. You've got the Aldine Plato and the Neapolitan Horace and the Aurea Legenda printed
by Wynken de Worde." (He positively blushed as he consummated this final act of treachery to
Rickman's.) "And heaps of others equally valuable; I can give you a list of fifty or so. You
can buy them for a pound a-piece and sell the lot for three thousand. If Pilkington collars
the rest he'll still be paid, and there may be something over."

She considered a moment. "Has Mr. Pilkington any idea of the value of those books?"

"I'm certain he hasn't. Only an expert could have."

"Would it be perfectly fair to him?"

"To him? Perfectly fair. You buy them at his own valuation."

"I see. I should like to do that--if--if it can be managed."

"I think it can be managed. My father isn't likely to settle with Mr. Pilkington without consulting
me. If he has settled we must try and get him to withdraw."

"Oh, surely there would be no difficulty about that?"

He said nothing. It was really terrible the way she took integrity for granted. To be sure
his father had a reputation with the family. He remembered how Sir Joseph used to praise him
to his face as the only honest dealer in London. But Sir Joseph was in the habit of buying
books, not selling them.

He rose and turned away, evading her innocent eyes.

"I hope not. I'll see Mr. Pilkington about it. By the way, here is Mr. Pilkington. Did you
expect him?"

"No, I--" Her voice died away, extinguished in her horror.

CHAPTER XXXI

There could be no mistake about it.

Mr. Pilkington was coming by the private way, stepping softly over a fair green lawn. The low
golden light before sunset flooded the lawn so that Mr. Pilkington walking in it was strangely
and gloriously illuminated. Everything about him shone, from his high silk hat to the tips
of his varnished boots. His frock coat and trousers of grey summer suiting clung to his figure
like a warm and sunny skin. All over Mr. Pilkington and round about him there hung the atmosphere
of the City. Not of the actual murky labyrinth, roofed with fog, but of the City as she stands
transfigured before the eyes of the young speculator, in her orient golden mood.

Lucia had seen him. The light died out of her face, her lips straightened. She stood motionless,
superb, intent. With such a look and in such an attitude a Roman maiden might have listened
to the feet of the Vandal at the gate.

He was coming very swiftly, was Dicky, as if borne by an impetus of conquest. As he caught
sight of Miss Harden through the open window, though he kept his head rigidly averted, his
eyes slewed round towards her, and at the same moment his fingers rose instinctively to his
little fair moustache. It was the gesture of the irresistible male.

"Must I see him?" she asked helplessly. She had realized everything in that moment.

"Not unless you like. Shall I deal with him?"

"If you would be so good. But no--it doesn't matter. I shall have to see him later."

She sat down again and waited. The silence was so tense that it seemed to bear the impact of
her pulses; it throbbed and quivered with pain. Outside, the sound of the pebbles, crunched
under Pilkington's footsteps, became a concert of shrieks.

Rickman did not offer to go as Mr. Pilkington advanced; for, Heaven knew how, in some obscure
and subtle way she had managed to convey to him that his presence was a protection.

Mr. Pilkington entered the room with the air of a man completely assured as to his reception.
He bowed to Miss Harden; an extraordinary bow. No words could have conveyed the exquisite intimations
of Mr. Pilkington's spine. It was as if he had said to her, "Madam, you needn't be afraid;
in your presence I am all deference and chivalry and restraint." But no sooner had Dicky achieved
this admirable effect of refinement than he spoilt it all by the glance he levelled at young
Rickman. That expressed nothing but the crude emotion of the insolent male, baulked of his
desire to find himself alone on the field. It insulted her as brutally as any words by its
unblushing assumption of the attitude of sex.

"I must introduce myself, Miss 'Arden," he said, ignoring Rickman. "I think I have not had
the pleasure--" His large mouth closed reluctantly on the unfinished phrase.

He seated himself with circumstance, parting the tails of his coat very carefully. He had chosen
a seat opposite the window. As if conscious of the glory of his appearance, he offered himself
liberally to the light. He let it play over his figure, a figure that youth subdued to sleekness
that would one day be corpulence; it drew out all the yellow in his moustache and hair; it
blazed in his gold-rimmed eye-glass; thence it alighted, a pale watery splendour, on the bridge
of his nose. It was a bridge where two nationalities met and contended for mastery. Mr. Pilkington's
nose had started with a distinctly Semitic intention, frustrated by the Anglo-Saxon in him,
its downward course being docked to the proportion of a snub. Nobody knew better than Mr. Pilkington
that it was that snub that saved him. He was proud of it as a proof of his descent from the
dominant race. Assisted by his reluctantly closing mouth and double eye-glass it inspired confidence,
giving to Mr. Pilkington's face an expression of extreme openness and candour. He was proud
of his eye-glass too. He considered that it made him look like a man of science or of letters.
But it didn't. It did much better for him than that. It took all the subtlety out of his face
and endowed it with an earnest and enormous stare. And as that large mouth couldn't and wouldn't
close properly, his sentences had a way of dying off in a faint gasp, leaving a great deal
to the imagination. All these natural characteristics were invaluable for business purposes.

But if you had asked Mr. Pilkington for the secret of his success, he would have told you that
he owed it to his possession of two qualities, "bounce" and "tact." To both, mind you; for
tact without bounce will carry a man neither far nor high; while bounce without tact will elevate
him occasionally to his own perdition. Conversationally he was furnished with tentacles sensitive
to the lightest touch of an idea; he had the very subtlest discernment of shades within shades.
He grasped with airy impact; he moved by a delicate contact and recoil, a process he was pleased
to describe as "feelin' his way."

He did not rush brutally into business, as a man of coarser fibre might have done. He removed
his gloves, adjusted his eye-glass and admired the view. He shrank from the suggestion that
he had come to "take possession," but clearly he could not take possession of the view. It
was a safe and soothing topic.

"You have a very glorious outlook here, Miss Harden."

Then Mr. Pilkington perceived a shade. Miss Harden's outlook was not glorious.

By an almost visible recoil from his own blunder he strove to convey an impression of excessive
delicacy.

"Wot very exceptional weather we are enjoying--" Perceiving another and a finer shade (for
evidently Miss Harden was not enjoying the weather, or indeed anything else) Mr. Pilkington
again shifted his ground. He spoke of books. He noticed with approval the arrangement of the
library. He admired the Harden taste in costly bindings, as if he were by no means personally
concerned with any of these things. And thus by a delicate and imperceptible transition, he
slid into his theme.

"Now, as regards this--this sale, Miss Harden. I hope you understand--"

"I understand that you are my father's chief creditor, and that the sale is necessary."

"Quite so. But I'm most awfully sorry for the necessity As for time--I don't want you to feel
that you're pressed or hurried in any way." Mr. Pilkington's eyes gazed up at her under their
great glasses, humid and immense. His lower lip drooped in an uncertain manner. He had a great
deal of nice feeling about him, had Dicky.

"I hope those men aren't making a nuisance of themselves They've had strict orders to keep
in the background I'm orf'ly upset," said Mr. Pilkington in a thick emotional voice, "about
this affair; and I want to consider you, Miss Harden, in every possible way."

"You are very kind. But I would rather you didn't consider me, in any way at all."

As she said this Mr. Rickman looked at her with a grave smile, conveying (behind Mr. Pilkington's
back) an unmistakable warning.

Mr. Pilkington smiled too, a large and fluttering smile as of one indulgent to any little attempt
at brilliance on the part of a young lady under a cloud. Lucia swept him and his smile with
her long and steady gaze, a gaze which made Dicky exceedingly uncomfortable.

"I think if you have any arrangements to make, you had better see my solicitor."

"I have an appointment," said Dicky, not without a certain dignity, "with Mr. Schofield, to-morrow
morning."

"Then I suppose what you want now is to look over the house?"

The question and the gaze were so direct that Dicky (who had meant to amble delicately round
that point for another quarter of an hour) lost his head, dropped his eye-glass, and fairly
let himself go.

"Well, perhaps as I am here, I'd better 'ave a look round. Of course--if--if it's in any way
inconvenient--"

"Not in the least. You can look round at once."

She rang the bell. On her way to it she gathered up some books that were lying out of sight
and laid them on the table.

"These," she said to Rickman, "belong to the library. They must go with the rest."

He looked at them. One was an Aldine Dante, he had seen her reading it. He took Pilkington
aside and said something to him in a tone which Lucia could not hear. Her hand was on the door
when Pilkington sprang forward.

"One moment, Miss Harden. Everything must be sold in the regular way, but if you'll tell me
of any books you've a special fancy for, I'll make a note of them and buy them in for you."
He paused, awaiting the breath of inspiration. It came. "For--for a merely nominal sum."

To do Dicky justice this delicate idea greatly commended itself to his good nature. Business
is business, but not willingly did Dicky inflict pain, least of all upon a young and pretty
woman. Besides he had an eye to his reputation; he was disposed to do this thing handsomely.
Rickman envied him his inspiration, his "merely nominal sum."

"Thank you. The books were not mine," said Lucia in spite of another meaning look from her ally.

"Quite so. But I should disregard that if I were you. Anyhow you can think it over, and if
you change your mind you can let me or Mr Rickman know before the sale."

Lucia looked down at him from her height. "I shall not change my mind. If I want to keep any
of the books, I can buy them from Mr. Rickman."

She turned to Rickman in the doorway. "All the same, it was kind of you to think of it." She
said it very distinctly, so that Mr. Pilkington could hear.

Rickman followed her out of the room and closed the door behind them. She turned on him eyes
positively luminous with trust. It was as if she had abandoned the leading of her intellect
and flung the reins on the neck of her intuition.

"I was right, wasn't I? I would so much rather buy them back from you."

"From my father?"

"It's the same thing, isn't it?"

He smiled sadly. "I'm afraid it isn't, quite. Why didn't you accept his offer?"

"I couldn't." She shuddered slightly. Her face expressed her deep and desperate repugnance.
"I can buy them back from you. He is really arranging with your father, isn't he?"

"Yes." It was the third time that she had appealed from Pilkington to him, and there was a
profound humiliation in the thought that at this precise moment the loathsome Dicky might be
of more solid use to her than he.

"Well then," she said almost triumphantly. "I shall be safe. You will do your best for me."

It was a statement, but he met it as if it had been a question.

"I will indeed."

He saw that it was in identifying his father with him that she left it to their honour.

CHAPTER XXXII

Dicky Pilkington did not belong to the aristocracy of finance. Indeed, finance had not in any
form claimed him at the first.

Under the grey frock-coat and gleaming shirt-front, hidden away behind the unapparent splendours
of Dicky Pilkington's attire (his undermost garments were of woven silk), in a corner of his
young barbarian heart there lurked an obscure veneration for culture and for art. When his
day's work was done, the time that Dicky did not spend in the promenade of the Jubilee Variety
Theatre, he spent in reading Karl Pearson and Robert Louis Stevenson, with his feet on the
fender. He knew the Greek characters. He said he could tell Plato from Aristotle by the look
of the text. Dicky had begun life as a Junior Journalist. But before that, long, long before,
when he was an innocent schoolboy, Dicky had a pair of wings, dear little cherubic wings, that
fluttered uneasily under his little jacket. The wings moulted as Dicky grew older; they shrank
(in the course of his evolution) to mere rudimentary appendages, and poor Dicky flopped instead
of flying. Finally they dropped off and Dicky was much happier without them. Rickman used to
say that if you stripped him you saw the marks of them still quite plainly; and Dicky was always
stripping himself and showing them. They proved to these writing fellows what he might have
been if he had only chosen. He had begun by being a poet like the best of them, and in his
heart of hearts Dicky believed that it was as a poet he should end. His maxim upon this head
was: "When I've feathered my nest it will be time enough for me to sing."

Dicky's nest was not long in feathering, and yet Dicky had not begun to sing. Still, at moments,
after supper, or on a Sunday afternoon, walking in a green lane, Dicky would unbosom himself.
He would tell you touching legends of his boyhood and adolescence. Then he would talk to you
of women. And then he would tell you how it was that he came to forsake literature for finance.

He had begun in a small way by financing little tradesmen, little journalists and actresses
in temporary difficulties; lending small sums to distressed clergymen, to governesses and the
mistresses of boarding-houses. By charging a moderate interest he acquired a character for
fairness and straight-forwardness. Now and then he did what he called a really tip-top generous
thing. "Character," said Dicky Pilkington, "is capital"; and at thirty he had managed to save
enough of it to live on without bothering about earning any more.

Then, by slow degrees, Dicky extended his business. He lent larger sums at correspondingly
higher interest. Then he let himself go. He was caught by the glory of the thing, the poetry
of finance. He soared to all the heights and sounded all the depths of speculation. He took
risks with rapture. He fancied himself lending vast sums at giddy interest. "That," said Dicky
to his conscience, was to "cover his risk." He hadn't forgotten that character is capital.
And when it occurred to him, as it sometimes did, that he was making rather a large hole in
it, he would then achieve some colossal act of generosity which set him on his legs again.
So that Dicky Pilkington was always happy in his conscience as in everything else.

He had been prepared to do the handsome thing by Miss Harden, only her manner had somehow "choked
him off." He could have afforded it, for he considered this Freddy Harden business as his very
largest deal. He held a mortgage on the land, from the river to the top of Harcombe Hill. There
was any amount to be got out of the pictures and the furniture. And the library was not altogether
to be sneezed at. It had been Fred Harden's last desperate resource, (rather poor security
in Dicky's opinion); but if the sum advanced had not been prodigious (compared with the sums
that had gone before it) the interest had been high. So that, in returning from his tour of
inspection, he felt considerably elated.

Rickman, as he went down the High Street that evening, saw Dicky a little way in front of him.
He noticed that the financial agent was an object of considerable interest to the people of
Harmouth. Men stood at shop doors and street corners, women (according to their social standing)
hung out of bedroom windows or hid behind parlour curtains to look after him as he went. Here
and there Rickman caught sullen and indignant glances, derisive words and laughter. Evidently
the spirit of Harmouth was hostile to Dicky. A Harden was a Harden, and Sir Frederick's magnificently
complete disaster had moved even the townspeople, his creditors.

The excitement caused by Dicky concentrated at the windows of the London and Provincial Bank,
where Sir Frederick had had a large balance--overdrawn.

Harmouth High Street is a lane, wide at the top and narrow at the bottom, which gives on to
the esplanade between the Marine Hotel and the Bank. At a certain distance these buildings
cut the view into a thin slip of grey beach and steep blue sea. The form of Dicky was now visible
in the centre of that slip, top-hatted, distinct against the blue. He stood on the edge of
the esplanade as on a railway platform, reading the paper and smoking a cigar. From time to
time, looking up with an expression half visionary, half voluptuous, he puffed and spat in
dreamy rhythmic sequence.

"Coelum, non animam," said Rickman to himself, "they change their skies, but not their habits."
When he came up with him, he found the soul of Pilkington disporting itself in its own airy
element, exchanging ideas with two young damsels who frolicked on the beach below. Backwards
and forwards flew the light-hearted banter, like balls of sea-foam, Mr. Pilkington the inspirer
and the inspired. The after-glow of his last triumphant witticism still illuminated his countenance
when he turned again to the printed page.

Now, owing to its peculiar construction, Harmouth High Street acts as a funnel for the off-shore
breezes; they rush through it as they rush through Windy Gap, that rift in the coast before
which the wary fisherman slackens sail. Just such an air was careering seawards when Mr. Pilkington
was about to perform the difficult feat of folding his paper backwards. It smote one side of
the broadsheet and tore it from his grasp, making it flutter like a sail escaped from the lanyard.
The breeze dropped; it hovered; it waited like the wanton that it was; and when Mr. Pilkington's
free hand made a clutch at the flying columns, it seized that moment to lift his hat from his
head and dash it to the ground. Then the demon of the wind entered into and possessed that
high thing; the hat rolled, it curvetted, it turned brim over crown, it took wings and flew,
low and eager like a cormorant; finally it struck the beach, gathering a frightful impetus
from the shock, and bounded seawards, the pebbles beating from it a thin drum-like note. Never
was any created thing so tortured with indecent merriment in the face of doom. The end seemed
certain, for Dicky Pilkington, though he joined in the hysterics of the crowd, had not compromised
his dignity by pursuit; when, just as the hat touched the foam of perdition, Molly Trick, the
fat bathing woman, interposed the bulwark of her body; she stooped; she spread her wide skirts,
and the maniac leapt into them as into a haven.

The young men who watched this breezy incident over the blinds of the London and Provincial
Bank were immensely diverted. Even Rickman laughed as Dicky turned to him his cheerful face
buffeted by the wind.

Mr. Pilkington had put up at the same hotel as Rickman, and they found themselves alone at
the dinner-table.

"Glori-orious air this," said Mr. Pilkington. "I don't know how you feel, young 'un, but there's
a voice that tells me I shall dine."

Mr. Pilkington was not deceived by that prophetic voice. He dined with appetite undiminished
by his companion's gloom. From time to time he rallied him on his coyness under the fascinations
of beef-steak, lager beer, apricots and Devonshire cream.

"Well, Razors," he said at last, "and wot do you think of the Harden Library?"

Rickman was discreet. "Oh, it isn't bad for a private show. Sir Frederick doesn't seem to have
been much of a collector."

"Wasn't he, though! In his own line he was a pretty considerable collector, quite a what d'you
call 'em--virtuoso."

"Not very much virtue about him, I imagine."

"Well, whatever there may have been, in ten years that joker went through his capital as if
it had been a paper hoop. Slap through it and out at the other side, on his feet, grinning at you."

"How did he manage it?"

"Cards--horses--women--everything you can name," said Dicky, "that's amusing, and at the same
time expensive. They're precious slow down here in the country; but get 'em up to town, and
there's nothing like 'em for going the pace, when they do go it."

"His velocity must have been something tremendous, to judge by the smash." Rickman was looking
at the financial agent with an expression which some people might have been inclined to resent,
but Dicky's gaiety was proof against criticism.

"What did he die of?" Rickman asked slowly.

"What a beastly question to ask at dinner. He died, like most people, of his way of living.
If Freddy Harden had had opportunities equal to his talents he would have smashed up ten years
ago. Talent wasn't the word for it, it was genius--genius."

"I see. And when you come across a poor struggling devil with a gift like that, you long to
be kind to him, don't you? To bring him forward, to remove every obstacle to his career?"

"Well, yes, I suppose I did run Harden for all he was worth. Queer fish, Harden. He used to
rave like a lunatic about his daughter; but I don't suppose he spent a fiver on her in his
life. It's pretty rough on her, this business. But Loocher'll do. She's got cheek enough for
half a dozen." Dicky chuckled at the memory of his discomfiture. "I like it. I like a girl
with some bounce in her. Trust her to fall on her little tootsies anywhere you drop her."

"I can't say you've made the falling very easy for her."

Dicky's bright face clouded. "Wot the devil has that got to do with me? I've done my level
best. Why, I could have cleaned them out years ago, if I'd chosen. Now, just to show you what
sort of fellow Freddy Harden was--last time I ever saw him, poor chap, he told me that girl
of his was a regular musical genius, just a little more technique, you know, and she'd beat
Paderewski into a cocked hat. She was wonderful. That's the way he piled it on, and it may
have been all true; he could have made a fortune, fiddling, if he hadn't been as proud as Satan
and as lazy as a wombat. Well, I said, if that was so, I'd take her up and run her as a pro.--for
friendship, mind you. I liked Freddy, and I was orf'ly sorry for him. She could pay me if she
pulled it off; if not, she could let it stand over till the day of judgement."

Rickman flushed. "Did you know anything of Miss Harden, then?"

"Not I. Never set eyes on her. She might have been as ugly as sin for all I knew. I risked that."

"What did Sir Frederick say to your generous proposal?"

Dicky's face became luminous at the recollection. "He said he'd see me d--d first. But I meant
it. I'd do it to-morrow if she asked me prettily."

"Have you any notion how she'll be left after all this?"

"Yes. There's the house, and her mother's money. Freddy couldn't get at that. When it's all
settled up she can't be so badly off, I fancy. Still it's a beastly back-hander in the face,
poor girl. By Jove, she does stand up to it in form, too. Too d----d well bred to let you know
she's hit. You wouldn't think she'd be plucky, to look at her, would you? It's queer how the
breeding comes out in a woman."

Rickman held himself in with difficulty. When pearls are cast before swine you look for depreciation
as a matter of course; you would be infinitely more revolted if, instead of trampling them
under their feet, the animals insisted on wearing them in their snouts. So Pilkington rootling
in Miss Harden's affairs; Pilkington posing as Miss Harden's adviser; Pilkington adorning his
obscene conversation with Miss Harden's name, was to Rickman an infinitely more abominable
beast than Pilkington behaving according to his nature. But to quarrel with Pilkington on this
head would have provoked the vulgarest of comments, and for Miss Harden's sake he restrained
himself.

Dicky remained unconscious. "I'm glad you put me up to offering some of those books back. It
goes against me to sell them, but what the devil am I to do?"

"I can't tell you."

"I shan't collar all this furniture, either. I'll buy in some of it and return it. The decent
thing would be to give her back poor Freddy's portrait."

He passed his hand over a bunch of bananas,--he selected one, pinched it, smelt it, put it
down and took another.

"It's a pity it's a Watts, that portrait," he murmured dreamily. He seemed to be wrestling
with himself; and apparently he overcame. When he had eaten his banana his face was flushed
and almost firm.

"I'll not take it. He sticks in my throat, does Freddy."

Rickman left the table. If he had disliked Dicky when he was callous, he loathed him when he
was kind.

He threw open the window, and sat on the ledge. The breeze had died down and the heat in the
little hotel was stifling. Across the passage glasses clinked in the bar, sounding a suitable
accompaniment to the voice of Dicky. From time to time bursts of laughter came from the billiard-room
overhead. Outside there, in the night, the sea smothered these jarring human notes with its
own majestic tumult. Rickman, giving up his sickened senses to the night and the sea, was fortunate
enough to miss a great deal that Pilkington was saying.

For Dicky, still seated at the table, talked on. He had mingled soda with whisky, and as he
drank it, the veil of our earthly life lifted for Dicky, and there was revealed to him the
underlying verity, the fabric of the world. In other words, Dicky had arrived at the inspired
moment of the evening, and was chanting the Hymn of Finance.

"Look," said Dicky, "at the Power it gives you. Now all you writing chaps, you know, you're
not in it, you're not in it at all. You're simply 'opping and dodging round the outside--you
'aven't a chance of really seeing the show. Whereas--look at me. I go and take my seat plump
down in the middle of the stage box. I've got my ear to the heart of 'Umanity and my 'and on
its pulse. I've got a grip of realities. You say you want to por-tray life. Very well, por-tray
it. When all's said and done you've only got a picture. And wot's a picture, if it's ever so
lifelike? You 'aven't got a bit nearer to the real thing. I tell you, you aren't in it with
me. I'd have been a writer myself if I'd thought it was good enough. I began that way; but
as to going back to it, you might just as well expect me to go back to kissing a woman's photo
when I can put my arm round her waist."

And Dicky, gracefully descending on the wings of his metaphor, alighted on Miss Poppy Grace.
But to Rickman the figure of Poppy, once an obsession, was now as indistinct as the figure
of Dicky seen through a cloud of tobacco smoke. He was roused by a more direct appeal, and
what seemed to him a violent change of theme.

"Did you notice what rum eyes Miss Harden's got? They haven't taught her how to use 'em, though.
Hi, Ricky! Aren't you going to join us in a drink?"

"No, I'm not." His tone implied that he was not going to join Pilkington in anything.

"You seem a bit cut up on Miss Harden's account."

"If you mean that I think she's been most infernally treated, I do."

"H'm. Well, I will say the wind is not exactly tempered to that shorn lamb. But it's an ill
wind that blows nobody any good. Queer how things are mixed up in this world. You wouldn't
think there was much connexion between Miss Harden and Miss Poppy Grace, would you? Well, wot's
Loocher's loss is Popsie's gain; if that's any consolation."

"I certainly don't see the connexion."

"No? I say, can't you shut the window? That d----d sea makes such a noise I can't hear myself
speak. I was going to say I'd some notion of running Poppy on her own before long. And I think--I
think I can do it out of this haul, before she signs another contract. Of course, we expect
you and your friends to back us."

Dicky's voice came slightly muffled from the depths of his long tumbler.

Rickman turned round. "What did you say about Bacchus?" He had turned in anger, but at the
spectacle presented by Pilkington he laughed aloud in the insolence of his youth.

"Shut that window, can't you? I say, if you can get at any of the papers and give them the tip--"

"Well?" Rickman's hand closed fiercely over the top of a soda-water syphon. Pilkington followed
the movement with an innocent, but by no means unobservant eye.

Only the other day they had been rivals for the favour of Miss Poppy Grace, which seemed to
be very evenly divided between them. If Rickman had her heart, he--Pilkington--held her by
the power of the purse. Jealous he might be, but jealousy counted for little in the great mind
of Pilkington. Human passions were the stuff he worked in. Where they raged highest it was
his to ride on the whirlwind and direct the storm. If in Poppy's case they raged too high,
his position as creditor gave him a tight grip of young Rickman. On the other hand, Rickman
was now a full-fledged Junior Journalist, and Pilkington, amid the wreck of morals and the
crash of creeds, had preserved a simple childlike faith in the omnipotence of the press. So,
if it was madness for Rickman to irritate Pilkington, it was not altogether expedient for Pilkington
to irritate him.

"Look here, Razors," said he, "you needn't go shying any syphons about. There's nothing behind
this show but business. What I do for Miss Grace I do for cold cash. See? Of course, I take
an interest in the girl--"

"Interest at something like a hundred and fifty per cent., I suppose?"

"That's about the figure--With your permission, I'll remove that fizz-gig out of your way--What
do you think of it--my idea, I mean?"

"I think there's a d----d lot more interest than principle in it."

"You young goat! I'm out of it. Honour bright. So if you feel inclined to slog away and boom
the lady, there's no reason why you shouldn't."

"Is there any reason why I should?" inquired Rickman with treacherous severity. So immense
was his calm that Dicky was taken in by it and blundered.

"Well, yes," said he, "in that case, we might consider our little account settled."

"Our little account, Dicky, will be run up on the wrong side of the paper if you don't take care."

"Wot d'you mean?"

"I mean that when you've got a particularly filthy job on hand, it's as well to keep away from
people who are not fond of dirt. At any rate, I advise you not to come too near me."

Dicky for the first time that evening looked uncomfortable. It occurred to Dicky that whisky
and soda was not the very best drink to talk business on.

"I've noticed, Rickman," said he, "that since you've been living down in the country, you don't
seem able to understand a joke."

But Rickman had got his legs on the other side of the window ledge, and as Dicky approached
him he slid down on to the esplanade and slipped into the night.

CHAPTER XXXIII

Hardly knowing how he got there he found himself on the top of Harcombe Hill. His head was
bare and the soles of his thin slippers were cut with the flints of the hillside lane. He had
walked, walked, walked, driven by a fury in his body and a fever in his feet.

His first idea had been to get as far away as possible from his companion. He felt that he
never could be clean again after his contact with Dicky. How had the thing happened? Yesterday
London seemed as far away from Harmouth as Babylon from Arcadia, and Rickman was not more infinitely
removed from Lucia than Lucia was from Poppy; yet here they were, all three tangled together
in Dicky's complicated draw-net. He held them all, Lucia by her honour, Poppy by her vanity,
and him, Rickman, by the lusts and follies of his youth. This was what it had led him to, that
superb triumphal progress of the passions. In language as plain as he could put it, he--he--had
been offered a bribe to advertise Poppy Grace for the benefit of Dicky, who kept her. To advertise
a little painted--he disposed of poor Poppy in a powerful word which would have given her propriety
a fit if it could have heard him. That he himself should ever have been infatuated with Poppy
seemed to him now incredible, monstrous. In the last three weeks he had not only grown sober,
but mature. That youth of his which once seemed immortal, had then ceased to be a part of him.
He had cut himself loose from it and put it behind him with all its miseries and tumults and
pollutions. But he couldn't get rid of it. Like an unclean spirit cast out of him it seemed
to have entered into Dicky as into a convenient herd of swine. And in Dicky's detestable person
it rose up against him and pursued him. For Dicky, though sensual as any swine, was cautious.
Dicky, even with an unclean spirit in him, was not in the least likely to rush violently down
any steep place into the sea and so perish out of his life.

That Dicky should have appeared on his last night here seemed the vilest stroke that fate had
dealt him yet. But Dicky could not follow him up Harcombe Hill.

He looked before him. The lights of Harmouth opened out a thin line to the esplanade, dividing
the sea from the land by fire instead of foam; strewn in the bed of the valley they revealed,
as through some pure and liquid medium, its darkness and its depth. Above them the great flank
of Muttersmoor stretched like the rampart of the night. Night itself was twilight against that
black and tragic line.

And Rickman, standing bareheaded on the hillside, was lifted up out of his immense misery and
unrest. He remembered how this land that he loved so passionately had once refused him the
inspiration that he sought. And now it seemed to him that it could refuse him nothing, that
Nature under cover of the darkness gave up her inmost ultimate secret. And if it be true that
Nature's innermost ultimate secret is known only to the pure, it was a sign of his own cleansing,
this sense of comfort and reconciliation, of unspoiled communion, of profound immeasurable
peace. In that moment his genius seemed to have passed behind veils upon veils of separation,
to possess that tender and tragic beauty, to become one with the soul of the divine illimitable
night.

He was not in the least deceived as to the true source of his inspiration. In all this, if
you went back far enough, his body counted; his body which he had made a house of shame and
hunger and desire, shaken by its own shivering nerves and leaping desperate pulses. But what
of that now? What matter, since that tumult of his blood had set throbbing such subtle, such
infinite vibrations in his soul. That was what counted. He could tell by it the quality and
immensity of his passion, by just that spiritual resonance and response. It was the measure
of Lucia's power to move him, the measure too of his nearness to her no less than of his separation.

She could not take away what she had given; and among his sources of inspiration, of the unique
and unforgettable secret that had passed into him with the night, on Harcombe Hill, as he looked
towards Muttersmoor, she also counted. She would be always there, a part of it, a part of him,
whether she would or no--if that was any consolation.

CHAPTER XXXIV

He had made no empty promise when he assured her that he would do his best; for there was something
that could still be done. He built great hopes on the result of the coming interview with his
father. His idea was to go up to town by the early morning train and talk the whole thing over
as calmly as might be. He would first of all appeal to his father's better feelings; he would
make him see this thing as he saw it, he would rouse in him the spirit of integrity, the spirit
of mercy and pity, the spirit of justice and chivalry and honour.

But if all the arts of persuasion failed to touch him, Rickman Junior had in reserve one powerful
argument against which Rickman Senior would hardly be able to contend. There would no doubt
be inspirations, but as to the main lines of his pleading he was already clear. He felt entirely
confident and light-hearted as he rose at five the next morning to catch that early train.

Rickman Senior was not in the shop when Rickman Junior arrived on the scene. He was in a great
bare room on an upper floor of the second-hand department. He looked more than ever studious
and ascetic, having exchanged his soft felt hat for a velvet skull-cup, and his frock coat
for a thin alpaca. He was attended by a charwoman with scrubbing brush and pail, a boy with
ladder and broom, and a carpenter with foot-rule, note-book and pencil. He moved among them
with his most solemn, most visionary air, the air, not so much of a Wesleyan minister, as of
a priest engaged in some high service of dedication. He was in fact making arrangements for
the reception of no less than fifteen thousand volumes, the collection of the late Sir Joseph
Harden, of Court House, Harmouth. And as he looked around him his face expressed the smooth
and delicately voluptuous satisfaction of the dreamer who has touched his dream.

This look of beatitude faded perceptibly when the message came that Mr. Keith was in the front
shop and wished to see him. Mr. Keith, it appeared, had no time to spare. Isaac had, in fact,
experienced a slight shock at the earliness of Keith's return. His first thought was that at
the last moment there had been some serious hitch with Pilkington. He found Keith sitting before
the counter in the attitude of a rather imperious customer; but the warm pressure of his son's
hand removed this disagreeable effect of superiority. Keith's face wore signs of worry and
agitation that confirmed Isaac's original fear.

"Well," he said a little anxiously, "I didn't expect you back as early as this."

"I haven't come to stop. I've got to catch the twelve-thirty back again. I came up because
I wanted to talk to you."

"Come," said Isaac, "into the office."

He laid his hand on Keith's shoulder as they went. He felt very kindly towards him at that
moment. His heart was big with trust in the brilliant, impetuous boy. When he touched Keith's
hand he had felt that intellectual virtue had gone out of it. He guessed that there was a crisis
in the affairs of the House of Rickman, and that Keith had come with warning and with help.
He knew his power of swift and effectual action in a crisis. Yes, yes; Keith's wits might go
wool-gathering; but he was safe enough when he had gathered his wool.

"Well?" he repeated, lifting grave interrogative eyebrows. He had seated himself; but Keith
remained standing, a sign with him of extreme perturbation.

"I thought I could explain things better if I saw you," he began.

"Quite so; quite so. I hope you haven't come to tell me there's been any 'itch."

"Well, I told you as much when I wrote."

"I understood you advised me to withdraw, because you thought Pilkington wanted a big price."

"I didn't know what he wanted; I knew what we ought to give."

"That was settled by looking in the register. You don't mean to say he's going to back out of it?"

Keith was so preoccupied that he failed to see the drift of his father's questioning. "You
see," he continued, following his own thoughts, "it's not as if we had only ourselves to consider.
There's Miss Harden."

"Ah, yes, Pilkington did make some mention of a young lady."

"She was good enough to say she'd rather we bought the library than anybody. I think we're
bound to justify her confidence."

"Certainly, most certainly, we are," said Isaac with solemnity. He was agreeably flattered
by this tribute to the greatness of his house.

"I thought I did right in promising that we would do our very best for her."

"Of course you were. But that's all settled. Mr. Pilkington knows that I'm prepared to meet
his wishes."

"His wishes?"

"He gave me to understand that he was anxious to have a sum to hand over to the young lady.
In fact, he wrote me a most touching appeal."

"What d----d impertinence! He had no business to appeal!"

"Well, per'aps it wasn't strictly business-like. But I think, under the circumstances, 'e was
morally--morally--justified. And I think he will consider I've responded very handsomely."

"You've made him an offer, then?"

"I made it three days ago, provisionally, and he's accepted it," said Isaac, with some heat.
"Why, he's got the cheque."

"For how much?"

"For twelve hundred."

"My dear father, you know, really, that won't do."

"Do you think it was foolish to pay the two hundred extra?"

Isaac gazed at him over his fine gold-rimmed spectacles; and as he gazed he kept drawing his
beard slowly through one lean and meditative hand. It was thus that he grasped his son's argument
and drew it to a point.

"Foolish? It was--Don't you see? We--we simply can't do it."

"Why, you said yourself we could go as far as four thousand five, or four thousand at the very
least."

Keith looked steadily at his father, who was too deeply and solemnly absorbed to perceive the
meaning of the look. "That was not quite what I said. I said--if we were not prepared to go
so far, it was our duty to withdraw. I thought I had made that clear to you."

"You 'aven't made it clear to me why you're objecting to that two hundred now."

Isaac was beginning to feel that stupidity was now his refuge.

"I'm not objecting to your reckless extravagance, as you seem to think. I'm trying to suggest
that twelve hundred is a ridiculously small offer for a collection which can't be worth less
than four thousand."

"It may be worth that to a collector. It isn't worth it to me."

"It's worth it to any dealer who knows his business."

"Pretty business, if you have to buy at fancy prices and sell at a risk."

"I allowed for the risk in the valuation--I always do. There's one point where you are extravagant,
if you like. What's the use of paying me for advice if you won't take it?"

Isaac's stupidity increased.

"'Ow do you mean--paying you for your advice?"

"Paying a valuer, then, if you won't accept his valuation."

So unwilling was he to admit the sharpness of his father's practice that he tried to persuade
himself that they had merely disagreed on a point of connoisseurship. "My advice, if you remember,
was to withdraw decently, or pay a decent price."

"I've paid my price, and I'm certainly not going to withdraw."

"Well, but I'm afraid, if you won't withdraw, I must. You haven't paid my price, and I can't
be responsible."

Isaac caressed his beard gently, and looked at Keith with a gaze so clear that it might have
passed for pure. He was saying to himself, as he had said once before, "There's a woman in it."

"Don't you see," Keith broke out, "the atrocious position that I'm in? I promised Miss Harden
that we'd do our best for her, and now we're taking advantage of the situation to drive an
iniquitous bargain with her."

As Keith made this powerful statement Isaac smiled, puzzled and indulgent, as at some play
of diverting but incomprehensible humour. In fact, he never could clearly distinguish between
Keith's sense of humour and his sense of honour; both seemed equally removed from the safe,
intelligible methods of ordinary men. He wasn't sure but what there was something fine in it,
something in keeping with the intellectual extravagance that distinguished his son from other
people's sons. There were moments when it amused and interested him, but he did not care to
have it obtruded on him in business hours.

"I'm driving no bargain with the lady at all. The books aren't hers, they're Pilkington's.
I'm dealing with him."

"And you refuse to consider her interests?"

"How can you say so when I'm paying two hundred more than I need do, on her account alone?
You must explain that clearly to her."

"Not I. You can explain it yourself. To me, you see, the whole thing's simply a colossal fraud.
I won't have anything to do with it."

"You 'aven't anything to do with it. I made the bargain, and I keep to it."

"Very well, then, you must choose between your bargain and me."

"Wot do you mean, choose between my bargain and you?"

"I mean exactly what I say. I know (if you don't) that that two hundred ought to be three thousand,
and if it isn't paid I shall have to shunt the business. I never meant to stay in it for ever,
but in this case I shall simply clear out at once, that's all. See?"

"No. I don't see. I don't see myself paying three thousand to a man who's willing to take two
hundred."

"See my point, I mean. If the three thousand isn't paid, I go. On the other hand, if it is
paid, I stay."

This was one of those inspirations on which he had counted, and it presented itself to him
as a "clincher." At the same instant he realized that he was selling himself into slavery for
three thousand pounds. No, not for three thousand pounds, for his honour's sake and Lucia Harden's.

Isaac looked graver, alarmed even; it struck him that Keith's peculiar vein of extravagance
was becoming dangerous.

"You can calculate the interest at four per cent., and knock a hundred and twenty off my salary,
if you like; but I'll stay. It's pretty clear, isn't it? I think, on the whole, it might be
as well for you to close with the offer. It seems to me that if I'm worth anything at all,
I'm worth three thousand."

"I haven't priced your services yet." Isaac's gaze shifted. He was beginning to feel something
of that profound discomfort he had experienced before in the presence of his son. "Now, when
you spoke to Miss 'Arden, had she any notion of the value of the library?"

"None whatever, till I told her."

"Do you mean to stand there and say that you were fool enough to tell her?"

"Certainly; I thought it only fair to her."

"And did you think it was fair to me?"

"Why not? If you're not dealing with her what difference could it make?"

He said to himself, "I've got him there!"

Isaac was indeed staggered by the blow, and lost his admirable composure.

"Do you know wot you've done? You've compromised me. You've compromised the honour and the
reputation of my 'Ouse. And you've done it for a woman. You can't 'ide it; you're a perfect
fool where women are concerned."

"If anybody's compromised, I think it's me. I pledged my word."

"And wot business had you to pledge it?"

"Oh, I thought it safe. I didn't think you'd dishonour my draft on your reputation."

"Draft indeed! That's it. You might just as well 'ave taken my cheque-book out of the drawer
there and forged my signature at the bottom. Why, it's moral forgery--that's wot it is. I can
see it all. You thought you were acting very generous and grand with this young lady. I say
you were mean. You did it on the cheap. You'd no expense, or risk, or responsibility at all.
I know you can't see it that way, but that's 'ow it is."

Keith did not defend himself against this view of his conduct, and Isaac preserved his attitude
of moral superiority.

"I'm not blaming you, my boy. It's my own fault. I shouldn't 'ave sent you out like that, with
cart blansh, so to speak, and without it. I should 'ave given you some responsibility."

"Oh, thanks, I couldn't very well have done with more than I had."

"Ah--you don't know the kind of responsibility I mean. You seem very ready to play fast and
loose with my business. I daresay, now, you think since you 'aven't much to lose, you 'aven't
much to gain?"

"Well, frankly, I can't see that I have--much. But I've got to catch a train in twenty minutes,
and I want to know what you're going to do? Am I worth three thousand, or am I not?"

"You're worth a great deal more to me. You've got an education I 'aven't got; you've got brains;
you've got tact, when you choose to use it. You've got expert knowledge, and I can't carry
on my business without that. I'm not unreasonable. I can see that you can't act to advantage
if you're not made responsible, if you haven't any direct interest in the business." He fixed
his son with a glance that was nothing if not spiritually fine. Keith found himself struggling
against an infamous, an intolerable suspicion.

"And that," said Isaac, "is wot I mean to give you. I've thought it well over, and I believe
it's worth my while." He went on, joining his finger-tips, like a man who fits careful thought
to careful thought, suggesting the final adjustment of a plan long ago determined and approved,
for something in Keith's face made him anxious that this offer should not appear to be born
of the subject under discussion.

"It was always my intention to take you into partnership. I didn't mean to do it quite so soon,
but rather than 'ear this talk of flinging up the business, I'm prepared to do it now."

"On the same conditions?"

Now that Rickman's should eventually become Rickman and Son was a very natural development,
and in any ordinary circumstances Isaac could hardly have made a more innocent and suitable
proposal. But it was no longer possible for Keith to ignore its significance. It meant that
his father was ready to buy his services at any price; to bribe him into silence.

His worst misgivings had never included such a possibility. In fact, before going down to Devonshire
he had never had any serious misgivings at all. His position in his father's shop had hitherto
presented no difficulties to a sensitive honour. He had not been sure that his honour was particularly
sensitive, not more so, he supposed, than other people's. Acting as part of the machinery of
Rickman's, he had sometimes made a clever bargain; he had never, so far as he knew, driven
a hard one. He was expected to make clever bargains, to buy cheap and sell dear, to watch people's
faces, lowering the price by their anxiety to sell, raising it by their eagerness to buy. That
was his stern duty in the second-hand department. But there had been so many occasions on which
he had never done his duty; times when he was tempted to actual defiance of it, when a wistful
calculating look in the eyes of some seedy scholar would knock all the moral fibre out of him,
and a two and sixpenny book would go for ninepence or a shilling. And such was his conception
of loyalty to Rickman's, that he generally paid for these excesses out of his own pocket, so
that conscience was satisfied both ways. Therefore there had been no moral element in his dislike
to Rickman's; he had shrunk from it with the half-fantastic aversion of the mind, not with
this sickening hatred of the soul. After three weeks of Lucia Harden's society, he had perceived
how sordid were the beginnings from which his life had sprung. As his boyish dreams had been
wrought like a broidery of stars on the floor of the back-shop, so honour, an unattainable
ideal, had stood out in forlorn splendour against a darker and a dirtier background. He had
felt himself obscurely tainted and involved. Now he realized, as he had never realized before,
that the foundations of Rickman's were laid in bottomless corruption. It was a House built,
not only on every vile and vulgar art known to trade, but on many instances of such a day's
work as this. And it was into this pit of infamy that his father was blandly inviting him to
descend. He had such an abominably clear vision of it that he writhed and shuddered with shame
and disgust; he could hardly have suffered more if he had gone down into it bodily himself.
He endured in imagination the emotions that his father should have felt and apparently did
not feel.

He came out of his shudderings and writhings unspeakably consoled and clean; knowing that it
is with such nausea and pangs that the soul of honour is born.

Their eyes met; and it was the elder Rickman's turn for bitterness. It had come, the moment
that he had dreaded. He was afraid to meet his son's eyes, for he knew that they had judged
him. He felt that he stood revealed in that sudden illumination of the boy's radiant soul.
An instinct of self-preservation now prompted him to belittle Keith's character. He had found
amazing comfort in the reflection that Keith was not all that he ought to be. As far as Isaac
could make out, he was always running after the women. He was a regular young profligate, an
infidel he was. What right had he to sit in judgement?

Shrewd even in anger, he took refuge in an adroit misconstruction of Keith's language. "I lay
down no conditions. I'm much too anxious about you. I want to see you in a house of your own,
settled down and married to some good girl who'll keep you steady and respectable. It's a simple
straightforward offer, and you take it or leave it."

"I'll take it on two conditions. First, as I said before, that we either withdraw or pay over
that three thousand. Second, that in the future no bargains are made without my knowledge--and
consent. That means giving me the entire control of my own department."

"It means reducing me to a mere cypher."

"Such bargains are questions for experts, and should be left to experts."

"If I were to leave them to experts like you I should be bankrupt in a fortnight."

"I'm sorry, but you must choose between your methods and mine. There's ten minutes to do it in."

"It won't take ten minutes to see what will ruin me quickest. As I told you before, I'm not
going back on my bargain."

"Nor I on mine."

Isaac spent three minutes in reflection. He reflected first, that Keith had been in the past
"a young profligate"; secondly, that he was at the present moment in love; thirdly, that in
the future he would infallibly be hungry. He would think very differently when he had forgotten
the lady; or if he didn't think differently he would behave differently when his belly pinched
him. Isaac was a firm believer in the persuasive power of the primitive appetites.

"Only seven minutes," murmured Keith. "I'm sorry to hurry you, father, but I really must catch
that train."

"Wait--steady. Do you know wot you're about? You shan't do anything rash for want of a clear
understanding. Mind--as you stand there, you're nothing but a paid shop-assistant; and if you
leave the shop, you leave it without a penny to your name."

"Quite so. My name will hardly be any the worse for that. You're sure you've decided? You--really--do
not--want--to keep me?"

After all, did he want to keep him, to be unsettled in his conscience and ruined in his trade?
What, after all, had Keith brought into the business but three alien and terrible spirits,
the spirit of superiority, the spirit of criticism, the spirit of tempestuous youth? He would
be glad to be rid of him, to be rid of those clear young eyes, of the whole brilliant and insurgent
presence. Not that he believed that it would really go. He had a genial vision of the hour
of Keith's humiliation and return, a vivid image of Keith crawling back on that empty belly.

At that moment Keith smiled, a smile that had in it all the sweetness of his youth. It softened
his father's mood, though it could not change it.

"I'm afraid I can't afford to pay your price, my boy."

He was the first to turn away.

And Keith understood too thoroughly to condemn. That was it. His father couldn't pay his price.
The question was, could he afford to pay it himself?

As the great swinging doors closed behind him, he realized that whatever price he had paid
for it, he had redeemed his soul. And he had bought his liberty.

CHAPTER XXXV

Really, as Miss Harden's solicitor pointed out to her in the presence of Miss Palliser, things
looked very black against the young man. It was clear, from the letter Mr. Schofield had received
from Mr. Jewdwine that morning, that the library was worth at least three times the amount
these Rickmans had paid for it. Barring the fact that sale by private contract was irregular
and unsatisfactory, he completely exonerated Mr. Pilkington from all blame in the matter. His
valuation had evidently been made in all good faith, if in some ignorance. But the young man,
who by Pilkington's account had been acting all along as his father's agent, must have been
perfectly aware of the nature of the bargain he had made. There was every reason to suppose
that he had known all about the bill of sale before he came down to Harmouth; and there could
be no doubt he had made use of his very exceptional opportunities to inform himself precisely
of the value of the books he was cataloguing. He must have known that they had been undervalued
by Mr. Pilkington, and seen his chance of buying them for a mere song.

So what does he do? He carefully conceals his knowledge from the persons most concerned; obviously,
that he and his father may keep the market to themselves. Then at the last moment he comes
and pretends to give Miss Harden a chance of forestalling the purchase, knowing well that before
she can take a single step the purchase will be concluded. Then he hurries up to town; and
the next thing you hear is that he's very sorry, but arrangements have unfortunately already
been made with Mr. Pilkington. No doubt, as agent of the sale, that young man would pocket
a very substantial commission. Clearly in the face of the evidence, it was impossible to acquit
him of dishonesty; but no action could be brought against him, because the matter lay entirely
between him and Mr. Pilkington.

Lucia and Kitty had listened attentively to the masterly analysis of Mr. Rickman's motives;
and at the end Kitty admitted that appearances were certainly against him; while Lucia protested
that he was a poet and therefore constitutionally incapable of the peculiar sort of cleverness
imputed to him. The man of law submitted that because he was a poet it did not follow that
he was not an uncommonly knowing young man too. Whereupon Kitty pointed out one or two flaws
in the legal argument. In the first place, urged Kitty, the one thing that this knowing young
man did not know was the amount of security the library represented.

Mr. Schofield smiled in genial forbearance with a lady's ignorance. He must have known, for
such information is always published for the benefit of all whom it may concern.

But Kitty went on triumphantly. There was nothing to prove it, nothing to show that this knowing
young man knew all the facts when he first undertook to work for Miss Harden. So far from concealing
the facts later on, he had, to her certain knowledge, written at once to Mr. Jewdwine advising
him to buy in the library, literally over old Rickman's head. That old Rickman's action had
not followed on young Rickman's visit to town was sufficiently proved by the dates. The letter
to Mr. Pilkington enclosing the cheque for twelve hundred had been written and posted at least
twelve hours before his arrival. What the evidence did prove was that he had moved heaven and
earth to make his father withdraw from his bargain.

Mr. Schofield coldly replied that the better half of Miss Palliser's arguments rested on the
statements of the young man himself, to which he was hardly inclined to attach so much importance
as she did. If his main assertion was correct, that he had written to inform Mr. Jewdwine of
the facts, it was a little odd, to say the least of it, that Mr. Jewdwine made no mention of
having received that letter. And that he had not received it might be fairly inferred from
the discrepancy between young Rickman's exaggerated account of the value and Mr. Jewdwine's
more moderate estimate.

Lucia and Kitty first looked at each other, and then away to opposite corners of the room.
And at that moment Kitty was certain, while Lucia doubted; for Kitty went by the logic of the
evidence and Lucia by the intuition which was one with her desire. Surely it was more likely
that Rickman had never written to Horace than that Horace should have failed her, if he knew?
Meanwhile the cold legal voice went on to shatter the last point in Kitty's defence, observing
that if Rickman had not had time to get up to town before his father wrote to Mr. Pilkington
he had had plenty of time to telegraph. He added that the young man's moral character need
not concern them now. Whatever might be thought of his conduct it was not actionable. And to
the legal mind what was not actionable was irrelevant.

But for Lucia, to whom at the moment material things were unrealities, the burning question
was the honesty or dishonesty of Rickman; for it involved the loyalty or disloyalty, or rather,
the ardour or the indifference of Horace. If Rickman were cleared of the grosser guilt, her
cousin was, on a certain minor count, condemned; and there could be no doubt which of the two
she was the more anxious to acquit.

"I suppose you'll see him if he calls?" asked Kitty when they were alone.

"See who?"

"Mr. Savage Keith Rickman." Even in the midst of their misery Kitty could not forbear a smile.

But for once Lucia was inaccessible to the humour of the name.

"Of course I shall see him," she said gravely.

CHAPTER XXXVI

He called soon after six that evening, coming straight from the station to the house. Miss
Palliser was in the library, but his face as he entered bore such unmistakable signs of emotion
that Kitty in the kindness of her heart withdrew.

He was alone there, as he had been on that evening of his first coming. He looked round at
the place he had loved so well, and knew that he was looking at it now for the last time. At
his feet the long shadow from the bust of Sophocles lay dusk upon the dull crimson; the level
light from the west streamed over the bookshelves, lying softly on brown Russia leather and
milk-white vellum, lighting up the delicate gold of the tooling, glowing in the blood-red splashes
of the lettering pieces; it fell slant-wise on the black chimney piece, chiselling afresh the
Harden motto: Invictus. There was nothing meretricious, nothing flagrantly modern there, as
in that place of books he had just left; its bloom was the bloom of time, the beauty of a world
already passing away. Yet how he had loved it; how he had given himself up to it; how it had
soothed him with its suggestion of immortal things. And now, for this last time, he felt himself
surrounded by intelligences, influences; above the voices of his anguish and his shame he heard
the stately generations calling; they approved; they upheld him in his resolution.

He turned and saw Lucia standing beside him. She had come in unheard, as on that evening which
seemed now so long ago.

She held out her hand. Not to have shaken hands with the poor fellow, would, she felt, have
been to condemn him without a hearing.

He did not see the offered hand, nor yet the chair it signed to him to take. As if he knew
that he was on his trial, he stood rigidly before her. His eyes alone approached her, looking
to hers to see if they condemned him.

Lucia's eyes were strictly non-committal. They, too, seemed to stand still, to wait, wide and
expectant, for his defence. Her attitude was so far judicial that she was not going to help
him by a leading question. She merely relieved the torture of his visible bodily constraint
by inviting him to sit down. He dropped into a chair that stood obliquely by the window, and
screwed himself round in it so as to face her.

"I saw my father this morning," he began. "I went up by the early train."

"I know."

"Then you know by this time that I was a day too late."

"Mr. Pilkington sent me your father's letter."

"What did you think of it?"

The question, so cool, so sudden, so direct, was not what she felt she had a right to expect
from him.

"Well--what did you think of it yourself?"

She looked at him and saw that she had said a cruel thing.

"Can't you imagine what I think of it?"

This again was too sudden; it took her at a disadvantage, compelling her instantly to commit
herself to a theory of innocence or complicity.

"If you can't," said he, "of course there's no more to be said." He said it very simply, as
if he were not in the least offended, and she looked at him again.

No. There was no wounded dignity about him, there was the tragic irremediable misery of a man
condemned unheard. And could that be her doing--Lucia's? She who used to be so kind and just?
Never in all her life had she condemned anybody unheard.

But she had to choose between this man who a month ago was an utter stranger to her, and Horace
who was of her own blood, her own class, her own life. Did she really want Mr. Rickman to be
tainted that Horace might be clean? And she knew he trusted her; he had made his appeal to
the spirit that had once divined him. He might well say, "could she not imagine what he thought
of it?"

"Yes," she said gently, "I think I can. If you had not told me what the library was worth,
of course I should have thought your father very generous in giving as much for it as he has done."

"I did tell you I was anxious he--we--should not buy it; because I knew we couldn't give you
a proper price."

"Yes, you told me. And I wanted you to buy it, because I thought you would do your best for me."

"I know. I know. If it wasn't for that--but that's the horrible part of it."

"Why? You did your best, did you not?"

"Yes. I really thought it would be all right if I went up and saw him. I felt certain he would
see it as I did--"

"Well?"

He answered with painful hesitation. "Well--he didn't see it. My father hasn't very much imagination--he
couldn't realize the thing in the same way, because he wasn't in it as I was. He'd seen nobody
but Pilkington, you see."

Something in her face told him that this line of defence was distasteful to her, that he had
no right to make a personal matter of an abstract question of justice. It was through those
personalities that he had always erred.

"I don't see what that has to do with it," she said.

"He--he thought it was only a question of a bargain between Pilkington and him."

"What you mean is that he wouldn't admit that I came into it at all?"

She saw that she was putting him to the torture. He could not defend himself without exposing
his father; but she meant that he should defend himself, that he should if possible stand clear.

"Yes. He hadn't seen you. He wouldn't go back on his bargain, and I couldn't make him. God
knows I tried hard enough!

"Did you think you could do anything by trying?"

"I thought I could do a good deal. I had a hold on him, you see. I happen to be extremely useful
to him in this branch of his business. I was trained for it; in fact, I'm hopelessly mixed
up with it. Well, he can't do very much without me, and I told him that if he didn't give up
the library I should give him up. It wasn't a nice thing to have to say to your father--"

"And you said it?" Her face expressed both admiration and a certain horror.

"Yes. I told him he must choose between me and his bargain."

"That must have been hard."

"He didn't seem to find it so. Anyhow, he hasn't chosen me."

"I meant hard for you to have to say it."

"I assure you it came uncommonly easy at the moment."

"Don't--don't."

"I'm not going to defend him simply because he happens to be my father. I don't even defend
myself."

"You? You didn't know."

"I knew quite enough. I knew he might cheat you without meaning to. I didn't think he'd do
it so soon or so infamously, but, to tell the truth, I went up to town on purpose to prevent it."

"I know--I know that was what you went for." She seemed to be answering some incessant voice
that accused him, and he perceived that the precipitancy of his action suggested a very different
interpretation. His position was odious enough in all conscience, but as yet it had not occurred
to him that he could be suspected of complicity in the actual fraud.

"Why didn't I do something to prevent it before?"

"But--didn't you?"

"I did everything I could. I wrote to my father--if that's anything; the result, as you see,
was a cheque for the two hundred that should have been three thousand."

"Did it never occur to you to write to anybody else, to Mr. Jewdwine, for instance?"

She brought out the question shrinkingly, as if urged against her will by some intolerable
compulsion, and he judged that this time they had touched what was, for her, a vital point.

"Of course it occurred to me. Haven't you heard from him?"

"I have. But hardly in time for him to do anything."

He reflected. Jewdwine had written; therefore his intentions had been good. But he had delayed
considerably in writing; evidently, then, he had been embarrassed. He had not mentioned that
he had heard from him; and why shouldn't he have mentioned it? Oh, well--after all, why should
he? At the back of his mind there had crawled a wriggling, worm-like suspicion of Jewdwine.
He saw it wriggling and stamped on it instantly.

There were signs of acute anxiety on Miss Harden's face. It was as if she implored him to say
something consoling about Jewdwine, something that would make him pure in her troubled sight.
A light dawned on him.

"Did you write to him?" she asked.

He saw what she wanted him to say, and he said it. "Yes, I wrote. But I suppose I did it too
late, like everything else I've done."

He had told the truth, but not the whole truth, which would have been damaging to Jewdwine.
To deny altogether that he had written would have been a clumsy and unnecessary falsehood,
easily detected. Something more masterly was required of him, and he achieved it without an
instant's hesitation, and with his eyes open to the consequences. He knew that he was deliberately
suppressing the one detail that proved his own innocence. But as their eyes met he saw that
she knew it, too; that she divined him through the web that wrapped him round.

"Well," she said, "if you wrote to Mr. Jewdwine, you did indeed do your best."

The answer, on her part, was no less masterly in its way. He could not help admiring its significant
ambiguity. It was both an act of justice, an assurance of her belief in him, and a superb intimation
of her trust in Horace Jewdwine. And it was not only superb, it was almost humble in that which
it further confessed and implied--her gratitude to him for having made that act of justice
consistent with loyalty to her cousin. How clever of her to pack so many meanings into one
little phrase!

"I did it too late," he said, emphasizing the point which served for Jewdwine's vindication.

"Never mind that. You did it."

"Miss Harden, is it possible that you still believe in me?" The question was wrung from him;
for her belief in him remained incredible.

"Why should it not be possible?"

"Any man of business would tell you that appearances are against me."

"Well, I don't believe in appearances; and I do believe in you. You are not a man of business,
you see."

"Thank goodness, I'm not, now."

"You never were, I think."

"No. And yet, I'm so horribly mixed up with this business, that I can never think of myself
as an honest man again."

She seemed to be considering whether this outburst was genuine or only part of his sublime
pretence.

"And I could never think of you as anything else. I should say, from all I have seen of you,
that you are if anything too honest, too painfully sincere."

("Yes, yes," her heart cried out, "I believe in him, because he didn't tell the truth about
that letter to Horace." She could have loved him for that lie.)

He was now at liberty to part with her on that understanding, leaving her to think him all
that was disinterested and honourable and fine. But he could not do it. Not in the face of
her almost impassioned declaration of belief. At that moment he was ready rather to fall at
her feet in the torture of his shame. And as he looked at her, tears came into his eyes, those
tears that cut through the flesh like knives, that are painful to bring forth and terrible to see.

"I've not been an honest man, though. I've no right to let you believe in me."

Her face was sweeter than ever with its piteous, pathetic smile struggling through the white
eclipse of grief.

"What have you done?"

"It's not what I've done. It's what I didn't do. I told you that I knew the library was going
to be sold. I told you that yesterday, and you naturally thought I only knew it yesterday,
didn't you?"

"Well, yes, but I don't see--"

She paused, and his confession dropped into the silence with an awful weight.

"I knew--all the time."

She leaned back in her chair, the change of bodily posture emphasizing the spiritual recoil.

"All the time, and you never told me?"

"All the time and I never told you. I'd almost forgotten when you offered me that secretaryship,
but I knew it when I let you engage me; I knew it before I came down. I never would have come
if I'd realized what it meant, but when I did know, I stayed all the same."

"What do you think you ought to have done?"

"Of course--I ought to have gone away--since I couldn't be honest and tell you."

"And why" (she said it very gently but with no change in her attitude), "why couldn't you be
honest and tell me?"

"I'm not sure that I'd any right to tell you what I hadn't any right to know. I'm only sure
of one thing--as I did know, I oughtn't to have stayed. But," he reiterated sorrowfully, "I
did stay."

"You stayed to help me."

"Yes; with all my dishonesty I wouldn't have done it if I hadn't made myself believe that.
As it's turned out, I've helped to ruin you."

"Please--please don't. As far as I'm concerned you've nothing to reproach yourself with. Your
position was a very difficult one."

"I ought never to have got into it."

"Still, you did your best."

"My best! You can't say I did what an honourable man would have done; I mean at the beginning."

"No--no. I'm afraid I can't say that."

He did not expect anything but sincerity from her, neither did he desire that her sense of
honour should be less fine than his. But he longed for some word of absolution, some look even
that should reinstate him in his self-esteem; and it seemed to him that there was none.

"You can't think worse of me than I think myself," he said, and turned mournfully away.

She sat suddenly upright, with one hand on the arm of her chair, as if ready to rise and cut
off his retreat.

"Wait," she said. "Have you any idea what you are going to do?"

The question held him within a foot's length of her chair, where the light fell full on his face.

"I only know I'm not going back to the shop."

"You were in earnest, then? It really has come to that?"

"It couldn't very well come to anything else."

She looked up at him gravely, realizing for the first time, through her own sorrow, the precise
nature and the consequences of his action. He had burnt his ships, parted with his means of
livelihood, in a Quixotic endeavour to serve her interests, and redeem his own honour.

"Forgive my asking, but for the present this leaves you stranded?"

"It leaves me free."

She rose. "I know what that means. You won't mind my paying my debts at once, instead of later?"

He stared stupidly, as if her words had stunned him. She was seated at her writing table, and
had begun filling in a cheque before he completely grasped the horrible significance of what
she had said.

"What are you doing?" he asked.

"I'm writing thirty instead of fifteen, because that is what you ought to have asked for in
the beginning. You see I am more business-like now than I was then."

He smiled.

"And do you really suppose I am going to take it?"

He meant his smile to be bitter, but somehow it was not. After all, she was so helpless and
so young.

"Of course you are going to take it."

"I needn't ask what you think of me."

This time the smile was bitterness itself.

"But it's yours--what I owe you. I'm only paying it to-day instead of some other day."

"But you have not got to pay me anything. What do you think you're paying me for?"

"For your work, for the catalogue, of course."

"That infamous catalogue ought never to have been made--not by me at any rate."

"But you made it. You made it for me. I ordered it."

"You ordered it from my father. In ordinary circumstances you would have owed him fifteen pounds.
But even he wouldn't take it now. I think he considers himself quite sufficiently paid."

"You are mixing up two things that are absolutely distinct."

"No. I'm only refusing to be mixed up with them."

"But you are mixed up with them."

He laughed at that shot, as a brave man laughs at a hurt.

"You needn't remind me of that. I meant--any more than I can help; though it may seem to you
that I haven't very much lower to sink."

"Believe me, I don't associate you with this wretched business. I want you to forget it."

"I can't forget it. If I could, it would only be by refusing to degrade myself further in connection
with it."

His words were clumsy and wild as the hasty terrified movements of a naked soul, trying to
gather round it the last rags of decency and honour.

"There is no connection," she added, more gently than ever, seeing how she hurt him. "Don't
you see that it lies between you and me?"

He saw that as she spoke she was curling the cheque into a convenient form for slipping into
his hand in the moment of leave-taking.

"Indeed--indeed you must," she whispered.

He drew back sharply.

"Miss Harden, won't you leave me a shred of self-respect?"

"And what about mine?" said she.

It was too much even for chivalry to bear.

"That's not exactly my affair, is it?"

He hardly realised the full significance of his answer, but he deemed it apt. If, as she had
been so careful to point out to him, her honour and his moved on different planes, how could
her self-respect be his affair?

"It ought to be," she murmured in a tone whose sweetness should have been a salve to any wound.
But he did not perceive its meaning any more than he had perceived his own, being still blinded
by what seemed to him the cruelty and degradation of the final blow.

She had stripped him; then she stabbed.

To hide his shame and his hurt, he turned his face from her and left her. So strangely and
so drunkenly did he go, with such a mist in his eyes, and such anguish and fury in his heart
and brain, that on the threshold of the Harden library he stumbled past Miss Palliser without
seeing her.

She found Lucia standing where he had left her, looking at a little roll of pale green paper
that her fingers curled and uncurled.

"Lucia," she said, "what have you done to him?"

Lucia let the little roll of paper fall from her fingers to the floor.

"I don't know, Kitty. Something horrible, I think."

BOOK III

THE HOUSE OF BONDAGE

CHAPTER XXXVII

Mrs. Downey's boarding-house was the light of Tavistock Place, Bloomsbury. In the brown monotony
of the street it stood out splendid, conspicuous. Its door and half its front were painted
a beautiful, a remarkable pea-green, while its door knob and door-knocker were of polished
brass. Mrs. Downey's boarding-house knew nothing of concealment or disguise. Every evening,
at the hour of seven, through its ground-floor window it offered to the world a scene of stupefying
brilliance. The blinds were up, the curtains half-drawn, revealing the allurements of the interior.

From both sides of the street, the entire length of the dinner-table was visible. Above it,
a handsome gilt gaselier spread out its branches, and on this gaselier as many as three gas-jets
burned furiously at once. In the intense illumination the faces of the boarders could be distinctly
seen. They sat, as it were, transfigured, in a nebulous whorl or glory of yellow light. It
fell on the high collars, the quite remarkably high collars of the young gentlemen, and on
those gay, those positively hilarious blouses which the young ladies at Mrs. Downey's wear.
Beside the water-bottles and tumblers of red glass it lay like a rosy shadow on the cloth.
It gave back their green again to the aspidistras that, rising from a ruche of pink paper,
formed the central ornament of the table. It made a luminous body of Mrs. Downey's face. The
graver values were not sacrificed to this joyous expenditure of gas-light, for the wall-paper
(the design was in chocolate, on a ground of ochre) sustained the note of fundamental melancholy.
At the back of the apartment, immediately behind Mrs. Downey, an immense mahogany sideboard
shone wine-dark in a gorgeous gloom. On the sideboard stood a Family Bible, and on the Family
Bible a tea-urn, a tea-urn that might have been silver. There was design in this arrangement;
but for the Bible the tea-urn would have been obliterated by Mrs. Downey; thus elevated, it
closed, it crowned the vista with a beauty that was final, monumental and supreme.

You had only to glance through those windows to see that Mrs. Downey's combined the splendid
publicity of an hotel with the refinements of a well-appointed home. That it offered, together
with a luxurious table, the society of youthful persons of both sexes. And if everything around
Mrs. Downey was on a liberal scale, so was Mrs. Downey herself. She was expansive in her person,
prodigal in sympathy, exuberant in dress. If she had one eye to the main chance, the other
smiled at you in pure benignity. On her round face was a festal flush, flooding and effacing
the little care-worn lines and wrinkles which appeared on it by day. It wore the colour of
the hour which, evening after evening, renewed for her the great drama and spectacle of the Dinner.

Her table was disposed with a view to scenic effect. It was not by accident that Mrs. Downey
herself was seated at the obscure or sideboard end, and that she gathered round her there the
older and less attractive members of her circle. This arrangement was flattering to them, for
it constituted an order of precedence and they were in the seats of honour. It had also the
further advantage of giving prominence to the young people whose brilliant appearance of an
evening was as good as an advertisement for Mrs. Downey's.

First then, at the top of the table, sat two elderly ladies, dishevelled birds of passage,
guests of a day and a night. Next, on Mrs. Downey's right, came old Miss Bramble, with old
Mr. Partridge opposite on the left. The young gentleman at the extreme bottom or public end
of the table was Mr. Spinks. He was almost blatantly visible from the street. At Mr. Spinks's
side sat Miss Ada Bishop, the young lady in the fascinating pink blouse; and opposite him,
Miss Flossie Walker, in the still more fascinating blue. To the left of Miss Bishop in the
very centre of the table was a middle-aged commercial gentleman, Mr. Soper (not specially conspicuous);
and facing him and on Miss Walker's right came Miss Roots, who might be any age you please
between thirty and forty. Between them at the present moment, there was an empty chair.

Miss Roots was the link between the melancholy decadence above the aspidistras and the glorious
and triumphant youth below. As far as could be inferred with any certainty she had leanings
to the side of youth. Her presence was no restraint upon its glad and frolicsome humour. It
felt that it could trust her. She had never been known to betray any of the secrets that passed
at the risk of their lives from Miss Bishop's side of the table to Miss Walker's. There was
reason to suppose that Miss Roots was aware of the surreptitious manufacture of bread pellets
by Mr. Spinks (Mr. Spinks being the spirit of youth incarnate); but when one of these missiles
struck Miss Roots full in the throat, when it should have just delicately grazed the top of
Miss Flossie's frizzled hair, Miss Roots not only ignored the incident at the time, but never
made the faintest allusion to it afterwards. Therefore Mr. Spinks voted Miss Roots to be a
brick, and a trump, and what he called a real lady.

Very curious and interesting was the behaviour of these people among themselves. It was an
eternal game of chivy or hide-and-seek, each person being by turn the hunter and the hunted.
Mrs. Downey tried to talk to the birds of passage; but the birds of passage would talk to nobody
but each other. Miss Bramble took not the slightest notice of Mr. Partridge. Mr. Partridge
did everything he could to make himself agreeable to Miss Bramble; but she was always looking
away over the aspidistras, towards the young end of the table, with a little air of strained
attention, at once alien and alert. Mr. Spinks spent himself in perpetual endeavours to stimulate
a sense of humour in Miss Walker, who hadn't quite enough of it, with very violent effects
on Miss Bishop, who had it in excess; while Mr. Soper was incessantly trying to catch the eye
of Miss Roots around the aspidistras, an enterprise in which he was but rarely successful;
Miss Walker finally making no attempt to bridge over the space between her chair and Miss Roots.

That empty seat was reserved for Mr. Rickman, who was generally late. On his arrival the blinds
would be pulled down in deference to his wish for a more perfect privacy. Meanwhile they remained
up, so that wandering persons in hansoms, lonely persons having furnished apartments, persons
living expensively in hotels or miserably in other boarding-houses, might look in, and long
to be received into Mrs. Downey's, to enjoy the luxury, the comfort, the society.

The society--Yes; as Mrs. Downey surveyed her table and its guests, her imagination ignored
the base commercial tie; she felt herself to be a social power, having called into existence
an assembly so various, so brilliant, and so gay. One thing only interfered with Mrs. Downey's
happiness, Mr. Rickman's habit of being late. Such a habit would not have mattered so much
in any of the other boarders, because, remarkable as they were collectively, individually,
Mrs. Downey seldom thought of them unless they happened to be there, whereas with Mr. Rickman,
now, whether he was there or not, she could think of nothing else.

And to-night Mr. Rickman was later than ever.

"I'm really beginning to be afraid," said Mrs. Downey, "that he can't be coming."

The middle-aged gentleman, Mr. Soper, was heard muttering something to the effect that he thought
they could bear up if he didn't come. Whereupon Mrs. Downey begged Mr. Soper's pardon in a
manner which was a challenge to him to repeat his last remark. Therefore he repeated it.

"I say, I 'ope we can manage to bear up."

"Speak for yourself, Mr. Soper." (This from Mr. Spinks who adored Rickman.)

"Well, really, I can't think how it is you and he don't seem to hit it off together. A young
fellow that can make himself so pleasant when he likes."

"Ah-h! When he likes. And when he doesn't like? When he comes into the room like a young lord
with his head in the air, and plumps himself down straight in front of you, and looks at you
as if you were a sorter ea'wig or a centerpede? Call that pleasant?"

Mr. Spinks chuckled behind his table napkin. "He means a centre piece. Wouldn't he make a handsome
one!"

Mr. Soper combined a certain stateliness of carriage with a restless insignificance of feature.

"We all know," said Mrs. Downey, "that Mr. Rickman is a very reserved gentleman. He has his
own thoughts."

"Thoughts? I've got my thoughts. But they don't make me disagreeable to everybody."

Mr. Spinks craned forward as far as the height of his collar permitted him. "I wouldn't be
too cock-sure if I were you, Mr. Soper."

The young end of the table heaved and quivered with primeval mirth. Even Flossie Walker was
moved to a faint smile. For Mr. Soper, though outwardly taciturn and morose, was possessed
inwardly by a perfect fury of sociability, an immortal and insatiable craving to converse.
It was an instinct which, if gratified, would have undermined the whole fabric of the Dinner,
being essentially egoistic, destructive and malign. Mr. Soper resented the rapidity with which
Rickman had been accepted by the boarding-house; he himself, after two years' residence, only
maintaining a precarious popularity by little offerings of bon-bons to the ladies. Hence the
bitterness of his present mood.

"There are thoughts and thoughts," said Mrs. Downey severely, for the commercial gentleman
had touched her in a very sensitive place. "And when Mr. Rickman is in wot I call 'is vein,
there's nobody like him for making a dinner go off."

Here Mr. Soper achieved a sardonic, a really sardonic smile. "Oh, of course, if you're eludin'
to the young gentleman's appetite--"

But this was insufferable, it was wounding Mrs. Downey in the tenderest spot of all. The rose
of her face became a peony.

"I'm doing no such thing. If any gentleman wishes to pay me a compliment--" her gay smile took
for granted that no gentleman could be so barbarous as not to feel that wish--"let him show
an appetite. As for the ladies, I wish they had an appetite to show. Mr. Partridge, let me
give you a little more canary pudding. It's as light as light. No? Oh--come, Mr. Partridge."

Mr. Partridge's gesture of refusal was so vast, so expressive, that it amounted to a solemn
personal revelation which implied, not so much that Mr. Partridge rejected canary pudding as
that he renounced pleasure, of which canary pudding was but the symbol and the sign.

"Mr. Spinks then? He'll let me give him another slice, I know."

"You bet. Tell you wot it is, Mrs. Downey, the canary that pudding was made of, must have been
an uncommonly fine bird."

There was a swift step on the pavement, the determined click of a latch-key, and the clang
of a closing door.

"Why, here is Mr. Rickman," said Mrs. Downey, betraying the preoccupation of her soul.

Rickman's entrance produced a certain vibration down both sides of the table, a movement unanimous,
yet discordant, as if the nerves of this social body that was "Mrs. Downey's" were being played
upon every way at once. Each boarder seemed to be preparing for an experience that, whether
agreeable or otherwise, would be disturbing to the last degree. The birds of passage raised
their heads with a faint flutter. Miss Walker contemplated a chromo-lithograph with a dreamy
air. Mr. Soper strove vainly to fix himself in an attitude of dignified detachment.

The boarding-house was about to suffer the tremendous invasion of a foreign element. For a
moment it was united.

Mrs. Downey's face revealed a grave anxiety. She was evidently asking herself: "Was he, or
was he not, in his vein?"

A glance at the object of his adoration decided the question for Mr. Spinks. Rickman was, thank
goodness, not in his vein, in which state he was incomprehensible to anybody but Miss Roots.
He was in that comparatively commonplace condition which rendered him accessible to Mr. Spinks.

"Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce my friend, the lyte Mr. Ryzors. Jemima, show the
deceased gentleman to his chair. Miss Walker, Mr. Ryzors. He is really 'appy to myke your acquaintance,
Miss Walker, though at first sight he may not appear so. Wot you might be apt to mistyke for
coldness is merely 'is intense reserve."

"Oh, dry up, Spinks."

No, Mr. Rickman was certainly not in his vein this evening. He made no apology whatever for
his lateness. He ignored the commercial gentleman's "Good-evening, Rickman." As he slipped
into his place between Miss Walker and Miss Roots he forgot his usual "Busy to-day at the Museum,
Miss Roots?"--a question that recognized her as a fellow worker in the fields of literature,
thus lightening the obscurity that hid her labours there.

And for Miss Flossie's timid greeting (the lifting of her upper lip that just showed two dear
little white teeth) he gave back a reluctant and embarrassed smile. He used to like sitting
by Flossie because she was so pretty and so plump. He used to be sorry for her, because she
worked so hard, and, though plump, was so pathetically anaemic and so shy. Critically considered,
her body, in spite of its plumpness, was a little too small for her head, and her features
were a little too small for her face, but then they were so very correct, as correct as her
demeanour and the way she did her hair. She had clusters and curls and loops and coils of hair,
black as her eyes, which were so black that he couldn't tell the iris from the pupil. Not that
Flossie had ever let him try. And now he had forgotten whether they were black or blue, forgotten
everything about them and her. Flossie might be as correct as Flossie pleased, she simply didn't
matter.

When she saw him smile she turned up her eyes to the chromo-lithograph again. The little clerk
brought with her from the City an air of incorruptible propriety, assumed for purposes of self-protection,
and at variance with her style of hair-dressing and the blueness and gaiety of her blouse.
With all that it implied and took for granted, it used to strike him as pathetic. But now,
he didn't find Flossie in the least pathetic.

He was waiting for the question which was bound to come.

It came from Spinks, and in a form more horrible than any that he had imagined.

"I say, Rickets, wot did you want all those shirts for down in Devonshire?"

Instead of replying Rickets blew his nose, making his pocket-handkerchief conceal as much of
his face as possible. At that moment he caught Miss Bishop staring at him, and if there was
one thing that Mr. Rickman disliked more than another it was being stared at. Particularly
by Miss Bishop. Miss Bishop had red hair, a loose vivacious mouth, and her stare was grossly
interrogative.

Flossie sent out a little winged look at him like a soft dark butterfly. It skimmed and hovered
about him, and flitted, too ethereal to alight.

Miss Bishop however had no scruples, and put it to him point blank.

"Devonshire?" said Miss Bishop, "what were you doing down there?" She planted her elbows on
the table and propped her chin on her finger-tips; her stare thus tilted was partly covered
by her eyelids.

"If you really want," said Mr. Spinks, "to see that gentleman opposite, you'll have to take
a telescope." The adoring youth conceived that it had been given to him alone of the boarders
to penetrate the mind of Rickman, that he was the guardian of his mood, whose mission it was
to protect him from the impertinent approaches of the rest.

"A telescope? Wot d'you mean?"

"Don't you think he's got a sort of a far-away look? Especially about the mouth and nose?"

Whether it was from being stared at or for some other reason, but by this time Mr. Rickman
had certainly become a little distant. He was not getting on well with anybody or anything,
not even with Mrs. Downey's excellent dinner, nor yet with the claret, an extra ordered for
his private drinking, always to Mrs. Downey's secret trepidation. She gave a half-timid, half-tender
look at him and signalled to her ladies to withdraw. She herself remained behind, superintending
the removal of the feast; keeping a motherly eye, too, on the poor boy and his claret. Ever
since that one dreadful Sunday morning when she had found him asleep in full evening dress
upon his bedroom floor, Mrs. Downey was always expecting to see him drop under the table. He
had never done it yet, but there was no knowing when he mightn't.

Whatever the extent of Mr. Rickman's alleged intemperance, his was not the vice of the solitary
drinker, and to-night the claret was nearly all drunk by Spinks and Soper. It had the effect
of waking in the commercial gentleman the demon of sociability that slept.

What Mr. Soper wanted to know was whether Rickman could recommend 'Armouth as a holiday resort?
Could he tell him of any first-class commercial hotel or boarding-house down there? To which
Rickman replied that he really couldn't tell him anything at all.

"Perhaps," said Mrs. Downey, peering over the edge of the table-cloth she was helping to fold.
"Perhaps he has his reasons."

The claret had made Mr. Soper not only sociable but jocose. "Reasons? That's a new name for
'em. If he don't want more than one at a time, I wish he'd introduce the rest of 'em to me."

"I daresay he would be very happy, if he thought you would understand them, Mr. Soper."

"Understand 'em? Why, I don't suppose they talk Greek."

"Ryzors," said Spinks indignantly, "could give 'em points if they did. He speaks the language."

Mr. Soper replied that in that case perhaps Mr. Rickman would oblige him with the Greek for
"crumby bits."

At the moment Mr. Rickman did not look like obliging Mr. Soper with anything. The provocation
was certainly immense. Mr. Soper's voice inspired him with a fury of disgust. The muscles of
his mouth twitched; the blood rushed visibly to his forehead; he stood looming over the table
like a young pink thunder-god.

Mrs. Downey and Mr. Partridge retreated in some alarm. Mr. Soper, however, was one of those
people who are not roused but merely disconcerted by the spectacle of passion. Mr. Soper said
he supposed he could "make a 'armless remark." And still thirsting for companionship he pursued
Mrs. Downey to the drawing-room. As he went, he fingered his little box of bon-bons as if it
had been a talisman or charm.

Rickman poured himself out some claret which he drank slowly, with closed eyelids, leaning
back in his chair. "For God's sake, Spinks," he muttered; "don't speak to me."

"All right, old chappy, I won't." But he whispered, "I wouldn't go off just yet, Ryzors, if
I were you" (by "going off," Mr. Spinks meant departure in a train of thought). "He'll be back
in another minute."

He was back already, sociable, elated, smoking a cigar. Upstairs with the ladies he and his
bon-bons had met with unprecedented success. Rickman opened his eyes.

"Ever try," said Mr. Soper, "a Flor di Dindigul? 'Ave one. You'll find the flavour very delicate
and mild." He held it out, that Flor di Dindigul, as an olive branch to the tempestuous young man.

It was not accepted. It was not even seen.

Rickman rose to his feet. To his irritated vision the opposite wall seemed to heave and bulge
forward, its chocolate design to become distended and to burst, spreading itself in blotches
on the yellow ochre. On the face of the hideous welter swam the face of Mr. Soper, as it were
bodiless and alone.

He drew in his breath with a slight shudder, pushed his chair back from the table, and strode
out of the room.

Spinks looked after him sorrowfully.

"Wy couldn't you leave him alone, Soper? You might see he didn't want to talk."

"How could I see wot he wanted? One minute 'e's as chatty and sociable--and the next he's up
like three dozen of bottled stout. It's wot I sy. You can't dee-pend on 'im with any certainty."

That opinion was secretly shared by Miss Flossie Walker.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

Rickman, it seemed, was doomed to inspire that sense of agonizing uncertainty.

It was the second evening after his return. The Dinner was not going off well. Miss Walker
was depressed, Mr. Spinks was not in his accustomed spirits, and Mrs. Downey had been going
about with red eyes all day. Mr. Rickman had confided to her the deplorable state of his finances.
And Mrs. Downey had said to herself she had known from the first that he would not be permanent.

He didn't want to be permanent. He desired to vanish, to disappear from the boarding-house
and the boarders, and from Poppy Grace on the balcony next door; to get away from every face
and every voice that he had known before he knew Lucia Harden's. Being convinced that he would
never see her again, he wanted to be alone with his vivid and piercing memory of her. At first
it was the pain that pierced. She had taken out her little two-edged sword and stabbed him.
It wouldn't have mattered, he said, if the sword had been a true little sword, but it wasn't;
it had snapt and left a nasty bit of steel inside him. Her last phrase was the touch that finished
him. But the very sting of it created a healthy reaction. By his revolt against that solitary
instance of her cruelty he had recovered his right to dwell upon her kindness. He dwelt upon
it until at times he entered again into possession of the tender, beautiful, dominating dream.
So intense was his hallucination, that as he walked alone in any southerly direction he still
felt Muttersmoor on his right hand and Harcombe on his left, and he had waked in the morning
to the sound of the sea beating upon Harmouth beach.

But these feelings visited him more rarely in the boarding-house than elsewhere. That was why
he wanted to get away from it. The illusion was destroyed by these irrelevant persons of the
dinner-table. Not that he noticed them much; but when he did it was to discover in them some
quality that he had not observed before. He found imbecility in the manners of Spinks, coarseness
and violence in the figures of Mrs. Downey and Miss Bishop, insipidity in the whole person
of Miss Flossie Walker. And now, as he looked round the table, he wondered how it was he ever
came there. After living for four weeks with Lucia Harden or the thought of her, he had a positive
difficulty in recognizing even Spinks and Flossie as people he had once intimately known. Miss
Roots alone, for some inscrutable reason, seemed familiar, in keeping with that divine experience
to which the actual hour did violence. It was almost as if she understood.

A shrewdly sympathetic glance went out from a pair of hazel eyes set in a plain, clever, strenuous
face. Miss Roots was glad, she said, to see him back again. He turned to her with the question
that had never failed to flatter and delight. Was Miss Roots doing anything specially interesting
now? But there was no interest in his tone.

Miss Roots looked up with a smile that would have been gay if it had not been so weary. Yes,
she was collecting material for a book on Antimachus of Colophon. No, not her own book.

(At the mention of Antimachus of Colophon, Mr. Soper folded his arms and frowned with implacable
resentment. Mr. Soper was convinced that these subjects were introduced on purpose to exclude
him from the conversation.)

Miss Roots, like Mr. Rickman, lived apart from the murmur of the boarding-house. She had raised
a barrier of books in a bedroom six feet by nine, behind which she worked obscurely. She had
never been known to converse until Mr. Rickman came. A sort of fluctuating friendship had sprung
up between Mr. Rickman and Miss Roots. He had an odd feeling, half pity, half liking, for this
humble servant of literature, doomed to its labour, ignorant of its delight. And yet Miss Roots
had a heart which went out to the mad-cap journalist, wild with youth and the joy of letters.
And now these things were coming back to her. The sources of intellectual desire had been drying
up with the blood in her cheeks; but when Rickman came they began to flow again. When Rickman
talked as only he could talk, Miss Roots felt a faint fervour, a reminiscent thrill. She preened
her poor little thoughts as if for pairing time, when soul fluttered to soul across the dinner-table.
She knew that, intellectually speaking, she had been assigned to Rickman; for Mrs. Downey held
that just as Mr. Rickman was the first to rouse Miss Roots to conversation, so Miss Roots alone
had the power of drawing him out to the best advantage.

"Indeed?" said Rickman in a voice devoid of all intelligence.

Now if anything could have drawn Mr. Rickman out it was Antimachus of Colophon. Four weeks
ago he would have been more interested in Antimachus than Miss Roots herself, he would have
talked about him by the hour together. So that when he said nothing but "Indeed?" she perceived
that something was the matter with him. But she also perceived that he was anxious to be talked
to, therefore she talked on.

Miss Roots was right; though his mind was unable to take in a word she said to him, he listened,
soothed by the singular refinement of her voice. It was a quality he had not noticed in it
four weeks ago. Suddenly a word flashed out, dividing the evening with a line of light.

"So you've been staying in Harmouth?"

He started noticeably, and looked at her as if he had not heard. Miss Roots seemed unaware
of having said anything specially luminous; she repeated her question with a smile.

"Why?" he asked. "Have you been there?"

"I've not only been there, I was born there."

He looked at her. Miss Roots had always been, to say the least of it, prosaic, and now it was
as if poetry had dropped from her lips, as if she had said, "I too was born in Arcadia."

"I suppose," she said, "you saw that beautiful old house by the river?"

"Which beautiful old house by the river?"

"Court House. You see it from the bridge. You must have noticed it."

"Oh, yes, I know the one you mean."

"Did you happen to see or hear anything of the lady who lives in it? Miss Lucia Harden?"

"I--I must have seen her, but I can't exactly say. Do you know her?"

His words seemed to be torn from him in pieces, shaken by the violent beating of his heart.

"Know her?" said Miss Roots. "I lived five years with her. I taught her."

He looked at her again in wonder, in wonder and a sort of tenderness. For a second his heart
had come to life again and leapt like a lunatic to his lips. Happily his wits were there before
it. He stroked his upper lip, as if brushing away some wild phrase that sat there.

"Then I'm sure," he said, contriving a smile, "that Miss Harden is an exceedingly well educated
lady."

Miss Roots' hazel eyes looked up at him intelligently; but as they met that unnatural smile
of gallantry there was a queer compression of her shrewd and strenuous face. She changed the
subject. He wondered if by any chance she knew; if she corresponded with Miss Harden; if Miss
Harden had mentioned him in the days before her troubles came; if Miss Roots were trying to
test him, to draw him out as she had never drawn him out before. No, it was not in the least
likely that Miss Harden should have mentioned him; if she had, Miss Roots would have said so.
She would never have set a trap for him; she was a kind and straightforward little lady. Her
queer look meant nothing, it was only her way of dealing with a compliment.

The sweat on his forehead witnessed to the hot labour of his thought. He wondered whether anybody
had observed it.

Mr. Soper had, and drew his own conclusions.

"'E's been at it again," said Mr. Soper, with significance. But nobody took any notice of him;
and upstairs in the drawing-room that night his bon-bons failed to charm.

"I suppose you're pleased," said he, approaching his hostess, "now you've got Mr. Rickman back
again?"

A deeper flush than the Dinner could account for was Mrs. Downey's sole reply.

"'is manners 'aven't improved since 'is residence in the country. I met 'im in the City to-day--wy,
we were on the same slab of pavement--and 'e went past and took no more notice of me than if
I'd been the Peabody statue."

"Depend upon it, he was full of something."

"Full of unsociability and conceit. And wot is 'e? Wot is 'e? 'Is father keeps a bookshop."

"A very fine bookshop, too," said Miss Roots. It was the first time that she had ever spoken
of her own accord to Mr. Soper.

"He may have come out lately, but you should have seen the way 'e began, in a dirty little
second 'and shop in the City. A place," said Mr. Soper, "I wouldn't 'ave put my nose into if
I was paid. Crammed full of narsty, mangy, 'Olloway Street rubbish."

"Look here now," said Mr. Spinks, now scarlet with fury, "you needn't throw his business in
his face, for he's chucked it."

"I don't think any the better of him for that."

"Don't you? Well, he won't worry himself into fits about your opinion."

"'Ad he got a new berth then, when he flung up the old one?"

Now one thing Mrs. Downey, with all her indulgence, did not permit, and that was any public
allusion to her boarders' affairs. She might not refuse to discuss them privately with Miss
Bramble or Miss Roots, but that was a very different thing. Therefore she maintained a dignified
silence.

"Well, then, I should like to know 'ow he's going to pay 'is way."

Before the grossness of this insinuation Mrs. Downey abandoned her policy of silence.

"Some day," said Mrs. Downey, "Mr. Rickman will be in a very different position to wot he is
now. You mark my words." (And nobody marked them but little Flossie Walker.)

Two tears rolled down Mrs. Downey's face and mingled with the tartan of her blouse. A murmur
of sympathy went round the room, and Mr. Soper perceived that the rest of the company were
sitting in an atmosphere of emotion from which he was shut out.

"I beg of you, Mr. Soper, that you will let Mr. Rickman be, for once this evening. Living together
as we do, we all ought," said Mrs. Downey, "to respect each other's feelings."

"Ah--feelings. Wot sort of respect does your young gentleman ever show to mine? Takes me up
one day and cuts me dead the next."

"He wouldn't have dreamed of such a thing if he hadn't been worried in his mind. Mr. Rickman,
Mr. Soper, is in trouble."

Mr. Soper was softened. "Is he? Well, really, I'm very sorry to hear it, very sorry, I'm sure."

"My fear is," said Mrs. Downey, controlling her voice with difficulty, "that he may be leaving us."

"If he does, Mrs. Downey, nobody will regret it more than I do."

"Well, I hope it won't come to that."

Mrs. Downey did not consider it politic to add that she was prepared to make any sacrifice
to prevent it. It was as well that Mr. Soper should realize the consequences of an inability
to pay your way. She was not prepared to make any sacrifice for the sake of keeping him.

"But what," said Mrs. Downey to herself, "will the Dinner be without Mr. Rickman?"

The Dinner was, in her imagination, a function, a literary symposium. At the present moment,
if you were to believe Mrs. Downey, no dinner-table in London could show such a gathering of
remarkable people. But to none of these remarkable people did Mrs. Downey feel as she felt
to Mr. Rickman, who was the most remarkable of them all. By her own statement she had enjoyed
exceptional opportunities for studying the ways of genius. There was a room at Mrs. Downey's
which she exhibited with pride as "Mr. Blenkinsop's room." Mr. Blenkinsop was a poet, and Mr.
Rickman had succeeded him. If Mrs. Downey did not immediately recognize Mr. Rickman as a genius
it was because he was so utterly unlike Mr. Blenkinsop. But she had felt from the first that,
as she expressed it, "there was something about him," though what it was she couldn't really
say. Only from the first she had had that feeling in her heart--"He will not be permanent."
The joy she had in his youth and mystery was drenched with the pathos of mutability. Mrs. Downey
rebelled against mutability's decree. "Perhaps," she said, "we might come to some arrangement."

All night long in her bedroom on the ground-floor, Mrs. Downey lay awake considering what arrangement
could be come to. This was but a discreet way of stating her previous determination to make
any sacrifice if only she could keep him. The sacrifice which Mrs. Downey (towards the small
hours of the morning) found herself contemplating amounted to no less than four shillings a
week. Occupying his present bed-sitting room he should remain for twenty-one shillings a week
instead of twenty-five.

Unfortunately, at breakfast the next morning their evil genius prompted Mr. Spinks and Mr.
Soper to display enormous appetites, and Mrs. Downey, to her everlasting shame, was herself
tempted of the devil. A fall of four shillings a week, serious enough in itself, was not to
be contemplated with gentlemen eating their heads off in that fashion. It would have to be
made up in some way, to be taken out of somebody or something. She would--yes, she would take
it out of them all round by taking it out of the Dinner. And yet when it came to the point,
Mrs. Downey's soul recoiled from the immorality of this suggestion. There rose before her,
as in a vision, the Dinner of the future, solid in essentials but docked of its splendour,
its character and its pride. No; that must not be. What the Dinner was now it must remain as
long as there were eight boarders to eat it. If Mrs. Downey made any sacrifice she must make
it pure.

"On the condition," said Mrs. Downey by way of putting a business-like face on it, "on the
condition of his permanence."

But it seemed that twenty-one shillings were more than Mr. Rickman could afford to pay.

Mrs. Downey spent another restless night, and again towards the small hours of the morning
she decided on a plan. After breakfast she watched Mr. Soper out of the dining-room, closed
the door behind him with offensive and elaborate precaution, and approached Mr. Rickman secretly.
If he would promise not to tell the other gentlemen, she would let him have the third floor
back for eighteen shillings.

Mr. Rickman stood by the door like one in great haste to be gone. He could not afford eighteen
shillings either. He would stay where he was on the old terms for a fortnight, at the end of
which time, he said firmly, he would be obliged to go. Mr. Rickman's blue eyes were dark and
profound with the pathos of recent illness and suffering, so that he appeared to be touched
by Mrs. Downey's kindness. But he wasn't touched by it; no, not the least bit in the world.
His heart inside him was like a great lump of dried leather. Mrs. Downey looked at him, sighed,
and said no more. Things were more serious with him than she had supposed.

Things were very serious indeed.

His absence at Harmouth had entailed consequences that he had not foreseen. During those four
weeks, owing to the perturbation of his mind and the incessant demands on his time, he had
written nothing. True, while he was away his poems had found a publisher; but he had nothing
to expect from them; it would be lucky if they paid their expenses. On his return to town he
found that his place on The Planet had been filled up. At the most he could only reckon on
placing now and then, at infrequent intervals, an article or a poem. The places would be few,
for from the crowd of popular magazines he was excluded by the very nature of his genius. To
make matters worse, he owed about thirty pounds to Dicky Pilkington. The sum of two guineas,
which The Museion owed him for his sonnet, would, if he accepted Mrs. Downey's last offer,
keep him for exactly two weeks. And afterwards? Afterwards, of course, he would have to borrow
another ten pounds from Dicky, hire some den at a few shillings a week, and try his luck for
as many months as his money held out. Then there would be another "afterwards," but that need
not concern him now.

The only thing that concerned him was the occult tie between him and Miss Roots. Up to the
day fixed for his departure he was drawn by an irresistible fascination to Miss Roots. His
manner to her became marked by an extreme gentleness and sympathy. Of course it was impossible
to believe that it was Miss Roots who lit the intellectual flame that burnt in Lucia. Enough
to know that she had sat with her in the library and in the room where she made music; that
she had walked with her in the old green garden, and on Harcombe Hill and Muttersmoor. Enough
to sit beside Miss Roots and know that all the time her heart was where his was, and that if
he were to speak of these things she would kindle and understand. But he did not speak of them;
for from the way Miss Roots had referred to Lucia Harden and to Court House, it was evident
that she knew nothing of what had happened to them, and he did not feel equal to telling her.
Lucia's pain was so great a part of his pain that as yet he could not touch it. But though
he never openly approached the subject of Harmouth, he was for ever skirting it, keeping it
in sight.

He came very near to it one evening, when, finding himself alone with Miss Roots in the back
drawing-room, he asked her how long it was since she had been in Devonshire. It seemed that
it was no longer ago than last year. Only last year? It was still warm then, the link between
her and the woman whom he loved. He found himself looking at Miss Roots, scanning the lines
of her plain face as if it held for him some new and wonderful significance. For him that faced
flamed transfigured as in the moment when she had first spoken of Lucia. The thin lips which
had seemed to him so utterly unattractive had touched Lucia's, and were baptized into her freshness
and her charm; her eyes had looked into Lucia's and carried something of their light. In her
presence he drifted into a sort of mysticism peculiar to lovers, seeing the hand of a holy
destiny in the chance that had seated him beside her. Though her shrewdness might divine his
secret he felt that with her it would be safe.

As for his other companions of the dinner-table he was obliged to admit that they displayed
an admirable delicacy. After Mrs. Downey's revelation not one of them had asked him what he
had been doing those four weeks. Spinks had a theory, which he kept to himself. Old Rickets
had been having a high old time. He had eloped with a barmaid or an opera girl. For those four
weeks, he had no doubt, Rickets had been gloriously, ruinously, on the loose. Mrs. Downey's
speculations had taken the same turn. Mr. Rickman's extraordinary request that all his clean
linen should be forwarded to him at once had set her mind working; it suggested a young man
living in luxury beyond his means. Mrs. Downey's fancy kindled and blushed by turns as it followed
him into a glorious or disreputable unknown. Whatever the adventures of those four weeks she
felt that they were responsible for his awful state of impecuniosity. And yet she desired to
keep him. "There is something about him," said Mrs. Downey to Miss Roots, and paused searching
for the illuminating word; "something that goes to your heart without 'is knowing it."

She had found it, the nameless, ineluctable charm.

And so for those last days the Dinner became a high funereal ceremony, increasing in valedictory
splendour that proclaimed unmistakably, "Mr. Rickman is going."

In a neighbouring street he had found a room, cheap and passably clean, and (failing a financial
miracle worked on his behalf) he would move into it to-morrow. He was going, now that he would
have given anything to stay.

In the dining-room after dinner, Spinks with a dejected countenance, sat guarding for the last
time the sacred silence of Rickman. They had finished their coffee, when the door that let
out the maid with empty cups let in Miss Bishop, Miss Bramble and Miss Walker.

First came Miss Bishop; she advanced in a side-long and embarrassed manner, giggling, and her
face for once was as red as her hair. She carried a little wooden box which with an unaccustomed
shyness she asked him to accept. The sliding lid disclosed a dozen cedar pencils side by side,
their points all ready sharpened, also a card with the inscription: "Mr. Rickman, with best
wishes from Ada Bishop." At one corner was a date suggesting that the gift marked an epoch;
at the other the letters P.T.O. The reverse displayed this legend, "If you ever want any typing
done, I'll always do it for you at 6d. a thou. Only don't let on. Yours, A.B." Now Miss Bishop's
usual charge was, as he knew, a shilling per thousand.

"Gentlemen," said she, explaining away her modest offering, "always like anything that saves
them trouble." At this point, Miss Bishop, torn by a supreme giggle, vanished violently from
the scene.

Mr. Rickman smiled sadly, but his heart remained as before. He had not loved Miss Bishop.

Next came Miss Bramble with her gift mysteriously concealed in silver paper. "All brain-workers,"
said Miss Bramble, "suffered from cold feet." So she had just knitted him a pair of socks--"bed-socks"
(in a whisper), "that would help to keep him warm." Her poor old eyes were scarlet, not so
much from knitting the bed-socks, as from contemplating the terrible possibility of his needing
them.

Under Mr. Rickman's waistcoat there was the least little ghost of a quiver. He had not loved
Miss Bramble; but Miss Bramble had loved him. She had loved him because he was young, and because
he had sometimes repeated to her the little dinner-table jests that she was too deaf to hear.

Last of the three, very grave and demure, came Flossie, and she, like her friend, carried her
gift uncovered. She proffered it with her most becoming air of correctness and propriety. It
was a cabinet photograph of herself in her best attitude, her best mood and her best blue blouse.
It was framed beautifully and appropriately in white silk, embroidered with blue forget-me-nots
by Flossie's clever hands. She had sat up half the night to finish it. He took it gently from
her and looked at it for what seemed to Flossie an excessively long time. He was trying to
think of something particularly pretty and suitable to say. In his absorption he did not notice
that he was alone with her, that as Flossie advanced Spinks and Soper had withdrawn.

"I don't know whether you'll care for it," said she. She was standing very close beside him,
and her face under the gas-light looked pale and tender.

"Of course I'll care for it." He laid her gift on the table beside the others and stood contemplating
them. She saw him smile. He was smiling at the bed-socks.

"You are all much too good to me, you know."

"Oh, Mr. Rickman, you've been so awfully good to me."

He looked round a little anxiously and perceived that they were alone.

"No, Flossie," he said, "I've not been good to anyone, I'm not very good to myself. All the
same, I'm not an utter brute; I shan't forget you."

Flossie's eyes had followed, almost jealously, the movement of his hand in putting down her
gift; and they had rested there, fixed on her own portrait, and veiled by their large white
lids. She now raised them suddenly, and over their black profundity there moved a curious golden
glitter that flashed full on his face.

"You didn't remember me, much, last time you went away."

"I didn't remember anybody, Flossie; I had too much to think of."

It struck him that this was the first time she had looked him full in the face; but it did
not strike him that it was also the first time that he had found himself alone in a room with
her, though they had been together many times out of doors and in crowded theatres and concert
halls. Her look conveyed some accusation that he at first failed to understand. And then there
came into his mind the promise he had made to her at Easter, to take her to the play, the promise
broken without apology or explanation. So she still resented it, did she? Poor little Flossie,
she was so plump and pretty, and she had been so dependent on him for the small pleasures of
her life.

"You're always thinking," said Flossie, and laughed.

"I'm sorry, Flossie; it's a disgusting habit, I own. I'll make up for it some day. We'll do
a lot of theatres and--and things together, when my ship comes in."

"Thank you, Mr. Rickman," said she with a return to her old demeanour. "And now I suppose I'd
better say good-night?"

She turned. They said good-night. He sprang to open, the door for her. As she went through
it, his heart, if it did not go with her, was touched, most palpably, unmistakably touched
at seeing her go. He had not loved Flossie; but he might have loved her.

Mr. Soper, who had been waiting all the while on the stairs, walked in through the open door.
He closed it secretly.

He laid his hand affectionately on Rickman's shoulder. "Rickman," he said solemnly, "while
I 'ave the opportunity, I want to speak to you. If it should 'appen that a fiver would be useful
to you, don't you hesitate to come to me."

"Oh, Soper, thanks most awfully. Really, no, I couldn't think of it."

"But I mean it. I really do. So don't you 'esitate; and there needn't be any hurry about repayment.
That," said Mr. Soper, "is quite immaterial." Failing to extract from Rickman any distinct
promise, he withdrew; but not before he had pressed upon his immediate acceptance a box of
his favourites, the Flor di Dindigul.

By this time Rickman's heart was exceedingly uncomfortable inside him. He had hated Soper.

He thought it was all over, and he was glad to escape from these really very trying interviews
to the quiet of his own room. There he found Spinks sitting on his bed waiting for him. Spinks
had come to lay before him an offering and a scheme. The offering was no less than two dozen
of gents' best all-wool knitted hose, double-toed and heeled. The scheme was for enabling Rickman
thenceforward to purchase all manner of retail haberdashery at wholesale prices by the simple
method of impersonating Spinks. At least in the long-run it amounted to that, and Rickman had
some difficulty in persuading Spinks that his scheme, though in the last degree glorious and
romantic, was, from an ethical point of view, not strictly feasible.

"What a rum joker you are, Rickman. I never thought of that. I wonder--" (He mused in an unconscious
endeavour to restore the moral balance between him and Rickman). "I wonder who'll put you to
bed, old chappy, when you're tight."

"Don't fret, Spinky. I'm almost afraid that I shall never be tight again in this world."

"Oh, Gosh," said Spinks, and sighed profoundly. Then, with a slight recovery, "do you mean
you won't be able to afford it?"

"You can put it that way, if you like."

In time Spinks left him and Rickman was alone. Just as he was wondering whether or no he would
pack his books up before turning in, there was a soft rap at his door. He said, "Come in" to
the rap; and to himself he said, "Who next?"

It was Mrs. Downey; she glanced round the room, looked at Flossie's photograph with disapproval,
and removed, not without severity, Miss Bramble's bed-socks from a chair. She had brought no
gift; but she sat down heavily like a woman who has carried a burden about with her all day,
and can carry it no farther. Her features were almost obliterated with emotion and glazed with
tears that she made no effort to remove.

"Mr. Rickman," she said, "do you reelly wish to go, or do you not?"

He looked up surprised. "My dear Mrs. Downey, I don't; believe me. Did I ever say I did?"

Her face grew brighter and rounder till the very glaze on it made it shine like a great red
sun. "Well, we'd all been wondering, and some of us said one thing, and some another, and I
didn't know what to think. But if you want to stay perhaps--we can come to some arrangement."
It was the consecrated phrase.

He shook his head.

"Come, I've been thinking it over. You won't be paying less than five shillings a week for
your empty room, perhaps more?"

He would, he said, be paying six shillings.

"There now! And that, with your food, makes sixteen shillings at the very least."

"Well--it depends upon the food."

"I should think it did depend upon it." Mrs. Downey's face literally blazed with triumph. She
said to herself, "I was right. Mr. Spinks said he'd take it out of his clothes. Miss Bramble
said he'd take it out of his fire. I said he'd take it out of his dinner."

"Now," she continued, "if you didn't mind moving into the front attic--it's a good attic--for
a time, I could let you 'ave that, and board you, for fifteen shillings a week, or for fourteen,
I could, and welcome. As I seldom let that attic, it would be money in the pocket to me."

"Come," she went on, well pleased. "I know all about it. Why, Mr. Blenkinsop, when he first
started to write, he lived up there six months at a time. He had his ups, you may say, and
his downs. One year in the attic and the next on the second floor, having his meals separate
and his own apartments. Then up he'd go again quite cheerful, as regularly as the bills came
round." Here Mrs. Downey entered at some length upon the history of the splendour and misery
of Mr. Blenkinsop. "And that, I suppose," said Mrs. Downey, "is what it is to be a poet."

"In fact," said Rickman relating the incident afterwards to Miss Roots, "talk to Mrs. Downey
of the Attic Bee and she will thoroughly understand the allusion."

After about half an hour's conversation she left him without having received any clear and
definite acceptance of her proposal. That did not prevent her from announcing to the drawing-room
that Mr. Rickman was not going after all.

At the hour of the last post a letter was pushed under his door. It was from Horace Jewdwine,
asking him to dine with him at Hampstead the next evening. Nothing more, nothing less; but
the sight of the signature made his brain reel for a second. He stood staring at it. From the
adjoining room came sounds made by Spinks, dancing a jig of joy which brought up Mr. Soper
raging from the floor below.

Jewdwine? Why, he had made up his mind that after the affair of the Harden library, Jewdwine
most certainly would have nothing more to do with him.

Jewdwine was another link. And at that thought his heart heaved and became alive again.

CHAPTER XXXIX

In the act of death, as in everything else that he had ever done, Sir Frederick Harden had
hit on the most inappropriate, the most inconvenient moment--the moment, that is to say, when
Horace Jewdwine had been appointed editor of The Museion, when every minute of his day was
taken up with forming his staff and thoroughly reorganizing the business of his paper. It was,
besides, the long-desired moment, for which all his years at Oxford had been a training and
a consecration; it was that supreme, that nuptial moment in which an ambitious man embraces
for the first time his Opportunity.

The news of Lucia's trouble found him, as it were, in the ardours and preoccupations of the
honeymoon.

It was characteristic of Jewdwine that in this courting of Opportunity there had been no violent
pursuit, no dishevelment, no seizing by the hair. He had hung back, rather; he had waited,
till he had given himself value, till Opportunity had come to him, with delicate and ceremonious
approach. Still, his head had swum a little at her coming, so that in the contemplation of
his golden bride he had for the time being lost sight of Lucia.

As for marrying his cousin, that was a question with which for the present he felt he really
could not deal. No doubt it would crop up again later on to worry him.

Meanwhile he gave to Lucia every minute that he could spare from the allurements of his golden
bride. For more than a fortnight her affairs had been weighing on him like a nightmare. But
only like a nightmare, a thing that troubled him chiefly in the watches of the night, leaving
his waking thoughts free to go about the business of the day, a thing against which he felt
that it was impossible to contend. For Lucia's affairs had the vagueness, the confusion of
a nightmare. Details no doubt there were; but they had disappeared in the immensity of the
general effect. Being powerless to deal with them himself, he had sent down his own solicitor
to assist in disentangling them. But as the full meaning of the disaster sank into him he realized
with the cold pang of disappointment that their marriage must now be indefinitely postponed.

To be sure, what had as yet passed between them hardly amounted to an understanding. All Jewdwine's
understandings had been with himself. But the very fact that he was not prepared to act on
such an understanding made him feel as responsible as if it actually existed. Being conscious
of something rather more than cousinly tenderness in the past, he really could not be sure
that he was not already irretrievably committed. Not that Lucia's manner had ever taken anything
of the sort for granted. He had nothing to fear from her. But he had much (he told himself)
to fear from his own conscience and his honour.

All this was the result of deliberate reflection. In the beginning of the trouble, at the first
news of his uncle's death, his sympathy with Lucia had been free from any sordid anxiety for
the future which he then conceived to be inseparably bound up with his own. Rickman's letter
was the first intimation that anything had gone wrong. It was a shock none the less severe
because it was not altogether a surprise. It was just like his uncle Frederick to raise money
on the Harden Library. The shock lay in Rickman's assumption that he, Jewdwine, was prepared,
instantly, at ten days' notice, to redeem it. It was what he would have liked to have done;
what, if he had been a rich man, he infallibly would have done; what even now, with his limited
resources, he might do if it were not for the risk. Rickman had assured him that there was
no risk, had implied almost that it was an opportunity, a splendid investment for his money.
He could see for himself that it was his chance of doing the beautiful thing for Lucia. Looking
back upon it all afterwards, long afterwards, he found consolation in the thought that his
first, or nearly his first, impulse had been generous.

At first, too, he had not given a thought to Rickman except as the medium, the unauthorized
and somewhat curious medium, of a very startling communication. Enough that he was expected
to produce at ten days' notice a sum which might be anything you pleased over one thousand
two hundred pounds. It was not until he realized that he was seriously invited to contend with
Rickman's in a private bid for the Harden library that he began to criticize Rickman's movement
in the matter. Everything depended on Rickman's estimate of the risk, and Rickman was not infallible.
In denying Rickman's infallibility he had not as yet committed himself to any harsh judgement
of his friend. His first really unpleasant reflection was that Rickman's information was unsatisfactory,
because vague; his next that Rickman was giving him precious little time for deliberation.
He was excessively annoyed with Rickman upon both these heads, but chiefly upon the latter.
He was being hurried; he might almost say that pressure was being put on him. And why?

It was at this point he found himself drawn into that dangerous line, the attributing of motives.

He perceived in Rickman's suggestion a readiness, an eagerness to stand back and, as it were,
pass on the Harden library. Rickman was a sharp fellow; he knew pretty well what he was about.
Jewdwine's mind went back to the dawn of their acquaintance, and to a certain Florio Montaigne.
Rickman had got the better of him over that Florio Montaigne. Hitherto, whenever Jewdwine had
thought of that little transaction he had smiled in spite of himself; he really could not help
admiring the smartness of a young man who had worsted him in a bargain. Jewdwine was a terror
to all the second-hand booksellers in London and Oxford; he would waste so much of their good
time in cheapening a book that it was hardly worth their while to sell it to him at double
the price originally asked. The idea that he had paid five shillings for a book that he should
have got for four and six would keep Jewdwine awake at night. And now his thought advanced
by rapid steps in the direction unfavourable to Rickman. Rickman had driven a clever bargain
over that Florio Montaigne; Rickman had cheated him, yes, cheated him infamously, over that
Florio Montaigne. You could see a great deal through a very small hole, and a man who would
cheat you over a Florio Montaigne would cheat you over a whole library if he got the chance.
Not that there was any cheating in the second-hand book-trade; it was each man for himself
and the Lord for us all.

The question was, what was young Rickman driving at? And what was he, Jewdwine, being let in
for now? He found himself unable to accept Rickman's alleged motive in all its grand simplicity.
It was too simple and too grand to be entirely probable. If young Rickman was not infallible,
he was an expert in his trade. He was not likely to be grossly mistaken in his valuation. If
the Harden library would be worth four or five thousand pounds to Jewdwine it would be worth
as much or more to Rickman's. Young Rickman being merely old Rickman's assistant, he could
hardly be acting without his father's knowledge. If young Rickman honestly thought that the
library was worth that sum, it was not likely that they would let the prize slip out of their
hands. The thing was not in human nature.

The more he thought of it the more he was convinced that it was a put-up job. He strongly suspected
that young Rickman, in the rashness of his youth, had proceeded farther than he cared to own,
that Rickman's found themselves let in for a bad bargain, and were anxious to get out of it.
Young Rickman had no doubt discovered that the great Harden library was not the prize they
had always imagined it to be. Jewdwine remembered that there was no record, no proper catalogue,
or if there ever had been, it had been mislaid or lost. He had a vision (unconsciously exaggerated)
of the inconceivable disorder of the place when he had last visited it; and as he recalled
those great gaps on the shelves it struck him that the library had been gutted. His uncle Frederick
had not been altogether the fool he seemed to be; nothing was more likely than that he knew
perfectly well the value of the volumes that were the unique glory of the collection, and had
long ago turned them into ready money. The rest would be comparatively worthless.

He read Rickman's letter over again and had a moment of compunction. It seemed a very simple
and straightforward letter. But then, Rickman was a very clever fellow, he had the gift of
expression; and there was that Florio Montaigne. He wouldn't have suspected him if only his
record had been pure.

So instead of committing himself by writing to Rickman, he had sent his solicitor down to look
into these matters. A day or two later, in reply to his further inquiries his solicitor assured
him that there could be no doubt that the library was intact.

To Jewdwine in his present state of mind this information was upsetting. It not only compelled
him to modify his opinion of Rickman after having formed it, but it threw him back on the agony
and responsibility of decision. On the last morning of the term allowed him for reflection
he received that hurried note from Rickman, who had flung all his emotions into one agonized
line, "For God's sake wire me what you mean to do." The young poet, so careful of his prose
style, had not perceived that what he had written was blank verse of the purest; which to Jewdwine
in itself sufficiently revealed the disorder of his mind.

That cri de coeur rang in Jewdwine's brain for the next twenty-four hours. Then at the last
moment he came forward with an offer of one thousand three hundred. The next day he heard from
Lucia (what indeed he feared) that he had stepped in too late. The library was sold, to Isaac
Rickman.

His dominant emotion was now anger; he was furious with Rickman for not having given him more
time. He forgot his own delay, his fears and vacillations; he felt that he would have done
this thing if he had only had more time. He had no doubt that Rickman had meant honestly by
him; but he had blundered; he could and he should have given him more time. But gradually,
as the certainty of his own generosity grew on him, his indignation cooled. Reinstated in his
self-esteem he could afford to do justice to Rickman. What was more, now that the danger was
over he saw his risk more clearly than ever. He had a vision of his brilliant future clouded
by a debt of one thousand three hundred pounds impetuously raised on the unknown, of the Harden
library hung like a mill-stone round his neck. He had no doubt that Rickman, in the very ardour
of his honesty, had greatly exaggerated its value. And as he surveyed the probable consequences
of his own superb impulse, he was almost grateful to Rickman for not having given him time
to make a fool of himself. Thanks to Rickman, he had now all the credit of that reckless offer
without the risk.

A week later he had a long letter from Lucia. She thanked him with much warmth and affection
for his generosity; it was evident that it had touched her deeply. She assured him (as she
had assured him before) that she needed no help. The library had sold for twelve hundred pounds,
and two hundred had been handed over to her. Mr. Pilkington was afraid that no further sum
would be forthcoming from the sale of the pictures and furniture, which had been valued over
rather than under their present market price, and represented the bulk of the security. Still,
she hoped to sell Court House; it could not bring in less than five thousand. That and a small
part of her capital would pay off all remaining debts. It was a wearisome business; but Horace
would be glad to hear that she would come out of it not owing a farthing to anybody, and would
still have enough to live on.

Yes. Jewdwine had his pride. He was glad that his disreputable uncle's affairs had not landed
him in the Bankruptcy Court after all; but he had a movement of indignation on Lucia's account
and of admiration for Lucia.

No more of herself or her affairs; the rest was concerned with Rickman and his. "My dear Horace,"
she wrote, "we must do something for this poor little friend of yours. You were quite right
about him. He is a genius; but fortunately, or perhaps unfortunately, for himself, he is so
much else besides. To think that he of all people should be entangled in our miserable business!
He has got badly hurt, too. First of all, it preyed on his mind till he worried himself into
a nervous fever. Kitty Palliser, who saw him, said he was nearly off his head. It seems he
considered his honour implicated. As it happens he has behaved splendidly. He did everything
in his power to prevent our losing the library, or at any rate to keep it out of his father's
hands; and the mere fact that he failed doesn't lessen our obligation. He has simply ruined
his own prospects in the attempt. Do you know, he tried to force his father to withdraw by
threatening to leave their business if he didn't; and he had to keep his word. The horrible
thing is that I actually owe him money--money which he won't take. He had been working hard
for three weeks on a catalogue for me, and is insulted at the bare suggestion of payment. And
here he is--absolutely stranded; in debt, I believe, and without a farthing. What in the world
am I to do?"

"Poor Lucy!" thought Jewdwine, "as if she hadn't enough to bear without having Rickman on her
shoulders."

"It seems to me that as he has done all this for us, we ought to stand by him. If you could
do anything for him--couldn't you help him with some introductions? Or, better still, give
him work, at any rate till he has found his feet? I'm sure you can count on his devotion--"

"Dear Lucy, she might be recommending me a valet."

"Do do something for him, and you will oblige me more than I can say."

That letter of Lucia's gave Jewdwine much matter for reflection and some pain. He had winced
at the sale of Court House; it struck him as a personal blow. He had had a kind of tacit understanding
with himself that, in that future which he had meant to share with Lucia, Court House would
be the home of his retirement. Still, it must go. He had to live in town, and if at the moment
he could have afforded to marry a penniless Lucia he could not have afforded two establishments.

As for the redemption of the Harden library he realized with a sharp pang that risk there had
been none. He saw that what young Rickman had offered him was a unique and splendid opportunity,
the opportunity of doing a beautiful thing for Lucia, and that without the smallest inconvenience
to himself. And this opportunity had been missed. Just because he could not make up his mind
about Rickman, could not see what Lucia had always seen, what he too saw now, that positively
luminous sincerity of his. He saw it even now reluctantly--though he could never veer round
again to his absurd theory of Rickman's dishonesty. He would have liked, if he could, to regard
him as a culpable bungler; but even this consoling view was closed to him by Lucia. It was
plain from her account that Rickman's task had been beyond human power. Jewdwine, therefore,
was forced to the painful conclusion that for this loss to himself and Lucia he had nothing
to blame but his own vacillation.

As for Rickman--

Lucia had taken a great deal of pains with that part of her subject, for she was determined
to do justice to it. She was aware that it was open to her to take the ordinary practical view
of Rickman as a culpable blunderer, who, by holding his tongue when he should have spoken,
had involved her in the loss of much valuable property. To an ordinary practical woman the
fact that this blunder had entailed such serious consequences to herself would have made any
other theory impossible. But Lucia was not a woman who could be depended on for any ordinary
practical view. Mere material issues could never confuse her estimate of spiritual values.
To her, Rickman's conduct in that instance was a flaw in honour, and as such she had already
sufficiently judged it. The significant thing was that he too should have so judged it; that
he should have been capable of such profound suffering in the thought of it.

And now, somehow, it didn't seem to her to count.

It simply disappeared in her final pure and luminous view of Rickman's character. What really
counted was the alertness of his whole attitude to honour, his readiness to follow the voice
of his own ultimate vision, to repudiate the unclean thing revealed in its uncleanness; above
all, what counted was his passionate sincerity. With her unerring instinct of selection Lucia
had again seized on the essential. The triumph of Rickman's greater qualities appealed to her
as a spectacle; it was not spoiled for her by the reflection that she personally had been more
affected by his failure. If she showed her insight into Rickman's character by admitting the
relative insignificance of that failure, she showed an equal insight into Jewdwine's by suppressing
all mention of it now. For Horace would have regarded it as essential. It would have loomed
large in his view by reason of its material consequences. Allowing for Horace's view she kept
her portrait truer by omitting it.

And Jewdwine accepted her portrait as the true one. It appealed irresistibly to his artistic
sense. He was by profession a connoisseur of things beautifully done. Rickman's behaviour,
as described by Lucia, revived his earlier amused admiration for his young disciple. It was
so like him. In its spontaneity, its unexpectedness, its--its colossal impertinence, it was
pure Rickman.

Lucia had achieved a masterpiece of appreciation.

But what helped him in his almost joyous re-discovery of his Rickman was his perception that
here (in doing justice to Rickman) lay his chance of rehabilitating himself. If he could not
buy back the Harden library, he could at any rate redeem his own character. He did not hold
himself responsible for Lucia's father's debts, but he was willing, not to say glad, to take
up Lucia's. It was certainly most improper that she should be under any obligation to Rickman.
In any case, Rickman's action concerned Lucia's family as much as Lucia; that is to say, it
was his (Jewdwine's) affair. And personally he disliked indebtedness.

Another man might have handed Rickman a cheque for fifty pounds (the price of the catalogue
raisonné) and washed his hands of him. But Jewdwine was incapable of that grossness.

He gave the matter a fortnight's delicate consideration. At the end of that time he had made
up his mind not only to invite Rickman to contribute regularly to The Museion (a thing he would
have done in any case) but to offer him, temporarily, the sub-editorship. Rash as this resolution
seemed, Jewdwine had fenced himself carefully from any risk. The arrangement was not to be
considered permanent until Rickman had proved himself both capable and steady--if then. In
giving him any work at all on The Museion Jewdwine felt that he was stretching a point. It
was a somewhat liberal rendering of his editorial programme.

The Museion was the one solitary literary journal that had the courage to profess openly a
philosophy of criticism. Its philosophy might be obsolete, it might be fantastic, it might
be altogether wrong; the point was that it was there. Its presence was a protest against the
spirit of anarchy in the world of letters. The paper had lost influence lately owing to a certain
rigidity in the methods of its late editor, also to an increasing dulness in its style. It
was suffering, like all old things, from the unequal competition with insurgent youth. The
proprietors were almost relieved when the death of its editor provided them with a suitable
opportunity for giving it over into the hands of younger men. "We want new blood," said the
proprietors. The difficulty was how to combine new blood with the old spirit, and Horace Jewdwine
solved their problem, presenting the remarkable combination of an old head upon comparatively
young shoulders. He was responsible, authoritative, inspired by a high and noble seriousness.
He had taken his Aristotle with a high and noble seriousness; and in the same spirit he had
approached his Kant, his Hegel and his Schopenhauer in succession. He was equipped with the
most beautiful metaphysical theory of Art, and had himself written certain Prolegomena to Æsthetics.

Metaphysics had preyed on Jewdwine like a flame. He was consumed with a passion for unity.
The unity which Nature only strives after, blindly, furiously, ineffectually; the unity barely
reached by the serene and luminous processes of Thought--the artist achieves it with one stroke.
In him, by the twin acts of vision and creation, the worlds of Nature and the Idea are made
one. He leaps at a bound into the very heart of the Absolute. He alone can be said to have
attained, and (this was the point which Jewdwine insisted on) attained only by the sacrifice
of his individuality.

Thus Jewdwine in his Prolegomena to Æsthetics.

As that work could be regarded only as a brutal and terrific challenge to the intellect, the
safer course was to praise it, and it was unanimously praised. Nobody was able to understand
a word of it except the last chapter on "Individualism in Modern Art." But as criticism wisely
concentrated itself on this the only comprehensible portion of the book, Jewdwine (who otherwise
would have perished in his own profundity) actually achieved some journalistic notoriety as
a dealer in piquant paradox and vigorous personalities.

Jewdwine was ambitious. On the strength of his Prolegomena he had come up from Oxford with
a remarkable reputation, which he had every inducement to cherish and to guard. He was therefore
the best possible editor for such a review as The Museion, and such a review as The Museion
was the best possible instrument of his ambition.

His aim was to preserve the tradition of the paper as pure as on the day when it was given
into his hands.

He was a little doubtful as to how far young Rickman would lend himself to that.

However, as the fruit of Jewdwine's meditations, Rickman received a note inviting him to dine
with the editor alone, at Hampstead. Jewdwine, whose health required pure air, had settled
very comfortably in that high suburb. And, as his marriage seemed likely to remain long a matter
for dubious reflection, he had arranged that his sister Edith should keep house for him. In
inviting Rickman to dine at Hampstead his intention was distinctly friendly; at the same time
he was careful to fix an evening when Miss Jewdwine would not be there. He was willing to help
Rickman in every possible way short of introducing him to the ladies of his family.

But before dinner was ended he had to admit that this precaution was excessive. Rickman (barring
certain dreadful possibilities of speech) was really by no means unpresentable. He was attired
with perfect sanity. His methods at the dinner table, if at all unusual, erred on the side
of restraint rather than of extravagance; he gave indications of a certain curious personal
refinement; and in the matter of wine he was almost incredibly abstemious. It was the first
time that Jewdwine had come to close quarters with his disciple, and with some surprise he
saw himself going through the experience without a shock. Either he had been mistaken in Rickman,
or Rickman had improved. Shy he still was, but he had lost much of his old ungovernable nervousness,
and gave Jewdwine the impression of an immense reserve. He seemed to have entered into some
ennobling possession which raised him above the region of small confusions and excitements.
His eye, when Jewdwine caught it, no longer struggled to escape; but it seemed to be held less
by him than by its own controlling inner vision.

Jewdwine watched him narrowly. It never entered into his head that what he was watching was
the effect of three weeks' intercourse with Lucia Harden. He attributed it to Rickman's deliverance
from the shop. To be sure Rickman did not strike him as particularly happy, but this again
he accounted for by the depressing state of his finances.

Neither of them made the most distant allusion to Lucia. Jewdwine was not aware of the extent
of Rickman's acquaintance with his cousin, neither could he well have conceived it. And for
Rickman it was not yet possible either to speak or to hear of Lucia without pain.

It was not until dinner was over, and Rickman was no longer eating Jewdwine's food, that they
ventured on the unpleasant topic that lay before them, conspicuous, though untouched. Jewdwine
felt that, as it was impossible to ignore what had passed between them since they had last
met, the only thing was to refer to it as casually as might be.

"By the way, Rickman," he said when they were alone in his study, "you were quite right about
that library. I only wish you could have let me know a little sooner."

"I wish I had," said Rickman, and his tone implied that he appreciated the painfulness of the
subject.

There was a pause which Rickman broke by congratulating Jewdwine on his appointment. This he
did with a very pretty diffidence and modesty, which smoothed over the awkwardness of the transition,
if indeed it did not convey an adroit suggestion of the insignificance of all other affairs.
The editor, still observing his unconscious candidate, was very favourably impressed. He laid
before him the views and aims of The Museion.

Yes; he thought it had a future before it. He was going to make it the organ of philosophic
criticism, as opposed to the mere personal view. It would, therefore, be unique. Yes; certainly
it would also be unpopular. Heaven forbid that anything he was concerned in should be popular.
It was sufficient that it should be impartial and incorruptible. Its tone was to be sober and
scholarly, but militant. Rickman gathered that its staff were to be so many knights-errant
defending the virtue of the English Language. No loose slip-shod journalistic phrase would
be permitted in its columns. Its articles, besides being well reasoned, would be examples of
the purity it preached. It was to set its face sternly against Democracy, Commercialism and
Decadence.

The disciple caught fire from the master's enthusiasm; he approved, aspired, exulted. His heart
was big with belief in Jewdwine and his work. Being innocent himself of any sordid taint, he
admired above all things what he called his friend's intellectual chastity. Jewdwine felt the
truth of what Lucia had told him. He could count absolutely on Rickman's devotion. He arrived
by well-constructed stages at the offer of the sub-editorship.

Rickman looked up with a curious uncomprehending stare. When he clearly understood the proposal
that was being made to him, he flushed deeply and showed unmistakable signs of agitation.

"Do you think," said Jewdwine discreetly, "you'd care to try it for a time?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," said Rickman thoughtfully.

"Well, it's only an experiment. I'm not offering you anything permanent."

"Of course, that makes all the difference."

"It does; if it isn't good enough--"

"You don't understand me. That's what would make it all right."

"Make what all right?"

"My accepting--if you really only want a stop-gap."

"I see," said Jewdwine to himself, "the youth has tasted liberty, and he objects to being caught
and caged."

"The question is," said Rickman, sinking into thought again, "whether you really want me."

"My dear fellow, why on earth should I say so if I didn't?"

"N--no. Only I thought, after the mess I've made of things, that none of your family would
ever care to have anything to do with me again." It was the nearest he had come to mentioning
Lucia Harden, and the pain it cost him was visible on his face.

"My family," said Jewdwine with a stiff smile, "will not have anything to do with you. It has
nothing to do with The Museion.

"In that case, I don't see why I shouldn't try it, if I can be of any use to you." From the
calmness of his manner you would have supposed that salaried appointments hung on every lamp-post,
ready to drop into the mouths of impecunious young men of letters.

"Thanks. Then we'll consider that settled for the present."

Impossible to suppose that Rickman was not properly grateful. Still, instead of thanking Jewdwine,
he had made Jewdwine thank him. And he had done it quite unconsciously, without any lapse from
his habitual sincerity, or the least change in his becoming attitude of modesty. Jewdwine considered
that what Maddox had qualified as Rickman's colossal cheek was simply his colossal ignorance;
not to say his insanely perverted view of the value of salaried appointments.

"Oh," said he, "I shall want you as a contributor, too. I don't know how you'll work in with
the rest, but we shall see. I won't have any but picked men. The review has always stood high;
but I want it to stand higher. It isn't a commercial speculation. There's no question of making
it pay. It must keep up its independence whether it can afford it or not. We've been almost
living on Vaughan's advertisements. All the same, I mean to slaughter those new men he's got
hold of."

Rickman admired this reckless policy. It did not occur to him at the moment that Jewdwine was
reader to a rival publisher.

"What," he said, "all of them at once?"

"No--We shall work them off weekly, one at a time."

Rickman laughed. "One at a time? Then you allow them the merit of individuality?"

"It isn't a merit; it's a vice, the vice of the age. It shrieks; it ramps. Individuality means
slow disease in ethics and politics, but it's sudden death to art. When will you young men
learn that art is self-restraint, not self-expansion?"

"Self expansion--it seems an innocent impulse."

"If it were an impulse--but it isn't. It's a pose. A cold, conscious, systematic pose. So deadly
artificial; and so futile, if they did but know. After all, the individual is born, not made."

"I believe you!"

"Yes; but he isn't born nowadays. He belongs to the ages of inspired innocence and inspired
energy. We are not inspired; we are not energetic; we are not innocent. We're deliberate and
languid and corrupt. And we can't reproduce by our vile mechanical process what only exists
by the grace of nature and of God. Look at the modern individual--for all their cant and rant,
is there a more contemptible object on the face of this earth? Don't talk to me of individuality."

"It's given us one or two artists--"

"Artists? Yes, artists by the million; and no Art. To produce Art, the artist's individuality
must conform to the Absolute."

Jewdwine in ninety-two was a man of enormous utterances and noble truths. With him all artistic
achievements stood or fell according to the canons of the Prolegomena to Æsthetics. Therefore
in ninety-two his conversation was not what you would call diverting. Yet it made you giddy;
his ideas kept on circulating round and round the same icy, invisible pole. Rickman, in describing
the interview afterwards, said he thought he had caught a cold in the head talking to Jewdwine;
his intellect seemed to be sitting in a thorough draught.

"And if the artist has a non-conforming devil in him? If he's the sort of genius who can't
and won't conform? Strikes me the poor old Absolute's got to climb down."

"If he's a genius--he generally isn't--he'll know that he'll express himself best by conforming.
He isn't lost by it, but enlarged. Look at Greek art. There," said Jewdwine, a rapt and visionary
air passing over his usually apathetic face, "the individual, the artist, is always subdued
to the universal, the absolute beauty."

"And in modern art, I take it, the universal absolute beauty is subdued to the individual.
That seems only fair. What you've got to reckon with is the man himself."

"Who wants the man himself? We want the thing itself--the reality, the pure object of art.
Do any of your new men understand that?"

"We want it--some of us."

"Do you understand it?"

"Not I. Do you understand it yourself? Would you know it if you met it in the street?"

"It never is in the street."

"How do you know? You can't say where it is or what it is. You can't say anything about it
at all. But while you're all trying to find out, the most unlikely person suddenly gets up
and produces it. And he can't tell you where he got it. Though, if you ask him, ten to one
he'll tell you he's been sitting on it all the time."

"Well," said Jewdwine, "tell me when you've 'sat on' anything yourself."

"I will." He rose to go, being anxious to avoid the suspicion of having pushed that question
to a personal issue. It was only in reply to more searching inquiries that he mentioned (on
the doorstep) that a book of his was coming out in the autumn.

"What, Helen?"

"No. Saturnalia and--a lot of things you haven't seen yet." It was a rapid nervous communication,
made in the moment of withdrawing his hand from Jewdwine's.

"Who's your publisher?" called out Jewdwine.

Rickman laughed as the night received him. "Vaughan!" he shouted from the garden gate.

"Now, what on earth," said Jewdwine, "could have been his motive for not consulting me?" He
had not got the clue to the hesitation and secrecy of the young man's behaviour. He did not
know that there were three things which Rickman desired at any cost to keep pure--his genius,
his friendship for Horace Jewdwine, and his love for Lucia Harden.

CHAPTER XL

The end of May found Rickman still at Mrs. Downey's, established on the second floor in a glory
that exceeded the glory of Mr. Blenkinsop. He had now not only a bedroom, but a study, furnished
with a simplicity that had the effect of luxury, and lined from floor to ceiling with his books.
Mrs. Downey had agreed that Mr. Rickman should, whenever the mysterious fancy took him, have
his meals served to him in his own apartment after the high manner of Mr. Blenkinsop; and it
was under protest that she accepted any compensation for the break thus made in the triumphal
order of the Dinner.

Here then at last, he was absolutely alone and free. Feeling perhaps how nearly it had lost
him, or impressed by the sudden change in his position, the boarding-house revered this privacy
of Rickman's as a sacred thing. Not even Mr. Soper would have dared to violate his virgin leisure.
The charm of it was unbroken, it was even heightened by the inaudible presence of Miss Roots
in her den on the same floor. Miss Roots indeed was the tie that bound him to Mrs. Downey's;
otherwise the dream of his affluence would have been chambers in Westminster or the Temple.
For his income, in its leap from zero to a fluctuating two hundred a year, appeared to him
as boundless affluence. To be sure, Jewdwine had expressly stated that it would not be permanent,
but this he had understood to be merely a delicate way of referring to his former imperfect
record of sobriety. And he had become rich not only in money but in time. Rickman's had demanded
an eight or even a ten hours' day; the office of The Museion claimed him but five hours of
four days in the week. From five o'clock on Thursday evening till eleven on Monday morning,
whatever work remained for him to do could be done in his own time and his own temper.

Much of the leisure time at his disposal he spent in endeavouring to follow the Harden library
in its dispersion. He attended the great auctions in the hope of intercepting some treasure
in its passage from Rickman's to the home of the collector. Once, in his father's absence,
he bought a dozen volumes straight over the counter from his successor there. It was also about
this time that Spinks and Soper appeared in the new character of book fanciers, buying according
to Rickman's instructions and selling to him on commission, a transaction which filled these
gentlemen with superb importance. Thus Rickman became possessed of about twenty or thirty volumes
which he ranged behind a curtain, on a shelf apart. The collection, formed gradually, included
nothing of any intrinsic value; such as it was he treasured it with a view to restoring it
ultimately to Lucia Harden. He was considering whether with the means at his disposal he could
procure a certain Aldine Dante of his memory, when the Harden library disappeared from the
market as suddenly and mysteriously as it had come. No volume belonging to it could be bought
for love or money; and none were displayed in the windows of Rickman's. Keith learnt nothing
by his inquiries beyond the extent of his estrangement from his father. When he called at the
shop his successor regretted that he was unable to give him any information. When he visited
the suburban villa Isaac refused to see him. When he wrote Isaac never answered the letters.
His stepmother in an unpleasant interview gave him to understand that the separation was final
and complete.

He would have been more hurt by this rupture but for that other and abiding pain. The thought
of Lucia Harden checked his enjoyment in the prospect of a now unimpeded career. Rickman was
like some young athlete who walks on to the field stripped and strong for the race, but invisibly
handicapped, having had the heart knocked out of him by some shameful incident outside the
course. Apart from his own disgrace he was miserably anxious about Lucia herself, about her
health, her happiness, her prospects; his misery being by no means lightened by his perception
that these things were not exactly his concern.

He tried to picture her living as poor ladies live; he had seen them sometimes at Mrs. Downey's.
He could not see her there, or rather, seeing her he could see nothing else; he perceived that
surroundings and material accessories contributed nothing to his idea of her. Still, he knew
nothing; and he had to accept his ignorance as part, and the worst part, of the separation
that was his punishment. Many mixed feelings, shame and passion, delicacy and pride restrained
him from asking Jewdwine any question. Even if Jewdwine had not told him as much, he would
have known that his acquaintance with Jewdwine's affairs would not involve acquaintance with
Jewdwine's family. He had absolutely nothing to hope for from that connection.

And yet he hoped. The probabilities were that if Lucia did not make her home with her cousins,
she would at any rate stay with them the greater part of the year. He was always walking up
to Hampstead Heath on the chance of some day seeing her there. Sometimes he would pass by the
front of Jewdwine's beautiful old brown house, and glance quickly through the delicate iron
gate and up at the windows. But she was never there. Sometimes he would sit for hours on one
of the seats under the elm tree at the back. There was a high walk there overlooking the West
Heath and shaded by the elms and by Jewdwine's garden wall. The wall had a door in it that
might some day open and let out the thing he longed for. Only it never did. There was nothing
to hope for from Jewdwine's house.

At last his longing became intolerable, and one day, in the office, he made up his mind to
approach Jewdwine himself. He had been telling him about the apparent check in the career of
the Harden library, when he saw his opportunity and took it.

"By the way, can you tell me where your cousin is now?"

"Miss Harden," said Jewdwine coldly, "is in Germany with Miss Palliser." He added, as if he
evidently felt that some explanation was necessary (not on Rickman's account, but on his own),
"She was to have come to us, but we were obliged to give her up to Miss Palliser, who is living
alone."

"Alone?"

"Yes. Mrs. Palliser is dead."

Rickman turned abruptly away to the window and stared into the street below. Jewdwine from
his seat by the table looked after him thoughtfully. He would have given a good deal to know
what was implied in the sudden turning of Rickman's back. What on earth did it matter to Rickman
if old Mrs. Palliser was dead or alive? What could he be thinking of?

He was thinking of Kitty who had shown him kindness, of Kitty and the pleasant jests with which
she used to cover his embarrassment; of Kitty who had understood him at the last. It was impossible
not to feel some grief for the grief of Lucia's friend; but he had no business to show it.
Therefore he had turned away.

And then he thought of Lucia; and in his heart he cursed that other business which was his
and yet not his; he cursed the making of the catalogue; he cursed the great Harden Library
which had brought them together and divided them. But for that, his genius, a thing apart,
might have claimed her friendship for itself. As it was, his genius, being after all bound
up with his person which suffered and was ashamed, had (as far as Lucia was concerned) to accept
its humiliation and dismissal.

And all the time his genius, already vigorous enough in all conscience, throve on his suffering
as it had thriven on his joy. In that summer of ninety-two, Rickman's Saturnalia were followed
by On Harcombe Hill and The Four Winds, and that greatest poem of his lyric period, The Song
of Confession. Upon the young poet about town there had descended, as it were out of heaven,
a power hitherto undreamed of and undivined. No rapture of the body was ever so winged and
flamed, or lost itself in such heights and depths of music, as that cry of the passion of his soul.

CHAPTER XLI

Meanwhile, of a Sunday evening, Miss Poppy Grace wondered why Ricky-ticky never by any chance
appeared upon his balcony. At last, coming home about ten o'clock from one of his walks to
Hampstead, he found Poppy leaning out over her balcony most unmistakably on the look-out.

"Come in and have some supper," said she.

"No thanks, I fancy it's a little late."

"Better late than never, when it's supper with me. Catch!" And Poppy, in defiance of all propriety,
tossed her latch-key over the balcony. And somehow that latch-key had to be returned. He did
not use it, but rang, with the intention of handing it to the servant; an intention divined
and frustrated by Poppy, who opened the door to him herself.

"Don't go away," she said, "I've got something to tell you."

"Not now, I think--"

Her eyes were hideous to him in their great rings of paint and bistre.

"Why ever not? It'll only tyke a minute. Come in; there's nobody up there that matters."

And because he had no desire to be brutal or uncivil, he went up into the room he knew so well.
It being summer, the folding doors were thrown wide open, and in the room beyond they came
upon a large lady in a dirty tea-gown, eating lobster. For Poppy, now that she saw respectability
departing from her, held out to it a pathetic little hand, and the tea-gown, pending an engagement
as heavy matron on the provincial stage, was glad enough to play Propriety in Miss Grace's
drawing-room. To-night Poppy made short work of Propriety. She waited with admirable patience
while the large lady (whom she addressed affectionately as Tiny) followed up the last thin
trail of mayonnaise; but when Tiny showed a disposition to toy with the intricacies of an empty
claw, Poppy protested.

"Hurry up and clear out, there's a dear. I want to give Rickets his supper, and we haven't
got a minute to spare."

And Tiny, who seemed to know her business, hurried up and cleared out.

But Rickets didn't want any supper, and Poppy was visibly abstracted and depressed. She mingled
whipped cream with minute fragments of lobster, and finally fell to torturing a sandwich with
a spoon; and all with an immense affectation of not having a minute to spare.

"Well, Ryzors," she said at last (and her accent jarred him horribly), "this is very strynge
behyviour."

"Which?"

"Which? Do you know you haven't been near me for two months?"

He laughed uneasily. "I couldn't be near you when I was away."

"Never said you could. But what did you go away for?"

"Business."

"Too busy to write, I suppose?"

"Much too busy."

She rose, and with one hand on his shoulder steered him into the front room.

"Sit down," she said. "And don't look so sulky. I want to talk to you sensibly."

He sat down where he had sat that night two months ago, on the Polar bear skin. She sat down
too, with a sweeping side-long movement of her hips that drew her thin skirts close about her.
She contemplated the effect a little dubiously, then with shy nervous fingers loosened and
shook out the folds. He leaned back, withdrawn as far as possible into the corner of the divan.
The associations of the place were unspeakably loathsome to him.

"Look here, dear"--(In Poppy's world the term of endearment went for nothing; it was simply
the stamp upon the current coin of comradeship. If only that had been the beginning and the
end between them!)

"I haven't a minute--but, I'm going to ask you something" (though Poppy hadn't a minute she
was applying herself very leisurely to the making of cigarettes). "Don't go and get huffy at
what I'm going to say. Do you happen to owe Dicky anything?"

"Why?"

"Tell you why afterwards. Do you owe him anything?"

"Oh, well--a certain amount--Why?"

"Why? Because I think he owes you something. And that's a grudge. It isn't my business, but
if I were you, Rickets, I'd pay him orf and have done with him."

"Oh, that's all right. I'm safe enough."

"You? It's just you who isn't. Dicky's not a bad sort, in his way. All the same, he'd sell
you up as soon as look at you. Unless--" (for a moment her bright eyes clouded, charged with
the melancholy meanings of the world) "Unless you happened to be an orf'ly pretty woman." She
laid her right leg across her left knee and struck a vesta on the heel of her shoe.

"Then, of course, he'd sooner look at me."

Poppy puffed at her cigarette and threw the vesta into the grate with a dexterous jerk of her
white forearm. "Look at you first. Sell you up--after." Then Poppy burst into song--

    "Oh, he is such a nice little boy,
    When there's nothing you do to annoy;
        But he's apt to stand aloof
        If you arsk him for the oof,
      And it's then that he looks coy.
        Oh, he'll show the cloven hoof,
        If you put him to the proof.
    When you want him to hand you the boodle
    He's not such a nice little boy.

"Yes, dickee, I see you!"

The canary, persuaded by Poppy's song that it was broad daylight, was awake and splashing in
his bath. Again in Poppy's mind (how unnecessarily) he stood for the respectabilities and proprieties;
he was an understudy for Tiny of the dirty tea-gown.

"Going?"

"Yes. I must go."

"Wait." She rose and held him by the collar of his coat, a lapel in each small hand. He grasped
her wrists by an instinctive movement of self-preservation, and gently slackened her hold.
She gave his coat a little shake. "What's the matter with you, Rickets? You're such a howling
swell."

Her eyes twinkled in the old way, and he smiled in spite of himself.

"Say, I'm a little nuisance, Rickets, say I'm a little nuisance."

"You are a little nuisance.

"A d----d little nuisance."

"A d----d little nuisance."

"Ah, now you feel better, don't you? Poor Ricky-ticky, don't you be afraid. It's only a little
nuisance. It'll never be a big one. It's done growing. That is, I won't rag you any more, if
you'll tell me one thing--oh, what a whopper of a sigh!--Promise me you'll pay Dicky off."

"All right. I'll pay him."

"To-morrow?"

"To-morrow, then. Don't, Poppy. I--I've got a sore throat." For Poppy, standing on tip-toe,
had made an effort to embrace him.

"I sy, if you blush like that, Rickets, you'll have a fit. Poor dear! Did I crumple his nice
little stylish collar!"

He endured while she smoothed out an imaginary wrinkle, her head very much on one side. "You
see, Razors, we've been such chums. Whatever happens, I want to be all right and straight with
you."

"What should happen?"

"Oh, anything." Again there was that troubling of the bright shallows of her eyes. "You remember
larst time you were here?" (his shudder told her that he remembered well). "I did try to send
you away, didn't I?"

"As far as I can remember, you did."

"What did you think I did it for?"

"I suppose, because you wanted me to go."

"Stupid! I did it because I wanted you to stay." She looked into his eyes and the light went
out of her own; among its paint and powder her audacity lay dead. It was as if she saw on his
face the shadow of Lucia Harden, and knew that her hour had come.

She met it laughing. "Good-night, Ricky-ticky."

As he took her hand he muttered something about being "fearfully sorry."

"Sorry?" Poppy conjured up a poor flickering ghost of her inimitable wink. "The champagne was
bad, dear. Don't you worry."

When he had left her, she flung herself face downwards on the divan. "Oh, dicky, will you hold
your horrid little tongue?" But as she sobbed aloud, the canary, symbol of invincible Propriety,
rocked on his perch and shook over her his piercing and exultant song.

Rickman was sorry for her, but the sight and touch of her were hateful to him. He took her
advice however. He had had good luck with some articles, and he called on Pilkington the next
afternoon and paid him his thirty pounds with the interest. Dicky was in a good humour and
inclined to be communicative. He congratulated him on his present berth, and informed him that
Rickman's was "going it." The old man had just raised four thousand on the Harden library,
the only security that he, Dicky, would accept.

"I suppose," said Rickman simply, "you'd no idea of its value when you let him buy it?"

Dicky stared through his eye-glass with his blue eyes immense and clear.

"My dear fellow, do you take me for a d----d fool?"

So that had been Dicky's little game? Trust Dicky.

And yet for the time being, held in the opposing grip of two firm cupidities, it was safe,
the great Harden library, once the joy of scholars, loved with such high intellectual passion,
and now the centre of so many hot schemes and rivalries and lusts. Now that the work of sacrilege
was complete, housed at last in the Gin Palace of Art, it stood, useless in its desecrated
beauty, cumbering the shelves whence no sale would remove it until either Rickman's or Pilkington
let go. So far the Hardens were avenged.

CHAPTER XLII

More than once, after that night when Rickman dined with him, Jewdwine became the prey of many
misgivings. He felt that in taking Rickman up he was assuming an immense responsibility. It
might have been better, happier for Rickman, poor fellow, if after all he had left him in his
decent obscurity; but having dragged him out of it, he was in a manner answerable to the world
for Rickman and to Rickman for the world. Supposing Rickman disappointed the world? Supposing
the world disappointed Rickman?

Jewdwine lived in the hope, natural to a distinguished critic, of some day lighting upon a
genius. The glory of that find would go far to compensate him for his daily traffic with mediocrity.
Genius was rarely to be seen, but Jewdwine felt that he would be the first to recognize it
if he did see it; the first to penetrate its many curious disguises; the first to give it an
introduction (if it wanted one) to his own superior world. And here was Rickman--manifestly
in need of that introduction--a man who unquestionably had about him some of the marks by which
a genius is identified; and yet he left you terribly uncertain. He was the very incarnation
of uncertainty. Jewdwine was perfectly willing to help the man if only he were sure of the
genius. But was he sure? Had it really pleased the inscrutable divine thing to take up its
abode in this otherwise rather impossible person?

Meanwhile Rickman seemed to be settling down fairly comfortably to the work of The Museion;
and Jewdwine, having other things to think of, began to forget his existence. He was in fact
rapidly realizing his dream. He had won for himself and his paper a position lonely and unique.
The reputation of The Museion was out of all proportion to its circulation, but Jewdwine was
making himself heard. As an editor and critic he was respected for his incorruptibility and
for the purity of his passion for literature. His utterances were considered to carry authority
and weight.

Just at first the weight was perhaps the more conspicuous quality of the two. Jewdwine could
not be parted from his "Absolute." He had lived with it for years in Oxford, and he brought
it up to town with him; it walked beside him on the London pavements and beckoned him incessantly
into the vast inane. It cut a very majestic figure in his columns, till some irritable compositor
docked it of its capital and compelled it to march with the rank and file of vulgar adjectives.
Even thus degraded it ruled his paragraphs as it ruled his thoughts.

But lately the review seemed to be making efforts to redeem itself from the charge of heaviness.
In certain of its columns there was a curious radiance and agitation, as of some winged and
luminous creature struggling against obscurity; and it was felt that Jewdwine was binding in
a pious tradition of dulness a spirit that would otherwise have danced and flown. Whether it
was his own spirit or somebody else's did not definitely appear; but now and again it broke
loose altogether, and then, when people complimented him on the brilliance of his appearance
that week, he smiled inscrutably.

It was impossible to say how far Jewdwine's conscience approved of these outbursts of individuality.
Certainly he did his best to restrain them, his desire being to give to his columns a distinguished
unity of form. He saw himself the founder of a new and higher school of journalism, thus satisfying
his undying tutorial instincts. He had chosen his staff from the most promising among the young
band of disciples who thronged his lecture-room at Oxford; men moulded on his methods, inspired
by his ideals, drenched in his metaphysics; crude young men of uncontrollable enthusiasm, whose
style awaited at his hands the final polishing.

He knew that he had done a risky thing in associating young Rickman with them in this high
enterprise. But under all his doubts there lay a faith in the genius of his sub-editor, a faith
the more fascinating because it was so far removed from any certainty. In giving Rickman his
present post he conceived himself not only to be paying a debt of honour, but doing the best
possible thing for The Museion. It was also, he considered, the best possible thing for Rickman.
His work on the review would give him the discipline he most needed, the discipline he had
never had. To be brought into line with an august tradition; to be caught up out of the slough
of modern journalism into a rarer atmosphere; to breathe the eternal spirit of great literature
(a spirit which according to Jewdwine did not blow altogether where it listed); to have his
too exuberant individuality chastened and controlled, would be for Rickman an unspeakable benefit
at this critical stage of his career.

The chastening and controlling were difficult. Rickman's phrases were frequently more powerful
than polite. Like many young writers of violent imagination he was apt to be somewhat vividly
erotic in his metaphors. And he had little ways that were very irritating to Jewdwine. He was
wasteful with the office paper and with string; he would use penny stamps where halfpenny ones
would have served his purpose; he had once permitted himself to differ with Jewdwine on a point
of scholarship in the presence of the junior clerk. There were times when Jewdwine longed to
turn him out and have done with him; and yet Rickman stayed on. When all was said and done
there was a charm about him. Jewdwine in fact had proved the truth of Lucia's saying; he could
rely absolutely on his devotion. He could not afford to let him go. Though Rickman tampered
shamelessly with the traditions of the review, it could not be said that as yet he had injured
its circulation. His contributions were noticed with approval in rival columns; and they had
even been quoted by Continental critics with whom The Museion passed as being the only British
review that had the true interests of literature at heart.

But though Rickman helped to bring fame to The Museion, The Museion brought none to him. The
identity of its contributors was merged in that of its editor, and those brilliant articles
were never signed.

The spring of ninety-three, which found Jewdwine comfortably seated on the summit of his ambition,
saw Rickman almost as obscure as in the spring of ninety-two. His poems had not yet appeared.
Vaughan evidently regarded them as so many sensitive plants, and, fearing for them the boisterous
seasons of autumn and spring, had kept them back till the coming May, when, as he expressed
it, the market would be less crowded. This delay gave time to that erratic artist, Mordaunt
Crawley, to complete the remarkable illustrations on which Vaughan relied chiefly for success.
Vaughan had spared no expense, but naturally it was the artist and the printer, not the poet,
whom he paid.

Rickman, however, had not thought of his Saturnalia as a source of revenue. It had been such
a pleasure to write them that the wonder was he had not been called upon to pay for that. Happily
for him he was by this time independent. As sub-editor and contributor to The Museion, he was
drawing two small but regular incomes. He could also count on a third (smaller and more uncertain)
from The Planet, where from the moment of his capture by Jewdwine he had been reinstated.

He found it easy enough to work for both. The Planet was poor, and it was out of sheer perversity
that it indulged a disinterested passion for literature. In fact, Maddox and his men were trying
to do with gaiety of heart what Jewdwine was doing with superb solemnity. But whenever Rickman
mentioned Maddox to Jewdwine, Jewdwine would shrug his shoulders and say, "Maddox is not important";
and when he mentioned The Museion to Maddox, Maddox would correct him with a laugh, "The Museum,
you mean," and refer to his fellow-contributors as "a respectable collection of meiocene fossils."
Maddox had conceived a jealous and violent admiration for Savage Keith Rickman. "Rickman,"
he said, "you shall not go over body and soul to The Museion." He regarded himself as the keeper
and lover of Rickman's soul, and would not have been sorry to bring about a divorce between
it and Jewdwine. His irregular attentions were to save it from a suicidal devotion to a joyless
consort. So that Rickman was torn between Maddox's enthusiasm for him and his own enthusiasm
for Jewdwine.

That affection endured, being one with his impetuous and generous youth; while his genius,
that thing alone and apart, escaped from Jewdwine. He knew that Jewdwine's incorruptibility
left him nothing to expect in the way of approval and protection, and the knowledge did not
greatly affect him. He preferred that his friend should remain incorruptible. That Jewdwine
should greatly delight in his Saturnalia was more than he at any time expected. For there his
muse, Modernity, had begun to turn her back resolutely on the masters and the models, to fling
off the golden fetters of rhyme, gird up her draperies to her naked thighs, and step out with
her great swinging stride on perilous paths of her own. To be sure there were other things
which Jewdwine had not seen, on which he himself felt that he might rest a pretty secure claim
to immortality.

Of his progress thither his friends had to accept Vaughan's announcements as the only intimation.
Rickman had not called upon any of the Junior Journalists to smooth the way for him. He had
not, in fact, called on any of them at all, but as April advanced he retreated more and more
into a foolish privacy; and with the approaches of May he vanished. One night, however, some
Junior Journalists caught him at the club, belated, eating supper. They afterwards recalled
that he had then seemed to them possessed by a perfect demon of indiscretion; and when his
book finally appeared on the first of May, it was felt that it could hardly have been produced
under more unfavourable auspices. This reckless attitude was evidently unaffected (nobody had
ever accused Rickman of affectation); and even Maddox pronounced it imprudent in the extreme.
As for Jewdwine, it could not be accounted for by any motives known to him. His experience
compelled him to take a somewhat cynical view of the literary character. Jewdwine among his
authors was like a man insusceptible of passion, but aware of the fascinations that caused
him to be pursued by the solicitations of the fair. He was flattered by the pursuit, but the
pursuer inspired him with the liveliest contempt. It had not yet occurred to him that Rickman
could have any delicacy in approaching him. Still less could he believe that Rickman could
be indifferent to the fate of his book. His carelessness therefore did not strike him as entirely
genuine. There could be no doubt however as to the genuineness of Rickman's surprise when he
came upon Jewdwine in the office reading Saturnalia.

He smiled upon him, innocent and unconscious. "Ah!" he said, "so you're reading it? You won't
like it."

Jewdwine crossed one leg over the other, and it was wonderful the amount of annoyance he managed
to convey by the gesture. His face, too, wore a worried and uncertain look; so worried and
so uncertain that Rickman was sorry for him. He felt he must make it easy for him.

"At any rate, you won't admire its personal appearance."

"I don't. What possessed you to give it to Vaughan?"

"Some devil, I think."

"You certainly might have done better."

"Perhaps. If I'd taken the trouble. But I didn't."

Jewdwine raised his eyebrows (whenever he did that Rickman thought of someone who used to raise
her eyebrows too, but with a difference).

"You see, it was last year. I let things slide."

Jewdwine looked as if he didn't see. "If you had come to me, I think I could have helped you."

"I didn't want to bother you. I knew you wouldn't care for the things."

"Well, frankly, I don't care very much for some of them. But I should have stretched a point
to keep you clear of Crawley. I'm sorry he put temptation in your way."

"He didn't. They say I put temptation in his way. Horrid, isn't it, to think there's something
in me that appeals to his diseased imagination?"

"It's a pity. And I don't know what I can do for you. You see you've identified yourself with
a school I particularly abominate. It isn't a school. A school implies a master and some attempt
at discipline. It should have a formula. Crawley has none."

"Oh, I don't know about that." He stood beside Jewdwine, who was gazing at the frontispiece.
"Talk about absolute beauty, any fool can show you the beauty of a beautiful thing, or the
ugliness of an ugly one; but it takes a clever beast like Crawley to show you beauty in anything
so absolutely repulsive as that woman's face. Look at it! He's got hold of something. He's
caught the lurking fascination, the--the leer of life."

Jewdwine made a gesture of disgust.

"Of course, it's no good as an illustration. I don't see life with a leer on its face. But
he can draw. Look at the fellow's line. Did you ever see anything like the purity of it? It's
a high and holy abstraction. By Jove! He's got his formula. Pure line remains pure, however
bestial the object it describes. I wish he'd drawn it at illustrating me. But I suppose if
he saw it that way he had to draw it that way."

Jewdwine turned over the pages gingerly, as if he feared to be polluted. He was at the moment
profoundly sorry for Rickman in this marriage of his art with Mordaunt Crawley's. Whatever
might be said of Rickman's radiant and impetuous genius it neither lurked nor leered; it was
in no way represented by that strange and shameless figure, half Mænad, half modern courtesan,
the face foreshortened, tilted back in the act of emptying a wine-cup.

"At any rate," said Rickman, "he hasn't lied. He's had the courage to be his filthy self."

"Still, the result isn't exactly a flattering portrait of your Muse."

"She is a caution. It's quite enough to make you and Hanson lump me with Letheby and that lot."

This touched Jewdwine in two sensitive places at once. He objected to being "lumped" with Hanson.
He also felt that his generosity had been called in question. For a moment the truth that was
in him looked out of his grave and earnest eyes.

"I do not lump you with Letheby or anybody. On the contrary, I think you stand by yourself.
Quite one half of this book is great poetry."

"You really think that?"

"Yes," said Jewdwine solemnly; "I do think it. That's why I deplore the appearance of the other
half. But if you had to publish, why couldn't you bring out your Helen in Leuce? It was far
finer than anything you have here."

"Yes. Helen's all right now." His tone implied only too plainly that she was not all right
when Jewdwine had approved of her.

"Now? What on earth have you been doing to her?"

"Only putting a little life into her limbs. But Vaughan wouldn't have her at any price."

"My dear Rickman, you should have come to me. I hope to goodness Vaughan won't tempt you into
any more Saturnalia."

"After all--what's wrong with them?"

Jewdwine leaned back, keenly alive to these stirrings of dissent; he withdrew, as it were,
his protecting presence a foot or two farther. He spoke slowly and with emphasis.

"Excess," said he; "too much of everything. Too much force, too much fire, and too much smoke
with your fire. In other words, too much temperament, too much Rickman."

"Too much Rickman?"

"Yes; far too much. It's nothing but a flaming orgy of individuality."

"And that's why it's all wrong?" He really wondered whether there might not be something in
that view after all.

"It seems so to me. Look here, my dear fellow. Because a poet happens to have been drunk once
or twice in his life it's no reason why he should write a poem called Intoxication. That sort
of exhibition, you know, is scandalous."

Rickman hung his head. That one poem he would have given anything at the moment to recall.
It was scandalous if you came to think of it. Only in the joy of writing it he had not thought
of it; that was all.

"It's simply astounding in a splendid scholar like you, Rickman. It's such an awful waste."
He looked at him as he spoke, and his soul was in his eyes. It gave him a curious likeness
to his cousin, and in that moment Rickman worshipped him. "Go back. Go back to your Virgil
and your Homer and your Sophocles, and learn a little more restraint. There's nothing like
them. They'll take you out of this ugly, weary, modern world where you and I, Rickman, had
no business to be born."

"And yet," said Rickman, "there are modern poets."

"There are very few, and those not the greatest. By modern, I mean inspired by the modern spirit;
and the modern spirit does not inspire great poetry. The greatest have been obliged to go back--back
to primeval nature, back to the Middle Ages, back to Greece and Rome--but always back."

"I can't go back," said Rickman. "I mayn't know what I'm working for yet, but I believe I'm
on the right road. How can I go back?"

"Why not? Milton went back to the Creation, and he was only born in the seventeenth century.
You have had the unspeakable misfortune to be born in the nineteenth. You must live on your
imagination--the world has nothing for you."

"I believe it has something for me, if I could only find it."

"Well, don't lose too much time in looking for it. Art's long and life's short, especially
modern life; and that's the trouble."

Rickman shook his head. "No; that's not the trouble. It's the other way about. Life's infinite
and art's one. And at first, you know, it's the infinity that staggers you." He flung himself
into a chair opposite Jewdwine, planted his elbows on the table, and propped his chin on his
hands. He looked as if he saw the infinity he spoke of. "I can't describe to you," he said,
"what it is merely to be alive out there in the streets, on a sunny day, when the air's all
fine watery gold, and goes dancing and singing into your head like dry champagne. I've given
up alcohol. It isn't really necessary. I got as drunk as a lord the other day going over Hampstead
Heath in a west wind" (he looked drunk at the mere thought of it). "Does it ever affect you
in that way?"

Jewdwine smiled. The wind on Hampstead Heath had never affected him in that way.

"No. It isn't what you think. I used to go mad about women, just as I used to drink. I don't
seem to care a rap about them now." But his eyes had a peculiar large and brilliant look, as
if he saw the woman of his desire approaching him. His voice softened. "Don't you know when
the world--all the divine maddening beauty of it--lies naked before your eyes, and you want
to get hold of it--now--this minute, and instead it gets hold of you, and pulls you every way
at once--don't you know? The thing's got a thousand faces, and two thousand arms, and ten thousand
devils in it."

Jewdwine didn't know. How should he? He had a horror of this forcing of the sensuous and passionate
note. The author of the Prolegomena to Æsthetics recoiled from "too much temperament." He felt,
moreover, the jealous pang of the master who realizes that he has lost his hold. This was not
that Rickman who used to hang all flushed and fervid on Jewdwine's words. He remembered how
once on an April day, a year ago, the disciple had turned at the call of woman and of the world,
the call of the Spring in his heart and in his urgent blood.

And yet this was not that Rickman either.

"My dear Rickman, I don't understand. Are you talking about the world? Or the flesh? Or the
devils?"

"All of them, if you like. And you can throw in the sun and the moon and the stars, too. There
are moments, Jewdwine, when I understand God. At any rate I know how he felt the very day before
creation. His world's all raw chaos to me, and I've got to make my world out of it."

"I'm afraid I cannot help you there."

As they parted he felt that perhaps he had failed to be sufficiently sympathetic. "I'll do
my best," said he, "to set you right with the public."

Left alone, he stood staring earnestly at the chair where Rickman had sat propping his chin
in his hands. He seemed to be contemplating his phantom; the phantom that had begun to haunt him.

What had he let himself in for?

CHAPTER XLIII

There was one man who was sure, perfectly sure; and that man was Maddox. He had read Rickman's
book before Jewdwine had seen it, and while Jewdwine was still shaking his head over it in
the office of the The Museion, its chances were being eagerly discussed in the office of The
Planet. Maddox was disgusted with the publishers, Stables with the price, Rankin with the illustrations.

"It's all very well," said Rankin; "but those borrowed plumes will have to be paid for."

"Borrowed plumes with a vengeance," said Maddox. "Vaughan might just as well have turned him
out tarred and feathered as illustrated by Mordaunt Crawley. Mind you, some of that tar will
stick. It'll take him all his time to get it off."

"Did you see," said Stables, "that Hanson bracketed him with Letheby in this morning's Courier?"

"No, did he?" said Maddox; "I'm sorry for that. It's rough on little Rickman."

"It's what you must expect," said Rankin, "if you're illustrated by Crawley."

"It's what you must expect," said Stables, "if you go out of your way to offend people who
can help you. You know he refused an introduction to Hanson the other day?"

"No!"

"Fact. And it was in his sublimest manner. He said he hadn't any use for Hanson. Hanson couldn't
help him till he'd helped himself. I don't know whether any one was kind enough to tell that
tale to Hanson."

"Hanson," said Maddox, "is too big a man to mind it if they did."

"Anyhow, he hasn't helped him."

"No," said Rankin; "but that's another story. Hanson was dining with Jewdwine, and Jewdwine
was cracking up Rickman most extravagantly (for him). That was quite enough to make Hanson
jump on him. He was bound to do it by way of asserting his independence."

"I wonder if Jewdwine calculated that that would be the natural effect."

"Oh, come, he's a subtle beast; but I don't suppose he's as subtle as all that."

"You'll find that all the reviews will follow Hanson like a flock of sheep."

"How about the Literary Observer? Mackinnon was friendly."

Maddox smiled. "He was. But our Ricky-ticky alienated Mackinnon on the very eve of publication."

"How?"

"By some awful jest. Something about Mackinnon's head and the dome of the British Museum."

"Well, if it was a joke, Mackinnon wouldn't see it."

"No, but he'd feel it, which would be a great deal worse. Our Ricky-ticky is devoid of common
prudence."

"Our Ricky-ticky is a d----d fool," said Stables.

"Well," said Rankin, "I suppose he knows what he's about. He's got Jewdwine at his back."

Maddox shrugged his enormous shoulders. "Jewdwine? Jewdwine won't slate his own man, but he
can't very well turn round and boom the set he always goes for. This," said Maddox, "is my
deal. I shall sail in and discover Ricky-ticky."

"He's taking precious good care to hide himself. It's a thousand pities he ever got in with
those wretched decadents."

"He isn't in with them."

"Well, he mayn't be exactly immersed, but the tide's caught him."

"The tide? You might be talking of the Atlantic."

"The stream then--' the stream of tendency that makes for '--muck."

"It isn't a stream, it's a filthy duck-pond in somebody's back yard. There's just enough water
for the rest to drown in, but it isn't deep enough to float a man of Rickman's size. He's only
got his feet wet, and that won't hurt him."

"There are things," said Rankin, "in Saturnalia that lend themselves to Crawley's treatment."

"And there are things in it that Crawley can't touch. And look at the later poems--The Four
Winds, On Harcombe Hill, and The Song of Confession. Good God! It makes my blood boil to compare
the man who wrote that with Letheby. Letheby! I could wring Vaughan's neck and Hanson's too.
I should like to take their heads and knock them together. As for Letheby I'll do for him.
I'll smash him in one column, and I'll give Rickman his send-off in four."

(The Planet in those early days was liberal with its space.)

"After all," he added in a calmer tone, "he was right. We can't help him, except by taking
a back seat and letting him speak for himself. I shall quote freely. The Song of Confession
is the best answer to Hanson."

"It seems to me," said Stables, "you'll want a whole number at this rate."

"I shall want six columns, if I'm to do him any justice," said Maddox, rising. "Poor beggar,
I expect he's a bit off colour. I shall go and look him up."

At eight that evening he went and looked him up. He found him in his room tranquilly reading.
Thinking of him as a man of genius who had courted failure and madly fooled away his chances,
and seeing him sitting there, so detached, and so unconscious, Maddox was profoundly moved.
He had come with cursing and with consolation, with sympathy, with prophecy, with voluble belief.
But all he could say was, "It's all right, Rickman. It's great, my son, it's great."

All the same he did not conceal his doubts as to the sort of reception Rickman had to expect.
That part of the business, he said, had been grossly mismanaged, and it was Rickman's own fault.

"Look here," he said, "what on earth possessed you to go and refuse that introduction to Hanson?
Was it just your cheek, or the devil's own pride, or what?"

"Neither," said Rickman, in a tone that pathetically intimated that he was worn out. "I think
it was chiefly my desire for peace and quiet. I'm writing some more poems, you see. I wouldn't
have refused it at any other time."

"At any other time it wouldn't have mattered so much. You should be civil to the people who
can help you."

"I rather distrust that sort of civility myself. I've seen too much of the dirty back stairs
of Fleet Street. I've tumbled over the miserable people who sit on them all day long, and I
don't mean anybody to tumble over me. When I've got my best trousers on I want to keep them clean."

"It's a mistake," said Maddox, "to wear your best trousers every day."

"Perhaps. But I mean to wear them."

"Wear them by all means. But you must make up your mind for a certain amount of wear and tear.
In your case it will probably be tear."

"That's my look-out."

"Quite so. I wouldn't say anything if it was only Hanson you'd offended, but you shouldn't
alienate your friends."

"My friends?"

"Yes. Why, oh why, did you make that joke about Mackinnon's head?"

"We were all making jokes about Mackinnon's head."

"Yes; but we weren't all of us bringing out poems the next day. Your position, Ricky-ticky,
was one of peculiar delicacy--and danger."

"What does it matter?" said Rickman wearily. "I can trust my friends to speak the truth about me."

"Heaven bless you, Rickman, and may your spring suitings last for ever." He added, as Jewdwine
had added, "Anyhow, this friend will do his level best for you."

At which Rickman's demon returned again. "Don't crack me up too much, Maddy. You might do me harm."

But before midnight Maddox burst into the office and flung himself on to his desk.

"Give me room!" he cried; "I mean to spread myself, to roll, to wallow, to wanton, to volupt!"

Before morning he had poured out his soul, in four columns of The Planet, the exuberant, irrepressible
soul of the Celt. He did it in an hour and twenty minutes. As he said himself afterwards (relating
his marvellous achievement) he was sustained by one continuous inspiration; his passionate
pen paused neither for punctuation nor for thought. The thoughts, he said, were there. As the
critical notices only appeared weekly, to pause would have entailed a delay of seven days,
and he meant that his panegyric should appear the very next day after the article in the Literary
Observer, as an answer to Hanson's damnable paragraph.

If Maddox was urged to these excesses by his contempt for Jewdwine's critical cowardice, Jewdwine
was cooled by the spectacle of Maddox's intemperance. He had begun by feeling a little bitter
towards Rickman on his own account. He was disappointed in him. Rickman had shown that he was
indifferent to his opinion. That being so, Jewdwine might have been forgiven if he had had
no very keen desire to help him. Still, he had desired to help him; but his desire had ceased
after reading Maddox's review. There was no pleasure in helping him now, since he had allowed
himself to be taken up and caressed so violently by other people. The clumsy hand of Maddox
had brushed the first bloom from his Rickman, that once delightful youth. He was no longer
Jewdwine's Rickman, his disciple, his discovery.

But though Jewdwine felt bitter, he was careful that no tinge of this personal feeling should
appear in his review of Rickman's poems. It was exceedingly difficult for him to review them
at all. He had to take an independent attitude, and most possible attitudes had been taken
already. He could not ignore Rickman's deplorable connection with the Decadents; and yet he
could not insist on it, for that was what Hanson and the rest had done. Rickman had got to
stay there; he could not step in and pluck him out like a brand from the burning; for Maddox
had just accomplished that heroic feat. He would say nothing that would lend countenance to
the extravagance of Maddox. There was really no room for fresh appreciation anywhere. He could
not give blame where Hanson had given it; and Maddox had plastered every line with praise.
He would have been the first to praise Rickman, provided that he was the first. Not that Jewdwine
ever committed himself. As a critic his surest resource had always lain in understatement.
If the swan was a goose, Jewdwine had as good as said so. If the goose proved a swan, Jewdwine
had implied as much by his magnificent reserve. But this time the middle course was imposed
on him less by conviction than necessity. He had to hold the balance true between Hanson and
Maddox.

In his efforts to hold it true, he became more than ever academic and judicial. So judicial,
so impartial was he in his opinion, that he really seemed to have no opinion at all; to be
merely summing up the evidence and leaving the verdict to the incorruptible jury. Every sentence
sounded as though it had been passed through a refrigerator. Not a hint or a sign that he had
ever recognized in Rickman the possibility of greatness.

Now, if Rickman had not been connected with The Museion, the review would have done him neither
harm nor good. As it was, it did him harm. It was naturally supposed that Jewdwine, so far
from understating his admiration, had suppressed his bad opinion in the interests of friendship.
Rickman's Saturnalia remained where Hanson had placed it, rather low in the ranks of young
Decadence.

And then, just because he had suppressed the truth about him, because he felt that he had given
Rickman some grounds for bitterness, Jewdwine began to feel more and more bitter himself.

If Rickman felt any bitterness he never showed it. He had only two thoughts on reading Jewdwine's
articles. "It wouldn't have mattered except that she will see it"; and "I wouldn't have minded
if it was what he really thought."

Maddox, rightly judging that Rickman would be suffering more in his affection than his vanity,
called on him that afternoon and dragged him out for his usual Saturday walk. As if the thought
of Jewdwine dominated their movements, they found themselves on the way to Hampstead. Maddox
attempted consolation.

"It really doesn't matter much what Jewdwine says. These fellows come up from Oxford with wet
towels round their heads to keep the metaphysics in. Jewdwine's muddled himself with the Absolute
Beauty till he doesn't know a beautiful thing if you stick it under his nose."

"Possibly not; if you keep it farther off he might have a better chance. Trust him to know."

"Well, if he knows, he doesn't care."

"Oh, doesn't he. That's where Jewdwine's great. He cares for nothing else. He cares more than
any man alive--in his heart."

"D--n his heart! I don't believe he has one."

"Would you oblige me by not talking about him any more?"

Maddox obliged him.

They tramped far into the country, returning at nightfall by the great road that crosses the
high ground of the Heath. Rickman loved that road; for by night, or on a misty evening, it
was possible to imagine some remote resemblance between it and the long straight ridge of Harcombe
Hill.

They paused by common consent where the Heath drops suddenly from the edge of the road; opening
out the view towards London. The hollow beneath them, filled by a thin fog, had become mysterious
and immense.

"By the way," said Maddox, following an apparently irrelevant train of thought, "what has become
of your friendship for Miss Poppy Grace?"

"It has gone," said Rickman, "where the old trousers go. Look there--"

Above them heaven seemed to hang low, bringing its stars nearer. A few clouds drifted across
it, drenched in the blue of the night behind them, a grey-blue, watery and opaque. Below, sunk
in a night greyer and deeper, were the lights of London. The ridge they stood on was like the
rampart of another world hung between the stars which are the lights of poets, and the lights
which are the stars of men. Under the stars Maddox chanted softly the last verses of the Song
of Confession that Rickman had made.

"Oh, Ricky-ticky," he said, "you know everything. How did you know it?"

"Because I've been there."

"But--you didn't stay?"

"No--no. I didn't stay. I couldn't."

"I'm still there. And for the life of me I see no way out. It's like going round in the underground
railway--a vicious circle. Since you're given to confession--own up. Don't you ever want to
get back there?"

"Not yet. My way won't take me back if I only stick to it."

Under the stars he endeavoured to account for his extraordinary choosing of the way.

"I've three reasons for keeping straight. To begin with, I've got a conviction that I'll write
something great if I don't go to the devil first. Then, there's Horace Jewdwine."

Maddox hardened his face; he had been told not to talk about Jewdwine, and he wasn't going to.

"If I go to the devil, he won't go with me. Say what you like, he's a saint compared with you
and me. If he doesn't understand Songs of Confession, it's because he's never had anything
to confess. The third reason--if I go to the devil--no, I can't tell you the third reason.
It's also the reason why I wear my magnificent trousers. All the reasons amount to that. If
I go to the devil I can't wear those trousers. Never, Maddox, believe me, never again."

Maddox smiled, and, unlike Maddox, he said one thing and thought another.

What he said was. "Your trousers, Ricky-ticky, are of too heavenly a pattern for this wicked
world. They are such stuff as dreams are made of, and their little life--" he paused. What
he thought was--"Your way, Ricky-ticky, is deuced hard for the likes of me. But I'll go with
you as far as I can, my son."

Under the stars they looked into each other's faces and they knew themselves aright.

CHAPTER XLIV

Jewdwine made up for the coldness of his published utterances by the fervour of his secret
counsel. His advice to Rickman was, "Beware of the friendship of little men."

This Rickman understood to be a reflection on Maddox's position in the world of letters. He
did not care a rap about Maddox's position; but there were moments when it was borne in upon
him that Maddox was a bigger man even than Horace Jewdwine, that his reckless manner poorly
disguised a deeper insight and a sounder judgement. His work on The Planet proved it every
day. And though for himself he could have desired a somewhat discreeter champion, he had the
highest opinion of his friend's courage in standing up for him when there was absolutely nothing
to be gained by it. He had every reason therefore to be attached to Maddox.

But it was true enough that he knew too many little men; men who were at home in that house
of bondage from which he was for ever longing to escape; men whom he had met as he had described,
sitting contentedly on the dirty back-stairs of Fleet Street; men who in rubbing shoulders
with each other in that crowded thoroughfare had had to allow for a great deal of what Maddox
called wear and tear. Those little men had remained invincibly, imperturbably friendly. They
knew perfectly well that he thought them little men, and they delighted in their great man
all the same, more than ever, in fact, since his new suit of morals provided them with a subject
of eternal jest. For Maddox was but human, and he had found Rickman's phrase too pregnant with
humour to be lost. They were sometimes very funny, those Junior Journalists, especially on
a Saturday night. But Rickman was not interested in the unseemly obstacle race they dignified
by the name of a career, and he did not care to mix too freely with young men so little concerned
about removing the dirt and sweat of it. He clung to Maddox and Rankin as the strongest and
the cleanest of them all. But even they had inspirations that left him cold, and they thought
many things large and important that were too small for him to see. He would have died rather
than let either of them know what he was doing now. He saw with dismay that they suspected
him of doing something, that their suspicions excited them most horribly, that they were watching
him; and he had told Maddox that what he desired most was peace and quietness.

He found it in the Secret Chamber of the Muse, where he shut himself up when his work with
them was done. In there, his days and nights were as the days and nights of God. There he forecast
the schemes of dramas yet to be, dramas no longer neo-classic. And as his genius foresaw the
approach of its maturity, it purified and emptied itself of the personal passion that obscures
the dramatist's vision of the world. This it did in a sequence of Nine and Twenty sonnets,
a golden chain that bound Lucia's name to his whether she would or no. They recorded nine and
twenty moments in the life of his passion, from the day of its birth up to the present hour,
the hour of its purification.

For it was still young in him; though at this distance of time Lucia's image was no longer
one and indivisible. He had come to think of her as two persons clothed mysteriously in the
same garment of flesh. One carried that garment a little more conspicuously than the other;
it was by her beauty that she pierced him with the pain of longing; and not by her beauty only,
but by the marks of suffering that in his memory still obscured it. She came before him, and
her tragic eyes reproached him with the intolerable pathos of her fate, making him suffer too,
through his exceeding pity. And yet his longing had not been consumed by pity, but had mingled
with it as flame in flame. Long after he had parted from her, his senses ached as they recalled
the exquisite movements of her body. He had only to shut his eyes, and he was aware of the
little ripple of her shoulders and the delicate swaying of her hips. To lie awake in the dark
was to see her kneeling at his side, to feel the fragrance of her thick braid of hair flattened
and warmed by her sleep, and the light touch of her hands as they covered him. And before that
memory his shame still burnt deeper than his desire.

But this Lucia had no desire for him and no pity. Her countenance, seen even in dreams, expressed
a calm but immutable repugnance. No wonder, for she was only acquainted with the pitiably inadequate
sample of him introduced to her as Mr. Rickman of Rickman's. He was aware that she belonged
exclusively not only to Jewdwine's class, but to Jewdwine himself in some way (a way unspeakably
disagreeable to contemplate). If he was not to think of her as enduring the abominations of
poverty, he must think of her as married to Jewdwine. Married to Jewdwine, she would make an
end of his friendship as she had made an end of his peace of mind. There had been moments,
at the first, when he had felt a fierce and unforgiving rage against her for the annoyance
that she caused him.

But now, dividing the host of turbulent and tormenting memories, there appeared a different
Lucia, an invincible but intimate presence that brought with it a sense of deliverance and
consolation. It was Lucia herself that saved him from Lucia. Her eyes were full of discernment
and of an infinite tenderness and compassion. They kindled in him the desire that fulfils itself
in its own utterance.

That this Lucia was not wholly the creature of his imagination he was assured by his memory
of certain passages in his life at Harmouth, a memory that had all the vividness and insistence
of the other. It was the Lucia he had known before the other Lucia, the Lucia who had divined
and would divine him still. In a way she was more real than the other, more real than flesh
and blood, even as that part of him by which he apprehended her was more real than the rest.
From her he was not and could not be divided; they belonged to each other, and by no possibility
could he think of this Lucia as married to Jewdwine, or of his friendship for Jewdwine as in
anyway affected by her. He was hers by right of her perfect comprehension of him; for such
comprehension was of the nature of possession. It was also an assurance of her forgiveness,
if indeed she had anything to forgive. He had not wronged her; it was the other Lucia he had
wronged. In all this he never once thought of her as his inspiration. She would not have desired
him to think of her so, being both too humble and too proud to claim any part in the genius
she divined. But she could not repudiate all connection with it, because it was in the moments
when his genius was most dominant that he had this untroubled assurance of her presence.

And there in the Secret Chamber he bound her to him by an indestructible chain, the chain of
the Nine and Twenty Sonnets.

The question was what should he do with it now that it was made? To dedicate twenty-nine sonnets
to Lucia was one thing, to print them was another. If it was inevitable that he should thus
reveal himself after the manner of poets, it was also inevitable that she should regard a public
declaration as an insult rather than an honour. And he himself shrank from exposing so sacred
a thing to the pollution and violence of publicity. Therefore he took each sonnet as it was
written, and hid it in a drawer. But he was not without prescience of their ultimate value,
and after all this method of disposal seemed to him somehow unsatisfactory. So he determined
that he would leave the manuscript to Lucia in his will, to be afterwards dealt with as she
judged best, whether she chose to publish or to burn. In the former case the proceeds might
be regarded as partial payment of a debt.

And so two years passed and it was Spring again.

CHAPTER XLV

There are many ways of achieving distinction, but few are more effectual than a steady habit
of punctuality. By this you may shine even in the appalling gloom of the underground railway.
Among all the women who wait every morning for the City trains at Gower Street Station, there
was none more conspicuously punctual than Miss Flossie Walker. The early clerk who travelled
citywards was always sure of seeing that little figure on the same spot at the same moment,
provided he himself were punctual and kept a sharp look-out. This you may be sure he took good
care to do. To look at Flossie once was to look again and yet again. And he was fortunate indeed
if his route lay between Moorgate Street Station and the Bank, for then he had the pleasure
of seeing her sharply threading her way among the traffic, if that can be said of anything
so soft and round as Flossie.

If Flossie's figure was small and round, her face was somewhat large, a perfect oval moulded
in the subtlest curves, smooth and white moreover, with a tinge of ivory sallow towards the
roots of her black hair. Wonderful hair was Flossie's. In those days she parted it in the middle
and waved it symmetrically on either side of her low forehead; she brought it over her ears,
covering all but the tips and the delicate pink lobes; she coiled it at the back in an elaborate
spiral and twisted it into innumerable little curls about the nape of her neck. Unfortunately
that neck was rather short; but she wore low collars which made the most of it. And then Flossie's
features were so very correct. She had a correct little nose, neither straight nor aquiline,
but a distracting mixture of both, and a correct little mouth, so correct and so small that
you wondered how it managed to display so many white teeth in one diminutive smile. Flossie's
eyes were not as her mouth; they were large, full-lidded, long-lashed, and blacker than her
hair. No wonder if the poor clerk who passed her on her way to and fro in the City rejoiced
as they looked up at him. She might be going to her work as he to his, but what with her bright
eyes and her blue ribbons, she looked the very genius of holiday as she went.

At first she was a little subdued and awed by the Bank, and by her own position in it. But
when this feeling wore off, the plump girl rolled into her place with a delicious abandonment.
Flossie was one of fifty girls who sat, row after row, at long flat desks covered with green
cloth. A soft monotonous light was reflected from the cream-coloured walls against which Flossie's
head stood out with striking effect, like some modern study in black and morbid white. You
would have picked her out among the fifty at once. Hers was the lightest of light labour, the
delicate handling of thousands of cancelled notes--airy, insubstantial things, as it were the
ghosts of bank-notes, released from the gross conditions of the currency. Towards the middle
of the morning Flossie would be immersed in a pale agitated sea of bank-notes. The air would
be full of light sounds, always the sharp brisk rustling of the notes, and now and then a human
undertone, or towards lunch time, a breath that was like a sigh. A place to grow light-headed
in if you began to think about it. Happily no thought was required beyond the intelligence
that lives in sensitive finger-tips. It was almost mechanical labour, and for that Flossie
had more than a taste, she had a positive genius. It was mechanical labour idealized and reduced
to a fine art, an art in which the personality of the artist counted. The work displayed to
perfection the prettiness of Flossie's hands, from the rapid play of her fingers in sifting,
and their little fluttering, hovering movements in arranging, to the exquisitely soft touches
of the palms when she gathered all her sheaves of notes into one sheaf, shaking, caressing,
coaxing the rough edges into line. Flossie worked with the rhythm and precision of a machine;
and yet humanly, self-consciously, almost coquettishly, as under the master's eye.

But all this was of yesterday. To-day Flossie was different. She was not quite so precise,
so punctual as she had been. Something had gone wrong with the bright little mechanism. It
worked erratically, now under protest, and now with spurts of terrifying activity. The fine
fly-wheels of thought had set off whirring on their own account and had got mixed up with the
rest of the machinery. Flossie had begun to philosophise, to annoy destiny with questions.
There was time for that in the afternoon when the worst of the sorting was done. She was in
the stage of doubt so attractive in philosophers and women, asking herself: Is knowledge possible?
And if so, what do I know? She was aware that there are certain insurpassable limits to human
knowledge; all the same, woman-like, she raised herself on tip-toe, and tried to peep over
the boundaries. What did she know? She knew that somebody pitied her, because, poor little
woman, she had to earn her own living like a man. Well, she would not have to do that if he--if
he--Yes, and if he didn't? And how was she to know? And yet, and yet she had an idea. Anybody
may have an idea. Then the long desks became the green tables where Flossie gambled with fate;
trying--trying--trying to force the invisible hand.

For with Flossie it was spring-time too. Under the little clerk's correctness and demureness
there ran and mingled with her blood the warm undercurrent of a dream. The dream had come to
her many springs ago; and as Flossie grew plumper and rosier it grew plump and rosy too. To
be married (to a person hitherto unspecified in fancy, whose features remained a blur or a
blank), to be the mistress of a dear little house (the house stood out very clear in Flossie's
fancy), and the mother of a dear little girl (a figure ever present to her, complete in socks
and shoes and all the delicious details of its dress). Compared with that vision of Flossie's,
no dream was ever so soft, so rosy and so young.

And now in the Spring-time all her being moved softly under the current of the dream. Flossie's
fancy did not associate it consciously with Keith Rickman (she would have blushed if the association
had been made apparent to her); the Spring did that for her, mingling with her blood.

Meanwhile, as Flossie dreamed, the same hour every week-day morning Rickman was awakened by
the same sounds, the click of the door-latch in the bedroom overhead and the patter of a girl's
feet on the stairs. He knew it was Miss Flossie Walker going down to early breakfast. And when
he heard it, he turned in his bed on the side farthest from the window and sighed. Such a deep
unhappy sigh.

Lucia had delivered him from Lucia, but there were other troubles from which she could not
save him. Not, in the warm spring days, from the newly awakened trouble of his youth; not,
in the sleepless summer nights, from the brief but recurrent tyranny of sense, and not from
the incessant hunger of the heart. Though it was she who had created that hunger in him, it
was not (at five and twenty) to be satisfied by the mere image of her, however vividly present
to him. He was only five and twenty, and the spring had come with its piercing sweetness, its
irresistible delicate lure, to the great stirring, melting, and unbinding of his manhood. He
could be faithful to Lucia for ever in his soul; but there were moments in this season when
he was aware of a distinct cleavage between his soul and his senses.

It seemed to him that Miss Flossie Walker lay in wait for him in just those moments, with the
secret but infallible instinct of the creatures whom the Spring touches to its own uses. He
could not blame her. Flossie was innocent, being but the unconscious handmaid of the Spring.

It was not because Lucia was forever absent and Flossie forever on the spot. At first he was
unaware of the danger that lurked for him in Flossie's ways, because his soul in its love for
Lucia was so utterly secure. At first the sighs were all on Flossie's account; poor Flossie,
who had to be up so early while he settled himself for another luxurious slumber. At first
he only pitied Flossie. He thought of her at odd moments as a poor little girl (rather pretty)
who worked too hard and never had any fun to speak of; but the rest of the time he never thought
of her at all.

And in the early days of their acquaintance, Miss Flossie Walker (then only an apprentice to
a firm of type-writers in Holborn) was very much to be pitied. He could remember how she had
come (a little while before that memorable Bank holiday) to Mrs. Downey's boarding-house, a
plump but rather anaemic maiden, black-haired, and demure. He had begun by talking to her at
table, because she sat next to him, and he had ended, if there ever is an end to these things,
by taking her to matinées, picture-galleries, restaurants, and the British Museum. The girl
was so young, so confiding, and so obviously respectable, that he was careful to keep to the
most guileless of middle-class entertainments. A few weeks of this existence brought shy smiles
and a lively play of dimples on Flossie's face. She grew plumper still, less anaemic, though
hardly less demure. A few months, and Flossie's beauty flowered and expanded, she began to
dress as became it, entering into rivalry with Miss Ada Bishop, until it dawned on him that
Flossie was really, in her own place and way, a very engaging little creature.

About this time Flossie's circumstances had improved as much as her appearance. Her father
had been a clerk in the Bank of England, and on his death she obtained a post there as a sorter.
That position gave Flossie both dignity and independence; it meant light work and hours which
brought hope with them every day towards three o'clock. Under these circumstances Flossie's
beauty went on flowering and expanding, till she became more than ever a thing of danger and
disaster.

Her intimacy with Mr. Rickman, which had lapsed lately, owing to his increasing passion for
solitude and separation, revived suddenly in the spring of ninety-five. It happened in this
manner. With the spring, Mrs. Downey's was once more agitated by the hope of the Bank holiday,
and Mr. Spinks inquired of Rickman if he were going out of town for Easter. (Rickman was incautiously
dining that evening at the general table.) But Rickman wasn't going out of town. He said he
thought of going somewhere up the river. He had also thought, though he did not say so, that
in fulfilment of an ancient promise he would take Miss Flossie to the play on Saturday afternoon.
Yet when it came to the point he had some diffidence in asking her. She might not think it proper.

It was Mr. Soper who precipitated his resolve. He wanted to know if Rickman had made up a party
for the River, and 'ad any companion?

No. He hadn't made up a party. Thanks, awfully. He was going by Himself.

Mr. Soper didn't think now that was a very enjoyable way of spendin' a Bank holiday.

He put it that if it was Rickman's intention to hire a row-boat, it wouldn't be at all a bad
idea if he, Soper, and Mr. Spinks, say, were to join.

As Soper's incredible suggestion sank into him, the expression of Rickman's face was pitiable
to see. It was then that casually, as if the idea had only just occurred to him, he wondered
whether Miss Walker would by any chance care for a matinée ticket for the play? He was anxious
to give his offer an uncertain and impromptu character, suggesting that Miss Walker must be
torn between her many engagements, and have matinée tickets in large numbers up the sleeve
of her charming blouse.

Flossie was so shy that when you spoke to her she never answered all at once; so shy that when
she spoke to you she never turned her head to look at you, but left you to judge of the effect
you made on her by the corners of her mouth and eyes. So now he had to look very carefully
at her to see whether she were saying yes or no. Casually again (as if this course were not
necessarily involved in acceptance) he inquired whether he might have the pleasure of taking her.

Miss Bishop looked another way. Her loose mouth hung desirous. (Miss Bishop's face was flagrantly
frank, devoid of all repose. None of these people had any repose about them except Flossie.)
Flossie was dubious and demure. Was he quite sure it was a pleasure? He protested that in a
world where few things were certain, that, at any rate, admitted of no doubt. Flossie deliberated
whether this further step were or were not a departure from her ideal of propriety. And it
was not until he showed signs of retracting his proposal that she intimated her consent. But
as for pleasure, if Flossie were pleased she did not allow it to appear. And although her heart
beat excitedly under her blue blouse, it was on the side that was not next to Mr. Rickman.

Then Miss Roots began to talk of incomprehensible things excitedly. So excitedly, that she
had, for the moment, quite a colour. And while they talked, all the other boarders turned in
their places and watched Mr. Rickman as if he had been some wonderful enchanter; Mr. Soper
alone emphasizing by an attitude his entire aloofness from the general interest.

And all the time Miss Roots was talking, Flossie, without saying a word, contrived to seize
upon the disengaged portion of his mind. He wondered what she was thinking about.

She was thinking, first, that it really paid to put on your best blouse every evening. Next,
that it wasn't worth while if he would keep on talking to the lady on his right. Then that
she couldn't decide the point until she knew where he was going on Sunday.

That she never knew; but she went to the play with him on Saturday, and on many Saturdays after
that. There was nobody so gay that spring as Flossie.

Coming fresh to Flossie after a long estrangement, Rickman couldn't recognize her from his
old account of her as a poor little girl who worked too hard and never had any fun to speak
of. In so describing her, no doubt he had been influenced by the melancholy of his earlier
mood. But there were other reasons why he still insisted on regarding her in this pathetic
light. It provided him with several very agreeable sensations, and the most agreeable of all
was the voluptuous passion of pity. It kept him detached, always in the superior position of
a benefactor. Benefactor, indeed! He was in a fair way of becoming Flossie's deity, her Providence,
the mystic source of theatre-tickets and joy. No really brave man ever shrinks from the dangers
of apotheosis, when the process involves no loss of personal dignity. And apart from the gratification
of his natural healthy vanity, Rickman's heart was touched by the thought that the little thing
turned to him instinctively for all her innocent pleasures.

Then all at once the innocent pleasures ceased. They ceased just as Flossie's palpitating heart
told her that she was really making an impression on this singularly unimpressionable young
man. She knew it by the sudden softening of his voice as he spoke to her, by the curious brilliant
dilation of his eyes as they followed her about the room. For after much easy practice on Mr.
Spinks she knew precisely by what movements and what glances she could best produce these interesting
effects. And yet nothing could be farther from Flossie's fancy than flirtation. The little
clerk was nothing if not practical, even under the tender impulse of her dream.

Flossie was determined that whatever else she failed in she would not fail in her woman's trade.
She would have considered herself disgraced by such bankruptcy. Not that she feared it. Nature
had started her with a sufficient capital of fascination, and at Mrs. Downey's she had, so
to speak, established a connection. And now it seemed there had come a period of depression.
It still rained tickets, more tickets than ever, but there was no Mr. Rickman to escort her
to the concert or the play; Mr. Rickman always had another engagement, never specified. No
Mr. Rickman to take her into the suburbs on a Sunday; Mr. Rickman was off, goodness knew where,
scouring the country on his bicycle. No Mr. Rickman to talk to her at dinner; Mr. Rickman took
all his meals in his own room now. For these and all other delinquencies his invariable excuse
was that he was busy; and Flossie, mind you, was sharp enough to see through that.

No. Mr. Rickman had changed, suddenly, unaccountably, without a moment's warning. First of
all, the other boarders noticed that he had become most frightfully irritable in his temper.
He had not been over polite to any of them lately, but to her he was insufferably rude, most
ungentlemanly, she called it. He would pretend not to see her if by any chance she looked his
way, not to hear her if by any chance she spoke to him. Once (they were quite alone) he had
broken off in the middle of an exciting conversation and rushed out of the room, out of the
house. She saw him over the balcony railings, walking up and down the street like a lunatic,
with his hands thrust down into his pockets and no hat on. And he was not only ungentlemanly
but positively unkind. If they met on the stairs (somehow they did this very often) he would
draw himself up flat against the wall as if he was afraid of the frill of her dress touching
him. If she came into the drawing-room he would walk out of it; or if he stayed, it was only
to sit staring at her (poor innocent little Flossie, who was so pretty) with an ugly scowl
on his face. There were times when poor innocent little Flossie said to herself that she positively
believed he hated her. And she was so innocent that she couldn't think what she had done to
make him hate her.

She was right about the hatred. An indignant anger was certainly what he felt when he first
realized that she had power to make him feel at all. Her prettiness tormented him; therefore
he hated her, and everything about her. He hated the sound of her little tongue upraised among
the boarders, and of her little feet running up and down the stairs. He hated every glance
of her black eyes and every attitude and movement of her plump little body. More than all he
hated the touch of her soft arms as they stirred against him at the tightly packed dinner-table.
Therefore he avoided the dinner-table, and the drawing-room; he avoided as far as possible
the house, filled as it was with the disastrous presence. He fatigued himself with excesses
of walking and cycling, in the hope that when he flung himself into his bed at midnight he
would be too tired to feel. And sometimes he was.

At last poor Flossie, weary of conjecture, unbent so far as to seek counsel of Miss Bishop.
For Miss Bishop gave you to understand that on the subject of "gentlemen" there was nothing
that she did not know. It was a little humiliating, for only a month ago Flossie had said to
her in strictest confidence, "I feel it in my bones, Ada, that he's going to come forward this
spring."

Ada laughed coarsely, but not unkindly, at the tale of her perplexity. Ada had every reason
to be sympathetic; for Mr. Rickman once securely attached, Mr. Spinks would be lonely, unappropriated,
free. "Don't you worry," said she, "he's all right."

"All right? Can't you see how frightfully rude he is to me?"

"I should think I did see it. A jolly lot you know about gentlemen. You've nothing to go on
when they're so everlastingly polite, but when they turn mad like that all of a sudden, you
may be sure they're coming to the point. To tell you the truth, I didn't use to think you'd
very much chance, Flossie; but when I saw him walk out of the room the other day, I said to
myself, 'She's got 'im!'"

"I wish I knew. I don't want it hanging on for ever."

"It won't. If he doesn't propose in May, he will in June, when you've got a new dress and a
new hat."

Flossie shook her head despairingly. "I wonder," said she, "what I'd really better do. I think
sometimes I'd better go away."

"Well, sometimes that does fetch them; and then, again, sometimes it doesn't. It's risky. Some
girls," she added reflectively, "try doing their hair another way; but I wouldn't, if I was
you. That's risky, too. If they're really fond of you, as often as not it only puts them off."

"Then what am I to do?"

"If you take my advice," said Miss Bishop, "you'll not do anything. You'll just go on the same
as before, as if you hadn't noticed anything out of the way."

And Flossie went on just the same as before, with the result that every morning Mr. Rickman
sighed more and more heavily as he heard the early patter of those feet upon the floor.

CHAPTER XLVI

Flossie had been working with one eye on the clock all afternoon. At the closing hour she went
out into Lothbury with the other girls; but instead of going up Moorgate Street as usual, she
turned out of Prince's Street to her right, and thence made her way westward as quickly as
she could for the crowd. It was September, a day when it was good to be out of doors at that
hour. The sunlight filtered into the dusty thoroughfare from the west, on her left the sprawling
mounted legends over the shops were so many gold blazons on an endless field of grey; on her
right, a little way ahead, the tall plane-tree in Wood Street hung out its green leaves over
Cheapside like a signal. Thither Flossie was bound.

As she sidled out of the throng into the quiet little lane, Mr. Rickman came forward, raising
his hat. He had been waiting under the plane-tree for twenty minutes, and was now beguiling
his sylvan solitude with a cigarette. Two years had worked a considerable change in his appearance.
His face had grown graver and clearer cut. He had lost his hectic look and had more the air
of a man of the world than of a young poet about town. To Flossie's admiration and delight
he wore an irreproachable frock-coat and shining linen; she interpreted these changes as corresponding
with the improvement in his prospects, and judged that the profession of literature was answering
fairly well.

They shook hands seriously, as if they attached importance to these trifles. "Am I dreadfully
late?" she asked.

"Dreadfully." He smiled with one corner of his mouth, holding his cigarette firmly in the other,
while he took from her the little cape she carried over her arm.

"I expect I've kept you waiting a good bit?" A keen observer of Flossie's face might have detected
in it a faintly triumphant appreciation of the fact. "I'm awfully sorry I got behind-hand and
had to stay till I'd finished up."

"Never mind, Flossie, it don't matter. At any rate it's worth it." The words implied that Mr.
Rickman's time was valuable, otherwise he would not have given it to Flossie. "Where shall
we go, and what shall we do?"

"I don't much care."

"Shall we have tea somewhere while we're making up our minds?"

"Well--I wouldn't mind. I hadn't time to get any at the Bank."

"All right. Come along." And they plunged into Cheapside again, he breasting the stream, making
a passage for her. They found a favourite confectioner's in St. Paul's Churchyard, where they
had sometimes gone before. He noticed that she took her seat with rather a weary air.

"Floss, you must come for a walk on the Embankment. You look as if you didn't get out enough.
Why will you go up and down in that abominable underground? You're awfully white, you know."

"I never had a red face."

"Then what's the matter?"

"Nothing, I shall be better when I've had my tea."

She had her tea, which after a proper protest on her part was paid for by Rickman. Then they
turned into the cathedral gardens, where it was still pleasant under the trees. Thus approached
from the north-east, the building rose up before them in detached incoherent masses, the curve
of its great dome broken by the line of the north transept seen obliquely from below. It turned
a forbidding face citywards, a face of sallow stone blackened by immemorial grime, while the
north-west columns of the portico shone almost white against the nearer gloom.

"It's clever of it to look so beautiful," murmured Rickman, "when it's so infernally ugly."
He stood for a few minutes, lost in admiration of its eccentricity. Thus interested, he was
not aware that his own expression had grown somewhat abstracted, impersonal and cold.

"I call that silly," said Flossie, looking at him out of the corner of her black eyes. Had
he come there to pay attention--to the Cathedral?

"Do you? Why?"

"Because--I suppose you wouldn't say I was beautiful if I were--well, downright ugly?"

"I might, Flossie, if your ugliness was as characteristic, as suggestive as this."

Flossie shrugged her shoulders (not, he thought, a pretty action in a lady with so short a
neck). To her St. Paul's was about as beautiful as the Bank and infinitely less "suggestive."
Mr. Rickman interpreted her apathy as fatigue and looked about for a lonely seat. They found
one under the angle of the transept.

"Let's sit down here," he said; "better not exert ourselves violently so soon after tea."

"For all the tea I've had, it wouldn't matter," said Flossie as if resenting an ignoble implication.
Rickman laughed a little uncomfortably and blushed. Perhaps she had hardly given him the right
to concern himself with these intimate matters. Yet from the very first his feeling for Flossie
had shown itself in minute cares for her physical well-being. They sat for a while in silence.
A man passed them smoking; he turned his head to look back at the girl, and the flying ash
from his cigarette lighted on her dress.

"Confound the brute!" said Rickman, trying to brush away the obnoxious powder with a touch
which would have been more effectual if it had been less of a caress. She shivered slightly,
and he put her cape gently about her shoulders. A curious garment, Flossie's cape, made of
some thin grey-blue stuff, with gold braid on the collar, cheap, pretty and a little vulgar.

"There's not much warmth in that thing," he said, feeling it with his fingers.

"I don't want to be warm, thank you, a day like this," she retorted, pushing back the cape.
For, though it was no longer spring, Flossie's dream tugged at her heartstrings. There was
a dull anger against him in her heart. At that moment Flossie could have fought savagely for
her dream.

What could have made her so irritable, poor little girl? She didn't look well; or--perhaps
it was her work. He was sorry for all women who worked. And Flossie--she was such an utter
woman. That touch of exaggeration in the curves of her soft figure made her irresistibly, superlatively
feminine. To be sure, as he had hinted in that unguarded moment, her beauty was of the kind
that suggests nothing more interesting than itself. Yet there were times when it had power
over him, when he was helpless and stupid before it. And now, as he leaned back looking at
her, his intellect seemed to melt away gradually and merge in dreamy sense. They sat for a
while, still without speaking; then he suddenly bent forward, gazing into her eyes.

"What is it, Flossie? Tell me."

Flossie turned away her face from the excited face approaching it.

"Tell me."

"It's nothing. Can't you see I'm only tired. I've 'ad a hard day."

"I thought you never had hard days at the Bank?"

"No. No more we do--not to speak of."

"Then it's something you don't like to speak of. I say--have the other women been worrying you?"

"No, I should think not indeed. Catch any one trying that on with me!"

"Then I can't see what it can be."

"I daresay you can't. You don't know what it is! It's not much, but it's the same thing day
after day, day after day, till I'm sick and tired of it all! I don't see any end to it either."

"I'm so sorry, Floss," said Rickman in a queer thick voice. She had turned her face towards
him now, and its expression was inscrutable--to him. To another man it would have said that
it was all very well for him to be sorry; he could put a stop to it soon enough if he liked.

"Oh--you needn't be sorry."

"Why not? Do you think I don't care?"

Immense play of expression on Flossie's face. She bit her lip; and that meant that he might
care no end, or he mightn't care a rap, how was she to know? She smiled a bitter smile as much
as to say that she didn't know, neither did she greatly care. Then her lips quivered, which
meant that if by any chance he did care, it was a cruel shame to leave a poor girl in the dark.

"Care? About the Bank?" she said at last. "You needn't. I shan't stand it much longer. I shall
fling it up some of these days; see if I don't."

"Would that be wise?"

"I don't know whether it's wise or not. I know I can't go on like this for ever."

"Yes, but would anything else be better, or even half as good? You didn't get much fun out
of that last place, you know."

"Well, for all the fun I get out of that old Bank, I might as well be in a ladies' boarding
school. If I thought it would end in anything--but it won't."

"How do you know? It may end in your marrying a big fat manager."

"Don't be silly."

"Supposing you knew it would end some day, not necessarily in marrying the manager, would you
mind going on with it?"

She looked away from him, and tears formed under her eyelashes, the vague light tears that
never fall. "There's no use my talking of flinging it up. I'm fixed there for good."

"Who knows?" said Rickman; and if Flossie's eyes had been candid they would have said, "You
ought to know, if anybody does." Whatever they said, it made him shudder, with fear, with shame,
but no, not with hatred. "Poor Flossie," he said gently; and there was a pause during which
Flossie looked more demure than ever after her little outburst. She had seen the look in his
eyes that foreboded flight.

He rose abruptly. "Do you know, I'm awfully sorry, but I've got an appointment at half past
five to meet a fellow in Fleet Street."

The fellow was Maddox, but the appointment, he had made it that very minute, which was the
twenty-fifth minute past five.

They went their ways; he to Fleet Street, and she home. Maddox did not turn up to the appointment
and Rickman had to keep it with himself. As the result of the interview he determined to try
the effect of a little timely absence. He did not attempt to conceal from himself that he was
really most Horribly afraid; his state of mind or rather body (for the disorder was purely
physical) was such that he positively dared not remain in the same house with Flossie another
day. What he needed was change of air and scene. He approached Mrs. Downey with a shame-faced
air, and a tale of how he was seedy and thought if he could get away for a week it would set
him up. It seemed to him that Mrs. Downey's manner conveyed the most perfect comprehension
of his condition. He did not care; he was brought so low that he could almost have confided
in Mrs. Downey. "Mark my words," said the wise woman to the drawing-room. "He'll be back again
before the week's up." And as usual, little Flossie marked them.

He walked out to Hampstead that very evening and engaged rooms there by the week, on the understanding
that he might require them for a month or more. He did not certainly know how long the cure
would take.

Hampstead is a charming and salubrious suburb, and Jewdwine was really very decent to him while
he was there, but in four days he had had more of the cure than he wanted. Or was it that he
didn't want to be cured? Anyway a week was enough to prove that the flight to Hampstead was
a mistake. He had now an opportunity of observing Miss Flossie from a judicious distance, with
the result that her image was seen through a tender wash of atmosphere at the precise moment
when it acquired relief. He began to miss her morning greetings, the soft touch of her hand
when they said good-night, and the voice that seemed to be always saying, "How orf'ly good
of you," "Thanks orf'ly, Mr. Rickman, I've had a lovely day." He hadn't given her many lovely
days lately, poor little girl.

At the end of the week, coming up from Fleet Street, instead of making straight for the Hampstead
Road as he ought to have done, he found himself turning aside in the direction of Tavistock
Place. The excuse that he made to himself was that he wanted a book that he had left behind
at Mrs. Downey's. Now it was not in the least likely that he had left it in the dining-room,
nor yet in the drawing-room, but it was in those places that he thought of looking first. Not
finding what he wanted, he went on dejectedly to the second floor, feeling that he must fulfil
the quest that justified his presence. And there in his study, in, yes, in it, as far in as
anybody could get, by the bookcase next the window, Flossie was sitting; and sitting (if you
could believe it) on the floor; sitting and moving her hands along the shelves as familiarly
as you please. Good Heavens! if she wasn't busy dusting his books!

Flossie didn't see him, for she had her back to the door; and he stood there on the threshold
for a second, just looking at her. She wore a loose dark-blue overall evidently intended to
wrap her up and conceal her. But so far from concealing her, the overall, tucked in and smoothed
out, and altogether adorably moulded by her crouching attitude, betrayed the full but tender
outline of her body. Her face, all but the white curve of her cheek and forehead, was hidden
from him, but he could see the ivory bistre at the nape of her bowed neck, with the delicate
black tendrils of her curls clustering above it. Her throat, as she stooped over her task,
was puckered and gathered, like some incredibly soft stuff, in little folds under her chin.
He drew in his breath with a sighing sound which to Flossie was the first intimation of his
presence.

To say that Flossie rose to her feet would be a misleading description of her method. She held
on to the edge of a bookshelf by the tips of her fingers and drew herself up from the floor,
slowly, as it were by some mysterious unfolding process, not ungraceful. She turned on him
the wide half-mischievous, half-frightened eyes of a child caught this time in some superb
enormity.

"Flossie," he said with an affectation of severity, "what have you been doing?"

She produced her duster gingerly. "You can see," said she, "only I didn't mean you to catch
me at it." She knelt down by the fireplace and gave her duster a little flick up the chimney.
"I never, never in all my life saw such a lot of dust. I can't think how you've gone on living
with it."

He smiled. "No more can I, Flossie. I don't know how I did it."

"Well, you haven't got to do it, now. It's all perfectly sweet and clean."

"It's all perfectly sweet, I know that, dear." She turned towards the door but not without
a dissatisfied look back at the bookcase she had left. "Aren't you going to let me thank you?"

"You needn't. I was only helping Mrs. Downey."

"Oh--"

"She's been having a grand turn-out while you were away."

"The deuce she has--"

"Oh you needn't be frightened. Nobody's touched your precious books but me. I wouldn't let them."

"Why wouldn't you let them?"

"Be-cause--Oh, I say, it's six o'clock; are you going to stay?"

"Perhaps. Why?"

"Because I'd only one more shelf to dust and then I'd 'ave finished. I--I'm in rather a hurry."

"Why won't you stay and dust it now?"

"Well--you know--" She took one step inside the room timidly, then another, and stood still.

"Is it me you're afraid of? I'll sit outside, on the stairs, if you'd rather."

"How silly!" She removed an invisible atom of dust from a chair as she spoke, as much as to
say she was inspired solely by the instinct of order.

The diminutive smile played about the corners of her mouth. "Miss Roots said I'd better not
meddle with your books."

"Did she? Then Miss Roots is a beast."

"She seemed to think I didn't know how to dust them."

"Perhaps she's right. I say, suppose you let me see."

And Flossie, willingly cajoled, began again, and, as he saw with horror, on his hoarded relics
of the Harden library. "No, Flossie," he said, with a queer change in his voice. "Not those."
But Flossie's fingers moved along their tops with a delicacy born of the incessant manipulation
of bank notes. All the same, she did do it wrong, for she dusted towards the backs instead
of away from them. But he hadn't the heart to correct her. He watched a moment; then he pretended
to be looking for the book he had pretended he wanted to find, then he sat down and pretended
to write a letter whilst Flossie went on dusting, skilfully, delicately. She even managed to
get through ten volumes of his own Bekker's Plato without damage to the beautiful but perishing
Russia leather. That made it all the more singular that the back of the eleventh volume should
come off suddenly with a rip.

She gave a little cry of dismay. He looked up, and she came to him holding the book in one
hand and its back in the other. She really was a little frightened. "Look," she said, "I didn't
think it would have gone and done like that."

"Oh, I say, Flossie--"

"I'm orf'ly sorry." Her mouth dropped, not unbecomingly; her eyes were so liquid that he could
have sworn they had tears in them. She looked more than ever like an unhappy child, standing
beside him in her long straight overall. "And I wouldn't let anybody look at them but me."

"Why wouldn't you? I've asked you that before, Flossie--why wouldn't you?" He took the book
and its mutilated fragment from her, and held both her hands in his.

"Because I knew you were fond enough of them."

"And is there anything I wasn't fond enough of--do you think?"

"I don't think; I know."

"No, you know nothing, you know nothing at all about anything. What did you think?"

"I thought you hated me."

"Hated you?"

"Yes. Hated me like poison."

He put his arms about her, gathering her to him! He drew her head down over his heart. "I hate
you like this--and this--and this," he said, kissing in turn her forehead, her eyelids and
her mouth. He held her at arm's length and gazed at her as if he wondered whether they were
the same woman, the Flossie he had once known, and this Flossie that he had kissed. Then he
led her to the sofa, and drew her down by his side, and held her hands to keep her there. And
yet he felt that it was he who was being led; he who was being drawn, he who was being held--over
the brink of the immeasurable, inexpiable folly. In all this his genius remained alone and
apart, unmoved by anything he did or said, as if it knew that through it all the golden chain
still held.

Her mouth quivered. "If you didn't hate me, why were you so rude to me, then?" was the first
thing she said.

"Because I loved you when I didn't want to love you, and it was more than I could stand. And
because--because I didn't know it. But you knew it," he said almost savagely. It seemed to
him that his tongue refused the guidance of his brain.

"I'm sure I didn't know anything of the sort." Her mouth quivered again; but this time it was
with a smile.

"Why not? Because I didn't say so in a lot of stupid words? You are literal. But surely you
understood? Not just at first, of course; I didn't care a bit at first; I didn't care till
long after."

"Long after what?" Flossie was thinking of Miss Poppy Grace on the balcony next door.

"Never mind what."

Flossie knew all about Miss Poppy Grace, and she didn't mind at all.

"Would I be here now if I didn't love you?" He still had to persuade himself that this was
love. It seemed incredible.

"Rubbish--you know you only came to look at those silly old books," said Flossie, nodding contemptuously
towards the bookcase.

"Did you imagine I was in love with them? And think of all the things we've done together.
Didn't you know? Didn't you feel it coming on?"

"I know you've been orf'ly good--orf'ly. But as for anything else, I'm sure I never thought of it."

"Then think of it now. Or--does that mean that you don't care for me?"

There was an awful pause. Then Flossie said very indistinctly, so indistinctly that he had
to lean his face to hers to catch the words, "No, of course it doesn't." Her voice cleared
suddenly. "But if you didn't hate me, why did you go away?"

"I went away because I was ill."

"And are you any better?"

"Yes, I think I'm better. I think I'm nearly all right now. I might say I'll undertake never
to be ill again, at least, not if you'll marry me."

At these words his genius turned and looked at him with eyes ominous and aghast. He had a vision
of another woman kneeling beside a hearth as her hands tended a dying fire. And he hardly saw
the woman at his side as he drew her to him and kissed her again because of the pain at his
heart. And Flossie wondered why in that moment he did not look at her.

He was looking now. And as he looked his genius hid his face.

"You knew that was what I wanted?"

She shook her head slowly. "What does that mean? That you didn't know? Or that you won't? But
you will, Flossie?"

As he drew her to him a second time the old terror woke in his heart; but only for a moment.
For this time Flossie kissed him of her own accord, with a kiss, not passionate like his own,
but sweet and fugitive. It was like a reminder of the transience of the thing he sought, a
challenge rousing him to assert its immortality.

He put her from him, and stooped over his own outstretched arms and clasped hands; staring
stupidly at the floor. When he spoke again it was hardly, incisively, as a man speaks the truth
he hates. "Do you know what this means? It means waiting."

"Waiting?"

"Yes. I'm not a bit well off, you know; I couldn't give you the sort of home you ought to have
just yet. I'd no business to say anything about it; but somehow I thought you'd rather know.
And of course I've no business to ask you, but--will you wait?"

"Well--if we must, we must."

"And if it means working at that beastly Bank for another year, do you think you can keep it
up so long?"

"I'll try to."

She leaned towards him, and they sat there, holding each other's hands, looking into each other's
eyes, hearing nothing, feeling nothing, but the beating of their own riotous hearts.

It was love as nature loves to have it. It was also what men call honest love. But in the days
when he had loved dishonestly, he had never slipped from Poppy Grace's side with such a sense
of misery and solitude and shame.

CHAPTER XLVII

The game was over and Flossie had won. She had forced Fate's hand, or rather, Mr Rickman's.
Not by any coarse premeditated methods; Flossie was too subtly feminine for that. She had trusted
rather to the inspiration of the moment, and when her beautiful womanly emotions gave her the
opening she had simply followed it, that was all. And could anything have been more correct?
She had not "given herself away" once by word or look. With true maidenly modesty she had hidden
her own feelings until she was perfectly sure of Mr. Rickman's. There was nothing--nothing
to make her feel ashamed when she looked back upon that day; a reflection from which she derived
much consolation afterwards.

It gave her courage to fly downstairs to Mrs. Downey's private room where that lady sat doing
her accounts, to lean over the back of Mrs. Downey's chair and to whisper into her ear, "I've
been dusting Mr. Rickman's books, He caught me at it."

Mrs. Downey could not have shown more excitement if Flossie had told her that the kitchen boiler
had burst. "Flossie! My goodness, whatever did he say?"

"He didn't mind one bit. Only--you won't tell him you told me not to touch them, will you,
Mrs. Downey?" She brought her soft blushing cheek close to Mrs. Downey's and the warmth of
it told her tale.

And Mrs. Downey promised not to tell, pardoning the subterfuge for love's sake, which excuses
all. "Has he gone, Flossie?" she inquired anxiously.

"No. He's not going. He's come back for good."

"There! Didn't I say he would!"

"And what d'you think," said Flossie, sitting down and spreading her plump arm on the secretary
all over the accounts. "He's done it. He did it up there."

Mrs. Downey stared, and Flossie nodded as much as to say "Fact!"

"You don't mean to say so?"

"Nobody's more surprised than myself."

The rest was kisses and congratulations, wholly magnanimous on Mrs. Downey's part; for the
announcement of Flossie's engagement cost her one of the gayest, most desirable, and most remunerative
of her brilliant circle. Mr. Spinks (regarded by himself and everybody else as permanent) gave
notice and vanished from that hour, carrying with him the hopes of Miss Ada Bishop. Meanwhile
Flossie (hitherto regarded from a merely decorative point of view) became a person of considerable
importance in the boarding-house. It was not merely that she was an engaged young lady; for,
as Miss Bishop pointed out to her with some natural asperity, anybody can be engaged; but she
had now the privilege, denied to any other boarder, of going in and out of Mr. Rickman's study.
She said that she went in to tidy it; but strange to say, the more Flossie tidied it the more
hopeless it became. Mr. Rickman's study was never what you might call a really tidy room; but
at any rate there had always been a certain repose about it. And now you could not well imagine
a more unrestful place, a place more suggestive of hurry and disorder, of an utter lack of
the leisure in which ideas ripen and grow great.

The table had become a troubled sea of primeval manuscript, where Mr. Rickman sat with his
head in his hands, brooding over the face of the waters. He had once profanely said that God's
world was a chaos he had got to work on. Now it was his world that was chaos. A tempestuous
chaos, where things to be weltered in the wreck of things that were. Rickman's genius, like
Nature, destroyed in order that it might create; yet it seemed to him that nowadays the destruction
was out of all proportion to the creation. He sighed as he gazed at the piteous fragments that
represented six months' labour; fragments that wept blood; the torn and mutilated limbs of
living thoughts; with here and there huge torsos of blank verse, lopped and hewn in the omnipotent
fury of a god at war with his world; mixed up with undeveloped and ethereal shapes, the embryos
of dreams.

And yet it was not altogether the divine rage of the artist that had wrought this havoc. The
confusion argued a power at war with itself rather than with its creations; the very vastness
of it all suggested a deity tied as to time, but apparently unshackled as to space. That was
it. There really wasn't as much time as there used to be. It was in his free evenings and on
Sundays that his best thoughts came to him, the beautiful shy thoughts that must be delicately
courted. And now his free evenings and his Sundays were given up to the courting of Flossie.
And even on a week-day this was what would happen. He would rush home early from Fleet Street
and settle down for two hours' work before dinner. Then a little timid knock would be heard
at the door, and Flossie would come in bringing him a cup of tea. He couldn't just swill it
down like a pig and send the dear little thing away. He had to let her sit and see him drink
it, slowly, as if he thoroughly enjoyed it. Or he would come in (as on that blessed evening
six months ago) and find Flossie dusting books; standing perhaps on two tottering hassocks
and a chair, at an altitude perilous to so plump a person. And Flossie had to be lifted down
from the hassocks and punished with hard kisses, and told not to do it again. And Flossie would
do it again. So that a great deal of time was lost in this way. And with the touch of those
soft little arms about his neck demoralization would set in for the evening.

And then there was Flossie's education to be attended to; and that took more time than anything.
It meant that, as the November days drew in, he had to read or talk to Flossie as she sat in
his armchair with her dear little feet on his fender, and her dear little hands mending his
socks and shirts and things. They might have been married for years, only they weren't; that
was what made it so exciting. Flossie's hands were always mending or making something (generally
something to wear), and it was rather strange that it never occurred to such a busy person
that other people might be busy too. He tried to break it to her. He told her (like a brute)
that he thought all his things must be mended now, and that perhaps for another week he would
be better without any tea. And Flossie (very naturally offended) didn't put her dear little
nose in at his door for two weeks. And for all you could get through in that time it was hardly
worth while offending her.

But he was very far wrong in supposing that Flossie never thought about his work. She had been
thinking a great deal about it lately. One cold bright Sunday morning in November she tapped
at his door and walked in dressed for the open air. "Aren't you coming for a walk," she said,
"this lovely day?"

"Too busy." To signify his annoyance, or to keep himself from temptation, he bent closer over
the article he was writing for The Museion. She came and stood beside him, watching him as
he worked, still with his air of passionate preoccupation. Presently he found himself drawn
against his will into the following conversation.

"How long does it take you to do one of those things?"

"It depends."

"Depends on what?"

"Oh, on the amount of trouble I take over it."

"And do they pay you any more for taking trouble?"

"No, Flossie. I'm sorry to say they frequently pay me less."

"Then why on earth do you do it?"

This question seemed to him so curious that it caused him to look up, beholding for the first
time the plump figure clothed entirely in a new suit of brown, and wearing on its head a fascinating
hat made of something that resembled fur. He tried to look at it with disapproval, while his
mind dealt independently with the amazing question put to him.

"Well, Flossie, if you really care anything about style--"

"Style?" She stroked down the front of her jacket with a delicious movement of her little hands.
"Don't you like it?"

He smiled. "I adore it. It makes you look like a dear little brown Beaver, as you are." "The
Beaver" was only one of the many names he had for her; it was suggested irresistibly by her
plumpness, her singularly practical intelligence, and her secretive ways.

"Then what do you mean by style?" asked the Beaver in a challenging tone that forced him to
lay down his pen.

"What do I mean by style?" He explained, moved by the mad lust for mystification which seizes
a man in the presence of adorable simplicity. "I don't mean anything in the least resembling
a Beaver's coat (there really isn't any style about a Beaver's coat). And if you want me to
say it's the clothing of your thoughts, I won't. The less clothing they have the better. It
can't be treated as a Beaver treats its coats. You can put it on and off (I was putting it
on when you came in and interrupted me); and you can mend it, and brush it up a bit; but you
can't measure it, or make it to order, and when it wears out you can't get another where you
got the first. Style isn't the clothing, it's the body of your thoughts, my Beaver; and in
a slap-up, A 1 style, the style of the masters, my style, you can't tell the body from the soul."

"If you'd said you couldn't tell the body from the skirt it would sound like sense."

That remark was (for the Beaver) really so witty that he leaned back in his chair and laughed
at it. But the Beaver was in no laughing humour. "Look here," she said, "you say that if you
write those stylish things that take up such a lot of time, they only pay you less for them."

"Well?"

"Well, is it fair of you to go on writing them?"

"Fair of me? My dear child, why not?"

"Be-cause, if I buy stylish things I have to pay for them. And I've been buying them long enough,
just to please you."

"I don't follow. But I suppose a Beaver has to reason backwards; because, you know, all its
intelligence is in its tail."

"Gracious, Keith! You are a silly."

"I am not alone in my opinion. It's the opinion of some very eminent zoologists." He drew her
gently on his knee; raised her veil and looked into her eyes. They were (as he had often had
occasion to notice) of so deep and black a black that the iris was indistinguishable from the
pupil, and this blackness limited the range of their expression. They could only tell you what
Flossie was feeling, never what she was thinking; for thought requires a translucent medium,
and the light of Flossie's eyes was all on the surface. On the other hand, the turns and movements
of her body were always a sufficient indication of the attitude of her mind. At the present
moment, sitting on Keith's knee, her pose was not one of pure complacency. But holding her
there, that little brown Beaver, his own unyielding virile body deliciously aware of the strange,
incredible softness of hers, he wondered whether it were possible for him to feel anything
but tender to a creature so strangely and pathetically made. Positively she seemed to melt
and grow softer by sheer contact; and presently she smiled a sweet diminutive smile that didn't
uncover more than two of her little white teeth.

"Oh, what a shame it is to treat a Beaver so!" said he.

"When are you going to take me for a nice walk?" said she. "Any time before Christmas?"

"Perhaps. But you mustn't build on it."

"I don't see that I can build on anything at this rate."

"I suppose a Beaver can't be happy unless it's always building? That's why some people say
it hasn't any intelligence at all. They won't even allow that it can build. They think its
architectural talent is all a delusion and a sham; because it builds in season and out of season.
Keep it in your study, and it will make a moat round the hearthrug with tobacco pouches and
manuscripts and boots--whatever it can lay its hands on. It will even take the ideas out of
a man's head, if it can't find anything better. Is there any logic in an animal that can do
that?" And if Flossie did not understand the drift of these remarks at least she seemed to
understand the kisses that punctuated them.

But before very long he obtained more light on the Beaver's logic, and owned that it was singularly
sound. They managed to put in a great many nice walks between that Sunday and Christmas. Whenever
he could spare time Rickman made a point of meeting Flossie at the end of her day's work. He
generally waited at the corner where the long windowless wall of the Bank stretches along Prince's
Street, iron and implacable. It was too cold now to sit under the shadow of St. Paul's. Sometimes
they would walk home along Holborn, sometimes they would go down Ludgate Hill and thence on
to the Embankment. It was certainly better for Flossie to be out of doors than in the dingy
drawing-room in Tavistock Place. They could talk freely in the less crowded thorough-fares;
and it was surprising the things they still found to say to each other all about nothing. Every
trace of Flossie's depression had vanished; she walked with a brisk step, she chatted gaily,
she laughed the happiest laughter at the poorest jokes. All was going well; and why, oh why
could he not let well alone?

They were walking on the Embankment one day, and she, for such a correct little person, was
mad with mirth, when he broke out. "Flossie, you little lunatic! You might be going to marry
a stock-broker instead of a journalist."

"I'm going to marry a very rich man--for me."

"For you, darling? A devilish poor one, I'm afraid."

"Oh don't! We've said enough about that."

"Yes, but I haven't told you everything. Do you know, I might have been fairly well off by
now, if I'd only chosen."

Now there was no need whatever for him to make that revelation. He was driven to it by vanity.
He wanted to make an impression. He wanted Flossie to see him in all his moral beauty.

"How was that?" she asked with interest.

"I can't tell you much about it. It was something to do with business. I got an offer of a
thumping big partnership three years ago--and I refused it."

He had made an impression. Flossie turned on him a look of wonder, a look uncertain and inscrutable.
"What did you do that for?"

"I did it because it was right. I didn't like the business."

"That's not quite the same thing, is it?"

"Not always. It happened to be in this case."

"Why, what sort of business was it?"

"It wasn't scavenging, and it wasn't burglary--exactly. It was--" he hesitated--"only the second-hand
book-trade."

"I know--they make a lot of money that way."

"They make too much for my taste sometimes. Besides--"

"Besides what?" They had turned into an embrasure of the parapet to discuss this question.
They stood close together looking over the river.

"It isn't my trade. I'm only a blooming journalist."

"You don't make so very much out of that, do you? Is that the reason why we have to wait?"

