Absurd as it is, Society, which is founded on the family, is to-day giving only perfunctory
and half-hearted attention to the family. The whole vocabulary of the institution has taken
on such a quality of cant, that one almost hesitates to use the words "home" and "mother"!
A girl's education should contain at least as much serious instruction on the relation of the
family to Society as it does on the relation of the Carboniferous Age to the making of the
globe. At present, it usually has less. It is but another evidence of the pressing need there
is of giving to the Woman's Business a more scientific treatment--of revitalizing its vocabulary,
reformulating its problems, of giving it the dignity it deserves, that of a great profession.
It is the failure to do this which is at the bottom of woman's present disorderly and antisocial
handling of three of the leading occupations of her life--her clothes, her domestics, and her
daughter.

CHAPTER V

A WOMAN AND HER RAIMENT

One of the most domineering impulses in men and women is that bidding them to make themselves
beautiful. In the normal girl-child it comes out, as does her craving for a doll. Nature is
telling her what her work in the world is to be. It stays with her to the end, its flame often
flickering long after her arms have ceased their desire to cradle a child. Scorn it, ridicule
it, deny it, it is nature's will, and as such must be obeyed, and in the obeying should be honored.

But this instinct, which has led men and women from strings of shells to modern clothes, like
every other human instinct, has its distortions. It is in the failure to see the relative importance
of things, to keep the proportions, that human beings lose control of their endowment. Give
an instinct an inch, and it invariably takes its ell! The instinct for clothes, from which
we have learned so much in our climb from savagery, has more than once had the upper hand of
us. So dangerous to the prosperity and the seriousness of peoples has its tyranny been, that
laws have again and again been passed to check it; punishments have been devised to frighten
off men from indulging it; whole classes have been put into dull and formless costumes to crucify
it.

Man gradually and in the main has conquered his passion for ornament. To-day, in the leading
nations of the world, he clothes rather than arrays himself. Woman has not harnessed the instinct.
She still allows it to drive her, and often to her own grave prejudice. Even in a democracy
like our own, woman has not been able to master this problem of clothes. In fact, democracy
has complicated the problem seriously.

Under the old régime costumes had been worked out for the various classes. They were adapted
both to the purse and to the pursuit. They were fitting--that is, silk was not worn in huts
or homespun in palaces; slippers were for carriages and sabots for streets. The garments of
a class were founded on good sound principles on the whole--but they marked the class. Democracy
sought to destroy outward distinctions. The proscribed costumes went into the pot with proscribed
positions. Under democracy we can cook in silk petticoats and go to the White House in a cap
and apron, if we will. And we often will, that being a way to advertise our equality!

Class costumes destroyed, the principles back of them, that is, fitness, quality, responsibility,
were forgotten. The old instinct for ornament broke loose. Its tyranny was strengthened by
the eternal desire of the individual to prove himself superior to his fellows. Wealth is the
generally accepted standard of measurement of value in this country to-day, and there is no
way in which the average man can show wealth so clearly as in encouraging his women folk to
array themselves. Thus we have the anomaly in a democracy of a primitive instinct let loose,
and the adoption of discarded aristocratic devices for proving you are better than your neighbor,
at least in the one revered particular of having more money to spend!

The complication of the woman's life by this domination of clothes is extremely serious. In
many cases it becomes not one of the sides of her business, but the business of her life. Such
undue proportion has the matter taken in the American Woman's life under democracy that one
is sometimes inclined to wonder if it is not the real "woman question." Certainly in numbers
of cases it is the rock upon which a family's happiness splits. The point is not at all that
women should not occupy themselves seriously with dress, that they should not look on it as
an art, as legitimate as any other. The difficulty comes in not mastering the art, in the entirely
disproportionate amount of attention which is given to the subject, in the disregard of sound
principles.

The economic side of the matter presses hard on the whole country. It is not too much to say
that the chief economic concern of a great body of women is how to get money to dress, not
as they should, but as they want to. It is to get money for clothes that drives many, though
of course not the majority, of girls, into shops, factories, and offices. It is because they
are using all they earn on themselves that they are able to make the brave showing that they
do. Many a girl is misjudged by the well-meaning observer or investigator because of this fact--"She
could never dress like that on $6, $8, or $15 a week and support herself," they tell you. She
does not support herself. She works for clothes, and clothes alone. Moreover, the girl who
has the pluck to do hard regular work that she may dress better has interest enough to work
at night to make her earnings go farther. No one who has been thrown much with office girls
but knows case after case of girls who with the aid of some older member of the family cut
and make their gowns, plan and trim their hats. Moreover, this relieving the family budget
of dressing the girl is a boon to fathers and mothers.

It is hard on industry, however, for the wage earner who can afford to take $6 or $8 helps
pull down the wages of other thousands who support not only themselves, but others.

Moreover, to put in one's days in hard labor simply to dress well, for that is the amount of
it, is demoralizing. It is this emphasis on the matter which impels a reckless girl sometimes
to sell herself for money to buy clothes. "I wanted the money," I heard a girl, arrested for
her first street soliciting, tell the judge. "Had you no home?" "Yes." "A good home?" "Yes."
"For what did you want money?" "Clothes."

"Gee, but I felt as if I would give anything for one of them willow plumes," a pretty sixteen-year-old
girl told the police matron who had rescued her from a man with whom she had left home, because
he promised her silk gowns and hats with feathers.

This ugly preoccupation with dress does not begin with the bottom of society. It exists there
because it exists at the top and filters down. In each successive layer there are women to
whom dress is as much of a vice as it was for the poor little girls I quote above. It is a
vice curiously parallel to that of gambling among men. Women of great wealth not infrequently
spend princely allowances and then run accounts which come into the courts by their inability
or unwillingness to pay them. It is curious comment on women in a democracy that it should
be possible to mention them in the same breath with Josephine, Empress of the French. Napoleon
at the beginning of the Empire allowed Josephine $72,000 a year for her toilet; later he made
it $90,000. But there was never a year she did not far outstrip the allowance. Masson declares
that on an average she spent $220,000 a year, and the itemized accounts of the articles in
her wardrobe give authority for the amount.

Josephine's case is of course exceptional in history. She was an untrained woman, generous
and pleasure-loving, utterly without a sense of responsibility. She had all the instincts and
habits of a demi-mondaine; moreover, she had been thrust into a position where she was expected
to live up to traditions of great magnificence. Her passion for ornament had every temptation
and excuse, for it was constantly excited by the hoards of greedy tradesmen and of no less
greedy ladies-in-waiting who hung about her urging her to buy and give. It is hard to believe
that Josephine's case could be even remotely suggested in our democracy; yet one woman in American
society bought last summer in Europe a half-dozen nightgowns for which she paid a thousand
dollars apiece. There are women who will start on a journey with a hundred or a hundred and
fifty pairs of shoes. There are others who bring back from Europe forty or fifty new gowns
for a season! What can one think of a bill of $500 for stockings in one season, of $20,000
for a season's gowns, coats and hats from one shop and as much more in the aggregate for the
same articles in the same period from other shops; this showing was made in a recent divorce case.

What can one think of duties of over $30,000 paid on personal articles by one woman who yearly
brings back similar quantities of jewelry and clothes. This $30,000 in duties meant an expenditure
of probably about $100,000. It included over $1200 for hats, over $3000 for corsets and lingerie.
This was undoubtedly exceptional; that is, few women of even great wealth buy so lavishly.
Yet good round sums, even if they are small in comparison, are spent by many women in their
European outings. They will bring from six to twelve gowns which will average at least $150
apiece, and an occasional woman will have a half-dozen averaging from $450 to $500 apiece.
One might say that eight to twelve hats, costing $25 to $50 apiece, was a fair average, though
$800 to $1200 worth is not so rare as to cause a panic at the customhouse.

The comparative amounts which men and women spend affords an interesting comment on the relative
importance which men and women attach to clothes. In one case of which I happen to know Mr.
A. brought in $840 worth of wearing apparel: Mrs. A. nearly $10,000 worth, of which $7000 was
for gowns. A man may have eight to ten suits of pajamas which cost him $10 apiece, a dozen
or two waistcoats, a dozen or two shirts, a few dozen handkerchiefs and gloves, a dozen or
so ties, eight or ten suits of clothes, but from $500 to $1000 will cover his wardrobe; his
wife will often spend as much for hats alone as he does for an entire outfit!

The difficulty in these great expenditures is that they set a pace. To many women of wealth
they are no doubt revolting. They recognize that there are only two classes of women who can
justify them--the actress and the demi-mondaine. Yet insensibly many of these women yield to
the pressure of temptation. The influence is subtle, often unconscious, and for this reason
spreads the more widely. Women all over the country find that the pressure is to spend more
for clothes each year. The standard changes. Occasions multiply. Fantasies entice. Before they
know it their clothes are costing them a disproportionate sum--more than they can afford if
their budget is to balance.

This does not apply to one class, it creeps steadily down to the very poor. Investigators of
small household budgets lay it down as a rule that as the income increases the percentage spent
for clothing increases more rapidly than for any other item. It is true in the professional
classes, and especially burdensome there; for the income is usually small, but the social demand
great.

