CONTENTS

 CHAP.

     I  MAC BECOMES A TROOPER
    II  MAC EMBARKS FOR OVERSEAS
   III  SORROWS AND JOYS IN A TROOPSHIP
    IV  LAZY SHIPBOARD LIFE
     V  ASHORE AGAIN
    VI  DAYS IN THE DESERT
   VII  MAC GOES TO CAIRO
  VIII  MAC TOURS IN COMFORT
    IX  MAC LUNCHES WITH THE SULTAN
     X  MAC DISAPPROVES OF BEING LEFT
    XI  MAC LEAVES FOR ACTIVE SERVICE
   XII  GALLIPOLI AT LAST
  XIII  MAC JOINS IN THE WAR
   XIV  A WEARY DAY
    XV  MAC IS SLEEPY
   XVI  VARIOUS MISFORTUNES
  XVII  AN OUTPOST AFFAIR
 XVIII  SUMMER DRAGS ON
   XIX  MAC TAKES A CHANGE
    XX  ANZAC AWAKES
   XXI  NO. 3, TABLE TOP AND SUVLA BAY
  XXII  THE NIGHT BATTLE ON CHANAK BAIR
 XXIII  MAC IS WOUNDED
  XXIV  THE END OF MAC'S CAMPAIGNING DAYS
   XXV  HOMEWARD

THE TALE OF A TROOPER

CHAPTER I

MAC BECOMES A TROOPER

A winter storm raged across the ridges and tore in violent gusts down the gullies, carrying
great squalls of fleecy snow. More soon time
calmed the spasms of the mediums and things returned to their being and life was the same orderly
and peaceful course. The name of the former, in order of age, was as follows: Jovita, Micaela, Socorro
and Emily. It was four apparently insignificant creatures, neither beautiful nor ugly, neither
funny nor unhappy, neither too young nor old, neither sad nor smiling. There was nothing in
them that fixed the attention. However, within the home the each character and acquired pronounced
relief. Jovita was sentimental and reserved; Micaela had a violent temper, Socorro was the kettle,
and Emily the most pert.

The two strong concerns that filled the spiritual life of D. Christopher Matthew were reduction
of military contingent and their four daughters to marry, or at least two. The first had a good way: some
time ago came the most conspicuous political leaning to that view. Regarding the latter, it hurts
us to say that he had no likelihood of class. Or by sacrificing other amenities to rags, or showing
up without limit to the balcony and on field trips or to attend the soirees of Quinones with a constancy
worthy of being awarded, could get up to the present time the precious gifts of Hymen. When a
reckless touched this issue in check, all said that while their father lived cost very sorry
to marry, that it seemed cruel to leave an old man who both wanted and both were sacrificed by
them, etc ... Here came a hearty praise of the spiritual gifts D. Cristobal. But he was in charge
of backing out innocently, showing such desire of being abandoned, so lively a desire to experience
that cruelty, which was already proverbial in Lancia. As if they alone were not enough to make
a fool, poor Matthew helped them effectively, through the eyes metiéndoselas all marriageable
young city.

The weights that the good father was the character, skill, economy and good government of their
daughters had no purpose. So a stranger came to Lancia, D. Christopher no calmed to get acquainted
with him and invited him to act continuous coffee at home and brought him to the theater to
his box and snack to the field and accompanied him to see the relics the cathedral and the tower
and the natural history cabinet, all the curiosities, in short, which contained the population.
The audience attending smiling, sly look at him leaf through, already had repeated portion of times
without success. The only one that did have a boyfriend for three or four years was Jovita.
So it was also the one that plunged the highest. Heartthrob stranger was a student that was
celebrated as the last years of the race. Been completed, he left his people and, forgetting
his promises of marriage, contracted with a rich palette. The others had not reached that lofty
level of the hierarchy of love. Vague inclinations, dreams of fifteen days, a bone down the street,
nothing between two dishes. Gradually they were coming over the cold disappointment. Although they
had not lost hope, were fatigued. The thought fixed, only that the embargo on so long, was
becoming a painful nail in the forehead. But D. Christopher or surrendered or passed through
his imagination to capitulate. Always believed blindly in the husband of daughters, and announced
with the same security as the Old Testament prophets of the coming the Messiah.

- As my daughters get married, instead of spending the summer in Sarrió, where are kept the same
Lancia cloud that, I'll go Rodillero to fresh air and fishing robalizas .-- Hear, Michelle, do not
be so lively, woman ... Understand that your husband does not have to like these geniuses; want to answer
you with reasons ...

- My husband is content with what you give - answered the girl making
a funny nerve moue of disdain.

- What if he gets angry? - Wondered
Emilita malicious tone.

- It has two jobs: one, the other the angry
and casual.

- What if you walk with the package?

- It will keep
well!

Would be able to poison!

- Jesus, the horror - the three mermaids cried laughing.

One husband scenario, that being abstract out all the time in conversation with same reality
as if it were flesh and blood and was in the adjoining room.

The starting now typing on the piano was Emilita, the most musical of the four sisters. The
other three were on their feet, holding the sleeve of his coat of
many other young people; as it were, into the breach.

The count ran a few steps with Fernanda Rosa Estrada-coming arm in arm with a friend. Apparently
it did not want to dance. It was the girl who had more sheen in the city for its beauty and elegance
and her dowry. The only child of D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, the richest banker and businessman
of the province. Tall, plump, dark brown, good and strong features, eyes large, very black,
looking disdainfully, imposing, graceful figure enhanced by a costume
luxurious and elegant that it was the amazement and envy of the girls
in the population.

There seemed Indian lady but transported from the aristocratic salons of the court.

- Fernanda How elegant! - Said the Count quietly, bowing involvement.

Beauty hardly deigned to smile, extending a little lower lip with a slight sneer.

- How are you, Luis? - Said extending his hand with marked indifference.

-
Not as good as you ... but in the end, I have visited.

- Nothing
more than passing?

... Sorry.

I will most perfectly, no you're wrong - said in the same dismissive
tone, without looking at his face.

- How not to be everywhere that
show the star Sirius?

- Exemption, boy, do not understand astronomy.

-
Sirius is the brightest star in the sky.

That's what everybody knows.

- Well, I did not know ... You see, as I am a paddle!

- Not true, but is fine modesty, coupled with the beauty and talent.

- No, if I know full well that I have no talent.

Do not beat yourself up to tell me.

- Daughter, you express just
the opposite ...

The dismissive tone of Fernanda was entering a bit
of bitterness.

In the count's, paused, ceremonious, cautioned slight hint of irony.

-
Come on, then you have understood backwards.

- Some of it has been
forever.

- Wow, what a gallant! - Said the little pale.

- Whenever
you thought you could tell something unpleasant - was quick to rectify
the Earl, warned by the change in appearance of the idea crossed his
mind.

- Thank you.

I believe your words as they deserve.

- You would do wrong not sincere esteem ... Also, I need not tell
you how much you're worth.

That's what everybody knows.

- Thank you. Are you tired of playing?

- It hurts a little grinding.

- Take it off.

- Are all?

- Those
who hurt you, son.

Ave Maria!

- With what indifference you say!

You do not mind anything, of course?

- I always feel the ills of others.

- The neighbor! What horror!

Was not aware of having already reached the category of neighbor.

- What is it, boy, the honors come when least expected.

In spite of the flippant and even aggressive tone, Fernanda did not move the site, taking always
arm in arm to the friend, who did not open his lips.

By looking a little, might note that the heiress was very nervous. With his foot was tapping on
the floor, clutched in his hand with the tissue contractions alive and his lips trembled so
almost imperceptible. Some Arabs beautiful eyes marked a paler circle than usual. He's interested
in boxing.

The Count de Onis had been of her boyfriends that lasted longer. Appearing Fernanda in society, and even
before, when she was a zagalita the maid was going to school was her figure, elegance and
above all the threat of the six million that were to fall, walking time, in her lap, an explosion
of enthusiasm. There were no more or less handsome young or wealthy on his own initiative or
by the insinuations of his family is not resolved to pasearle the street to meet her at the exit
of the school, to send little notes and compliments tell on the ride. De Sarria, snow and
other towns in the province also attended, under the pretext of the fairs, some greedy. The girl,
boasts with such compliance, drunk with incense, he did not rest point taking and releasing
boyfriends. It was rare that the gallant lasted more than a couple of months in his grace.
In reality none were in a position to deserve it. In Lancia and the rest of the province who
have had their finances provided dowry. If any existed, was not qualified by age to marry so
young bud. Would be some Indian tropical damaged by the heat, or rustic and solitary mayorazgo
those living in their ancestral homes. Without his father warned, the she understood that none
suited him admirably, but he enjoyed flirting with everyone, worship of youth becoming laciense.
Among the latter was, however, a young man to which no city girl had dared to raise his eyes
up with desires then marriage. It was the Count de Onis. Because of its high ranking, most
respected in the provinces where be taxed to the nobility a cult
that reveals the villain and the servant under the coat of bourgeois
with its large income from the apartment of his life and even the
mystery and silence its ancient palace, seemed to dwell in the upper
atmosphere, sheltered from the arrows of all indigenous beauties.

So precisely because he was born in the bosom of Fernanda a desire, first vaguely, then live and
yearning, of surrender. This is very human, and totally feminine needs no explanation. At the
bottom of his soul, the daughter of Rosa Estrada-felt inferior to the Count de Onis. However,
such was the adulation he had heard in some time, as shining the bright scattered about his life
dad money, which might well aspire to make her husband. If you did not think so well, at least figuratively
speaking thought the count, behind, with some disdain and familiarity affected ahead. In Lancia,
as in all small capitals, boys and girls used first-name basis. The known since childhood and have
perhaps played on the tour together authorized it. The Count de Onis had never crossed the floor
with Fernanda, although stumble every moment on the street. However, when they met for the first
time in the party of the de Mere, he gave a beautiful round and deleted your title. Luis here, Luis
beyond: seemed about to eat his name. To him the confidence was a little surprised, not dislike.
No one was hurt tutear heard by a pretty lady. Despite the concentrated nature shy of the count
and his little womanizing, Fernanda he soon contrived to make her boyfriend or at least to make such
a move by the public eye. Who found this dating perfectly justified. In Lancia had another
husband or another woman to Fernanda Count. The distance between them was retrospective, was in the
ancestors. The population believed that, for the sake of beauty, money and education of the
young bright, Count de Onis was in the case of forgetting the two
hundred and farmhands who had preceded them.

About a year lasting relationships. The couple were seen in the gathering of the ladies de Mere.
D. Juan Estrada, Rosa, in the words of his close friends, was very pleased. Several times had
suggested to the county to enter into the house, but he had not understood or had pretended not
to understand him. Fernanda is clearly suggested by one day. He escaped as could compromise. Was
it shyness? Was it pride? The same Fernanda did not realize it. But this book helped rekindle
their affection and longing. Suddenly, when least expected, when the public began to wonder
why the wedding was delayed, those cortáronse relationships. Were cut without scandal, of a
diplomatic and secretive, therefore he did More than a month that did not exist when the population
was not yet aware and friends they were kidding. The fact there was strong feeling, was mentioned
in all gatherings to infinity. Never could figure out what had been, or even which of the two
corresponded the initiative of this break. If you asked the count, said flatly that Fernanda
had left, but went too hard in this statement that did not begin to doubt their sincerity. The
heir-Rosa Estrada, without showing anything in particular, confirmed the words of her boyfriend
with surly tone he used talking about it, as well as to guide word. Because they followed the case,
if not as often, quite: both came to the gathering where they met. In addition, Fernanda, shortly
after, he began attending to the Sunday soirees at the home of Quiñones. But never again resumed
their broken relationships. Attendees suspended breath and put his whole soul into the eyes
if, as Now, former boyfriends encountered and chatted for a while. "Back on track? Will, finally
wedding? The disappointment came immediately to see the indifference with which it departs.

When I went to answer the last words of the proud heir, the Count's eyes, shedding a distracted
gaze around the room, they met others who had stuck into shining
and jealous.

She reached her friend and said with a forced smile:

- How badly are you trying, Fernanda! As always, of course ... I,
however, you know ... the same devoted idolater.

Until now.

- I feel that this devotion does not cause me cold or hot - she replied without taking a step away.

The
count gave him shrugging his shoulders in resignation and saying:

- More I'm sorry!

Sorting dancing partners, who had begun the quadrille, came back to where he was the mistress of
the house. Beside it was at that moment the famous Manuel Antonio, a of the most noteworthy
at the time that we historian. He was known thus the nickname the fag Sierra as its name.

This
is enough to know somewhat what to expect regarding their moral properties and physical. Manuel
Antonio was not young. Frisaría in fifty years, disguised with effort heroic by any battery known
then Lancia cosmetics, which were not many do very refined. A rudimentary wig, some false teeth
fitted incorrectly, a little black on the eyebrows and lipstick, much patchouli and a fancy dress
appropriate to highlight the waste of her beauty. It had been wonderful, a rare perfection of face
and figure. Tall, slim, slim, good features, tiny, blonde hair, fine, falling into graceful
curls, rosy cheeks and high-pitched voice. From this set gorgeous was only a shadow where he could
guess. The back was arched upright; the beautiful curls were gone like a happy dream, some unseemly
wrinkles that furrowed forehead, and the row of pearls, which he held his mouth, had become yellow
bone race, rickety, that time and the dentist was inducted awkwardly replaced. Finally, the
small silky mustache had thickened considerably, it was white bristly, unruly, not enough
dye and cosmetics to keep presentable.

What a pain to the beautiful hermaphrodite Lancia and also for friends who had known him in
the glory of his grace!

The spirit remained as young as ten and eight years. It was the same to be passionate and tender,
sweet at times, angry and terrible other, marching to the breath of his whims, languid living in
idleness. Both enjoyed the delights of the bath, which he repeated three or more times until the
water is crystal clear as to leave the source, loved flowers, birds, he had more pleasure
than talking to the mirror glass ornaments that would suit better. The costumes, by irresistible
attraction, being male, approached as possible to the female form. In short talmita spent
the winter with a gold brooch and a hat Tyrolean twisty wings, which suited him extremely well. In
the summer he liked to dress white flannel suits well tight, who denounced the graceful curves
of their forms. Ties were almost always made of gauze, low-cut shoes, the shirt collar with
seafood. Below fist saw him a bracelet. Although there were more than a simple gold ring, this detail
was what attracted the attention of their fellow citizens.

As spoken Manuel Antonio left the damn bracelet to light, as if there was nothing in his interesting
figure worthy to excite curiosity.

But if the years had not been changed in the bottom one being kind and created for love habíanle
fact, however, more cautious, more reserved. And showed no preference with the ingenuity of
the past, or give vent to the sudden outbursts of his heart flammable but after testing the
loyalty of the object of their affection. He had suffered many disappointments in life! Above
all, getting old, not only experienced the coldness of old friends, those who had given clear
evidence of affection, but, is even sadder, he found, without thinking, white serving and invectives
at chufletas the lads of the new generation. It was the laughingstock of these insolent youth. As
had not witnessed their triumphs and met her radiant beauty, were far from professing respect
that, despite everything, he kept to the old generation. They did not spare tease average of
vex him savagely. As he stood in the street Altavilla or entered the cafe of Maranhao, and was
surrounded by a party of jokers. Christ, phrases could be heard there! And as villains who were often
passing game of words to hands. This was what I could in no way suffer Manuel Antonio. They speak
what they want. Had enough belt, plus a lively and subtle wit admirably collected ridicule and knew
he hit his face with his opponents. Most of the time they were going to "take hair "shorn went
very well. The years, the practice had been trained so In boxing incisive phrases that really
was awesome. Had the intention of a Miura. But so those shameless passed from words to works
by touching the face or pinching, and was broken, completely lost his temper and not say anything intentional
even reasonable. Superfluous to add that, knowing the skinny, all the jokes ended in this way.

Moreover, out of that evil intent to injure as people living in the which could compete and still
believe that was ahead of Maria Josefa, was a useful and helpful.  The troops detrained, watered and fed the
horses, hung about for a while, and eventually led the horses to the wharves.  Four great grey
transports lay alongside, and the sun shone down hotly on a scene of seething activity, a crowd
of troops working with the energy of enthusiasm, long strings of horses filing up huge gangways
and disappearing into lines of horse-boxes around the bulwarks, or swinging aloft singly by
cranes to be lowered swiftly into the black depths of holds.

Mac led his terrified mare up the steep gangway and down into a hold where he left her with
regret.  Mac's squadron was to embark on another ship, except some men who were to look after
the horses.  This transport lay at Lyttleton.  So Mac and his cobbers had a few hours' leave
pending the departure of the southward ferry steamer at eight o'clock, and they, in the meantime,
went up the town to have a good time and to turn out old friends.  They did not waste these
few short hours, the streets rang with their enthusiasm, and the departing steamer took away
from the pier a singing, rollicking crowd of happy warriors.  Mac slept soundly on a table,
and awoke in the morning to find the vessel was berthing at Lyttleton.

Disembarking, they filed round the wharves to where two troopships lay opposite each other,
and embarked again on H.M.N.Z.T. No. 4, the S.S. Tahiti.  Mac grabbed what looked about the
best bunk in the murky depths of the 'tween decks which was the Squadron's alloted space, and
wrote his name in several places on the boards.  The lucky ones got breakfast during the forenoon,
those who were lazy dodged fatigues and slept in out-of-the-way corners in the sun, and so
Mac and his cobber Bill might have been found comfortably dozing on a great pile of onions
on the aft boat deck.  They found such seclusion most satisfactory on these turbulent days
of movement, except for occasional visits to see that no blighted trooper was trying to beat
a fellow for his "possie" in the hold.  Trains kept rumbling out of the tunnel beneath the
great hills, bringing more troops, horses and stores, and all the afternoon the gangways were
crowded with these coming on board.  By four, embarkation was complete and a throng of people
who had massed behind a barrier to see the last of the troops, flooded on to the wharf.

Secrecy had been strictly kept as to the time of departure, and so the public were few to what
there might have been.  Pretty girls were wildly enthusiastic and were not particular as to
how many troopers they fondly took farewell of, women smiled and laughed, though there were
often tears in their eyes, and the men were laboriously humorous. A band played airs which
the bandmaster considered suitable to the occasion, the troops, swarming on the railings and
the rigging, sang lustily snatches of song; and finally, amidst the fortissimo strains of the
National Anthem, a wild holloing from every one, and a bellowing of fog-horns, the ships drew
slowly away from the wharf.  They manoeuvred awkwardly out through the moles, while the throng
on shore became but one black shape beneath a sea of fluttering handkerchiefs.

That night the two ships steamed slowly to the north.  Mac landed horse-picket, and for four
hours he paced a length of the boat-deck up and down past fifty horses' heads, while the wind
howled mournfully in the rigging and the ship swayed easily to the swell.  Morning broke, with
a dull sky, a dull sea and many miserable troopers.  Towards midday they were joined by two
vessels from the south with the Otago troops, and in the middle of the afternoon the whole
four hove to in Cook Strait, awaiting the four transports from Wellington.  But contrary orders
came, and so, entering Wellington Harbour, they dropped anchor towards evening.  A gale came
down in gusts from the hills around, bringing furious squalls of rain; and Mac, in heavy oilskins,
again paced the boat-deck.  Dawn broke grey and drear, and the troops were in the depths of
depression.  It was not the ill weather which distressed them, but at the eleventh hour, in
the middle of the night, a picket boat had brought unwelcome despatches and now all hope was
gone, all faith lost.  "Owing to unforeseen circumstances, the transports will not at present
sail, and orders for disembarkation will be issued in due course."  So ran the death sentence.

Most of the infantry remained on the transports, but the other branches of the service mournfully
disembarked and trekked to the few more or less level places amid Wellington's hills, where
they pitched camps. The Wellington Mounteds found a home on Trentham racecourse, and passed
a fortnight there, riding along the valley roads and manoeuvring over the steep hills.  It
was not so bad either, for day after day passed with glorious sunshine and cooling breeze,
and the city was in reach by a weary train.  There was a grand review which no one particularly
enjoyed, and Mac least of all, for he had an attack of influenza.  All the long day he rode
with a dizzy, aching head; and one of Wellington's very own tearing gales, which whirled upwards
great clouds of yellow dust, served not at all to cool his heated brow.  And when, late at
night, he spread out his straw and lay down, the long day seemed to have been a vague, bad
dream.  But the fever had gone when morning came, which proves that there are more ways than
one of curing influenza.

He had cut short the career of the same disease at Awapuni Camp when out on an extensive movement
one night near Feilding.  His officer had given him a goodly nip of strong Scotch whisky and
had advised him to remain at the first bivouac, but Mac thought that influenza was as bad at
one place as at another.  So he successfully guarded a road all night, his horse picketed to
a fence, and himself in a greatcoat stretched asleep in the middle of the road.

Once again, the bright stars long before dawn looked down upon the bustle of a breaking camp,
looked down upon the flaring piles of burning straw, the collapsing tents and the happy laughing
throng of busy troopers.  Early in the dewy morning they clattered out of the race-course gates
and away down the winding road in the valley bottom. Afternoon found them skirting the harbour
beneath the great rocky escarpments of Wellington's hills, and from here Mac espied a sight
which gladdened his soul and he lost no time in communicating his discovery to Bill and the
others.  Across a distant neck of land at the far side of the harbour, he had seen the tall
tapering masts of two men-of-war, moving rapidly, and two murky streaks of smoke.  This looked
like business.

In an hour two great cruisers rounded the far point, and the boys welcomed them warmly as a
sort of guarantee that there would be no humbug about this embarkation.  Again came the animated
scene as they shipped their horses, again a last night to roam streets, which echoed with mirth
far into the night, and again the crowded piers aflutter with handkerchiefs, drawing away in
the distance.  The Tahiti passed close astern of the two cruisers, the Japanese Ibuki and the
British Minotaur, and cheered their crews lustily as they came abeam.  The whole fleet anchored
in the stream.  All night long the Morse lamps winked at the mastheads, the ships' lights twinkled
on the water in long twisting lines, and the great glow of a million lamps of the city lit
with fire the waters of the harbour, and the huge hills stood out black against the sky.

A day of squalls followed, and dragged slowly by.  Why were the anchors not weighed?  Pessimists
said they might never leave, and all eagerly watched the warships for any signs of going to
sea--an increasing volume of smoke from the funnels, activity on the bridge or more than an
ordinary display of signal flags.  But there was nothing to bring lasting satisfaction and
the grey day ended with a colourless sunset. Towards midnight a tender bumped alongside, men
shouted in the dark and packages were dropped with thuds upon the deck above.

CHAPTER III

SORROWS AND JOYS IN A TROOPSHIP

Mac dragged himself regretfully out of his bunk when a mournful "reveille" had finished echoing
along the decks, and went above to see what might be doing.  They were off, or, at least, they
soon would be. Already the cruisers were coming steadily down the harbour, some transports
had weighed, and were awkwardly pulling their heads round to seaward, others sent clouds of
steam rumbling in a deafening roar from their safety-valves.  The cruisers passed, and each
transport followed in her appointed place.

Everyone neglected the work of the moment in that hour of putting to sea, and Mac, perched
high on the roof of the wireless cabin, watched it with as much pride and rapture as might
an emperor reviewing the grandest of fleets.  In single line-ahead, the fourteen great grey
ships, their smoke trailing away over the port quarter before a fresh wind, passed down the
wild rocky gap of the entrance.  The grey seas rolled in a long swell, grey, flying clouds
hid the eastern mountain tops.  The passengers of an in-bound steamer had hurried on deck,
clad lightly against the chill wind, sent a faint cheer to each passing ship.

Hundreds of people waved vigorously from the western shore, having come far to see the last
of the adventurers, and the garrisons of the forts looked like silhouetted maniacs above the
fortress mounds.  They, too, faded in the distance, and at length the reefs with their white
surge, and Pencarrow Light high on the cliffs above the poor rusty remnants of a wreck, were
far astern.  The leading vessels had lifted their bows westward through the Strait, and each
following ship was in turn changing course.  At sea at last, Mac left his perch, and departed
below to his work, a shower-bath and breakfast.

Later in the morning the weather cleared, the cliffs, the hills and the snowy mountains were
glorious in the sunshine, and the troops basked at full length on deck while distant points
took form far ahead, came on the beam and passed astern.  Once through the Strait, the fleet
took up its regular formation, the ten transports in two lines of five, with the two large
cruisers ahead and the two small ones astern.  Late at night, the Farewell Light passed into
the blackness, and when dawn broke again, grey, chill and wet, no land was visible behind the
reeling stern.

For five or six days--Mac lost count--the transports rolled and creaked and swayed up the grey,
lumpy swell, lurched over the crests and plunged away down into the troughs.  The spray lifted
over the bows and swept along the decks, the wind howled dismally through the rigging, and
the ship was wet and comfortless.  All was grey--the ships, the sky, the sea and the long trails
of smoke fleeing away to leeward.  Mac had found a good job on board, together with Joe of
the Canterbury Squadron and Jock of his own squadron, in charge of the fodder.  Both were from
the sheep country and real fine fellows, though Joe had had a college education, while Jock
claimed only to have been dragged up in the bush.  Three times a day, about an hour before
their own meals, they weighed out for the horses the rations of chaff, oats, hay, linseed and
so forth, and issued them to fatigues from the troops, the service corps and the mounted machine-gunners,
who came slipping and sliding along the deck in heavy gum-boots.

The second-class dining saloon of peace days had descended to becoming a fodder room for the
horses, and outside its door gathered the boys clamouring for their loads, laughing and swearing
and generally hindering Mac and his cobbers at their work.  Everything had gone like clockwork
in port, but, for the first few days at sea, these practical sons of the bush and the sheep-stations
were for the moment put out of their stride.  Hefty men lay huddled helplessly on their bunks
and others moped about searching for the drier, warmer corners.  But the horses had to be fed,
though many of them, too, hung their heads in the deepest dejection.  The men who were not
seasick turned to with a will, and many who were went to work with bold hearts, though feeling
too utterly miserable for description when down below on the stuffy, reeling horse-decks.

Mac, in the foolishness of his abandonment, had flung himself at the first spasm of seasickness
on to the top of some of his bales of hay; the sweet fragrance of the hay aggravated the evil
effects of the rolling, and three days passed like an interminable nightmare. Sometimes the
bales and bags slid about the place with the rolling of the ship, occasionally he made weak
though desperate attempts to help Joe and Jock who struggled on nobly; but eventually Mac managed
to drag himself and two blankets to the top of the horse-boxes high on the boat-deck.  There
lay rows of men like corpses in their blankets, with pinched white faces peeping out, which
smiled pathetically with the bashfulness of returning spirits.

All were on their feet again by dawn of the sixth day, and in odd moments between work peered
over the side to catch a glimpse of the low dim line of the Tasmanian coast.  They kept along
the land for a few hours, and then, forming single line-ahead, steamed slowly up the beautiful
sunny waters of the Derwent, with white curving beaches and bush-clad hills on either side.
Five ships berthed at once for fresh water.  In the afternoon the troops were marched through
the town, and the people cheered heartily and hurried in great excitement to see them, bringing
cake and fruit and beer.  Some of the boys, keen on adventure, slipped quietly out of the ranks
and down side streets, and in the evening other hard cases garbed themselves as stokers, walked
boldly past the guard and spent the merriest of evenings in Hobart, to return, perhaps, to
a term of C.B. which the holiday was well worth. The girl would receive great surprise, but the same the stunned and put more soft.
Serious things of life are generally decided on a hunch. The non- ventured, nothing gained.
In short, Maroon gave discretion and began preparations for the great solemnity. The first thing discussed
was the time. Was resolved to go to the noon. The suit was the subject of lively discussions.
Paco believed that, to present under a more imposing, should wear a uniform, for example,
the manager civil administration fee. It was difficult to get the nomination by sacrificing
a handful of gold, but this more than a month would delay the implementation of the company.
Was discarded uniform and agreed to don black coat and medal dangling councilman. Finally fixed
the day: it was a Monday.

Long before the traitor had crept into the conversation, talking to D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, Garnet species
that boasted of being desired and requested by him to son. D. Juan, it was also rich and had
his piece of pride, and especially adored his daughter and believed that come when you least
expect a Duke of Madrid to ask for it, was greatly irritated, called him rustic, hound, and
vowed that, before seeing his daughter married to such a kaffir, rather to stay single.

- Well, be careful, D. Juan - Paco said grinning - because when you least expect comes home to ask
the hand of Fernanda.

- Do not make this - too .-- replied the banker knows he would throw down the stairs.

With this background, the terrible comedian Lancia marching on safe ground. Outside three or
four friends who helped him persuade D. Santos, nobody gave part of the intrigue, but on Sunday
afternoon, the eve of the event, as Manuel Antonio him, they were touting for all groups and being
cited for the following day at the cafe Cashew. In the provinces, where there are few means of
entertainment, it is taken very seriously this kind of joke, prepare to fruition, is savored
in advance. Paco was the host with keen enthusiasm for youth laciense. The victim was not a poor
devil, how he used happen, but a rich man. This was paying double attraction. At the bottom of
all hearts there are always a few grains of hatred for having a lot
of money.

He ran down the walk voices, and the next day appeared in the Marañón coffee over fifty youths.

But do not give birth while Garnet was not. The cafe was located in a main floor (At that time
were not used low for this destination) Altavilla Street, almost front of the house of D.
Juan Estrada, Rosa. It was large and sumptuous, although not as much as had recently built the Don
Santos. The coffee, old and wretched appearance. The premises occupied by the parishioners, was
a room where the pool table and two cabinets the sides with some wooden tables to eat, all
dirty, dark, dog-eared. How times still further to establish one of the lowest in that same
street British Grand café with marble tables, huge mirrors and gilded
columns as Madrid's finest!

Peering from behind the curtains that Florida youth, eager for the aesthetic pleasures, Garnet was properly
dressed pass, swinging his massive torso on legs who did not deserve. They saw him enter the
house of Estrada-Rosa and even heard the sound of the latch. Nothing more. Immediately opened wide
balconies and filled coffee. The that there was no room clambered
on chairs behind their peers.

All eyes were fixed in the doorway opposite. They waited nearly a quarter of an hour.

After the appearance of garnet purple once again. It was scary. That face was and a velvet as if
it were hanged. The ears were the color of blood. In appearance broke a round of coughs and sneezes
and screams and howls. The Indian raised his head and carried his astonished gaze broken by that
crowd who smiled, not understanding reason. He soon, however, realize
that was a victim of a practical joke.

Her eyes then darted fierce the competition, and said with a disdain
that there was nothing fake:

- Beggars!

And he went like a wild boar hunted by the pack between whistles and
laughter, returning Occasionally his head to spit the same gravest
offensive.

VI

Demoiselles de Mere.

In fact, Matthew had been able Emilita love of a captain of the battalion of Pontevedra. It had taken
many days of incessant tinkering, looks countless provocative of laughter for no reason, of childish
whims, cuddly gestures and angry passengers. There deployed, in short, all their batteries,
showing at once naive and mischievous, sweet and sullen, quiet and talkative, serious and playful
as a little crazy, light and insubstantial as a child, but adorable. Núñez Finally, Captain
Nunez, could not resist this funny mixture of innocence and malice, and fell back first, and then
soon quit.

He was a long face, mustache and goatee, skinny, serious, bilious, with dull eyes and weary, very
exact the performance of their duties and amateur for long walks. This kind of silent men and disciplined
are the most susceptible to the charms of joy and liveliness. Emilita taciturn calling him and
giving him pinching by "rogue and joking ', he, who had to get the words with twist and had
spent his life easier joke!

With this memorable event, the family walked Mateo quite dislocated. Jovita, Micaela and Relief
fortunate sisters maid's legitimate, they felt jealous and flattered at the same time. Understand
that the preference of an infantry officer was an honor so bizarre that radiated on the entire
family and placed in an advantageous position in front of their friends or acquaintances. But at
the same time felt that, being Emilita the last age, not his have a boyfriend, much less marry
until after her sisters. Were premature in her engagements, not counting more than twenty-four
years old. As for the idea that there could marry a creature so tender and so informal, the
same smile of surprise and disdain lips twitched his three older
sisters.

So, even if they are crushed in praise of the captain in front of her friends, emphasizing their
physical clothes, paying a big heart and heroic, certifying their wealth as if it is given
and talking vaguely of certain influences that would later or earlier in the cuff gimped in general,
the fact is that not forgive and never forgave him for his crime chronologically.

On the other hand, Sir Christopher, the father of the angel naughty and playful, was suddenly
in a position so false that he wanted to go crazy. He fought his father's love tough battle
with I hate the military. Avergonzábale to consent to give his daughter to a military hearing
after if any called him so many times lazy, leeches, and have claimed both by the reduction
the quota. What face would be presented to friends thereafter? Well-spent days terrible. The
hatred for the army and the navy was so deeply rooted in his heart, he could not die suddenly.
However, he was forced to admit that noble conduct of Captain Nunez had strongly diminished.
The desire to marry their daughters enjoyed so much life in the depths of his being as contempt of the
military. How he regretted having ranted so much against it! In his trouble came to deplore Nunez
belonged to the infantry weapon.

Even if ocean, decrease the severity the conflict. Recalled that in his diatribes against the
army to the proviso that it was necessary to retain some ships to protect the colonies. The same
could be said if it belonged the Civil Guard. As for the other ground forces, there was no
apology or had half out of trouble.

In such dire circumstances at home decided to shut. When ever came, he was suspicious and fled.
The loves of her daughter became more formal and increasingly public. He feared the jokes. Fear made him
give up, taking a double proceed false, unworthy full of character and history. That is, while still
affected public contempt for the ground forces, when he spoke to her daughter's boyfriend or
between military did it with kindness, I asked them for his career with interest, as well as
whether to provide services in any State civil office.

No one would suspect to hear so thoroughly learned the ranks, reserves and replacements, etc.,
the man they had sworn eternal hatred. But the jubilation was over time a distinction that had
never dared to propose. As military is not compromised with them, were considered a social
plague ... Now "As men," might well be worthy of esteem, according to their qualities.

The Loves of Emilita were born and raised like many others in the house of Mere. Were these two young
ladies who spent the eighties and did not reach a hundred. Anyway, the entry of the nineteenth
century were already mature. Lancia did not have in any family. None the living remembered his
father, who died when they were still young girl. He was employed in the field of Finance. Presumably,
given its antiquity, it would perceiver of checkpoints breasts or other extinct. Eighteenth
century, to which they belonged, had these interesting First ladies in costume. Could never
enter this fashion. A skirt of very drained black cube with leads below to drain even more size high,
tight sleeve with studs, low-cut slipper and a headdress tabinete unlikely of pure fancy, well
presented throughout. The blanket was not wearing veil, but twill velvet stripe, as the artisans
use only now. They carried a cane for support. Also retained the exquisite courtesy, lightness
of character, passion for society and endless joy, wonderful at his age. What they had not This
century brought with them was freedom of manners and malice that, in the words of historians characterized
the society of the past. Impossible to imagine creatures easier. As if they had gone through life,
all were surprised at all believed least evil. So often were victims of teasing from friends
and commentators, but why leave any of profess deep affection. From time immemorial had habit of
receiving in his home at night Lancia's youth, particularly those boys who was happy to attend
the very great liberty enjoyed there. By agreement tacit all the tuteaban. And it was indeed a pilgrimage
to hear the little boys of ten and eight years speak with such familiarity to little old ladies
who could be their grandmothers.

Carmelite for here, Nuncita there, because the oldest was called Ms Carmen and younger Ms Annunciation.

Three
or four generations have passed through that little room of Collins Street, modest and neat, with
polished wooden floors, wicker chairs, red damask sofa, comfortable knickknacks crowded mahogany,
tortoise shell-framed mirror and various pastel squares representing the story of Romeo and
Juliet. The gathering of the de Mere was the oldest Lancia. Contrary to what usually happens, these
women were unable to find husband mania to marry around the world. The number of marriages that
went agreed that parlor is incalculable. As a boy warned that any girl approached more than
the others, were already preparing our young ladies to join them with wire loop indissoluble,
and not allow anyone to sit in the chair that was next to Fulanita so that when coupled Somebody's
niece came and found her having only sit. And come a disproportionate praise Fulanita Somebody's
niece, and go to the closely relationships Somebody's niece The workmanship that Fulanita
runs with the needle and that is economical and industrious and pious and clean. And later Get
away to the mother house for conferences Fulanita long, intimate, transcendent, and then seek
tripping Somebody's niece's dad and deploy all his diplomatic skills to explore the heart.
And as a reward for these sweats received, after all, a candy cartuchito wedding day.

But all the mothers of marriageable girls adored not be satisfied with bless and sycophants. Saludábanlas
half a league, and out of the church are quick to offer his arm to be supported. Instead,
they had a son of marriageable age used look at them with suspicion and dislike, they were
called under his pussy and busybodies. No need indicate, therefore, that his passion matchmaker cost
them not a few surprises. When a fop felt sprout in his heart the flame of love, the first thing
I did was show it the de Mere.

- Carmelita, I'm in love.

- Who, hearts, who - asked the old woman with keen interest.

- De
Rosario Calvo.

- Aha!

Good taste has had the rogue. Prettiest girl there and better educated. You were born to each other.

And
for a while zagalillo had the pleasure of listening to the eulogy
of his beloved.

- I hope you'll protect me.

- Everything you want,
my soul.

After a few days, Rosario Calvo, who had not set foot in his home
life of de Mere, appeared there and was assiduous Tertullian.

How had they managed those for engage it? It is not easy to find, but many times they had been
completed and companies similar, which surely had a simple and safe prescription.

Encariñábanse with friends as if they were all close relatives.

Contábanse of these features self-denial that extremely honored. During the furious reaction
of 1823, a your meetings, lieutenant of cavalry, fled after some attempt aborted at home. The
ladies received him and hid him some days, and managed to get out escapes disguised in the
garb of a servant. But news that he was taking the police to search the house, thought to terror
in the uniform of lieutenant. Where to save not giving to him? Carmelita, in those critical moments,
had a stroke of genius and bravery. He dressed in uniform under his clothes for women. In fact,
this Lieutenant behaved with them quite ungrateful. Did not take his life ten minutes to write a
letter giving thanks.

It was not the only one who had to suffer because of their evening.

Used to exploit these their kindness as they could; recreábanse at home, enjoyed the company and conversation
of the most beautiful young Lancia, concerting some marriage, then you do it, or because their
business or their age prevented them from attending the gathering, if I saw you, I forget; just the
greeting on the street. The same is true of the breast, as rendered and flattering before marrying
their daughters, and so detached so I got. But such weaknesses are not alter the mood of those blessed
or destroy his optimism. As we were renovating incessantly attendees home, forget the ingratitude
of the ancients to think so only in appreciation taxed them new.
  He leaned over the starboard light, neglected his lookout, and gazed
far down at the swishing water which ran the ship's length at a lazy ten knots.  The fathomless
blue of the midday sea, with the white marblings from the bow wave, never ceased to draw Mac's
gaze.  Down in its depths the red jelly-fish went sailing past, and from there, too, came the
terrified flying-fish, which went winging away out to the beam, glittering in the bright sun.
The rumbling of the ship's engines filled the air with a sleepy monotone; and Mac was hard
put to keep awake.  From his cool perch he looked down on snowy awnings stretching fore and
aft, though here and there through openings he caught glimpses of mens' bare bodies as they
lay sleeping on deck, and of horses' heads hanging low with half-closed eyes.  The other signaller
on duty was buried behind the flag-locker, probably intending that it should be thought that
he was busy putting away the flags used in the last hoists, though that might have been finished
a full hour ago.  The officer of the watch took an occasional turn the length of the bridge,
and now and then rang down to the engine-room for one more or one less revolution per minute;
while the quartermaster periodically put the wheel a few spokes this way or that to keep the
ship in station with the vessel ahead.

Mac had certainly drifted away to places other than the bridge of a ship in the Indian Ocean,
when he was speedily brought back to the present by a vigorous poke in his ribs.  He turned
hurriedly; and the officer of the watch with perfect clearness conveyed to him by a jerk of
his thumb, and a quizzical expression, that the flagship was making a general signal.  Mac
shoved up the answering pennant, roused the other drowsy signaller, and elicited the information
that the New Zealand ships would anchor 1 1/2 miles S.S.E. of Ras Marshag at 17.50.

Mac looked ahead and saw the jagged blue outline of land above the horizon.  Towards four o'clock
the heads awoke from their siestas, and the signallers were kept busy.  The forms on the decks
below also commenced to stir, whistles sounded, and soon hoses and brooms were busy cleaning
the horse-boxes.  Half-naked men were at work with brushes and combs in the narrow spaces between
the animals; and others poured cooling streams of water about their legs.  Feeding time came
with an excited whinnying, snorting and trampling, while the men stood along the deck in front
with a long line of feed boxes.  Then there was a whistle and a chorus of neighing.  The men
went forward and attached the boxes.  Comparative silence followed, while the horses in deep
content poked their muzzles down into the feed and blew showers of chaff into the air.  For
a time the satisfied munching went on quietly; but at length the horses which had finished
first stamped their feet, and tugged at their halter chains, in attempts to get at their neighbours'
feeds.

Mac finished his watch, and went below for a salt shower, and after that the evening meal,
which was never much to boast about.  He went up to the bridge again to investigate Aden from
the best standpoint.  The evening lights were colouring splendidly the rocky heights of the
range above the port.  The anchored fleet spread far across the bay, the Tahiti being close
to the desert shore several miles from the port. It was an evening of perfect calm.  The last
glow faded from the topmost pinnacles, the stars came out with the brightness of the desert,
Morse signals winked from the mastheads, and the mooring lights cast reflections on the calm
water.  For a time Mac joined a four for a rubber or so in the cool night air, and then, collecting
his blankets from below, went away forward to sleep on top of the horse-boxes with nothing
but stars overhead.

In the early morning, before the fresh charm of the desert dawn had fled before the tropic
day, the fleet weighed anchor, and, with a great deal of signalling and manoeuvring, took steaming
station again.  Soon after midday Perim lay on the starboard, its desolate sands shimmering
in the noon sun, shortly to disappear astern, veiled by the trailing smoke.  It took the fleet
five days to steam the length of the Red Sea; good days too, with cooling northerly breezes
to air the stuffy horse decks, though the chill nights made the signallers shiver on watch.
But, the day before they were due at Suez, the whole peaceful running of things was upset by
wild rumours, and then by definite fact.

In late weeks it had been generally accepted by every one that England would be the destination
of the Expeditionary Force, and they had settled comfortably to that point of view, and to
the prospect of having nothing to worry them for three or four more weeks.  Turkey, however,
had declared war; and now, they heard, they were disembarking immediately in Egypt.  The troops
were undecided whether or not to be pleased.  Most of them had hoped to see the Old Country
and their relatives there.  Mac did not care a straw, for he saw no delights in an English
winter camp, and Egypt was said to be a fine interesting country.  Every one set about telling
wild tales of Egypt; and proceeded to walk more rapidly about the ship, collecting and putting
in order shore-going clothes--so that the quiet shipboard life was at an end.

In the voyaging days of 1914 the New Zealand troops regarded their chances of actually joining
in the campaign as being regrettably small. It was clear, they thought in their out-of-the-world
way, that the enemy would be speedily overrun; that the New Zealand troops were only untrained,
untried colonials; that they could therefore expect no more than garrison duty; and that every
available Imperial soldier would be thrown into the field before the colonial troops were drawn
upon. Consequently there was an uneasy feeling abroad that, should they once land in Egypt,
they would be left there for the duration of the war.

The New Zealand transports, which had taken the lead, cast anchor in Suez bay just as the sun
was rising over the desert; and Mac gazed appreciatively at the sweeping bay, the palms, the
flat-topped houses, and the open desert, clear cut in the early light.  Suez was not adapted
for the disembarkation of large numbers of men and horses, and Alexandria was the only harbour
with sufficient accommodation.  In the early afternoon the Tahiti entered the Canal; and there
were no dull moments for the next twelve hours.  They were surprised to find, at frequent intervals
along the Canal bank, strongly wired entrenchments occupied by Indian troops, with whom they
exchanged cheers as they passed.  At night a moon lit the silent desert in greater beauty;
and Mac slept not a wink as the ship slid quietly past mile after mile of the queer waterway.
At three in the morning, with a clatter of chains and a good deal of shouting, they moored
in Port Said harbour.

Again there was a day full of interest--bartering with natives, watching the coolies coaling,
cheering Australian transports as they entered the basin, and examining the mixture of shipping
in the port.

CHAPTER V

ASHORE AGAIN

Late in the same afternoon the New Zealand ships put to sea, under orders to steam individually
at slow speed to meet off Alexandria at dawn.  There was not a great deal of settled sleep
that night, for all men were busy packing kit-bags and putting in order shore-going clothes.
The days of decks, bare feet and semi-nakedness were at an end, and to-morrow would start again
the life of boots and puttees, saddles and tents.  Men stood in small groups along the deck,
shown only by the embers of pipes and the occasional glow of a match.  They watched the low
line of the Egyptian shore, deep black against a sky which seemed vaster than usual and more
brilliant with stars, and were exhilarated by the knowledge that they would disembark to-morrow
in that queer old country.  The mess room was filled for a while with a cheery, laughing crowd
to hear words of warning from an old soldier concerning the joys and sorrows of Cairo and a
few general instructions on life in Egypt.

The ships stood in towards the entrance to the port just as the rising sun gilded the houses
and minarets of Alexandria.  Soon the gangway was dropped for a pilot to come abroad, and shortly
with much chattering that gentleman appeared on the bridge.  The Captain gazed on the apparition
with horror, and the signallers, in security behind the flag locket, were convulsed with mirth.
A pale, underfed little Hebrew, not, apparently, the cleanest specimen of its race, clad in
something like a dressing-gown and a pair of bath slippers, and topped off by a red tarboosh
tilted well back and continuing the contour of its nose, it looked about as capable of piloting
a ship as a waste-paper-basket. It chattered away cheerfully to every one on the bridge in
a strange lingo, waved its hands alternately here, there and everywhere, and faced in all directions
in the attitudes of ancient mural figures.  It was serenely unheeding of the business in hand,
of the fact that four ships, occupying the narrow fairway ahead, were slowing down, and that
three others were coming rapidly up behind, promising trouble.

The skipper recovered from his astonishment.

"Which way?" he said, interrupting a friendly jabber to the third officer.

The figure raised its eyebrows, bared its rabbit teeth and, wildly waving its arms, poured
a stream of unintelligible jargon in the skipper's direction.

"Shall I stop her?" yelled the skipper.

A wide, inclusive sweep of the arms was the only reply and the jabbering increased.

"To starboard--or port?" inquired the Captain, indicating each with his arm.

To both queries the figure energetically nodded assent.

The Captain flushed with anger.  The figure looked crest-fallen. Amalia, which
hardly knew him, began to watch him with curiosity. Both had been told about it, the affection
and respect he professed his mother, his melancholy mood, their skills, of exaggerated piety,
who wanted to treat you with privacy, wanting to penetrate the soul of that young man so handsome
and so innocent. He soon convinced that love had not yet lit in it. Close look at its relations
with Fernanda, saw in them a hint of coldness certainly not coming from the heiress. Knew
that the count was deceiving itself making efforts to get the same love, and even more forthcoming.
He took his love as an honorable obligation that required her to his age and position. The
more young main Lancia love the girl was richer and more beautiful. On the other hand, it seemed
as if to prove the population was not a fancy or a maniac, as he had ever heard suggest. So he
looked in strict compliance with the duties of the perfect lover, a couple walking of hours
in the morning on the streets of Altavilla, where his girlfriend, accompanied on Sunday on
the promenade, sitting at his side in the gathering of the ladies of Meré or Quinones, and dancing
with her all the soirees rigodones Casino. But while Amalia missed seeing their talks were cold,
that the count was taciturn and distracted many Sometimes, while she, with evident interest,
had expenditures of the conversation and tried to keep alive.

Those you love were increasingly interested: it sought confidences
and his.

Soon his ardent soul, wise, willful, sympathized with that of Louis shy child, full of mercy
and tenderness. More teacher in the art of making love that Estrada-girl Rosa, soon managed
to inspire the confidence and affection Count, wrapped him in a thick mesh of confidence,
not only concerning their love, but of life. He confessed as well as the ablest Jesuit. Luis,
seduced by so much interest, he was opening his chest first informing him of his habits after the
events of his past life, finally their innermost feelings of those who confess only to a brother.
Amalia not surprised at the appearance of such original and morbid psychology, the accepted
as natural things, gave his opinion about them and authorized affectionately advise, rebuke
sometimes guide you in certain matters of life, which ignored complicated mechanism the count
full. Encouraged by this game very able, he would rely increasingly be delivered completely happy
with getting rid of as much thought ridiculous to confess the strange and painful shyness that
tormented him.

Amalia knew Fernanda dispel the suspicion of making confident and
resolute protector of their love.

If I kept particular times lengthy and animated conversation with the Count not least the spent
long and animated with the girl. This will greatly appreciated that protection, which resulted
in sometimes sought by the lady so that the couple could look and talk, to reconcile them when
they were at odds, etc., etc. But without the innocent the suspected child without the same
count would realize this, the lady was Valencia load step winning the heart of it. If youth, beauty
and grace was no dispute, less than the heiress, the long excelled in grace expressive face
the attractiveness of their conversation and the fineness of his intelligence. Of confidence
in confidence Luis came to show what the true state of his heart on Fernanda. The astute lady
knew how to take advantage of such confessions to make him see that I felt was only fond admiration
of beautiful works of nature, a vain desire to become young love by the most beautiful and richest
city, the need to divert boredom anything, in short, less than true love. It feeds on sadness
black, ineffable joys of insomnia, worries, a sweet and bitter agitation while we are constantly
in the chest. Luis was soon convinced. But she found her undue coldness did not understand
how a man of such good taste had failed love madly, scolded, teased him, going through the
roof of the gentle qualities heir.

While this saying with their lips, their eyes proclaimed otherwise. Those black eyes full of fire and
intelligence were fixed on him with an expression sometimes languid, sometimes malicious,
concluding there fascinated.

At the same time his hands short, delicate, aristocratic advantage any circumstances to touch
theirs, to leave you pinched nerve tenaciously. If ever two were inclined to see any object and touched
their heads, Amalia did not separate his own, let the count inhale the fragrance of her long time which
if trying to poison him. He worried about his clothes as well as imposing their tastes. Should
not be coat, the blue coat became him admirably. Why spend dark gloves? Banned, laughing, which
put them more. Ties to confessed that he had much pleasure, but it sat loop better than scarves.
Why was not involved in Madrid's hats? Those who came to Lancia were all stale and ridiculous. And
the count willingly obeyed his advances, leaving would be dominated by the ascendancy of the woman
as weak and strong body will.

One night he came home from Quiñones when nobody had yet told the lady abruptly

- Who has made you this carnation in his buttonhole, Fernanda?

The count, smiling and blushing, so did sign.

- Well, excuse me, but has a very ugly color ... You see, I'll put one more beautiful.

So saying, he was right to one of the vases in the living room and, after choosing a time, produced
a magnificent red carnation. He returned to where he was the count and with great ease, even
with some affectation, of one who wants to show their dominance,
snatched the pink he had and put the new one.

He is replacing suffered in silence, anxious and surprised.

She pretended not to notice this surprise, fell back slightly and said with intent:

- I bet it's better!

There was then some embarrassing moments of silence. She began to play with the Carnation Fernanda,
whipping the knees, while throwing frequent glances to the count, which remained confused, not
knowing what to say or where to put the eyes. Finally, one and another were found and smiled. It
burned in a spark malicious and contemptuous gesture showed sudden carnation in her hand under
the chairs. The count became suddenly serious; her cheeks were stained. At that moment came
in Manuel Antonio. The conversation ensued happy, indifferent. The count kept, however, a remnant
of embarrassment. When Fernanda arrived and with obvious disgust, asked for his carnation,
was in serious trouble, perished in a labyrinth of explanations.

The boy from his gardener, who went for a kiss, he had started, then
in a pot that was found in the cabinet of her mother had taken another.

But Amalia, implacable, put in a dispute shortly after asking aloud
smirk:

- Who has given you the pink so cute, Fernanda?

- No, I do
not - it was quick to respond.

And the Count, embarrassed and red again, again aloud to the explanation just given secret. That
little treachery the strongest knot tied with established including a unique relationship that
the count did not dare to define in their thinking, fearful of slipping into an abyss. Continued
partying with the same regularity, perhaps with some more, the heiress Estrada, Rosa, but could
not speak to Madame de Quiñones without feeling embarrassed, looks their way was long, deliberate,
their handshakes alive, imbued with love. Both concealed front of Fernanda as if it were already
outraged wife. And had not yet said a word of love! But Luis was convinced that his girlfriend
was missing, that was a criminal to D. Peter, his friend did not know why or how, but I was in
there in the depths of consciousness. However, sometimes mused that his party had not taken
a single step toward the crime, that he was entangled in the strange
relationships, which was love, intelligence, treason, all implied,
not knowing what had happened.

More than a month was spent in this way. Amalia not only spoke of love with their eyes, but he imposed
his will, made him run all their whims, sometimes scolded him harshly. Announced, for example,
was leaving: the eyes was back with Amalia telling him to stay, and stayed. Fernanda was dancing
with, and a stern look enough to keep him. One day he announced he would spend six or eight possessions
de Onis: Amalia negative sign him head, and gave up his journey. Why? What right contradicted
its findings, was introduced into his life and the ruled? I did not know, but pleasing sensations to
obey. He lived in a sweet unrest, longing, waiting something beautiful, something subtle I did not
want made in your brain. While she and her lifetime mysterious smile watching him calmly, sure
that you know that something and get to it when he came in appetite.

One afternoon in June was the count on the Farm inspecting the work
of some workers who had engaged in a ditch open wider to the mill.

The youth charged the cattle came to say that a lady was asking for
him.

- A lady? - Said surprised .-- Do not you know?

The servant looked at him stupidly, without answering.

How does he know, he who had passed life behind the cattle, and only
one day would Lancia market to buy or sell a cow?

The count took charge of this and immediately asked:

- Is it short?

-
It is not very high, no, sir.

- Very black eyes and alive?

Under color "? Is the ride very loose and elegant?

And before the servant could answer these questions, he had not understood, threw to run toward the house
with a beating heart, full of excitement about the premonition that
was it.

- Where is it? - Screamed while running.

- On the run, garden
gate - also answered loudly.

He came to the run without breathing. Before opening paused, ashamed its presumption. How had
he come to mean ... But why the devil had got in the head? ... And yet, he could not discard.
It was she, was she, no doubt you whatsoever. He lifted the latch on the large wooden door
painted green, and entered. The corrada was great. Could be seen leaning against the wall several
farm equipment. Under a tendejón lay some cars. In a wooden house, roughly hewn, was tied
a huge mastiff who wanted to break the chain jumps ahead giving furious stroking. Back in the
other end, near the barred door that communicated with the garden, saw her, in effect, with
the forehead pressed to the fence, watching the flowers. He was back. She wore Clear red and
white stripes on his head and straw hat with red flowers as well. With his left hand rested
on a parasol that matched her dress and the right pressed silk gloves, well printed what were you
these details! Never in life is erased from memory.

- You here? - Asked affecting composure was far from feeling .-- Who
Presumably there were you the lady that raised me just announced?

-
Do you really not have presumed you? - She asked staring at him.

-
No, no, ma'am.

And blushed as she said. The lady smiled benevolently.

- Well, you teach me those roses malmaison that I have spoken.

The count opened the garden door and both went inside. Was very large, and was quite neglected.
Since the countess had stopped coming to the farm nearly all the servants barely touched on it.
Luis was given to trials of new crops, raise livestock, to dry land, which the flowers. Still,
the time when her mother came all evening and attended him, were there many flowering plants,
large shrubs that eventually and fertile soil that would be transforming in leafy trees.

As they walked sandy roads, of which the grass was coming over for lack of cleaning, the Countess
explained aloud how it got there. He had fancied take a walk to Bellavista, but when he reached
the road that led to the Farm remembered the happy roses, and ordered the driver to follow her.
No possession had ever seen. That lush, green so intense that the enthusiastic. In his country
the vegetation was more pale.

- But most fragrant ... and women - said the count with gallantry.

The lady turned to give him a smile of thanks, and kept praising the
beauty of rhododendrons, the azaleas, the camellias were the gigantic
step.

Then they saw the roses and the count made you choose to send them some day following different
paths turned toward the door.

- Are you sure that I came only to
see these roses? - Amalia said standing sudden and looking at her.

And the count turned over the heart and unfortunately began to stammer:

-
I do not know ... The fact that this visit ... I am glad that the
roses ...

But the lady, pity, not let him finish.

- Well, in addition
to roses, came to see the entire estate, and particularly the forest.

So and can you go enseñándomelo - said resolutely clinging to his arm.

The count turned to experience new and violent emotion, first sentence, then, feeling the hand
of the lady on his arm, of vivid joy. And disturbed to the depths of his being, was showing what
a sight to see who had the farm, the great and beautiful meadows, stables, the new machinery of
the mill, the forest at last. She watched him from the corner of eye. Sometimes he drew on
his face a very slight grin. Found out everything with interest, he praised the work had been
carried out, proposed new ones. And to go and come let go of his arm a few times, sometimes
taking it, waking up at the count's soul sensations varied, but all alive and panting. As I watched
that shot him was gaining poise suddenly a mischievous suggestion that it atortolaba again, left
him confused flushed.

- Come, count, when you said to me was in "Amalia is in love with me: no could resist the desire
to come visit. "

- Amalia, for God's sake ... What nonsense are you saying? ... How dare I had to ...

But the lady, as if noticing her distress and attaches importance to its own words, immediately
jumped to another subject. He seemed pleased that he had snuffed out, keep busy and trembling.
And in the fleeting glances from time to time I threw was reflected a feeling superiority,
the benevolent irony of it is playing another mockery of office expiring to good. Count sensed
something bad under that enigmatic smile, he understood that was
rebuffed by a part that they were laughing at him and made heroic
efforts to regain his composure, but failed.

The forest amazed and delighted the lady above all else. Was a mass of heritage oaks where not penetrate
ever a ray of sunshine. The floor was clean of burrs, grass upholstery invited to stand. No other
recreational farm in the province had that gift, from perhaps the primitive forest where he founded
the monastery that gave birth to Lancia. Wanted rest a moment under that green canopy where the
light is hung laboriously. There was a peace, a peace that impressed as polite silence and a
light sleep, Gothic cathedral, but with sweet emotion. Leaned against a tree and walked a long
time their gaze in awe of the wilderness. The count was standing a little further. Both remained
dumb long time. At last the knight felt, without seeing that the lady's eyes were perched about
it. Some time resisted the magnetic pull of that look. When after his back was in fact looked
at him straight in the eye with bold, cheerful expression that made him look down. Amalia gave
a hearty laugh. He was surprised, confused, something feeling irritable ridiculous, seeing that
the laughter never stopped, he asked with a smile forced:

- What
are you laughing at, my friend?

- From nothing, nothing - said taking
the tissue in the mouth .-- Take me to see the house.

And he hung his arm again.

The house was a great and ancient stone building decayed yellow with
age, with two square turrets at the sides.  Long rows of tents gleamed dazzlingly
in the sun.  Saddlery, horse-rugs, nose-bags and gear were untidily scattered about.  Except
for the sleepy figure of the horse-picket, attempting vainly to keep his lanky person within
the shadow of the feed-trough, there was no one in sight.  The horses needed little attention.
With heads low and legs crooked, they dozed in every attitude of siesta.  Within the open tents
lay the human element, more or less replete after the seldom varying meal of sandy stew and
bread.  Most of the men slept, stretched full length upon rush matting on the shady sides of
the tents.  Some wore trousers, some shirts and some neither.

Stretched full length upon his back, his head supported upon his neighbour's chest, and his
eyes idly following the ceaseless procession of flies round the tent pole, Mac smoked and pondered
deeply: was it worth the fag to go to Cairo?  Knowing full well that his last three weeks'
shirts and socks awaited washing, he decidedly dutifully to remain at home, though possibly
he might take the air, and probably the beer, of Heliopolis in the evening.  However, his good
intentions were ruthlessly upset, for at that moment the interior of his desert domicile was
swiftly converted into a swirling tornado of dust and dirt.  Blankets, towels and hay departed
upwards, and all was turmoil. In five seconds the air was calm again, but not so the eight
inhabitants of the canvas home.

Emerging from repose and a fog of grimy dust, they condemned Egypt and things Egyptian in no
uncertain tones.  They had washed and eaten, and had settled down comfortably for the afternoon,
and why had this confounded blanky cyclone selected their blanky tent to blanky well empty
itself upon!  Often during the midday heat, "weary Willies," swirling spiral columns of sand
1,000 feet high, wandered in slow procession along the edge of the desert from the north-east,
usually missing the camp, but sometimes crossing it, leaving a narrow trail of chaos and ill
temper.  Mac met the situation with admirable dignity and philosophy.  This disturbance decided
the Cairo question--he would go. Still muttering wrathfully, the tent's complement sought their
individual towels and gravitated independently and sorrowfully towards the shower-baths.

Three-quarters of an hour later found Mac, suitably adorned, sitting on a bench at Helmeih
Station having his boots and bandolier polished by four jabbering, disreputable "Gyppie" youngsters,
who swore glibly the while the most lurid English oaths.  Incidentally, they often terminated
an exceptionally fluent flow with "Eh, Mistah Mickkenzie?" the usual mode of native address
to New Zealanders after the High Commissioner's visit, which sometimes ruffled Mac's dignity,
but more often amused him.  His toilet was cut short by the arrival of the train, so, seizing
bandolier and spurs and dropping a few coins, he jumped into a second-class compartment with
but one boot clean of desert sand.  Rattling through Palais de Koubbeh and Demerdache, he considered
what he might do with himself now he had quitted camp. Money was not so plentiful as in those
palmy days when they had set foot in this Orient land with two months' pay behind them.  "Special
prices," too, were quoted for these men from the south.  However, it was a lot of trouble to
think on such an afternoon; he would decide it later.  At any rate a shave was felt to be the
most overpowering necessity, though, really, the desert did make one thirsty!  A shave would
be the second item.

In a small inferior café near the Boulak Station, he discovered Jock, an artilleryman he knew,
and together they satisfied their thirst; neither had formed any plan for the afternoon, so
both welcomed the idea of spending it in company.  They adjourned to the barber's. Shaving
in Sahara sand appealed not to Mac's heart, and, failing visits to Cairo, mornings found him
in an evil mood with a painful task before him.

Shaving over, and Mac's other boot cleaned, a little sight-seeing was suggested as a modest
and inexpensive way of passing the afternoon. The Pyramids were stale, besides being a dickens
of a distance off. The gunner voted for the Citadel, and Mac didn't mind, though he had been
there once already.  They made their way towards a gharry stand, and, spurning clamouring drivers
from their path, comfortably seated themselves in the one which appeared to sport the best
pair of Arab horses.  Their feet supported upon the opposite seat, blue wisps of the best Egyptian
tobacco smoke trailing over the hood behind, they set off.  Scanning the Oriental life surging
round them, criticizing Arab methods of dressing sheep, amused by the scribes and money-changers--dirty
though prosperous-looking sharpers--and so on and so forth, they passed slowly down the long
Sharia-Mahommed Ali, between the frowning walls of two great Mosques, where the cannon balls
of Napoleon are still fast in the stone, and then up the sharp incline into the Citadel itself.

Leaving the Arab driver in a paroxysm of tears because he had received only one-third more
than his lawful fare, Jock and Mac passed by the sentries, through the cavernous mouth of the
main gate into the inner precincts of the Citadel.  How powerful a fortress in days gone by
it must have been, they thought, but how short lived and unavailing it would prove before modern
artillery.  They came to a halt before the great Mosque of Mahommed Ali, and the fine, tapering
minarets met with their deepest approval.  At the entrance they assumed the apologetic sandals
and were taken in hand by an obtrusive dragoman, who, besides impressing them with his own
importance, related with small appreciation of truth fabulous facts concerning the edifice.
They duly noted his salient pronouncements, rewarded him with a few piastres and "imshi yallah'ed"
in duet when he demanded more.  Then, in the late afternoon sunlight, they stood on the edge
of the cliff without.  There they talked of many things while looking out over that weird,
mysterious city, over its forests of graceful minarets, towards the green delta beyond; across
the Nile to the west where the Pyramids of Gizeh stood silhouetted against the setting sun,
and down into the gloom in the valley to the east, where, silent and deserted, lay the City
of the Dead.

Stirred into activity once more by feelings of emptiness and thoughts of their weekly square
meal, they turned their backs upon the glory of the Egyptian evening and wandered down to the
depths again.  They jostled their way through the throng, human and animal, which made progress
difficult and the atmosphere strong.  Spotting a couple of donkeys in the charge of one Arab
donkey boy, they schemed with each other with a view to his undoing.

"Very gude, Noo Zealand," said the dusky one when approached.  "Gib it twenty piastres for
stashion."

"All right, ole sport.  You'll get it at t'other end, and make your blanky bone-bags go.  Savvy?"

They proceeded fairly satisfactorily at first, Ahmed only having to be occasionally reprimanded
for not producing sufficient speed on the part of his donks.  Then, while the Arab was in front
of Mac, vainly endeavouring to persuade Jock's mount to proceed less swiftly, Mac quietly took
a turning to the left.  The Arab went twenty-five yards farther before he missed him.  In violent
excitement he tore after him and besought him to stop.

"All right, you black diamond," said Mac cheerfully, and remained standing in the street.

The Arab, his fears at rest, chased the other soldier, but as soon as the native had disappeared
round the corner, Mac moved on again.  The same thing happened in the case of the gunner, who
halted immediately the Arab arrived.  The latter wanted to lead the donkey in the direction
of the trooper, but the gunner was obstinate and insisted that his was the correct way.  In
a frame of mind too horrible to contemplate, the Arab disappeared once more in pursuit of the
trooper, only to find he had entirely evaporated.  In the throes of the greatest dilemma of
his life he returned, to learn that the worst had come to pass and the gunner and his donkey
also were gone from his sight.

"Allah!  Oh, Allah!" he wailed, and, burying his head in his long blue skirts, he dissolved
into tears.

By devious ways Mac and Jock journeyed onwards, until, happy and laughing at having for once
done a nigger in the eye, they rejoined at the Obelisk Restaurant, where they turned their
borrowed steeds adrift. Coming weekly as it did, dinner in Cairo was an affair of some length,
and, between shandies and cigarettes, it was already late when it was mafeesh.  They strolled
along the streets and were about to drop into the Café Égyptien, when they espied a fellow-countryman
struggling with a donkey.  They went to his assistance, to discover that the donk-man was,
quite unnecessarily, attempting to stop a bottle of beer being poured down the donk's throat.
This promised sport, so Jock quickly procured four more bottles of cheap beer and they joined
the third soldier in his estimable effort.  Abdul had secured an assistant against this vile
outrage to his animal, but he was temporarily put out of action by having the reins made fast
round his lower extremities.

The donk rapidly absorbed three bottles, while the distracted "Gyppies" tugged and wailed,
"No gude!  No gude!  Finish Noo Zealand!" to which the only reply was "Imshi Yallah, you black
devils."  At this stage the little beast, an animal of rather miserable dimensions, with a
large, rotund centrepiece, escaped and wobbled ridiculously down the street. He was recaptured,
drenched with two more bottles, and let loose to wander wherever his tottery legs would carry
him.  The donk swayed and stumbled, his ears cocked at all angles, and his expression happy
and foolish.  The gathered soldiers laughed till their sides were sore, and when tired of this
fun they let the Arabs take away, as best they could, their ill-used, though happy, ass.

The hour had grown late.  To the station the trooper and the gunner wended their way.  A short
sleep in the train, a tired walk campwards in the clear coolness of the Egyptian night, and
to bed on the open sand beneath a starry vault. - I do not know if I have that, but I have natural mouth and stomach, and I know that God has placed
me in the world to live, not to let me starve. The sparrows, a supposition, Do you have shame?
Quia! ... you have is bill ... And looking at things as they should look, I say that God has
not only raised the land and sea, but his work are verily Grocery stores, the Bank of Spain,
the houses where we live and say, the vegetable stands ... Everything belongs to God.

- And the coin, the coin indecent, whose is it? - Plaintive accent asked Mrs. -. Answer me.

- Also is from God, because God made gold and silver ... Tickets do not know ... But also, too.

- What I say, Nina, is that things are of that is ... and everybody has except we ... Aha! hurry
up, I feel weak. Where do I put the medicine? ... And: are on the dresser. I will take a ballot
of salicylate before eating ... Oh, what job I get these legs! Instead of taking them to me, I
have to pull them. (Rising with great effort.) As I would walk with crutches. But you see what
God does with me? If this sounds fun! I was sick of sight, legs, head, kidney, everything except
the stomach. Deprived of resources, I have to digest like a vulture.

- So does me. But I'll take it the wrong way, ma'am. Blessed be the Lord, that we gives the
greatest good of our bodies: hunger Blessed! ".

VII

Already in his early sixties, the unhappy for so many reasons Zapata Francisca Juarez, known in
the years that their deplorable decline by Dona Paca, a dry, laconic and plebeian familiarity.
Behold how the glories and Highnesses stop this world, and what was pending touring the said lady,
rolling to deep poverty, since dogs tied sausage, for the years 59 and 60, until the alms are
living unconsciously, between agony, pain and shame thousand. Countless examples of these falls
offer us large populations, more than any that of Madrid, where there is little habits of order,
but all the examples above the Dona Francisca Juarez, sad toy destination. Looks good these
things and the rise and fall of people in social life, it is great foolish to take the target
to blame for what is exclusive work of the characters themselves and temperaments, and good example
is Dona Paca, who in his own self from birth carrying the disruption of all things material. Born
in Ronda, his eyes became accustomed from childhood to the dizzy depressions, and when she had
nightmares, dreaming she fell to the profound depth of the crack is called Tajo. Those born in
Ronda head must have very strong and not suffer from dizziness or such thing, made to look frightful
abyss. But Dona Paca could not stand firm on the heights, instinctively tumble, and his head
was not good at it or the government of life, that is security of view in the moral order.

Paquita Vertigo Juárez was a chronic condition since she was married very young, with D. Antonio
Maria Zapata, who was twice her age, intendant of the army, excellent person, comfortable position
for his home as the bride, who also owned much real estate account. Zapata served in the Army
of Africa, a division of Echagüe, and after Wad-Ras became the Address field. Established marriage
in Madrid, he lacked time to put Mrs. foot home in a frivolous and flamboyant life, if he started
the frame by adjusting the Vanities of income and wages, soon got out of all bounds of prudence,
and not long in coming delays, irregularities, debts. Zapata ordenadísimo man was, but so he dominated
his wife, who even made him lose his eminent qualities, and how well knew how to manage the flows
of the army, saw his men lost, forgotten art conservation. Paquita did not set rates in elegant
dress, or the luxury of table or continuous shaking dances and meetings, or the wasteful whims.
So notorious was and disorder, that Zapata, terrified, looking to come the thunder fat, had
to overcome drowsiness in which he had half his face, and began to make numbers and want to set
method and rationale in the government of his estate, but oh sad fate of the family! when I was
more engrossed man in his arithmetic, waiting for his salvation, caught pneumonia and passed
away life on Friday afternoon, leaving two young children: Antonito and Obdulia.

Flow manager and owner of assets and liabilities, Francisca soon demonstrated
his ineptitude to manage these tangled issues, and next came, like
worms in body corrupt, countless people who ate it inside and out,
devouring her mercilessly.

In this disastrous time, went to her benign, if from the first day was credited excellent cook,
a few weeks had to prove to be the most intrepid ssion of Madrid. What may be the girl in this field,
the same Dona Francisca, a radical myopia for inspection of their interests, could appreciate the
thorough rapacity of the servant, and still determined to correct it. In fairness, I must say
Benign (among his call Benin, simply by Mrs. Nina) had very good qualities that, in some way
compensated, on the inequality of his character, one serious defect of the armhole. It was very clean,
amazing activity that produced the miracle of enlarging the hours and days. Besides this,
she estimated Francisca intense love for the children of the house, love sincere and, if you
will, positive, revealed in the constant surveillance, in exquisite care that sick or attending
them. But those qualities were not effective enough to prevent the defect promote sour issues
between love and servant, and one of these, Benin was fired. The kids threw very least, and
wept for his gracious Nina and soboncita.

For the three months came to visit at home. He could not forget the lady or the kids. These were
his love, and the house, all her material, and attracted the fond. Paquita Juárez also was
especially pleased to chat with her, because something (did not know what) existed between the
linking two secretly, something common in the extraordinary diversity
of its characters.

Visits often. Ay! the Benina was not comfortable in the house where he then served. In short, we
already have it again in the domesticity of Dona Francisca, and so happy her, and met the lady
and the little wild with joy. Came at that time increased difficulties and family drowning in
the administrative order: debts voracious teeth gnawed to the heritage of the house were lost valuable
properties, from not knowing How, infamous arts of usury, in the hands of lenders. As a precious
cargo that throws the boat into the sea on the plight of the wreck, out of the house the best furniture,
paintings, carpets delicious: the jewels had come out already ... But however much you lightened
the ship, the family still in danger of capsizing and plunging into the black social chasms.

For
more misery, in that fateful period from 70 to 80, the two children had very serious diseases:
typhoid one, eclampsia and epilepsy other. Benina assisted them with such care so loving and
request that they believe could be booted from the claws of death. They was paid, it is true,
this care with a burning affection. For the love of Benin, rather than his mother's, were open
to taking medications, to shut up and stay very still, sweating reluctantly, and not to eat ahead
of time: all of which did not stop between mistress and maid arise
issues and disagreements, which brought a second farewell.

In a fit of anger or esteem, Benina shot out, swearing and perjury would never set foot in that
house, and that the shaking from your shoes to not be stuck in their dust mats ... For what is
carpet, and there were none.

In effect before year apareciose Benina at home. Entered, her face bathed in tears, saying:
"I do not know what is the lady, I do not know what is this house, and these children, and these
walls, and everything here is: I do not know more but I am not in anything. At home I'm rich,
with good masters that no actual repair of two more or less, six hard salary ... Well I am,
ma'am, and spent the night and the day remembering this family and wondering whether or not it
will be fine. They see me sigh, and think that I have kids.

I I have no one in the world rather than the lady and her children are my children, for as such
I want ...». Benina again serving Dona Francisca Juarez as a maid only and However, because the
family had given a tremendous downturn in that year, being so conspicuous signs of ruin, the
maid could not see them without feeling deep sorrow. Compelling moment came to change the living
room with a more modest and inexpensive. Dona Francisca, attached to routines and no determination
at all, hesitated. The maid, taking away in moments the reins of government critics, decided
to move, and from the street jumped Claudio Coello the del Olmo. Certainly there were many difficulties
to avoid an embarrassing eviction: everything was arranged with the generous help of Benin, who
brought the Mount their economies, important over three thousand reais, and gave them to the lady,
since establishing community interest in adversity as in prosperous fortune. But even in that trait
charity beautiful woman denied the poor habits armhole, and pulled carefully to keep peak in
the trunk, as the basis for a new pawnshop, it was for her temperament need and pleasure of
his soul.

As you see, had the vice of the discount, which in some ways, on the other hand, was under savings.
Difficult to express splicing and confused where virtue and vice. Custom spare no big or small
part of what was given for the purchase, like storage, to see how slowly growing flow of bitches,
overlapped in spirit with all other customs, habits and pleasures. Had become the excise and gather as
something instinctive and acts of this lineage differed little from the depredations and crannies
of the magpie.

In this third era, from 80 to 85, sisaba as before, but keeping commensurately with the narrow
holding of Dona Francisca. Sucediéronse great misfortunes in those days and calamities. Mrs. pension,
a widow of a mayor, had been held in two thirds by lenders, the efforts succeeded to the efforts,
and get rid of a drowning, soon fell into greater stopping them. His life became a continuous
quest: the anxieties of a week, engendered the following week: Rare were the days of relative rest.
To mitigate the sad hours, drew strength from weakness, cheering with affected phantasmagoria
the moments of the night, when creditors were free of annoying and vexatious claims. It was necessary
to make new moves, looking for cheapness, and del Olmo spent the Elder, and Elder to Almond. This
fate of the names of trees in the streets where they lived, looked like birds flying from branch
to branch, scattered hunters' guns or stones from the boys.

In one of the tremendous crisis of that time, had Benina to go back to the bottom of his chest,
where the cat hid or pawnshop, a product of its rebates and armholes. Amounted the pile to seventeen
dollars. Unable to tell his wife the truth, came to the story that a cousin, the Rosa, trading in
local honey, had given a tough in order to keep them. "Give me, give me everything you have,
Benin, and God grant you glory eternal, and I will pay you back double when cousins ​​Round of
pejugar pay me what ... you know ... is a matter of days ... You saw the letter. "

And stirring in the bottom of the trunk, in a thousand trinkets and bundles of rags, took the
twelve ssion medium and hard and gave it to her mistress, saying: "That's all I have. No more,
you can believe it; is as true as we have to die. "

I could not help it. Discounted his own charity, and sisaba in alms.

VIII

So many misfortunes, seem a lie, they were only the preamble of misfortune big, scary, unhappy
that the lineage of the Juarez and Zapata had to fall, the mouth
of the abyss into which dipped we find him to tell his story.

From living on Elm Street, Doña Francisca was abandoned by the society
that helped give his fortune to the wind, and on the streets of Elder
Almond disappeared and the few friends who remained.

By then the people of neighbors, shopkeepers and people disappointed
that it had started to call it sorry Doña Paca, and there was no way
to designate another name.

Gentezuelas inconsiderate and used to add crude to a mote infamous household name: Doña Paca's tricky,
Marquise of fib.
  All stood round
the chamber, and talked about nothing to no one.  Others entered and did their gymnastics,
until the room contained the whole Cabinet, all portly persons in tarbooshes, the afore-mentioned
Sudan gentleman, and a few British people, one in khaki.  Now came the real thing.  All in
order, according to their great greatness or their lesser greatness, filed from the room, Mac
bringing up the rear.  The dining-room was an apartment of a gorgeousness, the like of which
he had not seen before. He was accorded the gentleman from the Sudan on one side, and a Cabinet
Minister with an unpronounceable name on the other.  The table was oval and loaded with a munificence
of delicacies on dishes of gold and silver and a riot of strange exotic flowers.

The epidemic of servants in post-impressionist attire had spread to the dining-hall.  Savoury
dishes of rare and exceeding excellence appeared and disappeared in rapid procession.  Dusky
men switched one dish silently away before Mac had half tasted its delights and promptly replaced
it by another.  Breakfast was some distance in the rear and this food of kings was more to
his palate than sand stew "à la Zeitun," and the wine stood high in comparison to the watered
beer of Ind, Coope.  So all went well.  The gentleman from the Sudan talked of many things,
and Mac told him nearly all about God's own country.  The Cabinet Minister chipped in occasionally,
but scarcely seemed to comprehend the vastness of a sheep station with 200,000 sheep and only
a score of shepherds to tend them.

Coffee came, cigars followed, and the trooper made hay while the sun shone.

Eventually a retreat was made to the ante-room.  The haze of tobacco smoke filled the place,
and those who had a language in common spoke cordially one to the other.  At length a thrill
ran instinctively, it seemed, through the company, and all became severely courtly once more.
Chamberlains took up their accustomed places, people said formal things to each other; obeisances
were indulged in, hands shaken, courteous remarks made, and thus the company gradually evaporated.
Mac's turn came.  Before His Serene Highness he successfully accomplished his sweeping earthward
curves, thanked the Sultan for his kindness, but, unaccustomed to the retrograde manner of
leaving a room backwards, he unfortunately found that the door was in the wrong place, and
met the wall with a resounding thwack.  However, it was all in the game, even though he did
not think much of this method of quitting a room.  So, leaving by the normal mode, he was soon
back in the old spring-cleaning room, being salaamed, his hat and appurtenances being returned
to him with the usual Oriental ceremony.

Mac was not quite certain of the rest of the programme and was somewhat surprised to find that
the next act was the meeting at the station of the New High Commissioner for Egypt.  However,
why not?  It was all very interesting and there was one of the Sultan's cars waiting.  So,
waving a return salute to the Sudanese guard, as it presented arms, he embarked upon this next
little jaunt.

Away through the sun-baked Abdin Square again, back along the Sharia and past the Ezbekieh,
he was soon passing down the narrow lane between throngs of garlic-scented humanity.  At the
great iron gates of the Boulak Station, the car with the trooper, solitary and dignified within,
entered the avenue of Sphinx-like dragoons, well polished and groomed.  This led to a square
lined with infantry.  In the centre on one side was the Royal door thrown wide, towards which
stretched a broad ribbon of crimson carpet.  The car came to a standstill.  Nothing daunted,
the trooper descended in solitary state.  An unearthly silence held the throng and to Mac the
carpet seemed interminable, but at last it ended, and, passing through the cavernous, gloomy
opening, he was soon swallowed up in a great crowd of mighty dignitaries.  Acres of the same
crimson carpet covered the platform, its far limits bordered by khaki soldiers.  On it moved
a kaleidoscopic gallery of tarbooshes, red tabs and top hats.  Never before had top hats been
used officially in Egypt, and, resurrected from long neglect, were mostly relics of a past
decade.  Mac thought they were about as suitable for the climate as a cellular shirt in the
Antarctic.  Most of the company looked rather bored, and he could find no one to speak to,
for all were apparently inwardly dwelling too much upon costume and coming formalities.  The
train was late.  They grew still more bored.  At last, hideously decorated with flags and shrubbery,
it rattled in, hissing and steaming.  From a saloon carriage stepped the new arrival, garbed
in court apparel.  Taken in charge by some great officials, he was being introduced to all
and sundry.  Mac rather wondered under what high title, he, a mere private, might be introduced.
Among all the mighty men there, the only one he knew was his Army Corps Commander; so, placing
himself at that gentleman's back, he awaited events.  Slowly the lengthy procedure went on,
and slowly the bobbing and bowing grew closer.  At length, clad in clothes of finest silk,
the great man came before the General and his staff, when in due course with a graceful sweep
of his feathered hat he acknowledged the introduction of Mac as one of the general staff. 
In the course of time it was all over.

Out through the great porch again, out into the air the great people passed and dispersed.
Mac neglected His Serene Highness's Imperial conveyance and sought a common taxi, went down
the khaki lanes and back to his hotel.  There once more he gained a secluded corner, ordered
a drink and unbuttoned the collar of his tunic.

The Sultan did not forget his guest, Mac.  Amidst all his busy life, he heard, nine months
later, that his trooper lay wounded and sick in a hospital at Alexandria.  He despatched an
envoy to express his deepest sympathy, his hopes for better health, and a desire to know the
extent of his wounds.  Then, when Mac reached England, the Sultan sent further messages and
inquiries concerning the trooper whom he had honoured at his table at the Abdin Palace.

CHAPTER X

MAC DISAPPROVES OF BEING LEFT

Mac felt fed up.  The worst had come to pass.  The infantry had gone away and left them, the
mounted men, to sweat and swear in the desert till the war was over, and Heaven only knew when
that would be.  He had been on fatigue to-day for not getting up until an hour after reveille,
and he was in no temper to be trifled with.  A foolish non-com. had taken the fatigue party
to the wrong depot, where the O.C., opposed on principle to a fine body of men wanting for
work, saw that they were not wasted.

After a morning's work, just as they were about to retire for lunch, the peppery officer who
had been foaming all the morning about his missing men appeared and claimed them, and refused
to dismiss them before they had done his job as well.  In the almost unbearable heat, the party,
rebellious and wrathful, had straggled off to the railway station, where a heavy afternoon's
work loomed before them.  Saturday afternoon too, and no dinner!  Work!  They didn't think!
So they retreated to a shady café, and, despite the expostulations of the corporal, lunched
upon the one satiating thing the place contained--beer. Aged furniture, tarnish, carpets and curtains would be fraying. The
owners appeared not to notice it. Above all, D. Pedro Quiñones showed negligence in this respect that
bordered on swagger. Neither the entreaties of his wife, nor the indirect that some daring, as Paco
Gomez, used to jokingly allowed, I decided never to call painters and upholsterers. It is guessed
that this decision was influenced by the disdain with which looked at the luxury displayed by
some Indians in the furnishings in their homes.

The lounge, which is up to the dimensions, was superb, spacious, very high ceiling, occupied all
the balconies in the street of St. Lucia, except for the cabinet. The old stalls, but not imitating
forms of remote centuries, as now used, was built in the past the taste of the time, and lined
with green velvet and worn. The carpet weaving discovered in several places. On the walls
hung some magnificent tapestries. This was the luxury of home. D. Pedro Quiñones had a collection
of great value. Once used to display them year, hanging from balconies on the Corpus for the
passage of the procession. It was reported that an Englishman they had offered him a million
pesetas. Also had some pictures former merit, so obscured by time, if a skilled hand did not
come soon restore, conclude disappear. The only new thing in the room had was the piano, purchased
three years ago, shortly after marrying his second wife D. Pedro.

The cabinet also large, with a balcony overlooking the street of St. Lucia and two of the garden,
scenery was worse yet. Large damask curtains, two oak cabinets without mirror silk-lined sofa,
some chairs of cowhide, a round table in the center and some chairs for the sofa, all tattered
and faded well. Around the central table and lighted by large oil lamp with green screen, were
three gentlemen playing ombre. The homeowner was one of them. Would have forty-six to forty
eight years old, for three he was entirely unable to move, as a result of a stroke that paralyzed
his legs. It was big, brown face and features strongly marked, strong, his hair and beard, whitening
and for many points, strong abundant, curly, black eyes and sunken look awesome. In his appearance
had an expression of pride and ferocity that even the friendly smile that welcomed the Earl of
Onís able to extinguish it completely. I was leaning more than sitting in a chair built purposely
to facilitate the movement of the trunk and arms, and leaning to the side table so that it
was possible to play and have your legs extended. Although the fire burned some logs of wood,
wrapped with a gray Talma closed his neck snap gold. Embroidered on her side of the heart, there
was a large red cross of the Order of Calatrava. Mr. Quinones rarely dispensed this Talma, which
made her look a little beat and theatrical.

He had always been extravagant in dress.

His pride led him to find a way to distinguish the vulgar. On several occasions he saw closed coat, hat
and clogs: spent long hair, like a knight of the seventeenth century; We often wore velvet
dress or corduroy riding boots, wearing boots when no one remembered them, and large necks shirt turned
on the vest, imitating the old flange. Never was man more precious of nobility or more effort to
revive the prestige and privileges they enjoyed it in past centuries. The crowd murmured their extravagances
and many laughed at them, because Lancia is a town where there are many humorous spirits, but as
always happens, This hubris was over fierce prevailed. Those who mocked more gracefully of the oddities
of Don Pedro were the most submissive and removed his hat performance so I saw half a league.

He
had lived at the court some time during his youth, but it did not take root. He was a gentleman
with exercise and enjoyment of the benefits and privileges that his wealth and birth granted it,
but not enough to satisfy her heart swelled with pride.

The strange amalgam of the aristocracy of blood money to hurt him and irritated him. Respect to
granted to politicians and that he was obliged to pay taxes because of their by reddened with anger.
A son of nowhere, a ragamuffins pass him with head up, giving him a look indifferent or contemptuous!
To him, a direct descendant Sovereign of the counts of Castile! Not to suffer and the love
he professed for Lancia resigned employment and came to live again churrigueresco palace where
we are. Pride, or perchance his eccentric character, he did commit, at this period of his
life mayorazgo bachelor thousand extravagances and absurdities that amazed and were the delight
of the city until they become accustomed. D. Peter did not go out into the street never unaccompanied
by his servant or a steward, uncouth man, wearing the peasant costume of the country, ie short
pants with wool socks, flannel jacket and slouch hat green stripe. And not only Manin was dating (by
that name was universally known), but led him to theater. Was to see both a main stage, he,
rigid, right, casting her eyes distracted the room, the servant, with the palms of your hands
on the railing and beard on hands to the astonished eyes on the stage, dropping barbarian raucous
laughter, yawning, scratching his neck and screaming in the middle of silence. Came to him in
cafes and even took him to dances. Manin became an institution in a short time. D. Peter barely
deigned to speak to the wealthiest people of Lancia, held talk roll with him and admitted being
contradicted in the rough and rude manner that he could only.

- Manin, man, you're bothering to repair these ladies - told him maybe being found both at any
store.

- Well, well, because if they are to taste, bring home a mattress
and lie down - responded the barbarian aloud.

D. Peter bit his lip to hold the cloth, because it made such extreme grace rudeness and brutality.

If I entered a cafe, Manin paneled downed red wine as he used to drink sparingly a glass of muscat.
But always ordered a bottle and pay, although leave almost full.

Showing some surprise by this prodigality an apothecary of the population to who ever deigned
to speak, replied with a cold arrogance

- Pay a bottle, because it seems unseemly D. Pedro Quiñones de León
ask for a drink any c. .. inks political government offices.

Also caused surprise in the city that the clerics greet them kiss in the street hand, imitating
the custom of the nobles in other centuries. This respect was not only a distinguish themselves
and prove through his high rank, like everything else. Because the chaplain at his service,
even kissed her hand in public, he was treated as a domestic in private. He kept much smaller
than that Manin. But what really stunned the public and offered to any number of comments and
chufletas was the that D. Pedro did, shortly after arriving in Madrid, in a religious ceremony.
Presented in the church with a white uniform and gold braid studded with beads, which should be
to Grandee of Ronda. By the time of the consecration at Mass, advanced with solemn step until
the middle of the temple, which was free of people, drew his sword and began wield on against the
four cardinal points, giving furious lunges and Claymore air. The women were frightened, the
children ran, the majority of men thought it was a fit of madness. Only the more astute or scholars
understood that it was in a symbolic ceremony and that those air Claymore Don Pedro was meant
resolved, as professed gentleman who was a military order to fight all enemies of faith in any
place in the world. The only small newspaper that was published then Lancia every Sunday (today
there are eleven, six and five weekly newspapers) gave him a press release that, with no little
grace, made fun of him. However, such public ridicule private, as noted above, could not amenguar
the prestige of the illustrious hero enjoyed in the city. Whoever believes in good faith over
the beings around him, has far in advance so that they will be humiliated. In addition, D.
Peter, despite his ridiculous, was a cultured man, fond of literature and pushes a poet. From time
to time, and betrothal at any particular country or for the royal family, wrote a few tenths
or triplets in a classic style, a little Gongora. Although some people tried to persuade it's
published, it never could kill it. So sincere he professed disdain for all This reflects the
democratic movement of our era and especially to newspapers, would rather have them manuscripts,
known only to a few friends. Passed also by courageous man. In Madrid I had some duels and be
stopped Lancia one between him and a progressive political leader sent to this province, by intercession
of the bishop and cathedral chapter.

When you reach forty, more or less, married an aristocratic lady, too, that Sarrió inhabited. His wife
died a year in childbirth. Three years later he Amalia married again, lady Valencia something
akin to it. Barely knew.

D. Peter had seen in Valencia when she was fourteen. Marriage is pactose made ten years later
by letter, before change of portraits. It was sure that the will of the bride had been forced, and
even stated that for some months had refused to share the thalamus with her husband. Further.
Lancia was counted in with a wealth of details of the trip on the advice of a canon was Don
Pedro with his wife to inspire confidence and shorten the path between the incidents and the
descomodidad posed, the moral and material distance between them. Fulfilled the prophecies of
beating chapter and made all the ends of marriage, the sky would not bless yet. Shortly after
D. Peter experienced the terrible stroke that paralyzed half body down, and since then, no business
terms for the blessing, even though Providence was animated and best wishes.

- We need a room - said warmly pressing the hand of the count.

- Yes, yes, to see if it changes the fate ... Moro is leading us boldly money - said a round-faced
old man, fresh, clean-shaven, white hair and light eyes and tender.

Had Galician accent.

Saleta and was called the hearing judge and evening regular Quinones's house.

- Not so, Mr. Saleta, not so much! Only got two hundred points. Missing three hundred to get
even of what I lost yesterday - said the aforementioned, I was a
young man open and friendly face.

- Why have not called you to Manin?
- Asked glancing Count smiling the famous butler, who, with his short
pants, spiked shoes and green cloth jacket, dozing in an armchair.

The eyes of the three turned to him.

- For Manin is a brute who can not play more than the brisca - said
D. Peter laughed.

- And the tute - said the laborer, stretching roughly,
opening a mouth of a fourth.

- Well, the tute.

- And the mountain.

-
Well, man, and the mountain too.

And they began to play without further notice of him.

But after a while he said again:

- And to stop.

- When you stop
too? - Mockingly asked the Count de Onis.

- Yes, sir, and at seven-thirty.

-
Go!

Go! - Said it casually, opening the fan of cards and examining carefully.

And

they kept playing hard, absorbed and silent.

The butler stopped again, saying

- And the julep.

- Well, Manin, shut up! ... Do not be silly - he cried bitterly D. Pedro.

- Manjadero! Manjadero! - Villager muttered crossly as manjaderos .-- There are others, but as
they have money no one can call him.

And again dropped their formidable back in his chair, stretched his legs and closed his eyes for
snoring.

The players looked up at Don Pedro with surprise and concern.

This angry nailed in Butler, but seeing him so quiet in that position, suddenly changed, and hoisting
shoulders and turning her eyes again to the letters, he said, smiling, cheerful:

- What a man! It's a real Swabian!

- High, Mr. Quiñones, stop! - Saleta said .-- The Swabians have camped
only in Galicia.

You are only Cantabria ... Indeed I should know well that ...

- Sure! Ze Uzté zabe it too! - So said an old gentleman, although it would of fifty, which
came at the time. D. Enrique Valero, judge of the Court too, man pleasant demeanor, thin, expressive
face, though extremely faded for life glad he had led.

As denounced his accent, the most closed and can ceceoso heard, was Andalusian province of Malaga.

-
Do not know everything, my friend Valero - Saleta calmly replied,
- but I know well the story of my country and the specific references
to my family.

- What is about family zu Zuev ezo what, mate?

- Because
my family is descended from one of the most leading warlords who entered
the Pontevedra province where the outbreak, as evidenced by several
documents that are preserved on file in my home.

The players exchanged a cheerful look of intelligence with Valero.

- Aha - said it between happy and angry .-- Now that the friend Zaleta
rezulta ez a Zuev like a cathedral .-- Who had Penza, so rebajuelo
and so tiny!

- Yes, sir - he went the other, as if he had not heard,
speaking slowly and firmly .-- The leader who gave birth to our family
was called Rechila.

Man apparently was fierce and bloodthirsty. Great conqueror, extended his rule a lot, and I even
appeared to reach in his travels to Extremadura.

One day, when I was a child, was found buried his crown between the foundations of the old chapel
of our house ...

- But, man! But man! - Valero said staring at him with a comical indignation she loosened the
others laugh.

Saleta continued unperturbed describing the discovery, shape, weight,
each ornaments did not forget a detail.

And Valero while not looking away from him, shaking his head with growing irritation.

Every night was the same. The blatant lie caused his colleague in the magistrate Andalusian sometimes
feigned outrage, some real, always glad for the company. Was so unusual that a bullying Galician dared
exaggerated and liar in front of an Andalusian it, wounded in his pride and the privileges of his
country, came at times to be angry, Saleta was wondering whether a fool or by those who had listened
to him. In fact the judge Pontevedra lie with so little grace and yet so firmly, that was a
matter of wonder if it would be an arrant rogue impatient delighted
in his friends.

- Did you say that eze antepazao uzté zuyo has Come
in to Eztremadura? - Finally asked Valero decided tone.

- Yes, sir.

-
Pue I find, compare, which eztá uzté equivocao because zeno Renchila
eze ...

- Rechila.

- Well, eze Rechila corn has gone there has ran
Become the province of Malaga, but there will Zalía started to find
a vandal who was head of one of miz azcendiente that ze I remember
calling zi ... ezpere a bit ... ze called Matalaoza.

May well ezte Matalaoza, uncle was a mu mu bragao and bland, completely defeated him, made
him and he had prizionero Become a waterwheel pulling that ze died.

Conzervan ze yet in any game basements peazo the typewriter.

D. Peter, James Moore and the Count de Onis had suspended play and laugh without any shawl.

-
No way. Rechila is not out of Merida, who has won after a short siege - told Saleta no less
or more disturbed.

- Uzté Dispenza, friend, in the file of my game is documentoz which show that Zeno Renchila has
come a little something for the province and Malaga, and that Zeno
Matalaoza, my grandfather, by the line of mother or wanted deharle
Dioz pa ma followed later.

- Excuse me, friend Valero, I think you
are wrong.

That should Rechila be different. Among the Swabians have been several Rechila ...

- Zeno No, no ... The derrotao Rechila which my grandfather was the
antepazao of uzté ... Zegura Eztoy ... Pontevedra province ... Ze
enzeguidita knew him by the accent.

And very seriously affected by uttering these words.

The joy of the players was becoming higher. Saleta, accustomed to the ridicule of his colleague,
not piqued or lost a point its irritating phlegm.

The shamelessness of this man to lie and then hold their lies was unprecedented.

When he saw the futility of further disputing, attended the game again. Others did the same,
although from time to time escaped them flow through your nose laughing.

Jaime Moro kept winning.

And he was cheerful and talkative, discussing each of the plays neatly. He was a handsome young
black beard trimmed, regular features, almond eyes free expression
and soft, rosy complexion.

His father, who was the diocesan administrator in that province, died last year, leaving a regular
farm, seventy or eighty thousand dollars, according to well aware. This capital Lancia made him
a real potentate. I must not say that was the target of all the shots of girls of marriageable
age, his ideal, the American dream. Moro seemed little inclined to women. Infinitely loved Mercury
than Venus. His love of gambling, all kinds of games, was so excessive that it could said that
his entire life was devoted to her, I was born to play. He lived alone, with housekeeper, valet
and cook. Rose up from 10:00 to 11:00, and after groom went to the cafe of Ms Romana, which was tasty
aware company that of all the stories that ran through the population. So casting aside this
task it would get in the back dark, oily, greasy, with the smell of puff pastry down, and sitting
to a corresponding table in all the decorations of the chamber, he began to play the Cup Jerez
and pastries dominoes with his close friend D. Baltasar Reinoso, one of many owners four or five
thousand pesetas income residing in Lancia. At two to eat. At three Commercial Circle to start
with three of the Indians, who formed the nucleus of that Recreation Society, the classic steel
sheet, which is usually stretched to five.


From across the misty uplands to the north-east, like the crushing of a cart over a gravelly
road, came the rattle of musketry fire.  Then, as the visibility increased, war-ships manoeuvred
into position, and fired slowly and deliberately at unknown inland targets.  Occasionally the
troop-ship shook from the shattering crash of the Queen Elizabeth's guns.  Reflecting was not
one of the trooper's habitual occupations; but undoubtedly these first scenes and sounds of
the real thing were occasions for thought.  A bugle-call for parade cut short further philosophizing,
and preparations for disembarkation found him faced with questions far more worthy of mental
effort than un-trooper-like sentiments concerning what might or what might not occur in the
future. The leading difficulty was, of course, to get twice the permitted amount of equipment
into the kit, and some must be discarded.  He had two blankets, and decided to dispose of the
lighter, then, changing into a clean shirt, he threw away the old one.  Everything was finally
reduced to the absolute minimum, and packed as neatly as possible in the temporary kit.

      *      *      *      *      *

Cape Helles was not the destination of the Mounted Rifle Brigade.  In mid-afternoon the Grantully,
under slow steam, passed northwards along the coast thirteen miles, and dropped anchor again
in the middle of another fleet of transports about two miles off Anzac.  All traces of the
morning gloom had gone; and, to the troopers, accustomed so long to the low, barren sand-dunes
of Egypt, these high Gallipoli hills and islands, bathed in the glory of an AEgean evening,
brought memories of other coast-lines, Cook Strait maybe, or the Great Barrier.

The fellows crowded along the landward rail, and, with or without glasses, endeavoured to discover
battle-signs and the positions of our men.  There were across the steep green hillsides several
great scars, where the scrub was withered and the bare earth showed; but surely our main line
was over that high ridge, for reports stated that the army corps had penetrated several miles.
The artillery was awakening to its evening activity, field guns could be seen firing, and shells
bursting on high crests.  Heavy shells, learned later to be those from the Goeben in the Dardanelles
Channel, shrieked occasionally out of the unknown, and sent up great geysers of water near
a four-funnelled cruiser to the right.  A steady staccato of rifle fire floated faintly from
the heights.

The evening shadows deepened to darkness; the stars shone brightly, and against them the land
stood in a black, shapeless mass.

Many lights from the bivouacs on the seaward slope gleamed like a miniature Wellington across
the water.  War seemed difficult to reconcile with so serene and perfect a night.

Two destroyers came alongside, one on the port, the other on the starboard.  Struggling with
their unwieldy equipment, the troopers filed down the gangways on to them.  Mac sat down by
the engine-room manhole and listened to great and wonderful stories from the leading stoker
of dashes up the Narrows, long patrols in winter storms, and thrilling times during the landing.

They spun away shorewards.  The hills loomed blacker overhead and the dim staccato of rifle
fire became a ceaseless rattle.

Spent bullets buzzed past and hit the water with a "plop."  This was interesting, and, with
a thrill of pleasure, Mac felt at last he was under hostile fire.  For days--indeed, for months--he
had been worried internally by a great doubt.  Would he be a funk?  He was in a frightful funk
lest he should be one, and to him this was a matter of great concern, though he mentioned it
to no one, not even to Smoky.  He wondered whether his cobber was affected in the same way,
but thought not, as he was so keen to get to the front.  So he had felt a little ashamed. 
Well, anyhow, now he was entering the danger zone, he experienced no abdominal sinking, such
as one might expect under these circumstances.  His mind was relieved; and, with the full joy
of life, he turned with interest towards the steep hills.

Bells clanged below and the engines stopped and reversed, and, with a seething of water, the
destroyer lost way.  Out of the darkness loomed several unwieldy lighters, splendidly admiralled
by a slip of a middy. They came alongside and the men swarmed aboard.  The lighters moved lumberingly
beachwards.  From above, the firing grew loud, and a falling bullet wounded a man--the first
casualty.  Men stood silent, or spoke in subdued murmurs.  The whole thing was weird, yet beautiful--the
still glory of the night, the eerie, echoing rattle from above, and the flickering lights of
the bivouacs.

They grounded at last alongside a stranded barge, crossed it, and, filing down a plank to the
shore, gathered in ragged line along the beach to await orders.  What was expected of them
that night, none knew.  A few of the earlier arrivals, not too fully occupied with work or
sleep completely to ignore them, welcomed them warmly, and immediately launched into long-winded
accounts of previous fighting. With an air of conscious superiority, they gave them hints and
advice, and told vividly of trials, troubles and dangers.  All this the new-comers accepted
unchallenged and with deep respect.

The narrow beach, or those parts of it not occupied by great piles of stores, or limbers and
water-carts, was a seething mass of humanity and mules.  Few of the men spoke, beyond a welcoming
"How do, cobber," or a "Glad you've come, mate."  They appeared out of the darkness and passed
into it again with an air of steady practical purpose.  Ant-like, they passed in continual
streams from barges to stacks of boxes, whose size rapidly increased.

At length the brigade filed off along the stony beach to the left, halted frequently, while
stray bullets passed with a low whirr overhead and out to sea; and turned finally up a deep
ravine to the right.

On the steep, scrub-covered sides they were ordered to bivouac for the night.  Things were
not too comfortable, but that was no cause for complaint.  Mac and Smoky forced themselves
under a holly bush, enveloped themselves in their oil-sheets, and braced their feet against
stems of shrubs to prevent their sliding down the fifty degree slope. There was no cessation
of the firing, and, in this ravine each report reverberated from one clay cliff to another
in ringing, resonant notes. There were no other signs or sounds of fighting--only this musical
din coming from the starry vault above.

The trooper thought a terrific battle must be raging, and pitied the poor fellows in the trenches.
He learned later it was just Abdul's normal method of spending the night when he had the wind
up.  These sounds were not disturbing, and soon the cobbers, for the first time, were asleep
under fire.

CHAPTER XIII

MAC JOINS IN THE WAR

Mac's first morning at Anzac was one of deep interest.  He regarded his surroundings rather
more after the fashion of a Cook's tourist than of a soldier; or, maybe, he more closely resembled
a schoolboy at his first circus.  No time was wasted over a scratch breakfast--bully beef and
biscuits were consumed more as a duty than a pleasure.  Then, together with many others of
equally inquiring frame of mind, he betook himself to the crest of the ridge which shut in
the ravine on the north.  The scene from there was indeed pleasing--a sapphire sea meeting
a widely sweeping beach, a green, tree-dotted flat, and some scrub-covered hills, all sparkling
with dew and bathed in the clear, tempered sunshine of an early summer morning.  Mac's first
impressions of Turkey left nothing to be desired, and there seemed promise of excellent bathing.

He gathered up shrapnel pellets and bits of shell casing, and with the true instinct of a globe-trotter,
thought already of mementoes to take home.  His tourist tendencies, however, soon evaporated,
for he was sent round on a fatigue to the landing, whence he returned a sweating, blowing trooper,
with a handleless, uncovered, paraffin tin of water. As he stumbled back along the stony beach
an enemy battery opened fire without, it appeared, the Turks having precise knowledge of their
target, or else their observation was inferior.  To them, ignorance was bliss, just as the
consistency with which they dropped salvos of four shells about two hundred yards out to sea,
was bliss to Mac.  Moreover, the paint-brush-like splash of the flying fragments demonstrated
exactly what military instructions had been endeavouring to impress upon him for months concerning
the field covered by a bursting shrapnel shell.

It had not been a great strain on the intellect of the enemy to deduce that the appearance
of so many interested sightseers on the skyline indicated the presence of fresh troops in the
donga below, and he consequently set about shelling it.  Mac's regiment departed for the trenches
at this juncture, and so missed the excitement.  They kept along the shore for a short distance,
then turned to the right, and started straight up the steep, narrow badly-graded paths towards
the more or less flat summit, where they were to relieve an infantry battalion.  The sun was
hot, and the way was steep, not to mention the weighty burden of equipment.  The cool sea drew
farther away as they soared gradually skywards, panting and perspiring.  They reached their
trenches at last, pushed themselves along ditches too narrow to take simultaneously both them
and their gear, cast loving epithets at telephone wires which caught their rifles, and waited
interminable times for the man ahead to move on.  Towards midday, after dodging backwards and
forwards, time and again, like a freight train in a railway yard, they collapsed at last in
their appointed positions.

By evening Mac was thoroughly settled in his new home, and no longer did he regard his situation
as being in the least unique. Propúsose, as always, be spiritual, and said:

- Did you see what ventrisca run?

The girl was silent.

- Nothing matters now - continued - because they are all collected fruits, but if there fallen
before, not even leave us a chestnut or a grain of corn, heh, heh!

He felt happy Garnet issue this idea, judging by the expression of
joy that shone in his eyes.

- But here it's cold, eh?

... I have none, ha, ha! ... On the contrary, I feel the heat ... Is it because your eyes are
two calofer ... caroli ...

Yet again rushed the floor radiators without being able to top the company. To cover his impotence
feigned a fit of coughing. His face became purple interesting resemblance with that of a hanged
man.

The beauty, who was staring into the void, turned his head to his devotee, he looked for a moment
with an expression vague, distracted, as if he saw it.

Rose suddenly and walked away without saying a word to sit in front. The Indian kept the same smile stereotyped
in the face, the petrified face of a satyr.

But look back to the group I had just left, seeing a lot of laughing eyes fixed on him, was
suddenly serious and sulky.

- Which party has the Maroon among the pretty girls! - Paco Gomez
said it already .-- I said the other day.

"You no need of having to go to America rich women the world. You
have the fortune in the face.

"

- Look, condecito, now you must go and sit by his side.

She will not get up then - said Manuel Antonio.

- Yes, yes, you must go, Luis - Maria Josefa supported .-- We will see a curious thing, to decide
whether or not in love with you. Right, Amalia, who should go?

- Yes, I think you should sit by his side - said the lady.

His voice went off and trembling.

- Do you? - Asked the count, looking at her.

- Yes, you go - the lady replied with perfect composure and, avoiding his gaze.

- As you allow me to disobey. I do not want to expose myself to a snub.

- Never mind the slights to a lover! ... Because you, more to say, is in love Fernanda ... He
knows the league.

- The league will be, because, which is about a jot - Manuel Antonio said.

And Mary and Joseph and Emily Paco Mateo Gomez confirmed the species with laughter.

Amalia said. Indeed, Luis hid it well, but as for greater efforts to so, there is always a loose
end, a crack through which light comes, she had guessed long ago that the Count, in the depths of
his heart, kept fond memories Fernanda.

- Address you: a few days ago he came to say Moro had two false teeth. You can not imagine how this
man was ... He almost hits ...

- Not really, not so much - said the count, smiling ashamed .-- I expressed myself with some vividness
it always annoyed me injustice.

- Oh! The exaltation in these cases are suspect.

When you feel an interest in a person with less heat defends ... Caramba! I never saw him so
angry!

You can say this girl has a brave champion willing to break lances
for it.

The lady rushed the joke. Not get enough of pressing the count, as if to let convicted Fernanda
your love. Despite the benevolent smile animated her face, there were certain odd inflection
that no more than a single person could see at that time.

But the quadrille was over, and the group with multiple partners increased significantly they
were relatives. They went some others came, after all, the lady of the house found surrounded
by new people. Bailose another waltz and a quadrille. The twelve sounded at last the great clock
of the cathedral.

And young people are determined not to disband, in spite of the traditional
custom of the house, Manin, by order of Peter, appeared at the door
living, embracing the mess of the ladies' coats.

This was the farewell to the Mr. Quinones was at their gatherings. It was not very polite, but
no one was angry. On the contrary, is always received with jubilation, as a funny joke.

After everyone went to shake hands, the Grandee, Formosa middle of a group room. Amalia, in
the middle of it, kissing goodbye to her friends dearly. She was pale and his eyes feverish looks uncertain
goodbye.

To shake hands with the Count turned his head away, feigning distraction shook vigorously three
or four times to pep talks. Well I needed the poor gentleman.

I was so haggard and trembling that Amalia thought he would fall
unconscious.

In a tightly-knit gatherings came out into the hallways and down the
grand staircase of stone dirty and wet.

A servant opened the front door.

- Ay! Who will be left here this basket? - Emilita said Matthew, who
ran the first with the obstruction.

- A basket? - Asked several ladies
approaching him.

- Some poor who walk around asleep - said the servant,
who had not yet closed the door.

- You do not see anybody - said
Manuel Antonio, which had registered the site quickly.

The curiosity excited soon to a lady to lift the cloth that covered the basket. Immediately
the cry uttered familiar, you released so many centuries ago and
the daughter Pharaoh saw floating on the river's famous Moses basket.

-
A child!

Moment of amazement and curiosity in the circles.

All rush, everyone wants look at the same time the foundling.

For a moment no doubt that the child was there intentionally exposed.

Paco Gomez picked up the basket, and it was completely uncovered Showcasing his friends sleeping
infant.

Burst a storm of cheers.

- Angelito! - Who could have been the infamous Poor ?...--¡ of my
soul - What hearts hyena My God - look how beautiful it is - Will
there have long been exposed? - We'll be numb the creature .-- Paco,
you let me touch it.

The basket was shooting from hand to hand.

The ladies, much interested, quivering with emotion, depositing tender
kisses on the cheeks of the newborn, so that instantly got wake.

From that pile of pink flesh out a low moan that vibrated with pity at all hearts. Some women shed
tears.

- Subámoslo, for now, to warm up a bit.

- Yes, yes, subámoslo!

And again the resonant group launched into the courtyard and the staircase
of the mansion Quiñones bearing in triumph the mysterious basket.

Amalia middle of the room was still and pale when the doors opened again. D. Peter had been
transferred to her bedroom and by Manin and another servant. This new and sudden eruption
appeared to surprise a lot to the lady of the house.

- What happens?

What is this? - Said in an agitated voice.

- A child! A boy! - Shouted several at a time.

- Just found on the site - said Manuel Antonio, which had already taken the basket and presented
it.

- Who has left there?

- Do not know ... It is a foundling. Look, by God, how beautiful, is Amalia!

The lady looked at him a moment and said with marked coldness:

- Perhaps some poor man will have left to pick it up right away.

-
No, no, we recorded the portal.

The street is deserted ...

The creature of all this began to scream, shaking his fists clenched
uncertain movement, like two rosebuds.

The compassion of the women burst into exclamations again passionate. They all wanted to kiss and
warm against her breast.

Finally, Maria Josefa achieved seize him, pulled him out of the basket and wrapping it with
cloth that had been covered, what tenderly stroked. A paper had fallen from the clothes of
the creature to remove and had fallen to the ground.

Manuel Antonio picked it up.

- You see, Amalia? Here is the mother of the lamb.

The paper said in big characters, drawn apparently by rough hand:
"The unfortunate mother of this child entrusted to the charity of
Mr. Quinones.

It is not baptized. "

- It's a girl! - Cried some ladies at a time.

And the tone in which they squandered these words was not difficult
to detect some disappointment.

They had become accustomed to the idea that man was.

- What mystery is this? - Asked Manuel Antonio, while a curious smirk wandered down her face.

-
Mystery?

None - Amalia said with some displeasure .-- What is clear is poor
you want to keep it to your daughter.

- However, here there is a
something strange.

I bet they are wealthy people the parents of this girl - said the
fairy.

- Goodbye!

And we are going to Manuel Antonio serial! - The lady said with a nervous laugh .-- The wealthy
people do not leave their children involved in these rags.

In fact, she had been covered with miserable rags and a tattered, dirty blanket.

- Slowly, Amalia, slowly - Saleta said his voice clear, calm .-- I have collected in the doorway
of my house many years ago, I found myself in Madrid, a child who had been involved in very
rough diapers. After some time we found out he was the son of a very high person I can not
name.

All eyes turned in surprise to the judge Galician.

- A very high person, that's - continued after a pause, with the same
composure .-- Well impertinent easy it was, by the way, guess posting
a little attention on the features of his face, Bourbon entirely.

The amazement of the bystanders was profound. They looked at each other with a smile mocking as
usual, Saleta seemed not to notice.

- Atiza! - Valero said .-- Open uzté an umbrella, D. Zante!

- The child died two months - continued unperturbed Saleta .-- Surely when we took him to the
cemetery the procession joined a car that no one knew to whom it belonged. I knew him because
he had seen in the royal stables, but I kept quiet.

- It ezcampa! - Valero murmured.

- Well, Saleta, and you tell us that day. At night these things espeluznan - said the Sierra fag winking
at the others .-- The thing to think now, Amalia, is to be done with this child.

The lady shrugged with indifference.

- Phs ... I do not know ... We will leave here tonight. Tomorrow we will look for a nurse who
wants to have it at home ... because it, indeed, is a disorder.

- If you do not want to have it at home, I'll be glad of it, Amalia - said Maria Josefa, who
was walking a little way and lulling the child to silence.

- I have not said he wanted - he said the lady hastily .-- will pick up that girl, because
I have obligation than anyone, because trust me ... But as you understand, to make I need
to count on my husband.

The gatherings adopted these words in a whisper.

Manin appeared just asking from D. Peter what the noise meant. It was explained. Mr. Quinones
was moved back into his chair with wheels to room, saw the girl and very interested by it. Immediately
stated that it would of his house, ordering a servant to the dawn
was in search of mother.

As soon as the child was brought milk and tea in a bottle teat, it is wrapped with more and
better clothes. Loving the circles witnessed with interest these operations. The women uttered
cries of enthusiasm, they were razed to tears to see the eagerness Mamosa with the girl sucking
the nipple of the bottle. So I got fed up, took leave everyone Again, not without deposit before
each a kiss on the cheeks of the poor little foundling.

The Count de Onís lips had realized all this time. Was withdrawn in third or fourth row, with eyes
of shock following the care lavished on the creature. And slyly tried to leave without further
farewell, but Amalia stopped him with boasts of daring that left him stunned.

- What is it, count, does not want you to kiss my ward?

- Yo! ... Yes, ma'am ... Of course.

And pale and trembling, approached and placed his lips on the front of the creature, while
the lady looked at him with provocative and triumphant smile.

III

Appointment.

This
was the third night the Count de Onís could hardly close my eyes.
Nothing more natural in the previous two were agitated, feverish,
but now, why? Everything was determined as wanted. The company had
carried out with happiness. Does not diminish over to sleep peacefully
on his victory. However, it was not. Despite its robust figure and
graceful, the count had a nervous system too impressionable. The lightest
emotion disturbed his spirit was disturbed to a degree beyond words.
Such exquisite sensitivity I came by inheritance and by education.
His father, Colonel House, was a man focused, sensitive, delicate
susceptibility that made him a martyr in the past years of his life.
Everyone Lancia recalled in an interesting and moving episode closed
that chivalrous life.

The colonel commanding the defense forces of
a plaza in Peru when the insurrection the American colonies. The place
was taken by the insurgents of an insidiously and surprise. An evil
colonel complained to the Madrid government as guilty of treason,
asserting that it was in collusion and bribed by the enemy. Too precipitation
without impartial consideration of the facts and without regard to
the brilliant record of Comte de Onis, the king was deprived of his
job in the army and all the crosses and decorations owned. Under the
weight of this horrible injustice, military honor was stunned. His
companions pulled the gun at the time of threat to his life. Accompanied
by his faithful assistant and a cousin traveled from Madrid, where
he had come to defend themselves, Lancia, where he waited his wife
and young son. Family life was a sedative for the terrible open sore
in the heart of the soldier. But that brave, so often had defied death,
had not the courage to endure the stares and curiosity of his neighbors.
Instead of rebelling against the injustice he had done, instead of
trying to convince his countrymen of his innocence, which would have
cost not much work, because everyone felt his character and know their
value, full of shame, as if it were really criminal, fled the eyes
of the people, retreated to his house, and just walking in the garden
behind it extended, high-fenced wall and damaged.

The palace of the
Counts de Onís deserves special mention in this story. It was a building
very old, the oldest in the city together with some remains of the
original basilica were still standing. He had not saved anything from
the horrific fire in the century XIV destroyed the population. Was
their most fortress mansion. Few narrow windows cut by stone columns,
distributed haphazardly in the front, a smooth wall of stone, blackened
by the years, some square holes near the ceiling, by way of loopholes
and a large semicircular door reinforced with large steel nails. The
inside was huge and had more joy. The yard wide, wider than the street.
By rear of the midday sun bathed the windows. The trees in the garden
put my branches for them, serving fresh shade to temper its rays.
The whole of this ancient mystery mansion offering unique charm and
fitted for lacienses imagination, especially for children, only people
who remain, in our prosaic age, fantasy awake. Its facade, if such
name can be given to that smooth wall with small holes lying bulk,
overlooking the street of Mercy, one of the most central of the city.
One of the windows, perhaps the widest, Locksmith Street barreled,
and she looked the cathedral in the distance.

Here is buried or imprisoned
former Colonel House, were sufficient without the prayers of his wife
and the few relatives who frequented his deal to make him desist from
that decision. His idleness was of value to the house. He arranged
the garden, put some viewpoints in the rear, furnished several rooms,
paved patio, etc.. The dark old house, without losing its ancient
and mysterious aspect, the inside was transformed into a pleasant
home. But military dishonor consumed, dried in it like a tree without
light and water. A deep melancholy undermined his body, he wrinkled
skin, bleached her hair, weakened his legs and put his hands trembling.
At fifty-eight years old accounted be seventy. Inside the house is
not felt. Walked through the corridors like a ghost. Day was spent
and no one will hear the voice metal. But it showed grim with anyone.
A sweet, sad smile on his lips constantly wandering. Did not seek
the caresses of her son, but when I stumbled through the halls casually
held his head lovingly kissed it, murmuring some tender words in his
ear and suddenly and abruptly moved away, sometimes with tears in
his eyes. I thought it was a great misfortune for that little boy,
blond and beautiful as a cherub being born son of a disgraced father.
The unhappy he apologized, his eyes, of having fathered.

By the year
1829, four after arriving in America, the colonel was a real spectrum.  Then
they retired in the direction of a comfortable service corps dug-out, whence issued spirals
of blue smoke and odours of rum.  By and by they emerged, and all struggled into activity again.
Some of the fatigue party had disappeared though, for they were not often so close to the beach.
Still, the Quarter was not worried, for he knew all would return anon, each to lump his load
up the track.  Mac had been too sleepy to wander off for a bathe, though, as a matter of fact,
he had been endeavouring for the last twenty minutes before the Quarter's return to summon
up sufficient energy to follow his cobbers' example.  Still, boxes of biscuits would be their
portion, while, getting in early, he would be able to secure easy freight, flitches of bacon
or the like.

He shouldered his load and set off homewards.  He rested often for the first half of the journey,
but then, pulling himself together, plugged steadily upwards.  Towards the summit, where the
track ran up a razor-back, his progress was hastened by the Turkish artillery on the "W" Hills.
He deposited his bacon at the Quarter's bivvie, and wandered down the sap to his ledge under
the wall.  Delving into a battered biscuit tin, he produced some characterless dried flour
tiles, a tin of bully and a tin of apricot, the choicest of Deakin.  His three cobbers, who
were the only other inhabitants of this section of the sap, had breakfasted, and now lay, like
three mummies, on their respective ledges.  This trench was merely the wing of a sector, and
was not directly opposed to an enemy trench.  Here it was the privilege of his section to make
its headquarters every third day, when it was their additional privilege to do the ration and
water fatigues, to furnish sapping and burying parties, sentries and guards, and such other
toilers as might be necessary; while occasionally, with great luck and better management, an
hour or two on the beach might be worked.

Here, with his back against a traverse, Mac set about his repast.  He devoured half a tin of
bully.  That was his limit, no matter how hungry he was, for he was aware by experience of
the effects of overmuch bully.  He shied the remainder over the parapet, and promptly set about
his second and last course.  The flies were fonder than he of Deakin's apricot, and he had
to be circumspect to dodge them successfully.  He knew too well their other sources of food
supply--and was not over keen on swallowing any, nor of having them beating him for his jam,
Deakin's though it was.  With some difficulty he broke the bullet-proof biscuits into mouthful
sizes, grasped the tin of jam between his knees with his hand over it, and dipping each bit
first into the jam, popped it into his mouth.  Mac had good teeth, but, all the same, it took
many long minutes of hard jaw work to get on the outside of a biscuit and a half. This, he
had calculated, was as much dry tack as his daily ration of dirty water could comfortably counterbalance.

He then set about putting his domestic affairs in order--tidying up his kit and his bivvie,
overhauling the larder, shaking his dusty blankets and the like.  He surveyed his weather-beaten
countenance in a broken triangle of glass.  "What-o, mother, that you should see me now!" and
he winked whimsically at himself.  A fortnight's black beard formed a dark halo round his features,
plenty of dust from the heaps of earth above stuck in his hair, and he was already a bit thinner
than in Egyptian days.  At the present moment a pair of ragged shorts, hanging insecurely about
his middle, was his only garment.  The rest of his body was, like his face, tanned and dusty.

He now performed to the full such toilet as was possible in his present quarters.  He rubbed
himself vigorously with a towel, cleaned his teeth with about two dessert-spoonfuls of water,
and brushed his hair.  He gave his rifle a few runs through and a dust, and restored round
the bolt a careful wrapping of cloth.  This completed the setting of his house in order.

A corporal sang out from up the sap that the troop was to be ready for the front line at one
o'clock, so Mac roughly, but good-naturedly, tumbled his cobbers off their ledges and admonished
them to turn to and prepare.

The next half-hour was spent in getting ready, dressing, having some lunch, which varied not
from the earlier repast, and attaching gear. They looked a shabby mob, with their equipment
slung round them and their clothing adapted to individual taste.  As mounted men put in suddenly
to reinforce the foot, their equipment was not all it might have been for trench warfare; but
they had come to work and not to a beauty show.

They filed away up the dusty, sun-scorched sap, through narrow communication trenches, bringing
forth disgusted curses from the dwellers therein, whose cooking and living arrangements were
suspended during their passage; and settled finally in an advanced sap leading out towards
the enemy lines.  It was deep and narrow and had no conveniences either for comfort or fighting.
The afternoon drowsed slowly past, a spell of sapping at the sap-head occasionally breaking
the monotony.

With sundown, both sides revived for the evening activity, a meal, and preparations for the
night.  The Turks, since their heavy but futile attacks of two nights previous, had not returned
into that placidity which betokened cessation of evil intentions.  There was an erratic nervousness
of fire; instructions were that an attack would eventuate during the night, and that no one
was to sleep.

Just about sunset, word floated up from behind that a white flag was approaching, but it was
some time before it and several attendant Turks appeared through the scrub about a chain to
the right.  Too many accompanied the flag, but nearer approach being severely discouraged they
retired speedily again into the scrub.  A few minutes later, the flag returned, this time direct
towards the sap-head, and now the Colonel, armed with German and Turkish vocabularies, was
there to welcome it.  They halted about twenty yards away, and a rather fruitless conversation
followed.  The Turks jabbered excitedly a meaningless chorus, to which the Colonel, full of
importance and dignity, replied with deliberate and forceful phrases of alleged Turkish and
German, fluttering the while through the vocabularies and prompted and admired on all sides
by an audience of officers and men. The Turks were unimpressed, and gabbled on.  Now arrived
the right man, the interpreter--all would be well.  But, alas, he was so nervous and alarmed
at being thrust on the parapet that the conversation profited little by his presence! D.
Bernardo generously gave them his hand, without losing a point as gravity it suited him. Instantly
struck up a very lively conversation about the issues then seize the attention of the court,
one of them was the recent arrival of the famous tenor Mario. Romillo as clarified in a very remarkable,
among other important data Mario stated that he had given orders to L'Hardy, the baker of
the Carrera de San Jerónimo, that did not sell more bottles of champagne, they probably need
it stocks they had.

- Ave Maria pure! But they are going to drink all? - Ojeda said candidly.

- Yes, sir - said seriously .-- Romillo average is drunk a dozen bottles
all day.

- Do not V. case, man! - Dona Martina said laughing .--
This Romillo always wants jokes.

The drink is between him and his buddies.

They were at dessert. Romillo and Valle were invited for coffee and sat at the table. After the
tenor Mario, focused the discussion on the executions of some sergeants had risen. Romillo
gave details on this point no less interesting: a of prisoners had not been killed outright,
got up for mercy, the confessor tried to come between him and the gun barrels, but the General
who commanded the troops came, and raising his sword in anger, said:

- Father priest from his position, or you rifle V. in the act!

-
What horror - Valle said, rolling her eyes and then gently posándolos
on Eulalia.

- In effect - said D. Bernardo, - all this is very sad,
but absolutely necessary.

Where we would end up if not punish the rebellion with a mighty hand?

- To be punished otherwise Sr., the death penalty should be banned from the codes.

- Do not go to the declamations, friend Valley: the death penalty
should survive while there are criminals who deserve it.

V. is very young, my dear, and has the noble ideas, but inconsiderate, typical of youth. When
V. have lived longer, you see that can not govern with the heart, but with intelligence.

- This is what you see Nah, you design ... but I can not help me ...
Horrors caused me all corporal punishment!

As he spoke these words her lips were made by a smile of ineffable sweetness, while their eyes were
looking at the eldest of Rivera.

D. Bernardo still deign to contradict other many times the young abolitionist, please appreciate
it knew it was worth, trying to give their arguments a sentimental bias not bothered less or more
the respectable nobleman: we left corner sometimes, other escaped through an obvious fallacy,
others confessed up, but persisting in their beliefs.

- Your Reason
are powerful, no turning back, I understand perfectly, but I can not
judge mankind so bad, I still believe that medium-soft are preferred.

The discussion in this way for Don Bernardo was tasty, and thus lost all the young Cuban. Doña
Martina looked at him with admiration and sympathy, sharing their views charities. Eulalia listened
without anger, that was the best that could be expected from this severe maiden.

Romillo finally drew everyone's attention, drawing from his coat pocket a nice artifact which
he said had just been sent from Paris. Stereoscope was a new system of another pocket pulled
out a collection of views, a bright, sometimes without light, representing landscapes and most remarkable
monuments of the universe. Around him were grouped immediately all except the head of the family, who
could not interest such trifles, and was placing Romillo and showing them the sights, before
explaining what they meant.

- Around Naples ... There are VV. Vesuvius on one side ... the gulf below ...

- Beautiful country! - Said D. Facundo, who after children, and perhaps
before, was that put more effort on the glass eyes .-- Man, what do
I have to win a trip to Italy.

- Well that.

- If you do not spend
much!

- But the man of God, for whom you want the big cat you have
at home?


The bombardment continued for some time, and Mac at length returned to his neglected breakfast
preparations, his going hastened by the fact that, carelessly exposing his head, he had attracted
the attentions of a sniper.  When he looked later, both men-o'-war were some distance away
steaming west.

He learned afterwards that the Albion, in taking up her position on the southern flank, had
grounded in the mist, and that the Canopus had come to her assistance, attempting, without
success, to get her off.  The Albion lightened herself by emptying her magazines through her
broadsides, and was finally towed off.

      *      *      *      *      *

Then came the armistice, a day of interest and amusement, and of grim, unpleasant work.

For almost a month, in no man's land, attack after attack had dwindled away to nothing and
there, five days before, Turkish losses had been especially heavy.  The enemy took the initiative
in the matter, and white flag negotiations proceeded on several occasions.  Later, a gorgeously
apparelled Turkish staff officer came across and was taken blindfolded to Headquarters, where
an armistice for internment purposes was agreed upon.  Very considerate it was of Abdul to
put the proposition, Mac thought, for the condition of the atmosphere in the neighbourhood
was not conducive to his peace of mind, nor did it improve his inclination to eat to know that
those flies which nothing could keep out of his food, had come from ----.  And his internals
would squirm at the thought.

A peculiar quietness had marked the passage of the night, and with the vanishing of the mists
a strange silence filled the air.  Since the landing nearly a month back, the continuous music
of rifle fire, with its echoes and re-echoes among the nullahs and cliffs, had scarcely ever
ceased.  And now, from opposing parapets, cautious heads began to appear, Red Cross and Red
Crescent flags were brought into the open. Large burying parties followed, and soon thousands
of Cornstalks and Mussulmans were burying each others' dead.  Thousands lined the parapets,
scanning those acres of which they had had before but wily glances, or had scurried over in
the wave of an attack.  No one was going to miss the show.  The Cove was deserted, and the
Infantryman and the Service Corps man stood boldly side by side on the parapet.

Of the work itself little can be said.  Mac was on duty in the first line, and was not allowed
to leave it to investigate the secrets of no man's land, but he knew well enough of the huddled
figures lying in clusters in that green scrub, which hid much.  But in parts the scrub had
been worn from the earth by the constant ripping of the bullets. There, partly shielded by
withering branches lay withering bodies, mostly in strange postures, sometimes one above the
other with rusting rifles, discarded equipment, and odd bits of wire.  Often scraps of torn
cloth clung to the jagged stems of shattered shrubs, and all was a scene of desolation unutterable.

So numerous were the dead that all day long the burying went on.  Some of the workers, resting
from their labours, attempted conversation with the Turkish parties, but ignorance of each
others' language proved a difficulty.  Still they smiled and gesticulated and exchanged cigarettes.

Towards the middle of the afternoon, parties finished their work and returned, no man's land
became gradually untenanted, the curious were satisfied, and melted from the parapets, a sudden
heat shower damping their ardour, and gradually the old scene came back.  About four the white
flags with their red emblems disappeared and every one retired discreetly into his trench.
Soon a stray shot rang out, and the armistice was over.  Snipers were at their old dodges,
and later in the evening Mac's section received for some time the attentions of an enemy mountain
gun, which was new to this part of the line. 

His voice, which seemed to come from a cadaver, rang clear and loud to the camera. There was a murmur
repressed in the crowd. The dean, with tears in his eyes, replied:

- Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice!

And he put the sacred particles in the mouth.

The news flew around the city. This strange and terrible oath, which were repeated each other
caused a deep impression on the public. Relatives and friends of the count with exaltation perorated
in all groups. One of those he came to direct exposure to the King, signed by all residents,
asking them to revise the process again the colonel. But already had advanced the dean, fiery
and eloquent man, who got the bishop and the chapter give him their representative to go to
Madrid to manage the rehabilitation of his friend childhood. He had improved a little, at
least, the disease had parked. The consumption continue, but the outside is not noticed. Not told
anything about what was being plotted. The dean had time to go to Madrid, reaching an audience
of the king, speaking to the soul by painting eloquently the solemn oath he had heard, a real gathering
of MS office reintegrating the Count in all his honors, crosses and
decorations, and become a crazy Lancia anxiety.

I rejoiced when he learned that his friend had not expired!

From the galley accelerated that made the trip ran to the palace
of Onís and precautions to not impress too told the betrothal.

The colonel was preoccupied at times with his face tucked into his hands.

- What time is it? - Asked out.

- The twelve just given.

- Let's see, soon, my uniform! - Said with a strange energy in without assistance.

- Ray of God! Then, my uniform! - Turned to utter with violence, seeing that no one moved.

The countess went to the cupboard and brought to an end. It was quickly dressed, put on your
chest the band of Carlos III and all the crosses he had won. There were so many that not fitting
in the left side, had to go some to the right. In this way he was led to Street barreled window
locks, and there stood up. They soon leave Mass the faithful of twelve, the most popular of
which were held on Sundays. All they could see from afar that strange figure, the corpse dressed
in full uniform.

And with a feeling of awe, respect and compassion, all marched in silence under the window, unable
to separate her eyes. For three consecutive Sundays Colonel had the strength to get up and back on
the same site. There was still half still time flaunting their badges with ecstatic eyes in
a vacuum, without seeing or hearing the crowd who gathered in front of the palace and showed
him held each other serious and painful excitement. The fourth wanted to do the same, he joined
with violence to you dress, but immediately fell back on the pillows to rise no more. At night gave
his soul to God that brave and honorable soldier.

Poor father! The count could not remember that scene, which had been deeply impressed in his
brain, without tears crowded to her eyes. He had inherited from the exquisite delicacy of feeling,
a susceptibility that was becoming sick, no serenity, initiative, the unshakable firmness that
enhanced the soul of Colonel Field. The current Earl had an overly sensitive and gentle temperament,
background, honesty and shame it was the moral heritage of the Country. But these qualities
are offset by one character weak, great, gloomy, which come to him, no doubt, from the family
of his mother.

Ms María Gayoso, widow Countess de Onis, daughter of baron Oscos was an original being, exceptionally
so original that bordered on the unbelievable. In his entire family, from three or four generations
to her at least, had noted something bizarre in some of its members played on the edge of insanity and
other entered fully inside. His grandfather atheist had been an inveterate supporter of Voltaire
and the Encyclopedia that last minute had given to drunkenness, according to the town council
was dragged by one day demons to hell. Actually died of spontaneous combustion, which could to fuel
like fable. His father was a fool to whom her mother, a woman of unusual energy, had always
enslaved to degradation. Of his uncles, one stood in the asylum, another was very remarkable
mathematician, but as eccentric in his oddities were kept as a source of anecdotes Lancia funny,
another went into the village, married a farmer and was killed by
force of spirit.

He had only one brother, the current baron Oscos. It was also an original and eccentric. At
the start of the civil war went to the side of the Pretender and joined his army, but provided
to serve as a private. The whole campaign was in this way. It was not possible more effort
that it put the magnates who surrounded D. Carlos and the king himself, forcing to accept the official's
office. He was wounded several times and one of them so badly, in the face, that he got a deep scar.
As his face was the most unfortunate and that could be seen, winding path that ended Colorado
to lend a monstrous appearance and even feared.

He was younger than his sister Mary. Not yet reached their fifties. Lived celibate and single
in the manor that had on the street Oscos Well, nothing great indeed. He was rarely at home
of his sister, not dislike, but retracted it and its rough genius. Leaving little house, especially
during the day. Had few and friends. The most intimate of all Only you can say they enjoyed
their privacy, a friar exclaustrated, before being ordained had served in the army as an officer.
Fray Diego was its constant companion. Baron, for his somber, his eccentricities, and especially
so frightening of his face, inspired fear among the population overall. The children felt in their
presence a panic. Parents and babysitters, to reduce them to obedience, threatened them with
him - I'm going to tell the Baron! - Here comes the Baron! - Today I saw the Baron and asked
if you were obedient, etc. And the baron, for his action, always bland, so harsh and loud voice
and the suddenness with which he used to speak, was for the innocent
creatures a true ogre.

He was always armed with a pair of pistols, the Rapier his staff was a real sword. It said
it had fired on a raised only because had opened a letter, and that on several occasions had taken
the children who dared to make faces on the street, put them in the barn, stripped and whipped
brutally brake with the straps of his horse. Real or invented these stories, contributed to
credit from Lancia child element as a monster of ferocity which had to flee, if the tremor of
the legs so spoiled.

One of the things that helped to instill terror in the small and a certain respect, not without
fear, in large, was the horse that the Baron had, a fiery eye horse genius and fierce and furious
and no one dared to ride him more than he and his friend Fray Diego, had served in the cavalry.
To remove a drink that always had the right, and yet Gross was the indomitable pulling leaps and
kicks, putting bystanders in shock. When Baron was riding, and bucking and giving arms rising out of
the house, the street is Thrilled residents leaned out windows, children took refuge in the
skirts of their mothers, centaur looked astonished that all afraid. Really the baron in such
Oscos time, his face disfigured, his eyes fierce, big mustaches spliced
​​with whiskers, stubby and bristling, and the formidable torso hit
the horse, was a figure that instilled fear.

Had to go back to fantasy to the irruption of the barbarians find something similar. Neither Alaric
and Attila and Odoacer had to have ugly and ominous aspect or produce more grim. Judge yourself
the effect would cause between neighbors when a timid season gave him ride out after midnight
and through the streets of the city accompanied by a servant, also gentleman in another horse.

La Comtesse de Onis was in a kind of sex so outlandish, at least, as his brother. Short, plump,
round face, pale and dead black eyes, hair stuck to temples with quince paste, always dressed
in purple habits of the Nazarene. Lived secluded in his palace as a nun in the convent. Delivered
living in absolute devotion but devotion to a whimsical, fantastic, nothing like the real souls
who practice mystical. All his life he had shown signs of an eccentric humor, but since the death
of Count had ruled that both could well be his eccentricities as hobbies, not the slightest. As
a young man had shown a very modest nature of its exaggeration verging on the ridiculous. Her
friends teased quite often affecting some freedom of speech. As castísimos were the ears of the
maiden of the Oscos, the English seem a miss those of a sergeant at his side. I could not
bear that his brother's underwear was in marriage with it when the washer on wearing or carrying.
If that gave him pants to sew a button he was doing as he ran to his room and wash hands thoroughly,
and even tell them was put a few drops of holy water. Apretábase the breast to hurting yourself
up the collar of the dress against the requirements of fashion, not moved around but a dark
shirt, and when the gloves did not ever shook hands with a man.

The story of their marriage was truly curious, full of comic incidents that repeated for a long
time in the city. About everything that happened on the first night boyfriends, real or invented,
it was very funny and worthy of inclusion in a novel by Paul de Kok

During the marriage, the virtue of chastity templose a bit. It almost seems to say excused. But
when she was widowed again flare up markedly. Especially in the past years acquired the appearance
of madness. When praying the rosary, which was twice a day, sent previously raised to divert
to roost for the duration, the cock of the hens; then ordered separate spoons and forks and brackets
males and females. Finally, was placed in a window on the front side of the house to prevent
none pee in the corner where they used to passersby. One day came the coachman to say that one
of the mares were in heat.

Both are angry that, having fought sharply for daring to notify such nastiness, sent immediately
sell it. A After the groom surprised giving a kiss to the cook got sick of disgust. Both came out
of the house immediately.

He liked, however, be gathering in the early hours of the night, but only clerics. I used to
sit in a chair, before which, intentionally or not, probably with intent, two chairs placed
so that seemed to be behind a fence. Shortly after Priests enter and encourage conversation,
the countess slept soundly, and was well until nine in the robes were leaving, of course, without
shaking hands. As the house had a chapel, leaving very few times, and those by car. He kept all
the gold that came into his hands, the most secret places in the attic or the garden. Sometimes
by this greed, or more properly by this mania for magpie, the house was in real straits: willed
that her son asked to borrow some quantities before digging the pelucones.

He was also greedy, very greedy, could eat candy without a source of hints indigestion. But there
had to be made by the nuns: for strange contradiction with their pious inclinations, I hated
everything smelled convent.

As for this woman bizarre, we can say crazy, educated the present Count de Onis. His character
suffered a lot. To counteract this excessive sensitivity, that weak and vacillating temperament
and great, dark humor that was sometimes sad samples would have required a manly outdoor education,
teacher and intelligent energetic awakening in your body know the spirit and the resolution
of the Country. Happened Otherwise unfortunately. The countess insisted that race should not
go after him depart Lancia. Therefore considered a college town in the career of law, which
is the layer with the rich kids hide their idle purpose of life. While it lasted, and completed
long after the countess was subject to his authority in a way that ridiculous. Never leaving
home without permission, did not smoke in their presence, gathered at dusk, praying the rosary,
confesábase when she ordered. As his body was developed prodigiously, was transformed into a bizarre
and athletic young man, his spirit still so childish and submissive as if it never happened ten
years. In this life withdrawn and agravose the native effeminate timidity of his character, his
delicate sensibilities became sick, shady and suspicious genius. And the most unfortunate was
that, without being a louver, was endowed of clear intelligence and possessed a common penetration
reserved and timid men. Illustration and lacked experience, but knew how to keep a conversation
discreetly and is not escaped the defects of others. Like almost all weaklings, enjoyed a sometimes
viciously at their expense. Vengeance is for people but not making those I have too vigorous
and spontaneous. However, these bursts of irony and malignancy it
was not common.

Appeared more like a young conservative, quiet, melancholy of courtesy and chivalrous, sensitive
heart, full of affection and respect for his mother.

After the race had ended their hopes and even projects Lancia leave,
to go the court, to travel for some time.

Enough, however, the countess's refusal to contain him and make him desist. Continued, then,
his life of leisure, the more so since no had an obligation to look even occasionally books
of jurisprudence.

Only by engaging in entertaining the growing seasons of certain crafts, and the romantic reading of the
works then in vogue. It was clever carpenter, not as his father, then gave him the watch. Recently
took a liking to farm work and leisure he owned in the vicinity of the village and began to improve
markedly. Denominábase Farm: Dist little over two miles Lancia had a big old house, ramshackle:
behind her a beautiful forest of oak and large front and fertile prairies. Began to go every
afternoon after lunch, raised cattle and some horses, planted trees opened up channels and fences.
At home barely touched. In this new hobby won His body, which became harder and more agile, and his
character. Melancholia, that both tormented him, it was tuning, serenose his mind was becoming
more firmly in the treatment people and more security for itself and certain disclosures of
black humor, rage and despair that no cause of rare rushing him and
made him appear strange to the servants as an epileptic, disappeared.

Thus came to twenty-eight, he began to frequent the house of Quiñones, and his life underwent
profound transformation.

It was nine o'clock in the morning when the servant awoke from a restless sleep, incomplete,
for deliver a letter. He dropped with affected indifference on the night table, but then that
the servant was hastened to pick it up and opened it with visible excitement. Although it
was already nearly two years lasting relationships with Amalia, never
opened this letter without His hands shook.

Truth, they wrote very few times. But the rarity of cards certainly helped troubled about the
deep love in her sensitive nature timid had taken root.

"This afternoon at three o'clock. On the podium, "said the letter only. His embarrassment did not
dissipate completely. Appointments as it was extremely dangerous, causing him, amid happiness,
a sense of fear that it could not overcome.

Amalia had asked that the deleted; but paid no attention whatsoever. And he felt totally unable
to oppose his will. Spent the morning nervous, upset. To calm gave a ride, got to the Farm; but
returned after the unrest that had left it.

When the appointed time came he left home and took the street of locksmiths. It was the hour that
is just a bystander. Lancia neighbors usually eat both. At three
are therefore desktop or resting. At the end of Locksmith, at the
corner of the street Santa Lucia, is the Church of San Rafael, which
has its main entrance on it. The Earl entered the temple after taking
holy water, as that will make their prayers. Was entirely alone, or
so it seemed at first glance.  It was their
habit to wash what clothes they were wearing, and to bake in the sun while they dried.  And
so, bathing and splashing, sunning and smoking, sleeping and talking, a morning on the beach
passed pleasantly enough.

Sometimes the pair wandered off to see a cobber in another part of the lines, exchange experiences
and rumours with him, partake of his rations and water, and wander homeward through miles of
dusty saps, not forgetting on their way to replenish their water-bottles at the landing and
to acquire there any provisions which might, or might not look as if they lacked an owner,
or, at any rate, the supervision of a policeman's eye.

Mails were now arriving occasionally, and never were letters more warmly welcomed.  There would
be a buzz of excitement while a mail-bag was being sorted, and then a strange quiet would hang
over the terraces while every one in his dug-outs eagerly explored his pages.

CHAPTER XVIII

SUMMER DRAGS ON

The Anzac troops were now entering on that long, wearisome summer wait, without action, or
even prospect of it, to relieve the monotony, until such time as strong reinforcements would
enable them to make a push for the Narrows.  The days grew hotter and the flies thicker, and
disease began to make itself felt to an undesirable extent.  The same old shelling and the
same old rifle-fire went on week after week, varied only by the constant flutterings at Quinn's,
where sometimes Turk, sometimes Anzac, got the better of the nightly bickerings.  Rumours of
victories at Cape Helles came frequently, but confirmation seldom followed.  The fall of Achi
Baba took place almost as often as the assassination of Enver Pasha.  And still the Turks remained
unmoved on the slopes of Sari Bair, and though the men of Anzac had the upper hand in sniping
and moral there was not much prospect of getting the enemy rooted out of those confoundedly
fine trenches of his for some time to come.

But these things did not greatly depress the fine fellows who clung so tenaciously to that
square mile of crags and cliffs.  The great spirit of cheery optimism, the light-hearted, careless
good fellowship, and the muscle and grit of the invaders looked lightly at all this. Regiments
might dwindle sadly from dysentery and shrapnel, the water-supply might be short and brackish,
the flies might be getting more persistent; but reinforcements would come some day soon, the
British at Cape Helles would get Achi Baba, and soon all would be well.

And so, with hard work, dysentery and flies, shelling, sniping and bombing, cheery philosophy,
and castles in the air, sweat, heat and dirt, the summer days passed slowly by.

After a fortnight's absence from the front line, officially termed "resting," but which was
spent, as has been described, in outpost fighting, sapping, road-making and all manner of hard
work, the Regiment returned to Russell's Top.  As his Squadron was relegated to a very comfortable
section of the line, where disquieting bombs, shells and what-not, seldom disturbed him, and
where, at times, one could stretch at full length and sleep, Mac infinitely preferred these
conditions of life to those of the previous fortnight.

So two weeks here passed placidly enough.  When he was in the front line he smoked, read, wrote,
and played cards, or, when particularly bored, rose up with his rifle and potted at elusive
periscopes, swinging shovels, loop-holes or indiscreet Turks, of whom there were very, very
few, in the Turkish lines.  As often as not his little game would be cut short by the reply
of one of their snipers.

Then the tangled mass of trench and ravine over which his position looked, Quinn's, Courtenay's,
Dead Man's Ridge, and so on, was always an interesting study.  They were for ever scrapping
there, and at nights never for a moment rested.  This was the weakest point in the Anzac lines,
and both sides knew it; but lately persistent hard work, many lives and a great deal of courage
were giving the Anzac fellows the upper hand.  Beyond these trenches lay the wide valley bounded
on the farther side by the frowning escarpments of Kilid Bahr Plateau--strongly entrenched
heights which Mac rather hoped it would be some other person's job to storm when the necessity
arose.  Across the valley and up a steep zigzag path climbing the almost overhanging farther
side, he saw long trains of camels pass, and occasionally odd horsemen.  Sometimes machine-gun
fire at extreme range disturbed their placid way, but usually the gunners kept their ammunition
for better purposes.

Their fortnight expired, the Regiment, relieved by the Light Horse, returned to its previous
bivouacs in the hot and stuffy ravine, where, in sections of four, they settled down to a domestic
life, for the comfort of which they brought into bearing all their ingenuity, the possibilities
of the Indians' larder and mule-feed, the lack of alertness on the part of the policemen at
the depot, and the usual stock of knowledge acquired in the bush of how to look after oneself.

The bivouac of Mac's section consisted of a platform nearly seven feet square cut out of a
steep clay ridge.  So a clay bank formed the back wall, two clay walls reached about half-way
to the awning on either side, and the front was open, except in the afternoons when an oil-sheet
was hung there to keep out the fierce glare of the sun.  The clay cliff dropped precipitously
in front, and facing them in the opposite cliff were similar bivvies, with the inhabitants
of whom Mac and his cobbers were in the way of exchanging friendly conversation at odd moments
of the night or day.

Perched here on their ledge of clay, the four lived a supremely happy life when at home.  Each
took his turn at the cooking, the firewood-hunting, and the tidying-up.  Each had his strong
points, and was permitted to develop them.  Bill was hot stuff on curry a la Anzac, whose foundation
was the choicest bully, a little water, plenty of Indian curry powder purchased from the Indians
in consideration of some mouldy Army cigarettes, and a little of everything else, from bran
to marmalade.  He shone, too, with his Welsh rarebit and his biscuit pudding, so that not even
Smoky with his "Stew Supreme a la Depôt" could hope to look at him.  Friday outran all others
in his enthusiasm for gathering firewood, a rare product of the land in those days, and no
one dared, nor felt inclined, to compete with him.  Mac had no rival when it came to frying,
and the preparation of the sweets fell to him on those few but glorious days when the section
was issued with one fig, two dates or half a dozen currants. One was thin,
pale, small eyes, pretty ugly all over, but dressed with great neatness and elegance Romillo name was
John, son of a wealthy haberdasher in the Rue du Prince, his father had for the forum, which
had made great strides, but instead had a very early age excelled in the art of dressing and in
full knowledge, whatsoever, of all the news true or false ran through the town: in the houses
where he came not read newspapers news, because they were useless: this is reducing their science
and their parts. The other was a cute boy, blonde, pink, thin and incipient beard, blue eyes
and wet lips always folded with tender smile, humble, friendly gestures without being cramped.
He was born in Cuba of an affluent family, who later went bankrupt in the stock market game
settle in Spain. He was a lawyer too, like his friend and classmate Romillo, but much more studious
and exploited, which was of necessity, was in prospect Romillo fortune, as he only he acquired
his work. Contained in Academy of Court as he hopes, and founded with others a society for the
abolition of slavery, and another to abolish the fifth and fees sea. In these matters of humanitarian
concern showed Valle (Arturo del Valle was his name) an activity and as laudable as prodigious
interest: the number of meetings, or meetings, as stated in the newspapers, and banquets for
his initiative had been promoted, was incalculable, the articles and pamphlets he had written in
support of his ideas generous could not be assessed accurately. These flyers would come under
the title, stamp token, an engraving showing a black bad knees, shackled with hands raised
to heaven. At the banquet also included another bold, but meat and bone: a dessert of these feasts
humanitarian rarely let up saying Valley loud and solemn

- I designed, sir, there is a man out there who want fraternise Colo us. Do you have any objection
to this victim of injustisia Sosial between a greeting?

- That one, that between now! - The assembly shouted as one man, seized with enthusiasm abolitionist.

Valle
then opened the door and drew the bold hand, which left the embrace
of all the guests with cheers and applause.

And then get drunk as any white and even better sometimes. This character appropriate, always arriving
by chance at the end Facilities of abolitionists, in time became
known in Madrid.

People used to say when passing in the street, "There goes the black for the Valley."
  Seventy-five m.m. whizz-bangs shrieked low over the surface, or burst
with shattering crashes which shook down avalanches of earth on the heads of the troopers as
they sat, half-asleep, against the dug-out walls.  Then the machine-guns joined in the din,
and rattled and roared in spiteful bursts, now rising into a furious storm, now lulling slightly.
The bullets whipped and whizzed past, or plopped into the heaps of debris above.  Now that
there was sufficient military reason for laziness on his part, Mac, recognizing, of course,
that he would have worked had it been at all possible, sank with an easy conscience into somnolence.

When he awoke it was broad daylight, and the tornado of his last sleepy moments of consciousness
had diminished to the usual spasmodic rifle reports.  He stood up, ruefully rubbed the spots
where ammunition pouches had made dents in his person, stepped over his still sleeping cobbers
and crawled through the rabbit-hole entrance into the fire-trench.  There he blinked like a
sleepy owl, more with surprise than anything else.  There were dead Turks all over the show,
and in a sap opposite were dozens of them.  This was a sap which had kept Mac occupied for
many nights recently.  It was a secret sap, or supposed to be so as far as the enemy was concerned;
and had been constructed with every care and precaution to that end.  Running parallel with
the Turkish front firing-line, thirty yards away, it connected a corner of the Anzac firing-line
with the edge of a cliff a couple of chains to the left, and thus cut off a big bend in its
front line.

With much satisfaction a Light Horseman gave Mac particulars of the occurrence:

"My bloomin' oath, we got 'em fine.  We sorter guessed from the blanky rough-house they were
making they was up ter something and got ready to make 'em welcome.  Then with a lot of their
blooming Allahin' and raising a hell of a howl generally, they come over like a blooming mob
of sheep.  A big bunch got into that secret sap there.  Then we landed 'em a dirty one, and
bombed their blanky souls to hell.  They didn't half squeal.  Not content with one dose, the
silly blanks came on again, and we had a bloomin' encore.  Well, old man, I suppose the poor
devils 'll have sorrowing harems.  'Spose my poor old mater'd drop on me if she knew I was
rejoicin' over the fallen.  Anyhow it's what we're here for, and they oughter keep out of our
way if they don't want to get dinged, eh, cobber?"

"Anyhow, good luck to the blighters when they reach their bloomin' heaven," answered Mac. 
"It's about kai-time.  I'm off for some brekker.  Kia Ora, old man."

And, so saying, he awakened his sleeping cobbers, left them admiring the night's catch, and
trundled off homewards.  Passing down the track he stopped for a moment by a ledge, and gazed
with respect and sadness at half a dozen fine stalwart forms of Light Horsemen, wrapped each
in his grey blanket, who had taken the long trail in the night's encounter.

The Regiment was getting tired of continually sapping without any excitement to break the monotony,
other than the more or less frequent arrival of shells in their vicinity, and the attentions
of snipers on the beach.  Moreover, the flies increased in their countless millions, the ground
was getting very dirty, the stench in parts was almost unendurable, and practically every one
was more or less affected by stomach trouble.  The troops grew daily thinner, until, had he
not followed their increasing slimness, Mac could hardly have recognized some of his old friends.
With dark olive skins, cadaverous faces and often a good growth of beard, they were a hard-looking
lot.

CHAPTER XIX

MAC TAKES A CHANGE

The behaviour of Mac's stomach was not all that it might have been, besides which rheumatism
began to develop, so he contemplated a short spell on the Island of Lemnos.  It was a place
truly to be desired. There the distant reverberation of the Cape Helles artillery could only
just be heard, one might walk in the open and bathe without having to worry about snipers or
shrapnel, and, moreover, there were ships with canteens and, perhaps, a good meal.  So, one
evening, ticketed and labelled, and with the combined financial assets of his section in his
pocket, he waited for embarkation at the Cove.  Many others were there, about half wounded
and the rest medical.

Night-time at the Cove was always beautiful.  The starry brightness above the blackness of
the sea, the steep rising face of the hill, with the twinkling lights and flickering fires
of the bivouacs, the throng of toilers among the great piles of stores, the mules and water-carts
crunching along the gravel, the wounded waiting embarkation--Mac saw what might be called the
throbbing heart of Anzac.  It throbbed, for the most part, in darkness; but, here and there,
caught in the half-light from lamps among tiered piles of boxes, he had odd glimpses of the
splendid fellows as they went about their work; and he was thrilled by the grandeur and manhood
of it all.

Hours passed.  Then a musical call through a megaphone, "Walking-cases this way," woke them
to attention.  They were all embarked on a lighter, and were towed, first by a pinnace, and
then by a minesweeper, out into the bay, until high above them, aglow with green, red and yellow
lights, reared the steel sides of a hospital-ship.  A steam crane swung each giddily upward,
and deposited him on the clean white deck.

Mac didn't quite know where he was that night.  He accepted a dose of medicine and some kind
words from a medical officer, absorbed a cup of hot cocoa and a piece of bread and butter--almost
forgotten luxuries and found himself at length in a comfortable bunk with white sheets. Very
faintly from the heights across the water floated sounds of strife; and Mac, with a sigh of
supreme satisfaction, turned over and went to sleep.

When he woke in the morning, a white girl--a sister--was standing beside his bunk.  He was
shy--he felt so rough.  It seemed ages since he had seen a woman.

At ten o'clock, the light cases for Lemnos transferred to a mine-sweeper, and thence to a fleet-sweeper.
All the afternoon the vessel steamed across sunlit seas and in the evening entered Mudros Harbour,
passing through the great fleet that lay there, transatlantic liners, men-o'-war ancient and
modern, hospital-ships, transports and small craft of every description, to an anchorage on
the east of the harbour.  The patients were landed in launches, and made their way, in a long
straggling line of decrepits, to the field hospitals.

Mac found a resting place in the 1st Australian Stationary Hospital, and passed a week there.
He was relegated to a large marquee, the sides of which were always rolled up.  In the centre
stood two tables, one occupied by medicines and the other by the dishes and food of the establishment.
Stretched on the ground was a large tarpaulin, whereon, with a blanket apiece, eighty or more
hors de combat heroes had their abode. This is where I sleep nap when I get tired
of walking through the field.

In one corner was a superb carved oak bed entirely black by years. It was one of those beds of
the fifteenth century that the antique crazy. The hangings ancient
well.

Mattresses were spread on a modern damask wallpaper.

- This is where you set out to think more freely to me, is not it?

The count was stunned as if he had been hit in the head.

- Yo! ... Amalia! ... How?

But suddenly, with a gesture of resolution, said:

- Yes, yes, Amalia, you say it! Here I think of you as I think of all the places where I for
some time ... I do not know what happens to me, I live in a state of constant anxiety, and this,
as you told me a few days ago is a sign of true love. I'm in love you like crazy. I understand
that is an atrocity, a crime, but I can not help ... Pardon me.

And the knight fell to his knees, as one of their noble ancestors of the Middle Ages at the foot
of the lady.

This was outraged, to hear him terribly. How? Do not be ashamed of such a confession? Do not understand
the words that guide you in your home was an insult? How could suppose she had to listen to
the patient?

Lying seemed that the Comte de Onis a knight so accomplished, missing that way to what should
be a lady and what should be himself!

The count remained terrified and knees under this hail of insults. Considered serious his words, but
the anger that produced the lady was more than I had suspected.

Amalia finally kept silent. Irritadísimos eyes watched him with a moment. But a happy and cheerful smile
began to widen their expressive face. He walked slowly and majestically to him, put her hand on
his shoulder and stooping to put his mouth to his ear told him quietly

- You do well not to be ashamed of anything like that, because I, my lord, I love you at least
as much you do to me.

He wanted to go crazy. After the fright, clung to his knees kissing frenzy, overflowed in a sea of ​​passionate
words, incoherent, full of fire and truth, as she, so brief, so tiny, that colossus looked exhausted,
with his mysterious eyes Valencia shining with love and passion.

With this immense work won the Count de Onis to the kind lady D. Pedro Quinones Leon.

The early stages of their relationships were agitadísimos for him, full of sharp remorse and intoxicating
pleasures. Amalia occasionally went to the farm. At night in the party He realized his visit
aloud.

He was shaking, it troubled, sweating with anguish while with perfect coolness narrated all
that she could tell, he spoke of the garden, censored the neglect was and what he enjoyed each
visit bringing some plants with intention to quit destroyed because its owner was not interested.
He carried their audacity to mock.

- Of course there is this man who suffers from the ladies visit him. Do not warn you what has become
irrelevant? I'm dreading the first day you go to the Farm compels me to third base.

The circles laughing. Yes, he looked more serious. Fernanda smiled sticking a glance loving,
the same D. Pedro softened his eyes, haughty, fierce, and let slip from her throat a hint
of laughter. What a prodigious effort cost the Count seem easy in these, moments! It seemed he
had a yawning gulf at his feet. And when he was alone Amalia he complained of his audacity,
and besought him with earnest words to be more cautious, as she impassively
on his fearful rejoicing, smiling contemptuously with his fine enigmatic
smile.

Unable to see only rarely in the House, Amalia found means to make more frequent Jacoba relying
on interviews. In this house were one or two times a week. The count came through a little door
that led to some back alley, the first thing Later, when the neighbors were eating. Expected at
least two or three hours. Amalia arrived Finally, under the pretext of giving some order to your
favor. But this is not enough yet devised by the gallery entrance of the church of San Rafael.
The count was horrified such a medium; all religious scruples rose up at once, plus I was afraid
that an accident discovered by chance that those loves and desecration. What a scandal! Amalia
laughed their fears as if the terrible consequences it would not
have to pay them.

She was I had absolute confidence in his star. Like good bullfighters are judged safer sticking
to the bull's horns if you do not lose your cool, so she defied the danger, went to meet him
hoping he would know to leave any mess. And indeed, perfect serenity, his incredible audacity
saved more than once.

The Count de Onis, the colossus of long beards was a real toy in the hands of that fixie reckless
and malicious. A mad passion seized both, especially her. Shortly by little getting used to not
live without it, not to spend a day without seeing him alone. Was incredible efforts of ingenuity
and skill to achieve. And if the circumstances were rolling in such a way that was impossible
in three or four days to enjoy an hour of solitude, his spirit Volunteers exalted, bounced into
the body like a steed impatient, and was prepared to throw a most unwise. He clenched his
hands, pinching gave full chat, hugged him behind the door when he was under any pretext go
to another room and more than once and more than two under the nose of the Grandee, return it to
the head, he pressed a kiss on the lips. Luis shook, paled, always
waiting for a catastrophe.

Within a few months, their relationship with Fernando, who had been cooling gradually broke down
completely. It was an essential requirement of Amalia. From the beginning it was coming preparing
to art ruler, marking the time was to be next to his girlfriend the times he had to take the
ball and even what he had to say. And as he had expected, the heir-Rosa Estrada, who was proud, could
not stand the cold her boyfriend, he was released and returned to his word. The girl pouring
out her grief Amalia, the only one who knew what to expect about
that much discussed break.

Showed this great anger at the conduct of the count and was expressed
in rather vivid against him; took part for the girl, bursting into
praise of her, not tired of weighing their eyes, its size, discretion
and kindness.

Ostensibly gave up some steps to reconcile.

And within the trust, particularly among the friends of D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, was content to
say that in every way Fernanda worth more than your ex-boyfriend, but surname to it with a thousand
epithets heavy; jayanote, turkey, sanctimonious, hypocritical, etc.. And when the next day he looked
at Jacob's house, he would say hugging him with laughter:

- I have made you yesterday, my dear, in front of several friends of D. Juan! You do not know! ...
You left my lips with pliers or you could pick.

Earl lived for all this, and the remorse that gnawed him constantly in a state of perpetual
turmoil. How far was to be happy! But it was all flowers compared with what was expected. Five
months into their relationship, one day he announced Amalia he believed to be in film. He said
with a smile on his lips, as if news he had won the lottery.

Luis became a whirlwind of terror, was pale, the view troubled him as if about to fall.

- God, what a disgrace! - Said her hands to the face.

- Misfortune? - She asked in amazement .-- Why? I am very happy.

So when his great eyes dilated, astonished, he said, laughing, that was happy to wait a token of
his love, that no one was afraid because she knew that nothing fixed was discovered. And indeed,
this skill was to squeeze that one might presume that this woman had a baby in her womb. What
scares, what anguish of the count while pregnancy lasted!

If someone looked at her insistence, I was shaking, if in the course a conversation Tertullian
alludes to a hidden labor, grew pale, thinking could be a hint. The faces seemed to see smiles
and meaningful glances; in the most innocent words, deep and sinister overtones.

Meanwhile she ate and slept quietly with a constant joy and terrified admired at the same time
the count. Time was, came seven months eight. For much to hide it, the count noted that his
beloved's waist widened.

When full of sorrow, she communicated with this remark, laughed:

- Shut up, fool, you notice it because you know. Who will be a little suspicious because fatter?
Many times I like to wear loose corset.

When he reached the critical moment showed bravery bordering on heroism. Luis wanted to rely a
doctor, she refused. Why? With the assistance of Jacqueline was enough. The trust that secret to
another person was dangerous.

We undertook the first symptoms at dawn, being in bed, but not until
eight summoned Jacoba, who under the pretext of making some mattresses
slept for several days at home.

Is locked in the cabinet, where they already had prepared the necessary
clothes and without a cry, without a movement out of touch, without
the mild complaint, that brave woman left her care.

Jacqueline took the baby with the mess clothing, after having sent
out with appropriate excuses servants.

The Count cried with joy and admiration to know this happy outcome.

Then, when received by Jacoba ordered to take the girl to the portal Quiñones, I felt heartbroken.
The plan her lover filled him with astonishment, but as he was accustomed
to obey, did what command.

The result topped the audacity of the lady was as she had expected.

And now, behold the creature forever secure, not only strengthened their love and refined, but felt
the joy of victory, which after strong run time finally arrives at the port of salvation.

Very quietly, hands clasped, occasionally tilting his head to brush the front lip of the girl,
spoke at length, rather, dreamed awake, wanting to penetrate the
unfathomable depths of time.

What would be the fate of that beautiful creature? How it educate? Amalia said as his daughter get
to educate, make a real young lady was sure that D. Pedro would not
oppose it.

And like he had no children, who, having nothing more natural taken
a liking to leave her to her death a significant legacy.

The Count made a gesture of disdain. The girl did not need finances
D. Pedro.

He would leave all their own.

- But you can marry and have children - said the lady looked at him mischievously.

He covered his mouth.

- Hush, hush! You know I do not want to hear it even. I'm definitely attached to you.

She kissed him warmly.

- Sealed, right?

- Sealed - he said firmly.

- But do not you take
care of that if you leave your property at will, then born the suspicion
that it was your daughter?

This difficulty for a moment struck him. Both were engaged in some way to arbitrate circumvented.
The count wanted to leave in trust to someone you trust.

But this also offered its drawbacks.

Best would be putting money in your name at a bank, and upon reaching the age of majority,
pretending an inheritance, to invent a parent out of the blue ...

-
Finally, we'll talk about that ... Let my care - she concluded.

And he kept it very willingly, trusting of his inexhaustible imagination,
their willingness and audacity.

When they tired of talking about what future they turned their eyes to this. It was necessary
to baptize girls. Had decided that was the next day.

- We have agreed that the godmother and godfather I were you.

- How? I? - Said scared .-- But, my dear, do not you understand that it can breed suspicion?

The
lady persisted. Yes, that was to be godfather. If suspected, bon
appetit.

She did not care. But actually seeing him change his mind distressed.

- Do not worry, man, do not worry - said giving a tug to his beard .-- It was a joke. Good going
to face when you had to put on the stack! Do not be missing more
than shouting Gentlemen, here!

Come here for all to see the father of this child!

The sponsor would Quiñones, and its representation D. Enrique Valero. Her godmother, represented
by Maria Josefa. The count was very pleased. All that was skillful and prudent and appropriate
to ensure the fate of his daughter. But after that happier, a rumor that came the hallway
made him jump in the chair, get livid.

- What are you, man?

- That noise! ​​...

- It Jacoba ...

But seeing him doubtful, even frightened eyes, stood up, taking the child in her arms, opened the door
and exchanged a few words to James that, indeed, was there. After deliver the baby and close,
he returned to sit.

- How you coward, say?

- It is not cowardice - he blushed .-- It is said that I am always
startled ... I do not know what I passed ... Perhaps consciousness
...

- Bah!

Are you a coward. Since you have the big body you walk the soul within him.

And the next breath, looking at the expression of anger and sadness
that was reflected in his countenance, turned to embrace him with
transports of enthusiasm.

- No, you are cowardly, but innocent yeah
... That's why I love you I love you more than life.

Is not it true that you want your fillet?

I'm yours ... You are my only love.

I'm not married ...

And with affectionate cat caresses his hands he walked the thin, pale face stamped in his tiny,
endless kisses, his arms knotted it around his neck, biting it with mild and transient Mouse bites.
And while she, as grave and silent visit, was flowing from his lips a constant stream of sugary
little words that numbed and intoxicated. The fire, which is guessed at from their large eyes mysterious
and treacherous, gushing now with live flames. It was the enjoyment of sensuality which flowed
from his being, but it was also met fad evil delight, revenge and betrayal.

The Count de Onís felt increasingly subdued. The caresses of his beloved were scorching; but always
kept his eyes in the depths, a cruel reflection of domesticated beast. Felt love and fear
at the same time. Superstitious spirit ever came to imagine if a Tempter would come to stay
in the feeble little body that Valencian.

After calling three or four times he was leaving, not stop them carrying
out by her, looking after his arms free, he rose from his chair.

The parting was long as usual.

Amalia will not let go until I saw him drunk, intoxicated by the violence of his touch. Jacoba
was waiting in the corridor. After driving for this and several other to the room where the ladder
was excused to go to the library, made him sign to wait and got one to make sure nobody was in
the hallways. Became up to warn, the count down, turning as could the sound of his boots. In
passage of the dividing door left him, after opening the door. Low again until playing with his
hands on the ground to not be warned of people who pass by the street and in this way through
the passage of the rostrum. He opened the door and entered.

The darkness blinded. As he felt a blow a few steps back and heard a gruff voice saying at
the same time:

- Die, infamous!

Froze in their veins the blood and took a step backwards. In the shadows he could see thick
even more black lump.

Quick as lightning rushed upon him, and they have been destroyed
under his huge body if not feel suppressed laughter while Amalia's
voice.

- Care, Luis, you're going to get hurt!

The shock left him
speechless for a moment.

- But where have you been? - Said at last.

-
Well, the main staircase. I've missed this black hood over and I dropped
off.

And seeing him cold and disgusted by this hoax, stood on tiptoe
on the edge of feet quickly colgose his neck and then tightening the
lips long and passionately against hers, said in smarmy accent:

-
I knew you were not a coward ... but wanted to check.

V

Paco Gómez
jokes.

However, Garnet had not persuaded to Paco Gómez proceed in
good faith. His character ludicrous, the terrible a practical joke
that was attributed perjudicábanle in the mind of Indian. Continent
was not enough to adopt serious and keep him long talks about the
rise or fall of the Bank's shares, or the house you praise above all
factories modern and give him useful advice on the game sheet. Anyway,
the funny Lancia observed there in the bottom of their big eyes fierce
wild boar, a cloud of suspicion that could dissipate. In this predicament
called for help to Manuel Antonio. He had made up his mind funny joke,
and before giving her consent to any alliance.

- Do not kid yourself,
Santos - said the queen, according to Paco, walking one evening by
the hype Garnet, - you, as you've spent more than half of the life
behind the counter, no understand anything of these sets. Fernanda
not tell you this shawl for you, but walks in this way I say and I
stand here and everywhere. I have long since come noticing. Women
are capricious, incomprehensible one thing today and tomorrow reject
the crave and are willing to do anything foolish to achieve it. Fernanda
began rechazándote ...

- Entodavía! Entodavía! - Silently said the
Indian.

- Pure appearance. She is very proud and will not ever budge.
But as well as a lot of pride not only marry the Comte de Onis, or
you, the two only parties that are in Lancia for her, the count by
the nobility and you for the money. Luis is a very strange man, I
believe it unable to marry. She is convinced now of the same. He has
no more than you, and you will be after you eat the fig ... Furthermore,
more than any other say anything, women like men like you, strong
... because you are an oak tree guy - he said turning to head in admiration.

Garnet
let out a roar corroborating. The fairy moved her hands over his torso,
as deep knowledge of masculine forms.

- What muscles, boy! What a
man!

- With these guys you see here - said the Indian with pride
- you have won many thousands of dollars.

- How? Loading "bags?

-
Bags! - Maroon said smiling contemptuously pa .-- That is the mob.
Sugar Boxes as cars! 

The bomb was deserted at that hour.  The
exit consisted of a large barbed-wire gate across a great communication trench, close to the
stone wall on the beach.  They did four-hour watches there night and day, taking a tally of
all who came and went, and watching keenly for spies.  During their daylight hours of duty,
Mac and Bill sat on sandbags under the shady wall of the sap.  Their bayoneted rifles leaned
against the bank close at hand, while they, scantily clad in the scorching hours, lazily noted
in tattered note-books the particulars of sweating, dust-covered wayfarers.  When they were
not busy, they sat there automatically flicking away the flies, and watching through a gap
in the trench the horde of naked men on the beach.  Passing mules often left Mac and Bill grousing
in a cloud of dust.  Aussies, Maoris and New Zealanders stopped now and then for a few minutes'
rest beneath their awning.  They would yarn for a while, and the guards would accept from their
freshly-filled cans a drink of cool spring water.  When the relieving guard came, Mac and Bill
just stripped off their shorts, and ran across the stones for a splash in the sea.

At night they were more alert on guard.  Sleepy as Anzac appeared in the hot sunlight, dark
hours shrouded a scene of energy and purpose. As soon as the evening light had gone, long strings
of heavily-laden mules, with tall Indian muleteers struggling among them, came along the sap
and passed out through the gate.  There were pauses, but soon more mule trains followed, and
the earlier ones passed back empty for further loads.  All the time the guard watched carefully
lest there should be strangers attempting to pass through hidden among the mules. Great piles
of bully beef, biscuits, sealed paraffin tins of water and ammunition grew steadily bigger
in hidden spots behind the outposts, and the troops were light-hearted accordingly.

Platforms had been cut in hill-sides for the accommodation of troops away from enemy observation,
communication trenches had been widened, some had been bridged and others had been created
silently and swiftly in a single night.  Without orders from officers, the troops energetically
overhauled rifles, ammunition and gear; and private possessions were looked into, diaries written
and letters despatched. Between the opposing lines warfare continued its accustomed way, and
the normal exchange of bombs, shells and bullets went on, though Turkish artillery fire was
increasing in strength.

On Thursday, August 5th, the Regiment sorrowfully packed up all unnecessaries and piled them
in the regimental dump.  Mac grieved to part with the unfinished half of the Lemnos provisions,
for heaven only knew when they might see them again, and probably some one else would thrive
on them.

That night the Regiment moved out through the wire gate, and crowded on the platforms at the
back of No. 1 Outpost, there to remain till the following evening, when the battle was to open.

CHAPTER XXI

NO. 3, TABLE TOP AND SUVLA BAY

The Regiment, stretched in close lines on the terraces, slept soundly. For many days ahead
there would be little opportunity of resting, and for many there would be but one more sleep.
They did not rouse till well after dawn, for there was nothing to do that day but fill in time.
Mac again overhauled all his equipment, paying particular attention to his rifle, bayonet and
ammunition, seeing that everything was accessible and that all ran smoothly.  Then the section
rigged a blanket between piled arms, and sat down in its shade for a game of cards.  That palled
after a time, and Mac drew from his knapsack a book, The Cloister and the Hearth, and was soon
deep in its pages. Then came lunch, and in the afternoon orders were read, with inspiring messages
from the Generals, and a few words from the C.O.

A few aeroplanes burred overhead, the exchange of firing followed its normal daily course,
quieting rather in the heat of midday; but to the waiting troops the long hours dragged.  That
wonder of what the future held, that ominous quiet before the storm, the preparations for battle--all
made the day long.

At last the sun sank behind the rugged islands in a glorious riot of colour, the high eastern
hill-tops which should be British by dawn gradually grew black against the appearing stars.
The Regiment, water-bottles filled and in final trim, stood leaning on their rifles. Occasionally
some one gave a hitch to his gear, others talked in subdued tones, or gazed solemnly out to
sea where the black outlines of Imbros and Samothrace stood against the last glow of departing
day.  At this glorious hour there drifted up from the darkness in the ravine below such a sound
as went deep to Mac's heart.  Rich in tone, perfect in key, unmarred by a single jarring note,
and to the accompaniment of battle sounds above, came the music of the soul, and Mac was awed.
It was the chanting of five hundred Maoris and their prayer before this, their first great
trial in modern warfare.  Upon the next few hours depended the reputation of their race.  Would
they be worthy of the glorious traditions of their old chiefs?

Then came the word to move, and the Regiment, in single line, filed down the slope and into
the main sap to the north.  It was already full of troops filing to the attack, but, after
many halts and side-trackings, they reached the exit which led to the ravine.  Here, at the
parting of the ways, stood the fine old padre, and, with a "God bless you, my boy," he shook
each by the hand as they passed out to battle.

The several troops of Mac's squadron divided for their various objectives.  To his section
fell the duty of going up the ravine to cut enemy communication trenches, leading across it
to their strong outpost on the ridge above on the left. But his dignity and that long series of diatribes against the army that
had hung at the feet shackled, kept him from these and other events. Did not even have the
consolation of being able to be cheerful when he accompanied military honor your child on the trip.
But we know that the girls are cared very little gratitude your meetings. The irresistible vocation
married by their spirit, by a need your body, such as the spider weaves the fabric and the birds
sing in the forest. Once bound by marriage, the circles, like men than women, lost its appeal
for the ladies of Mere. His attention was immediately on the new Pollastre chirping coming to come
under its protective wings.

Who caused them a series of disappointments and bitterness, which give them little in the grave
was the Count de Onis. In his life had encountered a man more incomprehensible. What poor sweated
to put him into line, in the Florida village of Hymen! But that devil they slipped through his
fingers like an eel. Showed himself for a few nights tender and infatuation with Fernanda and never
left it a hard song. The eyes of the two sisters rested upon them with evident tenderness, no
one tried very hard was to interrupt, bit they needed to send others to go down to the voice
you do not mind the noise. Now, suddenly, at least he could think, Count committed the absurdity
of taking up absently from his chair, yawn and go to play solitaire to a corner of the table. For
its part Fernanda fell on the same weaknesses, getting to chat animatedly with the boy's ruling without
addressing the audience a look at her boyfriend. Carmelite Nuncita and were terrified when this
happened, they went to bed with the deepest consternation.

After the final break, and when at last became convinced that the chance to perform sublime marriage
was not reserved for them, humiliated a little ambition and provided assistance to Garnet, who had
long demanded it to court. Also on this side unholy luck struck them ruthlessly. Fernanda angrily
rejected any word suasive that in the favor of the Indian. If you watched the young ladies had prepared
the chairs so that proves that by sitting at his side, instantly destroying their combination
dismissive gesture by going to the opposite extreme. In forming the brisca items or tute would
not allow a companion should give it would fail to play. In short, was so alert and yes it
was impossible to attack anywhere. However, those Mere persisted in their project work to be
done with patience, which is the guarantee safer to give big business summit.

A few days after the joke of Paco Gomez were in the famous get-together,
more than Pollastre three or four, it Paco, Manuel Antonio, D. Santos,
Captain Nunez, D. Cristobal Fernanda, Maria Josefa Hevia and two girls
of Matthew.

Not thought to play yet. Everyone was sitting less Paco, who was spinning around the room
telling the joke that had since the other night at the theater to Manin, the steward of Quiñones. Since
it had been paralyzed, his famous companion walked without shade in the city. But by the great
trust that his master gave him, the circles of D. Peter kept considerations, and in spite of the
hardiness of their treatment setting and costume wearing, when he stumbled on the street embraced
him familiarly, he was invited to enter the coffee and sometimes brought him to the theater.
Manin for here to there: the rude village had become famous not only in Lancia, but throughout
the province. That knee-breeches, white stockings that leagues wool color, green cloth jacket
and hat calanes gave him an original in the city, where seemed a miracle and a man in this roundup.
It was one of the things that most surprised to outsiders, especially seeing some alternate
footing lords population. Not only out of respect to the Grandee, but because they did gracefully
exits Manin brutal, they are perishing for bringing in your company. In addition, Manin was a
famous hunter of bears, which was said to have sometimes fought hand to hand. The fans of that
kind of exercise so professed respect and sympathy. However, Butler enemies back in his village
was assured, smiling sarcastically, that what of the bears was a sham, that his life had been,
the more fight them. Manin added that had always been a zampatortas until D. Peter had taken a
fancy him out of the darkness. Fairness requires us to print this view, since then assume unfounded.
It must be confessed, however, that the conduct of Manin, offering repeatedly bring their friends
to hunt bears, without ever fulfilling the promise lent it some credibility. But to profess
respect for the health and integrity of the bears of your country is perhaps reason enough
to throw a man to face the qualifier zampatortas? No one dare say so. More logical to suppose that
the famous Manin was, as all men who manage to rise above the crowd, a victim of the wiles
of envy.

Referred Paco, with his characteristic insolent nonchalance and even dispensed not being found
among women, how he had been Manin the proscenium stage with other friends had paid in the theater.
The butler had never seen dancers. By presenting them on stage brought him to believe that her
bare legs. Manin was shocked, fixing them his eyes, where he painted
the astonishment and indignation.

"Then you have not seen the best, wait, looks a bit! "When the orchestra started playing, the dancers
are snapped toothpicks and walking around all the leg up to head height. "Sollo!" Exclaims poor
covering his face with his hands. God knows what he thought was going to see!

Paco narrated the set with ease, walking from one end of the room, head down and his hands in his pockets.
The young Tertullian believed in the case to blush. Everyone laughed less Garnet, who was still
at heart the last day prank. From his corner, where he was like a sleepy bear, dirigíale looks
grim, aggressive.

What had happened in Rosa Estrada-house when the Indian was in demand her hand of Miss? Or
D. Juan nor his daughter could take them a word, but some maid everyone knew that D. John had
refused in contemptuous terms, which made Maroon flaunt their millions and still authorized to
state that Fernanda would not find a more advantageous marriage. Then D. John was annoyed,
I call him and dismissed him with drone packing. Paco, every time he surprised one of those
furious eyes, smiling and winking at Manuel Antonio.

- Hey, Carmela - said standing in front of a box painted in oils - where you bought the San
Juan?

- Jesus!

Mr. - said Carmelita, - not a San Juan, a Savior, how to watch it laughs the poor!

- Ah! is a Savior. How do they differ?

Demoiselles de Mere, hearing that question, they wanted to go crazy
with joy.

They in tears of laughter.

- Oh, what Paquito! Oh, what a heart! ... It distinguishes a San Juan
for a Savior!

And you laugh and laugh. Many years they had not heard anything so
funny.

When they relaxed a little and wiped her tears and rang loudly with
tissue herbs, Paco, who enjoyed seeing them so happy, he asked:

-
But hey, when did you buy, the Savior, that I have not seen so far?

-
I was in the room Nuncia, my soul, but there was no good because the
bed faced in it, and we brought.

- He gave it to Carmela, living
father, a painter of Madrid happened here a few days - said Nuncita.

-
Were you young? - Paco addressing seriously asked Carmelita.

- Yes,
very young.

- Does the artist was famous?

- Mucha.

- Then I know
who he was, Murillo.

- No, I do not think was his name.

- Then it
would Velázquez.

- The name and sounds more.

Young man was very polite and very handsome, eh, Nuncia? ... To you I think you made some cuddle
...

Nuncita looked down blushing.

- Who remembers that now?

- It was
very amorous - continued Carmelita, - but also well-bred and well
understood ...

- Lovesick say?

Just can not be other than Velázquez.

- It was not called Velazquez called González - Nuncita said shyly.

And after saying blushed again.

- That is, González! - Remembering his sister said.

- Well, well, it would be a contemporary of the great race of painters
of the seventeenth century - said Paco not disturbed by the laughter
of the guests, who are frightened of innocence these poor women.

-
"So you made the cut for you, girl? - Continued picking up two fingers
affectionately Nuncita beard .-- I think you you should have have
been very little bullfighter, right, Carmela?

- It was a bit tempted
to laugh.

- Carmela, by God, these guys will think I've been a flirt!
- Cried in anguish Nina.

- Do not believe the truth, girl - Paco
said .-- Do not you remember you have given ear to a church attorney
named Don Max, and then it went in your house talking with Lieutenant
Paniagua from the balcony?

Nuncita smiled with tenderness the memory of those times, and said
with downcast eyes with graceful timidity

- D. Max came home every
day, but never required me to love.

- What love and what pumpkins!
- Paco .-- Say you said that who I really liked was the lieutenant
and completed sooner.

- "So have you been in love with a soldier?
- Asked Emilita graceful volubility, while running a provocative look
Nunez have you .-- Well, good bad taste.

The retired suddenly became serious and he's whiskers bristled with
terror at this out of his daughter, but was relieved immediately by
observing that the captain, rather than be offended, was paid with
a loving smile and I missed a joke like everyone else.

- It's not
her alone that has had such bad taste - with clear intention expressed
Carmelita very happy to have found that stroke of genius.

- And who
was the lieutenant?

... Some junk ... If he saw how turned to ask Emilita !...-- with the same lovely lightness.

- Stop, stop, Emilia! - .-- Paco Paniagua said he was a lieutenant
of the thirds of Flanders very bizarre.

- No heart, no - was quick
to rectify Nuncita - which was the royal guard.

- Was not harquebusier?

-
No, my soul, to tell you the royal guard.

D. Christopher conceal the laughter with a cough flow.

Manuel Antonio and laughed Pollastre blatantly.

- Paniagua was very remarkable man - Paco .-- He had continued the decision that feels so good
the military. The same day he arrived he saw Nuncia morning on the balcony. Afternoon handed
in the portico of San Rafael, on leaving the ninth, a bill statement,
began: "Miss, among confused and frightened, and wondering if you
paid me grace to forgive you dared to confess that my only crime is
to love you ... "

- What a rascal!

How I remember! - Nuncita said, moved really.

The truth was that Paco, the girl who, after much entreaty, had shown
the letters retained by Paniagua, he had memorized and recited highly
original document everywhere to the delight of his friends.

- It's
called a resolute man.

This shows the character of the person. What difference today's military, declared that before
a girl's walking the streets one year then take another to say, "Girl,
when we go to the vicarage?"

He was speaking to the corner where they were looking Emilita and captain. This unites allusion
and turned serious. She became the distracted, but thanking lot Paco the bottom of his heart
the cape, while the retired stroked his mustache with a trembling
hand Nunez fearing that angry, but happy at the same time in the hope
that these cape appropriate will be taken out of its lethargy.

Tired of talking, the proposed Pollastre play a little to the garments. It's a game where men of
criteria if caught something.

Fernanda consented to sit Garnet at his side. Paco Winks, who had struck, had made him ill
effects.

It was a creature very proud, but which was rooted sense of justice.

I could not bear to deceive anyone in his presence, even if the more
insignificant and contemptible.

Could said that the feeling of dignity, it was so delicate and crisp,
made her feel the wounds in other more vividly.

Although hated Garnet, bothered her to be mortified in his presence, especially if it was
for his sake, without prejudice, of course, that she gives to each
moment snubs huge, but understand, not he was right, that the disdain
of the woman he loves, if they cause pain, do not sting as teasing.

The Indian, who was so honored, was beside himself with joy, and began to desire excessive
vulgarity that characterized him at lavish thousand attentions. Fernanda were received with
serious face, but not disgust.

And wine, of course, that the "three times, yes and thrice no," the
"please everyone the present, "" a favor and disfavor, "and so on.,
etc. Society is thus recreated had recreated their parents and grandparents,
and what they thought they recreate their children.

Innocent! There was a spirit, however, did not deserve that description.

Paco Gómez playing with a dismissive condescension, as a man who was ahead of their time making
a thousand blunders and mistakes that proved the distraction that characterizes superior beings.
Instead, Nunez had made the five senses.

No man was ever more knowledgeable in those subjects or that are treated with more depth. His lucid
intelligence had penetrated all the secrets of the game and knew how to draw garments of each
party possible to extract all the juice, as circumstances demanded.

For example, when a young lady had to content him, was instantly deaf. The girl was forced
to lean more and more, until his lips brushed crimson captain's ear. If there was bound to play
the role of the corner of the Puerta del Sol and, therefore, to suffer that pegasen posters in the
face, to sit down against her, etc., etc., would not let the deep Núñez the dam while not pasease hands
all regions of the body.

But when gave more clear evidence of his prodigious talents and vast knowledge that had been
acquire knowledge in that field, was to propose that the young lady whom I had guessed the pockets
are obliged to kiss. Such security were all that nothing would get, who did not hesitate in accepting
the proposition. Err, actually, when you empty the mind Carmelita pocket, missed with Fernanda,
Maria Josefa, with Micaela, and look what a devil! was to ascertain precisely Emilita. Scissors,
a tissue, a thimble and three sweets. The girl cried out clapping his hands, all nervous: Trap,
trap! The captain, calm, peaceful, great as a hero of old, rejected that accusation and showed
up and again that there could be a trap.

--... Unless - he said smiling Mephistopheles - that was you agreed with me let me see in advance
what he had in his pocket.

The girl protested more loudly against this hypothesis unseemly, was
stirred to a degree incomprehensible and, rising hastily, ran to the
opposite end of the room, far from the captain, as if it were to take
by force what law will share.

There he became part of it (women) and who sided with him (Almost all men). Armos in the room
a zipizape as hell. Everyone talked, laughed, screamed unfinished understood. But that was
more shouting and gesticulating, as is easy to understand, the person concerned. However, Don
Cristobal, seeing what had traces not to conclude, and wanting to leave but the formality of
their offspring, intervened in the dispute majestic as a god extending the right hand to calm
the raging waves.

- Emilita - spoke firmly, - game is game. Give this gentleman a kiss.

Note that said "Captain," or even "this gentleman officer." Lips still repugnant civilians make way
for a purely military watchword.

- But Dad! - The youngest daughter said, as red as a poppy.

- Let !...-- uttered with the right hand extended and more peremptory attitude that could take
god never retired.

There was no choice. Emilita, confused and embarrassed, her cheeks turned into two coals hesitantly approached
the heroic captain of Pontevedra, rich in all kinds of tricks, and he touched with the crimson
lips yellowish land of his cheeks.

But lo and behold, it was made just jumped Micaela made a basilisk, the most irascible of the four
mermaids swimming in the depths of the abode of Retired:

- What impudence! ... These are not decent games, but dirt ... No wonder Nunez, because men what
are you?

I'm surprised you, Emilita ... I think a little more modesty and shame do not come evil ... But
how you have to have if you have an obligation to wear it are the first to push the bad! ...

That
bloody attack against the author of his days left pale and nailed it down. There was a moment
of awkward silence. A discordant note so surprised them. However, everyone rushed to defend
and protest Emilita of perfect purity and innocence of such games. The argument most often repeated,
and that everyone seemed invincible, was that not having malice, that was worthless, because
what is important in these matters is intended. The kiss "has been given with the intention?
- Said one of the more dialectical Pollastre .-- No? Then as if he had given. Núñez nodded gravely,
and looking a bit piqued sideways at her future sister.

But it did not give demonstrations so evident and persisted to ask,
with increasing violence and higher voices, a little embarrassed for
her sister migajitas a minor meaning for your father.

But since no one showed up after with these things on hand to meet his vows, had no other
choice but to go down the pitch, until at last his angry protests
were gradually transforming murmur and menacing as that of distant
thunder.

And the gathering resumed his usual calm sweet.

But he was suspended for tonight's game pieces.

Nuncita, who almost always departed the big ideas, proposed to be played to fool. No one knows why,
but it is true that this game had special attractions for the youngest of the young ladies of
Mere.

Words can not express what was happy ex-girlfriend of Lt. Paniagua when he could fit the boba to
one of its commentators, anxiety and restlessness that gripped her
when she was in his possession and could not let go.

Paco Gomez took the deck and took the three jacks, but knowing Nuncita weak and willing, as his
temperament, mortify a little, made a the remaining signal, and then was heard saying to some
of the guests. Result of this was that the loggerhead was almost always placed in the hands of
the girl, and there are traffic jams, no that despite all their efforts
got rid of it.

This, despite his natural quiet, it was gradually getting impatient. The gathering and she laughed
too, but more lip with the heart. Finally, in a moment of anger rolled out letters and stated
that he did not play more. Carmelita, to see that act of discourtesy, speaking harshly, as he
always gets out.

- What frenzy is this? What drives this nonsense? What will these guys? ... Say, with reason, you have no
education, and that our family has not been one who had known teach ... To see if you get the
cards now!

- I do not want.

- What, you say, stupid? You, you, you are silly! ... Has he seen a creature more fickle? ...
Co. .. co ... take the letters immediately ...

Anger made her stammer out of his mouth devoid of teeth strange noises.

- Hum! - Nuncita grunted, twisting his nose with face of care.

- Girl, I'm not mad! - Shouted his sister.

- I do not want, I will not! - Untamed creature repeated firmly.

At the same time he rose from his chair and shuffling took refuge in the cabinet.

But his sister immediately following the most severe and authoritarian attitude that can no
imagine, willing to correct that principle of rebellion, which eventually could bring dire consequences.
They heard rumors of a dispute, projecting his voice rough, irritated,
Carmelita; then that voice was softening, making persuasive, reasoning,
rebuke with smoothness.

Also reached the ears of the guests the echo of a sob. Finally, After some time he appeared
again Carmelita, shuffled even more than her sister, with eyes shining with regal authority
and gesture should be to those who need beings to make laws which
Providence has entrusted to them.

Behind came the embarrassed girl, submissive, his cheeks swollen
and watery eyes.

He sat down again to the table and, without dare raise his eyes to his older sister, who looked even
a certain toughness, humbly took the letters and began to play.

Well, this poignant example of respect and submission, rather than
seriously impress the onlookers, caused by almost everyone a smile
joke, and some of them some inappropriate laughter who barely managed
to quell.

However, the game does not last long

.
  From the ravine below the enemy, came the
constant "Allah, Allah, Allah," of many Turks encouraging themselves for the attack, and occasional
yells when shells or bombs fell among them.

Mac knelt on the ground and endeavoured to deepen the hold by steady picking, while two other
men kept a steady fire on the agile heads of the enemy.  But try his best, he was now beginning
to feel severely his decreasing strength and could make but little impression on the trench
on this parched, sun-baked hill-top.  Another trooper offered to take his place, and he went
to the less arduous work of carrying such tattered sandbags as still contained earth from the
second line about fifteen feet back and piling them up in some sort of a parapet for the front
line.  The second line was only half a dozen square holes whose fine garrisons lay dead within
them, except a few who raved in delirium for water which was not to be had.  They and their
arms lay prostrate across each other, many half-buried by flying earth from shells and bombs.

He finished this work and then responded to an oft-repeated call from farther along, "Reinforcements
for the right.  Reinforcements for the right.  Enemy getting round behind!"  Here was a shallow
bit of a hole with three or four men, the right flank of this part of the line, while the cliff
edge was only four or five yards distant, and the enemy was thought to be crawling back and
gathering for a heavy assault.  Mac set about improving the trench and forming a small right
angle to prevent enfilade and to protect the flank.  The sap had been deeper earlier in the
day, for the first foot he shovelled out consisted of a sticky muddy mass of blood, soil, ammunition
and gear of all sorts.  He sifted it carefully for good ammunition and bombs, and formed the
rest into a parapet with the assistance of sandbags.  Sometimes when he was tired he took a
turn at keeping the enemy from becoming too venturesome on the cliff brink.  Queer shapes stood
out against the stars, but whether they were always Turks he could not tell, as from long sleeplessness
and strain his sight was inclined to play him tricks.  Anyhow he ran no risks.  Somehow or
other the troops farther on the left were constantly shouting warnings concerning figures passing
back to the right, but these he could not see; while, curiously enough, he could plainly follow
Turkish figures flitting across the sky-line on the left from the cliff to the small knob which
could enfilade the trench from the left.  His rifle jammed from heat and dust.  He took two
from dead men and kept them both on the parapet ready for instant action.  The others did much
the same sort of thing, helping each other, sticking grimly to the job and not worrying much,
apparently, about their future.

The battle raged on through hour after hour with unabated fierceness; and the din of it all,
the whirring and crashing of the shells, the furious rattle of musketry, the yells of men and
the cries of the wounded, became almost an unnoticed monotone in Mac's ears.  The Turks threw
bombs steadily, but fortunately only in ones and twos.  They were fairly slow to explode, and,
if they landed on the parapet, the troops crouched in the bottom of the trench, or, if into
the trench, they got out until the explosion and the fumes had cleared away.  The enemy was
almost safe from bombing, for grenades which were thrown at him found no resting-place until
far down into the ravine, where their explosion sounded only as a dull unsatisfactory thud.
Sometimes big shells whirring up from the warships or the heavy land batteries burst short
and caught some of the already too sparse attackers, or brought the sufferings of the wounded
to an end.  Mac's line lost men who went bleeding to the rear.  Sometimes their places were
taken--more often they were not.

He wondered vaguely what would happen, but all were too busy with affairs of immediate importance,
and somehow it did not seem to matter in the least--the outlook was not bright.  The Turkish
mound on the left could enfilade the trench at short range when daylight came, the enemy was
in great force in front and was creeping back to the rear--already a fire-swept zone impossible
to cross.  Where was that great force from Suvla Bay?  They had landed three miles away at
midnight on Friday and it was now just before dawn on Monday.

The night came in time near to its end.  He could not describe it as having gone quickly, nor
yet slowly--it had simply passed.  Dawn brought no particular pleasure, only the transition
from the unearthly phantasmagoria of bitter night fighting to the practical fierce hand-to-hand
struggling of day.  The paling sky figured the sky-line and the Turkish heads in definite silhouette,
and many of the large shrubs of the night where Turks might lurk revealed themselves as small
tufts of grass.  Vigilance increased.  If rifles did not sweep that crest continually the old
Turk would leave his head and shoulders above the edge long enough to take aim, instead of
blazing away rather at random.

It was now definitely seen that the Turks had got well round the right flank during the darkness,
in spite of a machine-gun which had been said to sweep this zone; but of it Mac saw no sign.
Some Turks were creeping through a hollow immediately to the right, and he being the tallest
man at this point directed his attention at the wriggling backs with some success.  One wounded
Turk there signalled by waving his rifle to some of the advanced party, but was soon after
lifted by a mate who ran with him to safety.

CHAPTER XXIII

MAC IS WOUNDED

That August dawn revealed a ghastly scene on this Gallipoli hill-top, where the tired, outnumbered
attackers fought desperately for the summit of the Peninsula, possession of which would mean
victory and the command of the Straits.  It seemed to Mac that decision must come soon, for
this desperate, more or less continual hand-to-hand encounter could not last much longer. 
Bad as their position was, it could not be long now before those many thousands of Imperial
troops would be taking the enemy in flank from the Suvla Bay direction, or at least would be
strongly reinforcing them from the rear.

And now, even before it was full daylight, the activity along the line, though it had scarcely
seemed possible, grew more violent, and Mac felt that each side tensely watched the other,
expecting every moment a final, desperate coming to grips.  The Turks appeared to be gathering
in great numbers, and were even now on the point of making a whole-hearted attack.  But the
British artillery intervened.  The shelling had been increasing steadily, and at this moment
several men-o'-war close inshore opened their broadsides and were joined by all the field artillery
which could be brought to bear, and there broke along the crest such a tornado of bursting
shells as had never been seen during the whole campaign.

The battleships were concealed by a thick pall of brown smoke through which spurted the flashes
of their batteries, field guns of all sizes barked from ravines and ridges; the shells roared
and shrieked up towards the summit, and burst in a continual shattering crash on those few
hundred square yards of deadly battlefield, or passed aimlessly beyond the ridge and exploded
harmlessly far over enemy territory.  The Turks, being mostly under the farther lip of the
small plateau, suffered little from the bombardment except on the knob which protruded into
the line to Mac's left.  It was torn constantly by high explosive, and Turkish bodies were
flung high in the air, in whole or in part. Equipment, earth and sandbags mixed with the sickly,
murky green smoke which drifted in a choking cloud across Mac's line.  Rapidly fresh Turks
filled the places of their dead, and they in turn were blasted by the bombardment.

But many of the shells were falling short; or may be they were not falling short, rather it
was a position which should never have been bombarded in this fashion.  The artillery was directed
upon a hill high above it, lying between it and the breaking day.  On its crest, separated
by only a few yards, were both the defenders and the attackers.  Few of the shells were likely
to hit the enemy, for the majority must either spend themselves in the air beyond the crest
or else fall among our own men on the crest itself; so they fell thickly along Mac's line,
and thus to the danger of an enemy on three sides was added the tragedy of our own artillery
on the fourth.  Helpless they were to shield themselves or to stop this mad destruction.  They
had red and yellow flags to mark their positions, and these they waved violently, but it could
be of no avail in the dawn light, the dust and the smoke.

What telephone communication there was with the rear, Mac did not know; but, whether there
was any or whether it had been cut by the enemy, no sign came that the artillery knew where
its shells were falling.  One after another those shells burst with a yellow glare and a fountain
of black smoke, sending men, some alive, and many dead, flying upwards; and when Mac could
see again there would be a space in the line where one, two or more of his troop had taken
the long trail.  They rained faster, bursting incessantly on that narrow strip between them
and the edge of the cliff, often falling behind and always odd ones and twos dropping into
the trench itself.  Mac felt sick with the fumes and the horror of it, and sometimes the blast
of a shell sent him against the side of the trench.  The helplessness of the position appalled
him. There were fewer and fewer of them left, and there was a growing gap in the line.  Yet
there was no means of stopping it; and he longed for the bombardment to cease.  He sniped away
at the Turks along the cliffs, and turned his attention at times to some who had been hunted
from the knob by the shelling.  There were only three or four of them left in this corner and
yet there was no slackening of that mad artillery fire. Then swiftly there was an awful lurid
flash close in front of him, on the level ground almost in his face, and it seemed he had been
hit across the head with a bar of wood, and he could not see.  He pressed his hand to his face
and sank slowly to the ground.

"Old Mac's a goner," he heard the voice of one of his mates say in those same affectionate,
final tones which had followed the disappearance of comrade after comrade on the left.

"Poor old fellow," said another.

"No," muttered Mac.  "By God though, I'm blind for life!"  He felt the blood rushing down his
face, and he knew it.  He sat up, and no one said anything.  He thought for a second or two
and decided on a course of action.  "Well, it's no longer any good staying here.  I'm off."
So saying, he undid the buckles of his Webb equipment, and struggled out of all his gear, keeping
only the case of his glasses, for he thought he might as well stick to them.

He remembered the way to the second line, and crawled along the shattered trench to the left,
feeling his way past the legs of the one or two men who were left.  They paid no attention
to him, being too busy with the enemy to be concerned with other matters.  He felt his way
along on his hands and knees, down into holes, over dead bodies, avoiding wounded, across the
open ground, until he came to where he thought the communication trench ought to be and turned
to the left. There seemed to be little of it remaining.  It had never been much of a thing,
and was now blown about and full of wounded and dead.  He was finding himself in difficulties
about getting past some wounded men, when some one came out from the second line and led him
in.  There his Captain took his hand and patted him on the back.

"I'm afraid I've lost my sight, sir," said Mac.

"I'm afraid so, old boy," replied he.  "I'll send a chap back with you." 

The count, under the weight of those compliments, blushed. Shouted awareness that not deserved.
He remembered the terrible ordeal that had just Amalia, and said:

- You do, you do that you should have to suffer!

How are you?

It was a reckless lower as soon as the ladder.

- Oh! Although I seem weak, I am a rock.

- Well you've shown.

Having such tremendous pain without uttering even a complaint!

- What do you know about this pain, stupid? - Said putting a hand
in the mouth .-- Have you given birth ever?

- After only four days
in bed - Young continued that hand gently separating and kissing at
the same time - and the fifth down the hall.

- Well, you see that
I have not happened.  The sun glared down pitilessly through the hot hours,
the tormenting flies swarmed in their millions, the dead lay thick around, already blackening
in the heat, the dying raved in delirium for water which never came, and the battle raged on
with unceasing violence.  Lying uncomfortably on a slope, propped against a dead Turk, he scarcely
seemed to feel the burning heat of the sun, the irritation of the flies, the torturing thirst
nor the pain of his wound, for his spirit lay soothed in a strange restfulness, in the satisfaction
of peace, in a manner like the weary wishing for nothing but sleep after a day of honest work.
For Mac the fight was over; he had done what had been asked of him, and his spirit, serenely
happy in this knowledge, seemed to rise above earthly discomfort and to concern itself little
with the shattered state of his body, nor yet with the fact that he was far from out of the
wood.  Death was all around; and, had it come to him, he would have had no terror of it, but
simply the resigned acceptance of a happy soul.

Early in the morning Mac had inquired whether he could not be taken on to the dressing-station,
but learned that it was impossible as the enemy swept the country between with an impassable
hail of bullets. The lower end of the ravine was in Turkish hands, elsewhere there were unscalable
cliffs, and the only means of getting back was by crossing a ridge close under the enemy rifles.
There was nothing for it but to await nightfall.

The ravine was full of wounded.  The more lightly injured had drifted towards the bottom, but
those who had not been able to walk lay crowded close in the shallow head near Mac.  Most of
them were already dead, for many had been wounded two nights previously, and few so seriously
injured could stand a second day of such torment.  Mac asked sometimes if there was water,
but there was none.  Occasionally he inquired how the battle was going, and if there were any
men near to hear him, they replied only with unassuming grunts.  He sat up once for a change
of position and moved away a little from the dead Turk, but the flying bullets sent him back.
He may have been light-headed once or twice, but this he himself could not tell.  Queerly enough,
he troubled not at all about the form his wound had taken.  Though he knew with absolute certainty
that he would never see again, he was not worried by the horrors of a future world of darkness;
and found himself in his vague wanderings of mind deeply pitying those round him, and his heart
was full of grief at their sufferings.

Gradually a lessening of the heat told of coming evening.  A little water arrived and was distributed
in small potions.  Mac was conscious that those who came periodically to the hollow to do for
the wounded all that lay in their power were performing fine actions of self-sacrifice.  It
grew cool, and Mac stirred himself to expect aid from the rear; word had come, too, that a
large Imperial force would be sent up at nightfall to relieve the tattered remnant of the garrison,
who had dwindled to a desperate handful from attack after attack by the enemy through all the
long day, and who were almost light-headed from fatigue. There
was no man more sweet, more harmless in its treatment. Never heard him speak ill of anyone.
Those who always see the black part of the things of this world and the downside of the characters
that are being increasingly unfortunately, argued that if no murmur was because I knew it was
so good because I could not be otherwise. As if there were evil fools! A defect Moro was the son
of his own fans. It was considered unbeatable in all games to was involved. You could not
deny great skill in them, but here is not to be rival far away, and Moro's saved. From this
came the neat, timeless comments every game that season, and had already become proverbial
in Lancia. Gave a Tacaza in the pool. The balls are not rolling as proposed. Put his hand to his
head desperately.

- A little less of a ball, and mine had gone through the forms! ... But I was forced to take a
lot of ball, came down to Ming, because if not lower Dominic, you know? he me villa and it gets
into house ... And to me it does not suit me!

If the bystanders nodded, but lost all the tables did not care. Saved his professional honors, money
was not important. Back to take another Tacaza, and return to discuss it. He kept talking.
For as much going on in the triplet, but, contrary to what usually happen in this game, it refrained
from reprimanding his companions and show anger. Spoke yes, much, but always to clarify or
comment upon any play, repeating infinitely concepts in eloquent and persuasive tone, that made
her smile to the onlookers. "If I had not King missed ... If I had a triunfito more ... I dared
not give me the ball because figured D. Pedro ... Why the three cups no gold was to be ...? In
two cases has always thrown around this cure.

"It was a noisy fellow, but very thin and very unselfish.

- Listen uzté, is not going to play uzté? - Valero said, poking his
head out between the players and by examining the letters.

- Do you
think you can? - Moro asked hesitantly.

- I think that zi.

- There
is little of this and too much of this one - said, quietly pointing
the finger at the cards.

- But Zin, zin embargo ... I think ...

-
Well, well, play - Moro replied with his usual finesse.

That game was lost.

Moro glanced at his teammates and shrugged his shoulders in resignation.

As Valero moved away a bit, he hastened to say in a low

- I did not want to antagonize D. Enrique, but that game was unwinnable.

With

these words vindicated his reputation, he was so happy as if he had
given a ball.

The Count de Onis, who initially had shown roistering, was being gradually thoughtful and Amurrio.
Played without any attention, so that his colleagues called him to
order more than once.

- But, Earl, what is it about you today?

I see very worried - he finally D. Pedro.

- Indeed, ze mu noz has puezto uzté triztón - Valero confirmed.

Seeing so sharply questioned, he was troubled as if he feared that the hull of your brain be transparent
and laws within.

- There is nothing special ... I'm pretty upset wheels - said, appealing
a pure and innocent appeal.

- Poor disease and, mate - said Valero.

And everybody pitied her and reported using the special interest of the ailment.

The count looked vaguely embarrassed and answered questions.

- As against this evil, Count - Saleta said - there is no better medicine
than iron.

See you ... I have suffered greatly from the teeth as a student. I dared not make any; but the
landlady who was in Santiago convinced me that tying a string to the wheel and by holding the
other end to the ceiling, was slowly coming out without pain.

I sat in a chair, you know? and when the wheel was well tied, the hostess pulls the chair and
leaves me hanging. Sure, I had no choice but to jump! ...

Valero began to shake his head in a desperate. The others look and smile. Saleta does not notice,
or pretends not to notice, and continues with the word firm and quiet
and the accent Galician characterized him:

- Then I lost all fear.

In La Coruna took me a dentist five in a row.

As Allariz judge, I had a sharp pain, and as there was no dentist, I got three with promoter
a hair curling his wife. As a result of that I attacked a terrible inflammation in the mouth,
you know? I went to Madrid, and Ludovisi, Queen's dentist, burned my gums with a hot iron and
took me seven good ...

- Van fifteen - Valero murmured.

- And I was well, until four years ago in a village in the province Burgos, being seasonal home
of a friend turned me pain, what pain! There was no or physician, or surgeon, or anything. But
there was incidentally a charlatan who drew the wheels mounted on
horseback.

I was so embarrassed, I had no choice but to appeal to him, I took two with the tail of a spoon.

-
Buddy, do Rozario! - Valero said at the height of the outrage .--
Le quea to uzté still a novena in her mouth?

In the uproar that ensued awoke Manin, barbarously desperezose opened
a loudmouth half a yard, letting out a tremendous howl, which impressed
the audience.

Then again the cyclopean torso sideways and prepared to join the dream.

- What you do not have teeth never hurt, eh, Manin? - Asked the Grandee, who could not be a quarter
of an hour without communicating with her butler.

- Who! - Said the laborer without even opening his eyes.

- It's a rock! - Said the gentleman with real enthusiasm.

But Manin sat up a little in his chair and said, rubbing his eyes with his fists:

- I never had more than a pain in the shoulder. He gave me a car carrying grass and took me
more than a month. No bite. Seemed to have one in there that I was gnawing Gafur the rennet. It
broke my ribs, I sank the sides, pulled me to the walls, was bucking and grinning teeth as a basilisk.
He was as yellow as straw harvest. One day I told the priest: - Manin, you lack the chest .--
I have no breast, Father! I know you well!

Apalpe here for his life, I have the brunt of what you imply think .-- As there is no choice, Manin,
you have to call Melico .-- No, Father, I do not want or poultices
yerbatos .-- Oh yes, Manin, if you call it I call it .-- In Finally,
after much gravitate, though I always pulled back pa, Rafael wine
beyond the Melico mine.

He ordered me to remove my shirt and lay back on the masera.

Then begins to give me some golpecicos in the chest with his fist, as he calls the door. Stuck here,
hit there, and that ascucharás ascucha with his ear pressed against
the flesh.

Na! I said: - Gravita, gravitates probiquín! Find the puzcalabre! More than a half hour calling
knuckles and ascuchando. Until they finally got tired of not hearing it Emporte ...--¡ na Oh
soul mate! - crossing himself told me - you have a chest liquid!

Liquid! in my life ...-- I saw one like I already knew I, D. Rafael ...

Upon arriving here he stopped suddenly, and walking a grim look on
the audience, mumbled without being overheard:

- What will laugh
at these jackasses?

And dropping his head again populated with matted hair on his chair, closed his eyes sovereign
contempt.

The gatherings at the Grandee turned their attention to play, still laughing. But Count pensive
and was soon distracted again. After all, unable to suppress unrest of his nerves, he rose from his
chair.

- Come, D. Enrique, you fill my position. The pain bothers me a lot and need to move.

II

The finding.

When the count fell again standing in the room, just the chickens were ready to dance a quadrille.
One of the girls was already retired before the piano. D. Christopher Matthew who was called
in this way in the village, was a former employee who had served many years in the Philippines,
and was retired and did some thirty thousand. He was carrying military, martial really figure
with white mustache, bulging eyes, thick eyebrows and hairy hands. However, in all Spanish dominions
there was no civil man. He had made his career in the finance office, and had professed lifelong
disagreeing the predominance of the military. Always said that the leeches were not state them employees,
but the army and navy. To demonstrate this alleged data, displaying notes taken budget, is
lost in bureaucratic ramblings. He said that the war budget 'Was released by bleeding which
escaped the forces of the nation, "frasecilla that I had read in
the Bulletin of indirect contributions, and had taken up with extreme
fruition.

The soldiers called vague and unquenchable hatred professed to gallons and epaulets. When the
city of Lancia tried to ask the Government to send a regiment to garrison the city, objected,
as a councilman, a determined and strongly to it. Why bring a swarm of drones? In exchange for the
benefits that could accrue from the regiment's stay, Damages were so many! The market is more expensive:
the chiefs and officers liked to be well and take home more expensive foods (for work that
cost them win!). Then they were all gamblers and rub off their bad example to the youth of
the population, outside the fair periods, abstained from the forbidden games. As they were always idle
(D. Christopher firmly believed that a soldier has absolutely nothing to do), force had to
think of pranks and tricks she practices. In summary, the regiment would cause disruption in
the village and a corrupting element. Desire prevailed, but not be him, but because the minister
of war will not send troops to plug Lancia, perhaps considering gentle condition of its inhabitants.

With
thirty thousand pieces of pension people live freely on a cheap as one, if it was not their
daughters were endowed with a certain poetic fantasy which lead to Madrid prefer hats to those who did
Rita, the hat of the street of San Joaquin and eight-button gloves for four. Such exceptional temperament
was due to frequently crisis in the home of retired, with their train of tears, violent slamming
doors, sudden loss of appetite, etc. In these terrible conflicts, we must admit that D. Christopher
no always kept at the level of energy and courage that denoted his mustache and bushy eyebrows.
Truth is always left alone in the fight. Not by chance was if any of his daughters support him.
For matters outside the rentist address of the house often the opinions were based, some daughters
sided with his dad against sisters. But as looming economic problems, constantly looked to
Retired one side and the other four daughters. D. Christopher, as experienced leader, appealed to These
skirmishes with thousands of tricks to defeat their opponents, or to capitulate in good condition.
One day the girls would wake inspired, and called morocco leather boots were similar to those
seen such and such a city girl, usually Fernanda Estrada-Rosa. D. Christopher immediately retreated
into himself. Fell back and meditated. At night, when dinner, slip into the conversation the
news that he had been in The Innovative (shoe estate). He had been told that the boots of morocco
gave very bad result in Lancia, because moisture. Moreover, D. Nicanor (Medical City), who
happened to there morocco had stated that the weather was dismal as cold and rainy, and by
the feet got caught colds many times later degenerated into galloping consumption, etc. Before,
long before Matthew ended his diatribe against morocco, gutted it four buds with ironic laughter
and ponderous words left confused and sad the poor old man. At other times, the heated imagination
of girls required to come Madrid some very nice coats, which had given news Amalia D. Christopher
some time resisted the attacks, but looking very tight, finally capitulated.

His mind, rich in trace amounts, like Ulysses, he suggested to save a magnificent half money at
least.

He went to Amalia and begged to give him your coat for two or three days, so that one of the dressmakers
of four other people do him the same.

Exigiole by Of course, secrecy, and knew Mrs. Quiñones storage.

But alas! not kept the perfidious coats who arrived very empaquetaditos of the chaise, and to offer
the anxious looks and wizards of its four owners, it was heralded very high, so poor of ornamentation
and of sewing Tinker.

- These wraps are not made in Madrid - resolutely said Michelle, who
was the most nervous four.

- Daughter, no rave, by God!

For where they should be? - Exclaims D. Cristobal affected surprise, feeling a warmth in her
cheeks.

- Do not know, but certainly we can ensure that they have not done
in Madrid.

And the four nymphs begin to spin between your fingers ebony coats, the students, analyze them
with attentive care that is suspended and terror to his father. They address meaningful glances,
smiling contemptuously spoken in his ear. Meanwhile, fierce Overseas retired whiskers bristle,
shudder with slight tremor which communicates to his lips and then to the rest of the body.

Finally,
those elegant creatures carelessly loose garments mocker on living room chairs and are to be
locked in the cabinet of Jovita. About half an hour were secret deliberations. D. Christopher
waited anxious and haggard, walking with agitation by the broker as a defendant who awaits
the verdict of the jury.

Finally open the door, and criminal searches forward to the faces
of the judges. These keep quiet attitude, and her lips an enigmatic
smile faded vague. Two They immediately put the blanket and gloves
and take to the street. After become the home for a while shaking,
with the broken face and sparkling eyes. Pen refuses to tell the cruel
scene which occurred in the sweet home of the retired. Much rabid
cry! Much sarcasm! How hysterical laughter! What manoteo! What gnashing
of chairs! Why so sad exclamations! And in the midst of this horrible
disorder, that heat, capable of infusing struck fear in the heart
most serene, four shelters, because of such carnage, torn, made miserable
rags, crawling with ignominy by the ground in return for his crime.

Apart
from these periodic shocks to the wisdom of nature invigorated nerves
a bit unnerved and the retired, the existence of this peaceful and
smooth gliding.  The padre of the hospital ship had cabled to his father in London
that he was all right, and what hospital he was going to; and now several people came to see
him.  Mac told them he would like to go home as soon as he could be sent, as there could be
no more campaigning for him and the sooner he was home the better.  The M.O. said that a hospital-ship
was leaving on the following day and that he would be sent by it.  Mac was put in a ward that
afternoon.  He was brought some clothes for the morning, but, being fed up with bed, unknown
to the sister, he donned them straight away and went and sat by the window.  He felt very groggy,
but getting up and about bucked him up tremendously.

Next morning he took farewell of the sister, and, clad in a Tommy uniform built for some one
many sizes smaller, a pair of heavy boots of huge calibre, and a Tommy cap perched on top of
his bandages, he walked downstairs with an orderly.  But out in the open the sun was too much
for him and laid him low, when he was converted into a stretcher-case, and swung away on an
ambulance much more comfortable than the one which brought him.  Again he was carried across
the sun-baked pier, sheltered from the sun and protected from the flies by one of those splendid
Alexandrian women, and taken down into a comfortable bunk in the hospital-ship Dongola.  Mac
found in the adjutant of the ship a friend of bygone days, who placed him in a spare deck cabin,
which he found not at all an unpleasant home for the next ten days.

He speedily gained strength at sea, and began to enjoy life a bit more. A fine Australian,
who was but slightly wounded, took Mac under his wing, and with ceaseless care and affection
walked with him on deck, and in a wonderfully unselfish way did many little things to make
time pass quickly for him.  A cheery Scottish sister poked her head in occasionally, and came
in the evening to do his dressing.  The orderly who brought Mac's meals, was an earnest, hardworking
man, who had worked once with a missionary among the Eskimos, and who did the work of several
lazy orderlies as well as his own.  Late in the evening, as a special treat, he brought a gramophone
up from below deck, stood it on a chair in the middle of the small cabin, directed the trumpet
straight at Mac's head, and set in motion mournful hymn tunes.  It was tough going for his
aching head; but the earnest orderly was so wrapped up in giving to him what he thought was
great pleasure that he had not the heart to stop him.  Mac would silence it for a time by encouraging
dissertations on Eskimo life, or the future of the Gospel in India.  An hour of the gramophone,
and it would retire below to end its rasping for the day.

Twelve hot hours were passed in the Grand Harbour of Malta, while thousands of cackling fowls
were lowered from the boat deck and sent ashore for men in hospital.  The two following days
Mac was almost entirely deserted, as a heavy sea sent most of the sisters, orderlies and patients
to their bunks.  The first night no one came to dress his head; but the second night a quaint
rough stoker put in an appearance, and, chatting cheerfully the while, made his head more or
less comfortable.  No water came for washing, and on two rare occasions a fleeting orderly
left a plate of some sort of food or other.  He spent those two days in bed, and was thankful
when they were over.  From then onward the voyage went well, snoozing on deck in a chair, or
walking up and down arm and arm with the Australian.

At length, in the keen air of an English autumn morning, Mac stood by the ship's rail as she
moved quietly up Southampton Water, to berth in due course alongside a pier and a hospital
train.  Mac had dreamed that it might be so, though he scarcely dared to hope that it would
come true; but the gangway was scarcely down before his father and his sister were on the deck
and had him in their arms.  In the middle of the afternoon the hospital train stopped at a
Surrey station; and before very long he was being undressed, bathed and put to bed. Presently,
the sister, the medical officer, his father and his sister withdrew quietly from the bright
little room, saying that he must go to sleep after the excitements of the day.  And to sleep
Mac went, feeling more comfortable and happy than he had been for many a long day.

CHAPTER XXV

HOMEWARD

The tents sway and flap vigorously as gusts of wind tear through the camp, carrying clouds
of sand across the island.  Through the darkness comes the sound of the lashing of the date
palms and the tamarisks as they swing to the gale.  Within a straining, war-worn tent, lit
by a flickering candle, stuck in a grease-streaked bottle, sit several mounted men of the old
Brigade, their faces brown and weather-beaten from long campaigning in the Sinai Desert and
amid Palestine hills. The gear and stuff scattered casually about the tent tell it is the abode
of an old hand of long service, who worries little about the frills of base and peace-time
armies.  And there, too, sprawled half-way across a camp bed is Mac.  They yarn about old times,
Gallipoli days and after, laughing often, though sometimes in affectionate, quieter tones they
speak of a fallen comrade.  It is midnight, the ill-used candle has not many minutes of life
to run, and the desert wind bellows over the camp.

Three and a half years have passed since Mac found himself in the comfortable security of an
English hospital--far from unpleasant years, during which the comradeship of his fellow-soldiers,
and the kindness of many friends have fully made good the sight Mac lost on the summit of Chanak
Bair.  He has not lost touch with the men of the Expeditionary Force during their long weary
years in France and Palestine, but has worked among them to the best of his limited powers. But here life is renewed, and comes the season of love, and dormant seeds shaken, and the larvae
hatch, and after its complete metamorphosis, wings erupt different colored chiffon and metallic
radiocasette resonant and light tubes that collect honey from flowers. Here too the bare floors,
aspens, poplars, acacias and a thousand other shade trees back to dress greens, and flowering
almond and fig and other fruit, and give us the fruit with the poetry of hope.

All this is true, but it is also the Northmen now feel more deeply, describe and depict the spring better
than the south.

Is it, as we said, because spring comes around with more momentum, or because men there are more
close to nature and more in communion with it, for centuries have less of civilization, because
they are less worn, because it is not so marked including divorce
and as raw antagonism between the spirit world and the world of bodies?

Profound

question is this. I would not get into it, but it puts me ahead in spite of myself.

I certainly see that in old age men of the South felt and celebrated, at least with equal enthusiasm
in the North today, the return of spring. Atis risen Osiris risen and risen Adonis attest. The
Mysteries of Samothrace and Eleusis were at the bottom inspired by
the spring.  Within a year Charley had been killed,
wounded three times in an attack at Cape Helles; and three months later Mac himself had been
incapacitated for life.  Their longing for war had been fulfilled with a vengeance. Should I not have something stuck in my place so CORASON Delisi, that naturalesa so rich?
Apetesé I not find myself see in the midst of virgin forests, under a sielo ASUL always, and
baby coconut water and eat pineapple and banana and guava?

THE END

