The Mayor was dumb, and the Council stood As if they were changed into blocks of wood, Unable
to move a step, or cry To the children merrily skipping by,-- And could only follow with the
eye That joyous crowd at the piper's back. But how the Mayor was on the rack, And the wretched
Council's bosoms beat, As the piper turned from the High Street To where the Weser rolled its
waters Right in the way of their sons and daughters! However, he turned from south to west,
And to Koppelberg Hill his steps addressed, And after him the children pressed; Great was the
joy in every breast. There were always new casualty lists. With a beating
heart they were read, the Father did down in business. He was so eager for the Names of his
sons and was looking for but with the hope not to find them. And when he lists viewed had, he came
up into the living room and said reassuringly: Nothing found.

But one day - the mother and daughter were working just one packet
for each of the brothers to pack warm socks - because the father was
in with the casualty list in hand.

The mother looked at him and turned pale. "What is it?" "No death notice, no wound. But here,
Lutz Schreiber, missed "And he added:" We do not have anything bad. present. You will remember,
that was carried out in a recent article, are scattered as each individual battle, and deviate
from their squad a join another regiment, because they do not find the way to their squad return.
"" Yes, "said Anna," the brother of my friend it was so, you know ? You remember, mother, father
and daughter had the same feeling: they wanted the mother courage. She had reached for the leaf,
which was shaking so much in their hands that they do not could read. You put it away. ! Sit down,
mother, "Anna pushed her towards a chair and the mother grabbed her
husband's hand and said, "Stay a little above us, it's so hard!"

And as in the first hour, kept the three together in the long, hard times of Uncertainty that
followed. Mutually they made their courage and patience wore in the concern.

Then came a ray of light, a map of William: "For weeks I have nothing from you heard its probably
not mine? The post office has failed. But today, six little package and Letters from you and
do four huge boxes filled with gifts of love for our regiment. Warm, clean shirts! You do not
know what kind of a delight! I and five companions put for fourteen days in fine, white, lacy
ladies shirts, which we found in a half-burnt mansion of a devastated
village and went to them because our stuff in rags was.

Now we revel in warm underwear, cigars and sausages, and say a thousand thanks for all the gifts
of love. What you know from Lutz?

The weeks went by. The father came up again mid-afternoon, he had a letter in the hand. "From Lutz,"
he said, but it did not sound happy, and the tense, questioning Looks
from his wife and daughter, he replied: "He is healthy, but he is
caught !"--"

So yet; Oh God, trapped, "said the mother .--" But he still lives and is healthy, "comforted
Anna," please, Father, read from his letter! "

"Yes, there is not much in it, in any event, the letters read, and therefore he is in an unnaturally
forced sound written, some things are strange, "he read:" Love. Parents! I'm caught in France,
one does not tell us where. I have nothing to complain about and
I'm healthy. Write to me at the address that will be given out to
the letter. I so much to know how to do it to you and Wilhelm. It
is a beautiful area and warmer than with us. I greet you all. The name is
derived from wick, a kind of creek or inlet which these plunderers
used as harbors.]

As the years passed, and Ingeborg became lovelier and Frithiof more brave and noble each day,
their pleasure in each other's company grew deeper and more absorbing. From this state of happy
content, however, Frithiof was to be rudely awakened by the faithful Hilding, who could see
a great disappointment looming in the path of his young charge.

Calling Frithiof to him one day, he said:

"Thou knowest the grief I would feel to see thee unhappy. For thy own good I warn thee that
it is not possible for Ingeborg ever to be thine. Thou dost forget that she is the king's daughter,
and can trace her lineage even to All-father Odin, [Footnote: Odin, the father of the Norse
gods. From his lofty throne in Asgard, home of the gods, he could survey and govern all heaven.]
while thou art a mere subject in this realm."

"Ah, but strength and prowess, the gifts of Thor [Footnote: Thor, the eldest son of Odin, superior
in strength to all the other Norse gods. He was renowned for the possession of a wonderful
hammer, which, after being cast at an object, came back of itself to the hand of him who had
thrown it, a magic belt that greatly increased his strength; and a pair of iron gloves that
gave him strength and skill in throwing his hammer.] himself, must rank above the dignity of
kings. Ingeborg, the white lily, shall be mine," retorted Frithiof in angry pride, and took
himself off, apparently unheeding the counsel.

Nevertheless, when he thought later of Hilding's words and of the hostile feelings that Halfdan
and Helge bore him because of envy of his prowess, he became troubled in mind.

It was not long after this that both Bele and his loyal Thorsten, after impressing many a word
of wisdom upon the hearts and minds of their heirs, died peacefully and were placed so near
each other that in death, as in life, they seemed always together.

Helge and Halfdan now became the kings of Sogn and Frithiof went to live on the estate of Framnas,
left him by his father. Great indeed was his inheritance, for he came into possession of the
wonderful sword Angurvadel, on the blade of which were mystic runes [Footnote: Runes, letters
or characters of ancient Scandinavian alphabets. The literal meaning of rune, a secret or mystery,
is explained by the fact that at first these symbols could be read only by a few.] dull in
times of peace, but fiery red in war; the magic ring or armlet made by Vaulund the smith, and
the ship Ellida, built in the shape of a dragon and swifter in its flight than any eagle.

These gifts of good fortune, however, failed to satisfy the new master of Framnas. So greatly
did he miss the presence of Ingeborg that he could find content in no occupation and wandered
about in restlessness. At length he determined to dispel his loneliness by filling his great
house with guests and holding a feast that should cause him to be remembered ever afterwards
for boundless hospitality. Just at this time came Helge and Halfdan with their sister Ingeborg
to visit him. Then indeed did Frithiof's gloom take flight as he sat by Ingeborg's side or
with her roamed the woods and fields, living over again the days of their happy comradeship
and building hopes for an even happier reunion in the future. In renewing their love, they
had secretly become betrothed, and thus the hours of the visit sped all too swiftly.

After the departure of Ingeborg it seemed to Frithiof that all joy had gone out of the world.
His dark mood returned, and dismal fears began to haunt him day and night. Unable longer to
endure this desperate state, he acted upon a sudden resolve, and set sail in his ship, Ellida,
for the home of the princess, determined to ask formally for her hand in marriage. It was a
daring project; but Frithiof was a fearless suitor.

Having anchored his boat on the shore of the firth, he advanced at once to where the two kings
were "seated on Bele's tomb," administering law to the common people.

In a voice that reechoed round the valleys and peaks, Frithiof cried,

"Ye kings, my love is Ing'borg fair;
 To ask her in marriage I here repair;
 And what I require
 I here maintain was King Bele's desire!"
 [Footnote: Spalding's translation of Tegner's Frithiof Saga.]

The bold words and kingly bearing of the youth drew to him the admiring gaze of all the great
assembly. But Helge looked at him, at first in astonishment; then, in deep scorn.

"The hand of my sister, the Princess Ingeborg, is for none of such mean estate as thou. Wouldst
thou enter our household? Accept then the place of serving-man," the king at length replied
disdainfully.

At these slighting words Frithiof was so moved by rage that he would have slain the king then
and there had not the place been hallowed by Bele's tomb. As it was, he split the royal shield
in two with his mighty sword; then, drawing himself up to his full height, he turned abruptly
and strode back to his ship, with head held loftily and eyes flashing with terrible anger.

Scarcely had he returned home when he was visited by his foster-father Hilding who, strange
as it may seem, had come to ask his aid in behalf of Ingeborg and her brothers.

"The one whom thou lovest has given herself up to grief in the temple of Balder, [Footnote:
Balder, the much-loved god of spring.] where she spends each day in tears," Hilding mournfully
began. "Her fate is sealed, as is that of the whole kingdom, if thou wilt not help us resist
King Ring of Ringland who, notwithstanding his great age, has demanded Ingeborg's hand in marriage,
and in anger is marching against us because his request has been refused," continued the faithful
old guardian beseechingly. "What are you doing?" The prince asked for the second, and when no answer was
the third time. "Be still, the shooter said in a low voice," I command you to Reply admit,
I must first shoot down the bird. "After a little while to let a Paff hear what the shooter got
up immediately and then said, "I have the bird, now can I give you answer. Been a while a fly
was circling around the tower of Babylon and wanted to settle the tower button, I could not
tolerate, however, because the Mosquito is ten Lies pounds, she could damage the delicate tip
button, so I shot down the enemy, "the prince asked in wonder:".? How can you see for so far
" - "What a tiny size that," laughs the man, "my mind goes much further," "Wait. a little bit, "shouts
the swift-runner in between," I want to go and see if the man cut, or telling the truth. has so
saying he was off and away as the Wind, and had a few moments later he lost the king's son
from his face.

Such a shooter, I could probably even need somewhere, thinks the king's son and immediately
goes out into the agreement. "Will you come to me as a servant?" Asks he the discerning shooter.
"Why not," replied the man, "if we agree on trade can be. What you promise me than wages,
"the prince says," Fresh Eating and drinking as much as your heart desires, complete, beautiful
clothing for summer and winter demand substances and a gold as an annual wage. "The shooter was agreed,
and also just arrived Schnellfuß the back of Babylon, it's on the back of the big shot down mosquito
he was not bothersome. The sharp-eyed shooter was behind the coach on the Goldsack and they drove
on again.

They had gone not much further, as did the prince, the care, as clever people Had eyes and ears
everywhere, by the way a man who lay on the ground and his ear to the Soil, held as he wanted
to overhear, the man's ear was shaped tube-shaped and three fathoms long. "What are you doing?" Asked
the prince. Hark the end said, "In the city of Rome are now just five kings gathered to take
counsel secretly about a war, I wanted . Just now hear that the war will affect us, "So he asked
in wonder," How you can hear in so far The man replied, "? Now this is just not far, my Ear
goes even further, it can hardly be spoken anywhere in the world, something that not penetrate
my ears would feel like if I would have otherwise, women of all empty talk to take notes. "The
prince immediately thought to himself, who knows if such a man Assistance can sometimes be necessary,
and asked the man ear: "Would not you like to enter into my service, "" Why not - said the man
ears - if we agree trade be. The man turned up his long ear tube, so they did not touch the
ground, sat down next to the sharp-sighted on the gold bag behind the coach, and they drove on.

They
were back a distance way down, as they came upon a great forest. Even a While previously,
before the forest aufthat before them, had noticed the prince, how
strange individual tree tops from time to time klafterhoch over the
other trees of the forest, were lifted and then suddenly disappearing.

He asked his servant to the meaning of the thing have, but none could give him evidence of this.
Someone stood on a tree and struck him with the ax over so the tree was probably when he fell
to the ground, their faces disappear, but like a tree until the tops of a few fathoms the sky
stretched out before he falls, could not explain the human mind. Gradually now entered our walkers
Forest, and here they should learn, fortunately, because by their own intuition, as with the
miraculous ascent of the trees was received. They were not long in the forest thicket down, as
they saw the Baumlupfer just at work. A man that is elected chooses a suitable tree, then came
out with both fists, grabbed the trunk and pulled it together with the roots from the soil
than it would have been a cabbage or a turnip. When he saw that the coach stopped, he stopped
work and went a few steps closer because he thought that might be the gorgeous carriages propelled
Mr. presumably the forest owner be, let him come to defend him. Therefore, he said humbly:
Mr. "Dear! do not take it for offense, if I had taken without permission, rather lean, small
timber from your forest, the larger I have not touched, and the mother wanted to cook porridge
and therefore sent me into the forest, a costume that I would bring home wood to make fire
at the Grape. I wanted to just set a few pieces, and then make me the way when you herbeikamt.
"The King's son was very surprised about the man's strength, but he thought, I want fun half
gestures as the Lord of the forest, until I better try out his strength, so he said to Baumlupfer:
"I'll not defend, take care for any a much sturdier This tree. "Walked with a contented face back
the man immediately grabbed a tree he with his hands and pulled him spanning could not crash!
out of the ground. "Are not you desire to enter into my service, "asked the prince. "Why not,
if we agree trade be, "replied the man," What promise for an annual salary it to me then?
"The king's son replied: "Every day fresh food and drink, so much the heart desires, complete
clothing and an annual Stof gold. The man scratched his ears as if he were in regard to of
wages still undecided, said then: "Gonnet me just yet so much time that I bring the wood of
the dress and her mother both tell me where I go, they could otherwise wait to die, then I rush
back immediately. "After he received permission he took on the torn timber, briskly walked from
there, and came without much Lost time back. The prince was pleased that he had regained a servant,
whose help he could get into unexpected danger stead.

We were under the forest long ago in the back and was a good bit further down in the open field;
in the far distance we saw a city and a route on this side of the city seven windmills; all of
which on one side of the road in a row stood side by side. The king's son, which focus on
all respected what was going on, immediately noticed that the wings of all the Windmills turned,
although the air was so quiet all around, that not a leaf and feather budge. Continuing the
tour, he suddenly felt a violent wind, as if from a tube or how he
made a hole in the wall sometimes penetrates into the chamber, but
after a few steps was removed from the site, the wind stopped as suddenly
again.

The king's son let the eyes wander around everywhere, but saw nothing peculiar long, resulting he had
the wind generator can close. As they only some dirt road from the city gate were removed, the prince
suddenly see a man of medium stature, of the feet propped against a large stone and the body slightly
bent backwards, a very peculiar Work seemed to do. The prince called a halt and asked the stranger:
"What are you, little brother, "replied the man,"? What should I make poor wretch? Since I never
a better service, found me would have had to eat, I nothgedrungen the Office Take over in calm
weather when there is no wind, blowing through the city mills in response to . Bring But I can earn
money with this silly business well? Hardly so much that I do not die of hunger. "" Is it
all because by such an easy business, the mills bubbles to set in motion, "asked the prince.
"Well," replied the man, "that you can with your own Eyes. My mouth is always closed and his fingers
I press one nostril to which avoided giving too much wind, because otherwise, together with the
windmills of the mill in the would fly air. "Have you no desire to enter into my service," asked
the prince. "Why not," replied the wind mill, "if we are united and trade it to me so much give
that I need not suffer any longer hungry. What you pay for a promise to me, ? When shall I come
to you in service, "the prince said," What the other servants admit that you shall get it.
It is so, we beat a! The man of the Word, the bull Horn says one old saying. "The king's son
took the new servant, and then moved with his four servants to the royal city, to try fortune
or misfortune, he might now of be nice girl husband, or to deliver his head on the pole.

When he came into the royal city, he sent for him and his servant in the best inn apartment and
ordered the landlord or expressed, the servants take plentiful food and drink to To give any
hope what he did. A handful of gold throwing on the table, said the King's son: "Take the little
hand as money, if we divorced, I will already have specify what is missing. "Then he commanded
to summon tailors and cobblers from all over the city, should make the stately robes to his
servants, for although every man in what his Office knew what was excellent, yet none was therefore
a better plumage grown so that one could find confirmation of them right, what does an old
saying: "Nine commercial, the tenth hungry, "or:" A beautiful songbird is not always a pretty
grown Rock! "

The swift-virgin father, old King had, however, even by rumor's of the Grandeur and wealth is one
of the new suitor, before the young man himself appeared before him, what happened until the
third day. The beautiful clothes and shoes for the servants were not previously been done. When
the old king saw the handsome, prosperous young man, had he said with fatherly kindness, "Let,
dear friend, spared this race dear; were your feet ever so quickly, so you could adjust nothing against
my daughter, because it has legs like wings. I am sorry for your young life you want to indulge
in vain. " The suitor replies: King, "Dear! I hear from people that if someone does not even wanted
to run with your daughter to race, it is permissible for him, his servants or wage slave to
send. "-" But this is true, "replied the king, but from such 'an
assistant arises not even the slightest benefit.

Remains the assistant, it will not be head taken, but the stick must be yours and it is separated
from his body and the rod . To be plugged, "The Prince thought for a moment and then said with determination:
"Be it so then. One of my servants to try the luck and my head is when he Misfortune has atone.
I once had in the matter of home, and before I performed without the thing to have go back and
make me a laughing-stock, lose I prefer my head. Better that the people the dead head on the
bar as the living Man mocked. "Though the old king was still speaking much at all and free with a
vengeance to him from his purpose was looking for, so it did not matter, but he finally had
to give. The race was the next day go on. When the prince had gone, said the father to his daughter,
words overheard the long-eared man in the inn and the king's son again said, "Dear child, you've
fallen to this day many young men into ruin, which I have often grieved the heart. But none of
the suitors was immolated so much according to my sense that the young prince, tomorrow the
power of his legs in the race will try it out with you, he is a thriving man and wise speech.
Out of love to me hemme tomorrow the speed of your feet so that the suitor or his servants
defeat you, and I finally get a son, the heir to the kingdom after my death, I no son have.
"-" What, "replied the princess, while her face reddened with pride and anger, "I want to deny
a boy's sake, the strength of my feet, thereby under the Hood to come? No, absolutely not, my
life I will stay an old maid. Who Herget rubbed him? I have not called him, any more than those
who before him here howsoever caused. In our wood or wood grows enough for his foolish head
and all, by his peers to take, if put on the air so that their great heat . Cool Do you like the suitors,
so rather sends him home again, before he tries to run, But put your trust in me no mercy for him.
Who does not want to hear must feel. "The King saw that his daughter had been steadfast in this land
and gave all the other opposition on.

After this, the ears man the king's son had told this conversation, was the swift- Servants
into the room and said: "I am ashamed to walk around the case before the people with my millstones
kaufet prefer six ox skins, let make it into a knapsack, then kaufet still add to the weight
for the knapsack as much iron as the weigh my Fußsteine, it is all right, then people be me
for a traveling journeyman. "The prince met without opposition the man could desire, furs and iron
buy as much as was deemed necessary, and the Next morning was the school bag ready in time.
The man took the knapsack on his back and got into gear, although the unusual load on the back
foot a bit strange at first occurred, they would turn away from these more remote ankle not quite
know until they gradually add also learned this inhibition.

On the appointed place for the race are a countless number of people had gathered; who laughed a
man on the knapsack, the others said: "A reasonable person is anxious run if he wants to put
the extra clothes, but this man is not it occurred to . Even the knapsack on his own to do "The man ears
these speeches reported immediately to the king's son; but the runners
did not notice her.

To the racetrack was a lane on the length of a mile marked out and planted with trees on both
sides, the date protection against the burning Heat of the sun gave. At the end of the alley a little spring
bubbled with water from the soil forth. It was determined that the race ends run with an empty bottle
at the source and there were to fill the bottle with water, and then who the running back,
be it a or two steps back before the others arrive, which should be the winner. But when the Princess
and the suitor footed servant to the given character to expire at the same time, It did not
take long at all, the knapsack man like the wind on the Virgin was over, ran to the source,
filled the bottle and went to the return. On the half-way he had the king's daughter, the first
ran counter to the source. "Hold on a little, little brother," asked the princess, "I have
sprained my foot a bit.

Give me your flask from a few drops of water on the foot and a breather, then we will go forward
again. "" I care, "said the man, "I've no hurry, I stay, if you will sit here until you come back
from the source, we will walk next to each other. "When he niedersaß but to rest, and no cheating feared
that he held the king's daughter, as if they flatter him, a sleeping herb under the nose so that
he fell into sleep. Then he took the maiden, the filled bottle from his hand and went limping
to the return. The man eyes saw the incident, took his gun and shot a branch from a tree down so cleverly
that the same on the Schnellfuß The nose fell and woke him from sleep. To his horror, the
man finds a blank Bottle and sees that the girl is already ahead of a route on the way back. Now
strained his feet on that heel sprayed sparks flew, for the second time to the source, filled the
Bottle and then rushed back like the wind. True, he took the princess already, as still a good
distance to the target was left, and arrived a few moments before to her. The victory was the suitor
remained, this time his head on the bar had sold, but the princess went home angry courage,
for such 'a Antics they had not yet experienced in her life that any human being faster had feet as if
she had herself. The prince went with his servants in the inn had a splendid meal serve and made
the runner, a rich gift, as are even the shooter, who had woken up the runner at the right
time. However, could the Noise of the feast not to confuse the hearing of the man's ears, that
he had not heard Meanwhile, what was said in the royal family between father and daughter. "Now, dear
child!" said the King, "you have to marry you, because nothing helps, your feet, speed is overcome
by the faster. I'm quite happy about it, because first are now no More men arrive, and secondly,
I get a son who, after in every way my senses. "The King is wanted to talk further, but there came
suddenly the Daughter tongue straps, which had tied up the anger by that time and now rushed out
of the beautiful Mouth the speech as the waterfall's water wheel, so that the king was not able
yet put forward a little further. Since no one INCAPABLE to reproduce the speech word for word,
I will only communicate in the near future the core of it. The daughter protested with the most
memorable Words, if the father wants to marry by force, it would probably advance their lives
can, but to become the wife of the man who carried his servant by chance they have won, this
was to no power on earth to force. When at length to tip of the daughter was tired and could
throw the king again, and the other word in between, trying He is now with threats, now with
flattering words, but all in vain. "I care," exclaimed the daughter, "you like him half the
kingdom to offer as compensation, but the woman he will not get me as long as life is in me. "The
prince was very annoyed, had reported the man ears these speeches. But the Baumlupfer said: "Sadly
you about but not girls there is more to the world as so says a king's daughter, and also
finer and finer as it is. Longs from the king's treasury as much gold as a man can carry them
in a bag on his back as compensation cost, and let the Daughter alone until they mildewed, with
all their possessions, so that no one she comes to see let alone free. "The council was after
the prince's taste, so he said The next morning when he heard of the old king's mouth, the ears
man what he already had reported yesterday: "So it may have for my sake with the wooing be content.
I I will take with you if you give me from your treasury as much gold and gold value to compensate
for my long journey promise, a man carried away in a bag on his back can. The king promised
without hesitation, and was glad that he was so inexpensive purchase it was because the boy would
have half the kingdom called for settlement, he would have have to give so but he came with
a bag full of going gold. The king thought in his mind: I thought the young man for clever
as he is, but he knows the weight of gold not to mention the all but the strongest man who can not do
much. Then separated the men, both very satisfied with the completed trade.

In the inn Baumlupfer said to the king's son, "Now schicket servant in the city and let All the
canvas, which can be found in the shops buying up, then bringeth fifty tailors together and let out
the sail a six double blind stitch, as long and wide as will extend the fabric. With the sack
and I will take from the treasury of the ransom you shall serve to compensate for the Virgin.
"The prince did so, and promised the Bock riders rich reward when they sew the sack the night until
the morning would be ready. If, as they say, already the champion beef dish on the stove, oven
[11], the needle of the Schneider's wings, one can easily imagine how much more the son of the
king promised Wages did so. The Schneider teased all night at the canvas and everyone was just
waiting careful to guard his eyes from the man next to him the needle in their swing is not
go into the eye.
 Well
pleased with this show of sincere friendship, Gunther entrusted his army to Siegfried, and
the young prince of Netherland set forth to meet his foes.

As the Burgundians approached the camp of the enemy, Siegfried rode far in advance to learn
what were the numbers of their foes. Thus it was that just without the camp he was challenged
by a knight whom he at once recognized as King Ludegast. Leveling their lances, the two warriors
rushed together, and each struck full against the other's shield. Then drawing their swords
they fought fiercely until Ludegast, severely wounded, fell from his horse. Immediately, thirty
of the followers of the Danish king hurled themselves upon Siegfried, and all but one, who
begged for life, were slain by the mighty sword Balmung.

After leading the Burgundians into battle, Siegfried fought in the thickest of the fray until
almost unhorsed by the Saxon king, Ludger. Stirred to keenest anger by this incident, the prince
of Netherland began to rain blows upon his opponent and doubtless would have overcome him had
not Ludger suddenly discovered with whom he was fighting, and cried: "Hold! Stay your hand!
Let the battle cease. I will not fight against the terrible might of Siegfried, the Netherlander.
Let my men surrender, as I submit."

Thus was the day won for the Burgundians; and with mingled sorrow for their fallen warriors
and joy for the good tidings that they were bearing King Gunther, they traveled back to the
Rhine, accompanied by the captive Danes and Saxons and the prisoner kings. Never was a conquering
army more gladly and fittingly received with merry-making and pageants, kind gifts and unstinted
praise than was the great host that returned to Gunther's capital.

And, as he deserved, Siegfried was most honored of all. As if the brothers knew what could
reward the hero better than anything else in the world, they arranged that Siegfried should
at length be presented to their lovely sister, Kriemhild. The plan was indeed no less pleasing
to the maiden than to the young prince, for although she lived in seclusion, she had secretly
observed him and had come to feel deep admiration and affection for him.

On the day set for the meeting, Kriemhild and her mother, with many attendants, advanced in
state to the great room where Gunther held his court. As the princess passed through the crowds
that thronged the way, her eyes were often downcast, and a vivid pink overspread the pure whiteness
of her cheeks as hundreds of eyes bent upon her their admiring glances. For of all the fair
ladies of that court, she was indeed the fairest.

Noting her rare beauty and the modesty, gentleness and grace of her bearing, Siegfried could
only exclaim to himself, "She is too good and beautiful for me to win; yet I must always be
wretched if I go from this land and never see her again."

Shortly afterward, with formal ceremony, he was presented to the princess, and as he knelt
and kissed her hand she murmured: "Welcome again to Burgundy, Sir Siegfried, for surely you
have been a brave defender of the honor of our land."

As the last words fell from her lips she looked at Siegfried with such kind interest and he
returned her glance with so much ardor that words were not needed to declare their love. For
several days thereafter great festivities were held by the King and his court, and whether
at tournament or feast Siegfried always held the envied place by Kriemhild's side.

Meanwhile a great project had been forming in Gunther's mind, and one day as he sat among his
nobles he declared: "It is my purpose to set forth soon to win a bride who lives in a far distant
land. Though the terms by which she is to be won are hard, I cannot be content until I have
tried my fate and have either made the fair Brunhilde my wife, or have died in the effort."

At the mention of the name Brunhilde, Gunther's companions cried out in dismay, and one of
the lords exclaimed:

"Oh, give up, I pray you, this wild enterprise. A great and good king should not be sacrificed
to the strange caprice of the Queen of Issland. You know that like all others who have contested
against the unmatched strength of Brunhild, you will die without honor."

Gunther, however, was unmoved by the warning, and turning to Siegfried, he asked, "Will you
not help me to carry out my plan? Queen Brunhild, you know, is mightier in combat than any
man that lives, yet he who wins her must prove himself superior to her in strength and skill.
If he fail, he must die. My friends here think me rash and would induce me to stay at home.
In most things I would not oppose them, but in this case I must do as my own heart bids me."

After some thought Siegfried replied, slowly and impressively: "There is one condition on which
I will aid you. I will win Brunhild for you if in return you will give me the hand of your
sister, Kriemhild."

"There is no other to whom I would more gladly trust her than to you," replied Gunther; and
then with clasped hands the two friends sealed their compact.

After busy days of preparation, during which the most splendid raiment that ever clad brave
knights was made by Kriemhild and her maidens, Gunther and Siegfried, with several companions,
set sail upon the river Rhine, thence to cross the sea to Issland, in the far north. Slowly
passed the days of the voyage, for it was a time of keen suspense. "Will good King Gunther
ever sail back again into the Rhine country?" was the question that haunted his loyal friends.
All but Siegfried were doubtful.

At length, one day, they came into view of a great green castle towering above cliffs. "Behold
the home of Brunhild!" cried Siegfried; and then as the eager watchers continued to gaze they
could see people hurrying about the castle, evidently excited by the approach of a foreign vessel.

After anchoring the boat the company were taken at once into the presence of Queen Brunhild,
who, recognizing the young Netherlander, exclaimed: "Welcome, Prince Siegfried. What brings
you to our court?"

Then Siegfried, bowing low, made known their mission:

"Gracious queen, in the name of my lord, the King of Burgundy, I ask for a favorable hearing
for his suit. None knows better of his noble qualities than do I, his subject; and none can
say with more assurance than I that a nobler husband for Queen Brunhild is nowhere to be found."

"Ah, if that be his quest," cried Brunhild, "he can win his bride, not by gentle speeches and
looks of love, but by a sterner test than any mortal suitor has ever yet endured."

Notwithstanding the harsh warning, Gunther, assured by Siegfried, declared: "In the presence
of your great beauty, Queen Brunhild, even the strange terms that you propose seem reasonable,
and I must accept them, though they bring me and my followers death."

Thereupon Brunhild began to make ready for the contest, and Siegfried, unobserved, slipped
down to the boat in the harbor. Soon three of the Queen's attendants came staggering under
the weight of an immense javelin, and a little later twelve other men slowly and with great
difficulty pushed an enormous stone into the field. Then the Queen herself appeared clad in
massive armor. The King and his attendants looked on, and when it seemed that surely all must
die, they would gladly have withdrawn; but from shame they strove to hide their fears as best
they could. But
on that night, that mother and daughter for the first two times table and sat Isolation felt
really painful, took a telegram from Wilhelm. It read: "Come home tomorrow with very slight
injury a few weeks."

Yes, a difficult time, but a time full of surprises is the war!

The young professor

As the new school year began, had a few of the
students and also a few of the teachers Enjoy it. All the earth seemed
to resound with the death-dealing blow, and surely had it not been for the tarnkappe both Siegfried
and Gunther would have been killed as the great spear pierced the King's massive shield. Now get the dithyrambic Chorus the
task, the mood of the audience to encourage up to the degree Dionysian that, when the tragic
hero appears on stage, not the masked man informal To see but a quasi are born out of their trance
vision shape. Thinking Admetus we remember with deep thought his recently departed wife Alcestis
and quite the same intellectual intuition is consuming - as he now suddenly a similar designed,
similar to border image of women being led in wrappings is: think we are his sudden trembling
restlessness, his tumultuous comparisons, his instinctive Conviction - that we have an analogy
to the sensation with which the aroused Dionysian walk the audience approached God on the stage
saw with the suffering he has already become one is. Instinctively he took over the whole
magic trembling before his mind the image of God to those masked figure and solve your reality as
it were in a ghostly unreality on. This is the Apollonian Traumeszustand in which the world of
the day, masked and a new world, a clear, comprehensible, more moving than that and yet the same
shade, in a constant change in our eyes engender it. Accordingly, we recognize in tragedy
a radical style of opposites: language, color, motion, dynamics of speech occur in the Dionysian
lyric of the chorus and in the other hand, the Apollonian dream world of the Scene as completely
separate spheres of expression from each other.


Long and loud was the shout of welcome that arose from the crowds gathered along the river
bank as the ship bearing Gunther and his bride came into view. Then Queen Uta, followed by
a long line of maidens, arrayed in many-colored garments that glittered with the most precious
of gems, slowly moved down to the strand, while Kriemhild followed, attended by Siegfried.

As Gunther and his bride stepped from the boat, Kriemhild was first to greet the Queen. "Welcome
to Burgundy, sweet Brunhild. May you dwell among us so content that regret for Issland will
never trouble you," she cried. Then taking Brunhild's hand she kissed her with gracious good
will. Queen Uta likewise made known her gladness in receiving the hard-won bride of Gunther.
For days thereafter all the court, with the knights and ladies gathered from every part of
that realm, made merry continually, and never was a time more memorable for chivalrous deeds
and giving of costly gifts.

On the evening of Gunther's arrival, as the guests were assembling at a feast, Siegfried recalled
to the King the terms of their compact: "Brunhild is now yours. Have you forgotten that you
promised me the hand of the lady Kriemhild?"

"That have I not, good Siegfried," replied the King, and he at once sent for his sister.

Then in the presence of all the great company, Gunther, taking Kriemhild's hand, said: "Fair
sister, many days ago I promised you in marriage to one of the noblest knights that ever served
our land of Burgundy. I ask now that you accept his, love and thus fulfill my promise."

"It is my part to obey you in all things, my brother," replied Kriemhild, with downcast eyes.
"I shall as gladly do your bidding now as always in the past."

How all the beholders marveled at the gentleness and beauty of the princess, as with blushes
she was led to Siegfried's side. Never had a brave and loyal friend been rewarded with a greater
measure of joy than was Siegfried's then.

Gunther, however, had won a bride to whom such modest, docile ways were quite unknown. Brunhild's
pride had not been conquered, and her cheeks would sometimes flush with anger as she recalled
that the fame of her peerless strength was no longer glorious and that she was now subject
to another's will. As the days passed on, these thoughts so vexed her that she could not bear
the shame of her defeat, and she began to treat the King with scorn.

Thus provoked on one occasion, he would have shown her that he was master in that realm, when
Brunhild, leaping upon him, tied his feet and hands together with a girdle that she wore about
her waist, and suspended him from a nail projecting from the wall. In vain did Gunther struggle
against her strength. He must hang upon the wall until, weak and exhausted, he begged her to
release him, promising never again to offend her. However, Gunther could not forget this daring
insult to his kingly authority, and he went moodily about the palace for the rest of the day.

Noticing his gloom, Siegfried exclaimed: "What troubles you, King Gunther? Surely your looks
ill become this merry season."

"Perhaps if you had a wife who could tie you up and hang you upon the wall until you promised
to do her bidding, you would not be so cheerful either," grumbled the King in return.

"Aha," laughed Siegfried, "so that is what the fair lady has been up to, is it? Well, I think
that for such waywardness we can try the same remedy that saved us from her power in Issland.
Just call upon me the next time that trouble arises and we will subdue the proud Brunhild once
for all."

And so it chanced that with the help of the tarnkappe, Siegfried, all unseen, overcame the
Queen in a mighty struggle that had been brought on by some show of authority on Gunther's
part. At this time he wrested from her the magic ring and girdle that were the source of all
her strength, and ever afterward there was peace in Gunther's household.

It was not long before Siegfried with his bride returned to his home in Netherland, and was
made king of that realm by his father Siegmund. No less brave and generous was he as a ruler
than as a knight, and the years sped on in high prosperity for all the kingdom. But envy was
at work, and all too soon was Siegfried's good fortune brought to an end.

In the court of Burgundy Brunhild remained ill content. She could not understand why it was
that if Siegfried was Gunther's subject, as he had declared himself to be when in Issland,
he did not yield the obedience and service of a subject. As Gunther could not well explain
Siegfried's deception and make known that the Netherlander was not indeed a vassal, he evaded
Brunhild's questions. But the Queen was persistent, for it vexed her that Siegfried and his
lady offered no homage at the court of Burgundy. At length one day she entreated the King:
"Since you are unwilling to require a vassal's service of the King of Netherland, at least
invite him to pay a visit to our court. Many years have passed since I have seen your sister
Kriemhild, and I would be most glad to renew my friendship with her."

Thus it came about that Siegfried and Kriemhild were bidden to visit Burgundy and in the course
of a few months journeyed thither. The merriest of entertainment was provided, and Gunther
and his queen were so lavish of their kindness that never would one have suspected Brunhild's
deeply burning resentment. All at once, however, her ill feeling flamed into uncontrollable
fury and brought about the sorrowful deed that ever afterward dimmed the fair honor of Burgundy.

Shortly before the vesper service in the cathedral the two queens met one evening, and Kriemhild,
having just witnessed some daring feats performed by Siegfried in the courtyard of the castle,
exclaimed in admiration: "Oh, surely so bold a knight as my husband is fit to rule this land
of Burgundy!"

"But not while Gunther lives," returned Brunhild in wrath. "No vassal indeed can presume to
fill the place and take upon him the dignity of his lord and master."

"I am speaking not of a vassal, but of the King of Netherland," retorted Kriemhild.

"Ah, but that same King, as I heard from his own lips when he bore Gunther company in Issland,
is my husband's vassal!" exclaimed Brunhild flushing scarlet in her anger.

"How little you know," replied Kriemhild, laughing scornfully, "of the clever trick by which
my brother won you! Perhaps you have never heard of Siegfried's tarnkappe. But you shall learn
now that it stood my husband in good stead when he and my noble brother were near to death
in Issland. Know, O Queen, that it was Siegfried who, all unseen, performed the mighty feats
that gained a bride for Gunther, and that it was no other than the same great knight who later
brought into subjection the over-proud Queen Brunhild. For proof of this behold the cord and
ring taken from you that day. Let us hear no more of vassals and their homage. As token of
the honor that befits me, now stand aside and let me enter this cathedral first!"

Slowly the color left Brunhild's cheeks as she stood speechless and helpless, while Kriemhild
and her attendants passed into the church. Then bursting into violent weeping she sank to the
ground, overcome with shame and anger. Soon the word of the disgraceful quarrel had spread
among the Burgundians and their guests, and many an indignant speech was heard and many a revengeful
plot was planned.

But it was Hagan, the crafty uncle of Gunther, who soothed the grief of Brunhild with a secret
design by which Kriemhild's insult should be most cruelly paid for. After no little persuasion
he won Gunther's aid. Then the great lords of the land were assembled, and Hagan addressed
them thus: "You know well what dishonor has been done to the power of Burgundy by these haughty
Netherlanders. Shall we brook such insult? No! let us either suffer death ourselves or bring
to destruction the over-bold King Siegfried."

With such approval did these words meet that the King sat silent, unable to defend one who
had so loyally befriended him. Then it was planned that messengers should come to the court
pretending to bear threats of war from the king of the Saxons and Danes. Siegfried would thus
be deceived into offering Gunther service, and while away from the court should be put to death.
So well did this plot work that the brave Netherlander, having proffered his services, was
placed at the head of a great army to march against the foe.

At this time Hagan, assuming to be deeply concerned about Siegfried's welfare, was besought
by Kriemhild to guard well the life of her husband. "You know," she confessed at length, reluctantly,
"Siegfried's body cannot be pierced by any weapon,--except in one place between his shoulders
where a linden leaf fell on him while he was bathing in the dragon's blood. Will you not remember
that and try to shield him while in battle?"

"Dear Kriemhild, I will remember," replied the treacherous Hagan, "but that I may know just
where the place is, will you not sew on his clothing, just above it, a token that will mark
the spot?"

"Yes, I will stitch a little cross upon his surcoat," assented Kriemhild.

Then it was that the cruel Hagan, having learned his opponent's secret, had messengers come
to the court announcing that the enemy would not wage war with Burgundy but would remain at
peace. So disappointed was Siegfried that, apparently to please him, a great hunting party
was formed, and all the bold warriors rode away to the forest. There
brought the boys to always Geiss their days in bad weather, so called: Rock already from ancient
times the rain rocks. From there, thought Monica, he was able to cross about the rock climbing
and so come back with the kids.

He quickly whistled the herd together and went with her down to the point where the Rain rocks went
inside. Since he left them graze and went to the rock. Here he saw the same, still quite a bit
about yourself, the road to which clung to the little kid. He saw that It is not easy to climb
up there and get on with the Maggerli on his back down. But unlike the little creatures could
not be saved. He also thought of God he would certainly assist, then it might succeed him. He
folded his hands, looked up to heaven and prayed: "Oh dear God, help me, that I can save Maggerli!"
Now he was full confidence that everything will go well, and he hastily climbed up the rock
until He had reached the road above. Here he clung with both feet, raised Then the trembling,
whimpering little animal on his shoulders and climbed now with great care down. But when he again
had a safe grassy ground under the feet and the frightened Saw little kids saved because he was so happy
that he had to thank loud and called up into the sky: "Oh my God, I thank you a thousand times that
you've helped us so Oh how we are both so happy about it! "Then he sat down a little on the ground
and stroked the kid, which is still in all its delicate limbs trembled, and it comforted about the
loan crises Fear.

As a little later time for departure was set Moni the kid again on his shoulders caring, and said,
"Come, you poor Maggerli you tremble still can today. you not go home, I must carry you. "And
so he carried the little animal, the hold of him pressed down the whole way.

Paula was now on the last hill before the bath house and waited for the goat boy. Also her aunt
had accompanied her. So when Monica came up with his load on his back, wanted Paula know if the
kid was sick, and showed great participation. Seeing the Moni sat He is right on the floor in front
of Paula back and told her his present experience with the Maggerli.

The young lady was very lively interest in the matter and stroked the little animal rescued. Now
it was quiet on Monis knees and looked very delicate with his white feet and the beautiful
black Fuzzies over the back. It might be quite happy to stroke a little.

"Now you sing me your song even if you're already here," said Paula. Moni was tuned so happy
that he sang like a full chest and all his songs to sang to the end.

The Paula liked the exceptionally good, and they said he had to sing it to her even more often.
Then drew the whole party together down to the bathhouse. Here, the kid was on his Bearing down,
and Moni took his leave.

Paula went back to her room to her aunt here for a long time to tell
of the goat boy, on the merry morning song, they are already once
again happy.

3. Chapter

A visit

Thus several days passed, such a sunny and clear as the others because it was a particularly nice
summer.

And the sky was blue and cloudless from morning until evening.

Every morning at dawn was the goat-boy singing lustily drawn past the bath house, every Evening
singing lustily again turned back. And all the bathers were so in the happy Singing used to, that
no one would have liked to miss.

Above all, however, Paul was happy to Monis cheerfulness and went to meet him almost every night, anzuknuepfen
a conversation with him.

On a sunny morning was Moni again reached the top in the pulpit and was about to rock just sit on
the floor, as he changed his mind or otherwise. "No, forward!

You have indeed The last time the good little leaves have to leave them all because we help the
Maggerli had, now it goes up again, as you can chew it! "And jumped with joy him to all the goats,
because they realized that one of the beautiful bushes of the dragon stones went up. This time
was his small but Moni Maggerli all the time in the arm firmly, crack him the good little leaves
himself off and let it eat from his hand.

This pleased the little kids Best of all, it rubbed quite pleased from time to time his head
on his shoulder and Monis bleated cheerful. Thus the whole morning passed and Moni noticed it
on his hunger, that it was getting late. He had his food down in the pulpit in the little
rock Cave can cherish, because he wanted to come down again at noon.

"So, now you've already got a lot of good, and I still have nothing," he said to his Goats. "Now
I have to have something down and you can still find enough, come!" Then whistled He pulled
out loud, and the whole crowd and away, the most lively and always forward all pre- the fleet-footed
Swallow, who was to meet today something unexpected happened.

They jumped down from stone to stone, and about some crevice away, but suddenly she could not
continue.

Immediately before her all of a sudden there was a mountain goat and gazed curiously into his face.
That was never yet come under the swallow. She stood there, looked inquiringly at the stranger
and waited for her this go out of their way. Because she wanted to jump on the boulder, the
loomed before her.

But the chamois did not move and watched the swallow cheeky face.

So both were each other, always stubborn, and even today they would stand there, if not now the great
Sultan would be at hand.

He immediately recognized the situation and climbed gently past the swallow. Suddenly, he
joined the chamois so far and so powerfully on the side that they had to make a bold leap to
not have the Rock slide down.

The swallow but moved triumphantly on her way, and the Sultan walked
satisfied and proud after her, for he felt himself as a safe protector
of his flock.

Meanwhile Moni from above and from below, another goat-boy arrived at a place close and also looked
astonished at each other. But they knew each other, and after the first surprise welcomed
them to be friendly.

It was the Jorgli of Küblis, already half the morning long sought in vain to monitor him and
had now met up here, where he no longer suspected.

"I did not think that you would go up so high with the goats," said the Jorgli.

"Of course I'm going," said Monica, "but not always. Usually I'm at rock pulpit. Why did you come
up there? "

"I'll make a visit," was the reply, "I have to tell you all sorts.

Also I have two goats, which I take the host in the bathroom, he wants to buy one, and there
I thought I was still up to you. "

"Are your goats?" asked Moni.

"Of course, the alien did not guard me, not I'm more goat-boy."

Moni about it had to be very surprised because at the same time with him was the goat-boy Jorgli
Küblis from now, and Monica did not understand that the way and could
not stop the Jorgli not once complained.

Meanwhile, shepherds and goats had arrived at the rock pulpit.

Moni took bread and a Piece of dried meat out and invited the Jorgli to lunch. They sat both
the pulpit and also took it all in good taste. Because it was very late become, and they both
had an excellent appetite. When eaten everything now and then a little goat milk had been drunk,
the Jorgli put quite comfortable the length according to the ground
and rested his head on his elbows.

Moni was still sitting because he always looked like from above down
into the deep valley.

"What are you now, Jorgli, if you are not goat-boy?" Moni started to now, "something you have
to be that. "

"Of course I am a little bit and right," replied Jorgli, "I'm Eierbub.

Every day I go with the eggs in all Wirtshaeuser, so far I get.

Here come up to the bathhouse I also, yesterday I was there. "

Moni shook his head: "That is not Eierbub I do not want to be, a thousand times rather I will
be goat-boy, which is much nicer.

"

"But why?"

"The eggs are not so vivid, that you can not speak a word.

And you do not run still the goats, who are happy when you are coming from pending and understand
every word that you talk to them. You can not have fun with your eggs as with the goats up here.
"

"Yes, and you," interrupted Jorgli, "what have you been up here for great joy? Now you probably
have to get up six times, while we were eating, just because of the
stupid Little kids, so it does not hinunterfaellt.

Is that a joy? "

"Yes, I do very much.

Not true, Maggerli, come, come!"

Monica jumped up and ran the little kids to, because it was very
careless Freudenspruenge.

When he sat back, Jorgli said: "There is also another means to keep
the young goats that they do not about to fall down the rocks and
they were not always jump in as you need "

"What kind?" asked Moni.

"They stuck a stick into the ground and ties the goat with one foot
on it.

You then wriggles while terrible, but she can not continue. "

"You will not believe that I have something do with the kids," said Moni very indignant. He pulled
the Maggerli to him and held it as he would have to protect it.

"To the little kid you do not have more to worry long," began Jorgli
again, "comes not up here.

"

"What, what, what do you say Jorgli?" went to Moni.

"Bah, you know's not?

The landlord will not raise it, it's him too weak, it will never be a hefty Geiss. He wanted to
sell my father, but wanted it not. Now it will kill the economy next week, and then he buys our
check there. "

Moni had become quite white with fear. First he could not say a word, but now lamented he shouted
and cried,

"No, no, you are not allowed to do Maggerli that they must not do. They may do not you kill that
I can not bear. Oh, I would rather like to die with you. No, it can not be! "

"Do not be so," said Jorgli annoying and pulled the monitor in the altitude that in his Jammer
had thrown with his face to the ground. "Get it on, you know, that the little kid Now once owned
by the landlord and he can do what he wants. Think no more turn! Come on I know something
else: Look! Look, "then held out his Moni Jorgli the one hand, and
with the other he covered the subject of almost, to admire the Moni.

It sparkled but wonderfully out of hand out, because the sun shone
just in there.

"What is it?" Moni asked when she was just flashed back, lit by a sunbeam.

"Rat!"

"A ring?"

"No, but something similar."

"Who gave you?"

"Where?"

No one, I found it myself.

"

"Then it does not belong to you, Jorgli."

"Why not? No one I have read, I almost stepped on the foot, then waer's
still broken.

I can also keep well. "

"Where did you find it?"

"Down by the bathhouse last night."

"Then someone has lost the house down. You must tell the landlord, and if you's do not do it,
I do's tonight. "

"Do No, no, Moni, not that," said Jorgli now asking, "Look, I will show you what it is. And I
want to sell in one of the Wirtshaeusern a Maid, but they must give me four francs, then I'll give
you even one or two, and then white yes no one of them. "

"I want nothing I want nothing!" Moni interrupted him violently, "and God has everything heard
what you said. "

Jorgli looked at the sky.

"Yes, so far away," he said, doubtful. He caught but immediately on to speak more softly.

"He hears you yet," Moni said confidently.

The Jorgli it was not quite comfortable in his skin. If he only monitor on its side bringing
knew, or was lost. He thought for a long time. "Moni," he said suddenly, "I will promise you
something that pleases you, if you anyone some of the found want to say. You only need to take
anything like this, then you have nothing to do with it. If you want that, I will see to it
that my father still buys Maggerli. Then it is not slaughtered, do you want? "

Moni was a tough battle. It was wrong when he helped to conceal the
discovery.

Jorgli had put up his hand, it was a cross in it, set with many stones, sparkled in all colors.
Moni saw clearly that this was not a worthless thing, after the no one will ask. If he would
remain silent, he would keep something that belonged not to him. But on the other side was
the little, loving Maggerli, which was a terrible , Be killed with a knife, and he was able to
prevent this silent if he wished. Just now the little kid was so confident his side as if
it knew that he had always was to help. No, he could not have happened, he had to save it.

"Agreed, Jorgli," he said, but without joy.

"So a shock." Jorgli and held out his hand to Moni, that he promise in, as only such a promise
was irrevocable.

Jorgli was very happy that now he was sure of his cause. But since Moni become so quiet was
and he had a much broader way home as Moni, so he decided with his
two Goats break.

He said goodbye to Monica and whistled the two companions, had now
joined the grazing goats of the monitor.

It had a number of concerns Attacks between the two parties held since the Fideriser goats did
not know that it must be good with a visit. And the Küblis goats did not know that not just
choose the best herb and the other may push away what you get on a visit. So when a piece of Jorgli
the mountain had gone down, broke Moni with his band on, but he was
very still and sang no sound and did not whistle on the all the way
home.

4. Chapter

Monica can not sing

Moni came the next morning just as quiet and depressed as the night before the road Therefore,
to the bathhouse.

He quietly took out the goats of the host and went up further, but he sang a note, he sent no yodel
up in the air. He let his head hang and made a face as he was afraid of something. Here and there,
he looked shy around to see if he is not someone offspring and wanted
him to ask you something.

Monica could not even be funny. He knew only itself does not quite know why? He wanted rejoice
that he had saved Maggerli and sing once, but he brought nothing out. The sky was now covered
with clouds, and Moni was thinking when the sun, would come he'll turn out fun.

When he reached the top, it started to rain very hard. He escaped in the rain rocks because
it was pouring down in torrents from the sky soon.

The goats were also approached and stood here and there among the rocks. The refined Blacks had
the same wish to preserve their beautiful shiny coat and was before the Moni crawled under the
rocks. She sat now behind the monitor and looked out of the comfortable Vergnuegt angle out into
the pouring rain.

Maggerli stood before his protector under the projecting rocks and
tenderly rubbed his head against his knee.

And then looked It amazed at him, because Monica did not say a word
that was not the kids used to.

Also Brown shuffled his feet and to his pretending that because he had the whole morning, said
nothing to her. Moni sat there thinking.

He had been leaning on his stick, he is always at hand in such weather was so that he does not
slip on steep sites could. Because on rainy days he put on shoes. Now that monitor for hours
under the rain rocks sat, he had time to think.

Now roofed Moni, what he had promised the Jorgli. And it never occurred to him now different
before, as if the Jorgli have taken anything and he do the same. Finally, had Jorgli him but
something given for his silence.

He had done something wrong was, and God was now against him, which he felt in his heart. He
was right, that it was dark and raining and it was hidden under the rocks. Because he would have
not look up as usual in the blue sky allowed, he was afraid now before the love God. But also
think about other things had to Moni. If again Maggerli over a steep cliff fell down, and he
wanted to get it, and God would no longer protect him if he could pray to him and not call, then
would have he no longer safe. And then when he slipped and with the Maggerli deeply about the
jagged rocks would fall down and they all torn and shattered below would be in the abyss ...

Oh no, he said anxiously to him, it could not come yet. He had to ensure that he could pray again,
and come before God with all that to him on the heart was. Then he could be happy again, which
felt Moni. He wanted from the Last liberate the oppressed him, he
wanted to go and tell everything to the economy - but then?

Then was Jorgli persuade his father, and the landlord would totstechen Maggerli. Oh no! He could
not stand, he said.

"No, I do not know, I say nothing" But he was not comfortable, and his conscience was getting
bigger.
So passed the monitor all day. He returned home in the evening as
quietly as he arrived in the morning was. And when Paula was standing
down at the bath house and quickly became the goats and stable heruebersprang
asked sympathetically: "? Moni, what's wrong Why are you singing it
not even more" - and turned He is shy off and said, "I can not." And
as soon as possible, he set out with his goats away.

Paula said up
to her aunt: "If I knew only what was the goat-boy, he is completely
changed, it does not know him anymore. If he would only back singer.
"

"It will be the terrible rain that upset the boy that way," said
the aunt.

"Now comes together and everything. We want to go home
yet, aunt," asked Paula, "the pleasure here is off. First I lose my
nice cross, and it is hard to find. Then does this endless rain, and
now can not even listen to the funny Geiss boys. We want to continue.
"

"The cure must be done to end, because I can not help you," said
the aunt.

Dark gray and it was the next morning and the rain poured
down incessantly. Moni brought his day just as much as the previous.
He sat under the rocks, and his restless thoughts went round and round
in circles. Every time he said to himself, "Now will I go and confess
the wrong that I must again look up to God, "saw as he returned the
kid under the knife himself. He thought, and his guilty conscience
tormented him so much that he was very tired in the evening and stole
home in the pouring rain, as he noticed nothing.

The Bath House was
the host in the back doors and pulled over to the monitor: "Come again
with the goats since they are wet enough! What do you crawl down the
mountain like a snail! I wonder I have all the time about you. "

So
unfriendly to the host had never been, on the contrary, he always
had the happy Geiss boys the friendly words shouted. Monis But he
did not like being altered, and for that he was still in a bad mood
because he had complained Paula Fraeulein their loss. She had claimed
the precious Cross could only in the building or directly on your
doorstep have been lost. For it was on that day only gone out to dinner
the returning Geiss boys sing to hear. That one can say, however,
can put it in his house such a valuable Ding lost without it getting
back, it was very evil. He also had gathered the day before the All
service personnel, it interrogated and threatened and finally the
Finder a reward exposed. The whole house was in an uproar over the
lost jewelry.

As Moni walked with his goats on the front of the house,
Paul was there. You had waited for him, it surprised them so much
if he could not sing it yet again and had fun. As he crept over now,
she said: "Moni Moni Are you then also the same Goat-boy, who sang
from morning till night:

"'And so blue is the sky, And I'm looking
forward nearly to death'?"

Moni heard the words, he did not answer,
but they made a big impression on him.

Oh, is how it's so different
than he could sing all day and he was as happy as his songs. Oh, if
it yet so could be!

Moni again pulled up to his hill, silent and
joyless and without vocals. The rain had aufgehoert now, but hung
round the bleak mist on the mountains and the sky was still full of
dark clouds. Moni sat down among the rocks and fought with his thoughts.
Around noon the sky began to explain himself, it became brighter and
brighter. Moni came from out of his cave and looked around. The goats
jumped again funny way and that, even the kid was very spirited for
joy over the return of the sun and made the Jolly Jumps.

Moni stood
outside on the pulpit and saw how it was always nice and bright at
the bottom of Valley and up over the mountains. Now split the clouds
and the light-blue sky looked so lovely and friendly guide. It was
Monica, a look of love from God to the clear Blue down to him. And
suddenly it was in his heart very clearly what he had, he was the
wrong not to ask around with it. He had to drop it. Now seized Moni
the kid that ran around beside him, took it into his arm and said
tenderly: "O Maggerli, poor Maggerli did, I certainly did what I could,
but it is an injustice and we do not do. Oh, if only you will not
need to die, I can not stand it! " And now Moni began to cry so much
that he could no longer continue to talk. And the kid bleated mournfully
and crawled deep under his arm as if it wanted to completely hide
from him and to safety. Moni now lifted the little kid on his shoulders.

"Come,
Maggerli, I'll carry you home again today, maybe I can make you not
soon carry more. "

When he and his goats down the Bath House was,
Paula was waiting for him. Moni presented dragging the boy with the
black people in the house in, and instead further, he wanted to the
lady walk past the house. She stopped him. Around him were
camped the mighty hosts that he had led against the Saracens, and now the leaders were talking
over their plans for the future. Only one strong castle, the great fortress of Zaragoz, on
a steep and rugged mountain top, held out against him after his seven years of combat against
the Mohammedans in Spain. So heavy were the walls of this stronghold and so difficult the guarded
paths that led up to it that it seemed impossible for man to take it. One after another, the
valorous knights, the twelve great paladins of Charlemagne gave their opinions, but no conclusion
could be reached.

Among these hardy warriors was Roland, favorite nephew of the king, and greatest of all the
paladins. Next him sat Oliver, the friend of his soul, closer knit in bonds of friendship than
ever the ties of blood bound brother to brother. Others there were of valiant men who had often
proved their courage against their pagan enemies. None, however, matched in massiveness and
kingly bearing the great Charles himself, who sat now on his chair of gold over which twined
a flowering rose vine. In the boughs of the towering pine the birds sang blithely, unconscious
of the tragic events planning below them.

While they sat there in council there appeared among them a herald bearing the white flag of
peace. Behind him came Blancandrin, chief noble and councilor of Marsilius, the ruler of the
fortress about which King Charles and his paladins had been talking.

"My Lord the king," said Blancandrin, kneeling at the feet of the stately old monarch, "I come
as a messenger of peace from my master, King Marsilius, who now, after these years, sees in
you the great king whom all men may worship. Rich gifts bear I to your glorious majesty, --bears,
lions and hounds in numbers, falcons trained to hunt and keen for their prey, and four hundred
powerful mules drawing fifty chariots full of gold, rich tapestries and precious jewels, wealth
which even Charles the Great need not scorn to take.

"For all this richness my master begs only peace from thee, and privilege to reign over Spain
as thy loyal vassal. On the Feast of Michael will Marsilius go to thy palace at Aachen and
render homage unto thee, and thenceforth shalt thou be his lord, and thy God shall be his God,
only so that thou removest thine armies from out this kingdom."

The king listened in silence and bowed his head in meditation. For a quarter of an hour was
no word spoken, for gravely Charlemagne considered every question placed before him, and weighed
well his words; for once he had given pledge no power could make him change.

At last he turned upon the messenger his face clothed in its aureole of silvery hair, and said,
"What assurance have I that Marsilius will keep his word and be my faithful subject?"

"Most noble king," said Blancandrin, "we have with us twenty boys, sons of twenty of the greatest
nobles of our land. Take them all and keep them as hostages till my master pays homage to thee
at Aachen as he has promised. Deal gently with these young men of ours, I pray thee, for they
are dear to our hearts and are of the very flower of our kingdom."

That night the king lodged the messengers sumptuously, with due care, however, that they learned
none of the secrets of his camp, for in his heart he felt that some treachery was planned.
When morning came, Blancandrin was sent on his journey back to Marsilius with word that messengers
from Charlemagne would soon follow. The great king called together his paladins and all the
leaders of his force to consider the proposal that Blancandrin had brought. Among them were
Turpin, the Archbishop, and Roland with his inseparable companion, Oliver. And in the group,
too, might be seen the lowering brow and sneaking face of Ganelon, the traitorous friend of
Charlemagne.

The king laid before them in full the message of Marsilius and bade them say what they thought
of the strange proposal. With one accord all shouted, "Beware of treachery from King Marsilius."

Roland, towering above all the other warriors, spoke for himself: "Trust not the heathen king.
Have no parley with him. Remember what seven years of warfare have cost us in blood and treasure,
and without hesitation go on to finish the work we have begun. Proceed at once to lay siege
to Zaragoz, conquer this last great stronghold and free Spain utterly from Mohammedan rule.
Remember the treachery Marsilius once before practiced against our good messengers, whom he
slew under the flag of truce. Go and avenge their death."

But the fierce Ganelon slyly crept to the king's side and whispered in his ear, "Hear no word
of any babbling fool. This Roland, though my stepson, is a babbling idiot. He thinks only of
battle and his own glory. So brave and strong is he that he can protect himself and cares nothing
for kinsmen or friends. Marsilius promises everything we could demand or secure, and what shall
it profit us to sacrifice our noble soldiers in useless warfare when we can gain everything
we seek by this bloodless surrender?"

To others, also, the specious reasoning of Ganelon appealed, and so many joined in urging peace
that at last Charles said, "Well and good; but who among you will bear to Marsilius my glove
and staff and make the covenant with him?"

Then Roland said, "If so be it that the king would have a messenger, send me."

But Oliver straightway interfered. "Send Roland on a peaceful mission? He would only embroil
us in further trouble. My hot-blooded friend has no skill in parleying. Send me, I pray you,
my Lord the king."

Others offered their services, and the king stroked his silvery beard in silent meditation.

"No, neither of you, nor any who have yet offered, not even Archbishop Turpin, shall go."

Then Roland spoke again. "To me, my stepfather seems the man, for there is none among us more
cunning in speech than he. Send Ganelon, my stepfather."

With all his fierceness Ganelon was an arrant coward, and much he feared to take the message
to Marsilius, for well he remembered the fate of Basant and Basil. Pale with anger and with
coward fear, Ganelon threw his sable cloak from his shoulders and faced the gallant Roland.
"All the world knows," said Ganelon, "that I am thy stepfather, and that I bear thee no love,
but only hatred and contempt; but to show your malice toward me thus openly is the work of
a fool and a coward. If I return from this dangerous mission, then will I avenge myself for
your insults."

"I had no thought of malice," said Roland, "as all my companions may bear me witness. The post
is one of honor, and you should feel proud that it is entrusted to you. As for your anger and
malice, I have only contempt for your words and despise them utterly."

"Do not think," replied the wrathy Ganelon, "that I go at your bidding or that anything you
might say will move me from my steady purpose. If the king chooses me his messenger, I will
do him service; but as for you, you shall repent that you ever spoke my name."

This fierce speech was received by Roland with loud laughter, which was echoed by Oliver and
his companions, for all knew well the mighty prowess of the great paladin. The act, however,
served only to enrage Ganelon the more, and as he turned his back he muttered fiercely, "I
say, you shall repent of this."

Stepping to the throne of Charlemagne, he knelt and said, "Most noble emperor, from Marsilius
no messenger ever yet returned alive. Willingly will I go to Zaragoz and make for thee thy
covenant. One favor only do I ask, and that is that if I should not return thou wilt care for
Baldwin, my son, and the son of thy sister to whom I am wed. Confer on him my honors and possessions
and bring him up among the knights of thy court."

Charlemagne put forth his hand and touched the kneeling Ganelon. "Since the Franks have chosen
thee," he said, "enter upon thy journey with a brave heart. Put aside all fear and take my
glove and baton."

Still trembling, half with rage and half with fear, Ganelon said, "But for Roland would this
service never have fallen upon me; and I hate him and his friend, the doughty Oliver. As for
the rest of the nobles, who have joined so willingly in the cry, I bid them all defiance."

The king answered, "Truly, Count Ganelon, your words were well tempered and well chosen, but
my knights know your deeds never keep pace with your words, else might they fear your threatenings.
Perchance, in this one instance, however, your ready tongue will serve us better than your sword."

Then from his hand the king drew off his glove, and as Ganelon essayed to take it, it dropped
upon the floor. The Frankish warriors trembled at this ill omen and whispered among themselves
that it boded no good to the messenger; but Ganelon picked the glove up quickly, saying, "Fear
nothing from so slight an accident. You shall hear again from this glove."

"Take the letter, signed and sealed with my signet, and go in God's name," said the king.

With anger still burning in his heart, Ganelon leaped upon his horse and set forth upon his
dangerous mission. So rapidly did he ride that he soon overtook Blancandrin and his followers,
who were resting by the wayside, and fell into friendly converse with them. The messenger of
Marsilius was a wily man accustomed to read the emotions of men in their faces, and ere the
vengeful Ganelon had spoken many words his companion had sounded the depths of the warrior's
treacherous soul.

Noting well the kind of man to whom he was speaking, Blancandrin hesitated not to tell the
story of the treachery which Marsilius had planned. The wily king had no thought of going to
Aachen to pay tribute to Charlemagne, but, on the other hand, sought the opportunity to destroy
the garrisons which Charles the king should leave behind him and to repossess himself of Spain.
In the council at which this was determined, the cruel Moslems, dead to the love that fathers
should bear their children, had determined to sacrifice their twenty sons, the hostages who
had been left with King Charles. What were the lives of twenty boys compared with the reestablishment
of their own power and wealth! Now when Ganelon heard the dastardly plan which the Saracens
had made, he opened his heart to Blancandrin and told how he hated Roland and how gladly he
would do anything so he would not be obliged again to be a witness to his stepson's good fortune.

When each had shown his true nature freely to the other they joined their wits and laid their
plans. Thus when they were come to Zaragoz, Blancandrin took Ganelon by the hand and led him
before King Marsilius, saying, "O king, thy message have I taken to the haughty Charlemagne,
but no answer did he give me. He has, however, sent the noble Count Ganelon who shall tell
you the decision."

According to the plans which had been matured on the journey Ganelon said, "God protect the
good king, Marsilius. King Charles saith that if thou wilt lay aside thy Moslem faith and do
homage to him at Aachen thou shalt hold in fealty to him one half the lands of Spain, but if
thou failest in any respect, then will he come with sword and fire and lay waste the land and
carry thee to Aachen to thy death."

No sooner were the words spoken than Marsilius seized a javelin and aimed it at the messenger's
head, but Ganelon, standing his ground manfully, said, "What shall it bring thee to slay the
messenger because the message was evil? I act but as the mouthpiece of my master. Under penalty
of death have I come, or I should not have left the Christian camp. Behold, here is a letter
which the great Charles has sent for thy perusal."

So saying, he handed King Marsilius a letter signed and sealed with the signet of the great
king. His hands trembling with anger, Marsilius opened the letter and read, "I, King Charles,
remembering well what thou didst to my servants, Basant and Basil, summon thee to send to me
thy caliph who sitteth next thy throne on the right for me to do with him as I list."

The anger of Marsilius burned more strongly, and seizing a spear from one of his attendants
he rushed at Ganelon and would have slain him on the spot had not Blancandrin interfered.

"Stay thy hand, O my master," he said, "for this man, Ganelon, hath promised to be our spy
and work in our behalf."

Pleased with this show of Christian treachery, the Moslem king said, "Verily, Ganelon, thou
wast near Death's door, but I will pardon thee and reward thee with one hundred pieces of gold.
Take them and be faithful to us."

Ganelon accepted the price of his treason, saying, "That man is a fool who taketh not the goods
which the gods place before him.

"Now truly, the old king, the aged Charles, is indeed weary of war, has glutted his passion
for wealth and would indeed grant thee peace and withdraw his army from Spain were it not that
his captain, Roland, and Oliver, his friend, both men of war, are continually inciting the
weary monarch to further warfare. They with the other peers of France do lead the king as they
wish, for he is old and feeble. If only these and their twenty thousand picked men could be
slain, then all the world would be at peace.

"Now listen to my counsel. Give the hostages to Charles as you had planned, and grant his every
request. Then will he take his armies out of Spain, leaving only the rear guard to follow in
his wake. This guard, the pride and strength of his army, is commanded by the captain Roland.
As they leave Spain they will go through the narrow pass of Roncesvalles. Surround the valley
with thy hosts and lie in wait for them. When they come fall upon them and slaughter them to
the last man. The fight will be a bitter one, but thou shalt win." The nobler
natures among the artists credited with such Publicum on the excitation moral - religious
forces, and the call of "moral world order" was vicar irend one where a huge art was supposed
to delight the magic of genuine listener. Or It was the playwright a great, exciting trend
at least in the political and social presence so clearly presented that the audience his critical
exhaustion forgotten about and can be similar emotions could not, as in patriotic or military
Moments, or before the Rednerbuehne of Parliament or the condemnation of the crime and vice: the alienation
that the actual intentions of art here and there almost to lead a worship of the tendency had.
But here came in, what with all the arts of feigned has occurred has always been a fast tearing
depravity of those tendencies, so that for Such a tendency to use the theater as a moral community
education event, to Schiller's time was taken seriously, already under the untrustworthiness
Antiques a vanquished education is expected. While the critic in Theatre and Concert, the Journalist
at school, the press in society had come to power, degenerate the art object to an entertainment
of the lowest kind, and the aesthetic criticism was vain as the binder one, scattered, selfish,
and about this poor - unoriginal Sociability used, the meaning of those Schopenhauerian parable
of the porcupines to gives understanding, so that at no time so much chatter about art and so
little of the Art has been held. But can still communicate with a person who is able to to talk about
Beethoven and Shakespeare? From each according to his feeling like this question answer: it
will prove the answer in any case, what he imagines in "education", provided that he seeks
to answer the question at all and not with surprise is already silent.

Vice versa, some noble and delicate nature of the Qualified whether he described the same in the
As had gradually become a critical Barbarians, an equally unexpected as to tell completely
incomprehensible effects, such as a happy successful Lohengrinauffuehrung
had on him, only that he may lack any hand that admonishing and pointing
touched, so that those diverse and quite incomprehensible incomparable
Sensation that rocked him back then, was isolated and like a star
enigmatical extinguished after a short lights.

At that time he had known what is the aesthetic listener.

23.

Who wants to examine themselves very closely how he used the true aesthetic listener or is the community
of the Socratic - Critical heard people, who may only be sincere to ask the sensation with which
he receives the miracles shown on stage, whether he about retaining
its historic, on strict psychological sense Causalitaet directed offended
if he a benevolent concession to speak, the wonder as one of the Childhood
understandably, it allows alienated phenomenon or whether it something
else thereby suffers.

Namely because he is able to measure how far he is competent at all,
the myth, the contracted world to understand that, as an abbreviation
of the phenomenon, the miracle can not do without.

It is probable that almost anyone with strict A check and so by the criticism - feel degraded historical
spirit of our education, just to teachers about ways of promoting abstractions, the onetime existence
of the myth to make credible. Without myth, but every culture is its healthy creative unions
Natural force deprived: only one surrounded by myths horizon includes a whole Culturbewegung
to unity from. All the forces of imagination and of Apollonian dream only to be carried the
myth of their indiscriminate wandering saved. The images of myth must unnoticed its ubiquitous
demonic Waechter, heranwaechst under the hat, the young soul, to the sign of the man, his life
and his struggles indicated: and even the state knows no powerful ungeschriebnen laws than the
mythical foundation that its connection guaranteed with religion, its growing out of mythic
ideas.

Imagine now next to the abstract, without myths headed man, the abstract education, the abstract
fashion, the abstract right to the abstract state: Let us recall the random, by any native myth restrained
tails of the artistic imagination: Imagine a culture that has no fixed and sacred Ursitz,
but all possibilities to exhaustion and from all cultures to nourish miserable is condemned - this
is the present, as the result of that aimed at destroying the myth Socratic. And now is the
myth-free man, eternally hungry, in all pasts and seek digging and grubbing for roots, it was
that after even the most remote Altertheim Huemer them would have to dig. What has the enormous
unmet needs of the modern historical Culture, the Umsichsammeln countless
other cultures, the consuming desire for knowledge, if not to the
loss of myth, the loss of the mythical homeland of the mythical Mutterschoosses?

One wonders whether the feverish and so incredibly safe rain this culture something else is, as the
greedy grasping and post-food-snatching of the hungry - and who would like a such a culture will
be something that saturation of all she devours not, and when they are touched, the strongest,
healthiest food in "History and Criticism" wont turn?

It also would have to despair at our German nature painful, if it is already in the same Way with
its culture inevitably caught, just become one would be, as we in the civilized France can see
to our horror, and what a long time the great advantage France and the cause of his vast preponderance,
was precisely that unity of people and culture, should we, at the sight, compel it to praise the
good fortune that this our culture as questionable until now with the noble core of our national
character nothing common will. All our hopes stretch rather wistfully to that perception from that restless
under the up and down jerking Culturleben a spasm and education beautiful, inwardly healthy,
age-old power is hidden, though only in enormous Moments are greatly moved once and then again
entgegentraeumt a future awakening. From this abyss the German Reformation grew out: in the future
as the Choral German music was played first. So deep, courageous and full of feeling, so overwhelmingly
good and this delicate dyes his Luther's chorale, as the first Dionysian
bird call, from the dichtverwachsenem Shrubbery, in the approach of
spring, wells forth.

Answered him in emulation of echo those solemn procession of Dionysian insolent fanatic, which we,
the German music thank you - and we will thank the rebirth of German myth!

I know that I am now the lone sympathetic friend next to a high place Consideration must lead,
where he will have few companions, and I call him encouragingly that we are at our brilliant leaders
of the Greeks, have to be recorded. Of them we have till now, to purify our aesthetic knowledge,
these two Goetterbilder borrowed, each of which is a separate realm of art for himself and ruled
over their mutual Contact and increase we passed through the Greek tragedy to a clue. By A strange
tearing apart both artistic primal instincts we had the sinking Greek tragedy brought about
appear: processes by which a degeneration and transformation of the Greek national character was
in line, us to serious reflection encouragingly, as necessary, and close the art and the people, myth
and custom, tragedy and State, have grown in their foundations. That decline of the tragedy
was also the Destruction of myth. Until then, the Greeks were compelled involuntarily, all experienced
anzuknuepfen immediately to their myths, so to understand it only through this connection:
so the presence next to them immediately as a timeless sub specie aeterni and in a sense had
to appear.

In this stream of the timeless but plunged just as the State as the Art to him in front of the load
and the greed of the moment to find peace. And it is the only way is a lot of people - just
as a human - worthy of it on his experiences as the Stamp of the eternal to pressure can, for
thus it is entweltlicht speak and show a unconscious inner conviction of the relativity of time
and of the true, ie the metaphysical meaning of life. The reverse of this occurs when a nation begins
to understand historically and to smash up the mythic bastions around them: thus Usually,
a decisive secularization, a breach with the unconscious metaphysics of its former existence,
in all the ethical consequences, is connected. Greek art and primarily the Greek tragedy was
mainly due to the destruction of the myth: it was necessary destroy them with order, domestic
detached from the floor without restraint, in the wilderness of Thought, the morals and indeed
can live with. Even now try those metaphysical Drive, a, although slower to create the form
of the Transfiguration, in which to live urgent Socratic science: but on the lower levels led
the same engine only to a feverish search, which is gradually collected together into a pandemonium
everywhere Myths and superstitions lost: in the middle of the Hellenes still unsatisfied heart
sat until he understood it, with Greek cheerfulness and Greek levity, as Graeculus, maskiren
to that fever, or in any oriental superstition is totally dull to stun.

This condition we have, since the revival of the Alexandrian - Roman antiquity in the fifteenth
century, after a long hard to describe Zwischenacte, in the conspicuously approximated. On the
heights the same rich knowledge about desire, the same Finderglueck unsaturated, the same immense
secularization, alongside a homeless wandering, a greedy Sichdraengen to outside tables, a reckless
idolizing of the present or blunt rejection stunned, all sub specie saeculi, the "present time"
which resemble symptoms to advise on the same deficiency in the heart of this culture type,
the destruction of the Myth. It hardly seems possible, with continuing success ueberzupflanzen a
strange myth without damaging the tree by this hopelessly over plants: which may come strong
and healthy enough, that strange item with a terrible struggle again resign, but usually sick and
extinct or eating in pathological proliferation must be. We keep as much of the pure and powerful
essence of the German character that we just to expect him to be planted by force that elimination
of foreign elements and dare for possible consider that the German spirit remembers back to itself. Maybe
Some people will think that that spirit would have to begin his battle with the excretion
of the novel: which he prepared an outward and encouragement in the victorious courage and bloody
should recognize the glory of the last war, the inner necessity but in the rivalry must seek,
the noble champion on this track, Luther's just as well as our large
Artists and poets, to be always valuable.

But never let him believe, similar battles without his Hausgoetter without his mythic homeland, without
a "bring back" of all things German, able to fight! And if the German should look around timidly
for a leader, bring him back into the home long ago lost their way and lands it hardly knows
- he may only listen to the delightfully alluring call of the Dionysian bird, about the he weighs himself
and wants to interpret it the way there.

24.

We were among the peculiar effects of musical tragedy an art Apollonian Emphasize deception
by which we on the brink of being one with the Dionysian Music must be saved, while our musical
excitement on a Apollonian can discharge areas and pushed in between a visible middle world.
It believed for we have seen how precisely through this world of scenic resources that discharge
process, at all the drama, to a degree was visible from the inside out, and understandably,
the in all other Apollonian art of reach: so that we here, where this so by the spirit of lively
music and borne aloft, was the highest increase in their forces and therefore in that sister bond of
Apollo and Dionysus, the top just as much of the Apollonian recognize as the Dionysian art had intentions.

Of
course, the Apollonian photograph just reached in the internal illumination by the Music is
not the peculiar effect of the weaker degrees of Apollonian art, what the Epic or animated stone
successor, to the contemplative eye to that calm delight to force the world of individuatio that
wanted here, despite a higher spirituality of and clarity can not be achieved. We looked at the
drama and penetrated by drilling Glimpse into his inner world of moving images - and yet it
was us, as if only a parable image vorueberzoege to us, the deepest sense, we almost believed
to guess and we, as a Curtain, wished to move away in order to see him behind the archetype.
The brightest clarity the picture was not enough for us, for this
just seemed to reveal something both to conceal as; And while there
for his allegorical-like revelation to the tearing of the veil call
unveiling of the mysterious background seemed held, again just those
shone through Allsichtbarkeit banned the eye and fought him to penetrate
deeper.

Who has not experienced this, having to look both at the same time and also about looking to
long for, is hard to imagine how precise and clear, these two processes consist in considering
the tragic myth side by side and felt side by side are: while the truly aesthetic spectators will
confirm that among the peculiar effects of tragedy that the juxtaposition is remarkable. We carry
over now this phenomenon of the aesthetic spectator into an analogous process in the tragic
Artist, and you will understand the genesis of the tragic myth. He shares with the Apollonian
Kunstsphaere the full desire to look at the bill and yet he denies this desire and has an even higher
satisfaction in the destruction of the visible world of appearances. The contents of the tragic myth
is at first an epic event with the glorification of the fighting
hero: what is the origin of those mysterious but at the train, that
the suffering the fate of the hero, the most painful About turns,
the most painful contrasts of motives, in short, the wisdom of Silenus
Exemplification expressed, or, aesehetisch, the ugly and discordant,
in such numerous forms, with such passion again and again is presented
and it is in the lush and youthful age of a nation, if not is perceived
even at this all a higher pleasure?

For that life really so tragic is received, would at least the emergence of a Art form, explain,
if indeed the art is not just imitation of the reality of nature, but just a metaphysical supplement
is the nature of reality, in addition to their conquest she asked. The tragic myth, if it belongs
to art at all, takes full well Share in this metaphysical Verklaerungsabsicht of art in general:
what he transfigured But when he demonstrated the phenomenal world under the image of the suffering
hero? The "reality". at least this phenomenal world, for he tells us straight: "Look back Look closely
toward this is your life! This is the hour hand on your life clock! "

And the myth that life was to glorify it in front of us with it? But if not, what then lies the
aesthetic pleasure with which we can vorueberziehen also those pictures
of us?

I ask about the aesthetic pleasure and know very well that many of these images also sometimes
even a moral Ergetzung, such as in the form of compassion or a moral Triumph can produce. Who
the effect of the tragic but solely from this moral was derived sources, as indeed was in the
aesthetics too long customary for the may not only think they have done something for the art
of it: in the purity must demand their areas. For an explanation of the tragic myth, it is the first
demand that look to him peculiar pleasure in the purely aesthetic sphere, without in the area
of ​​compassion, fear, morality - sublime about access. How can the ugly and the discordant,
the contents of the tragic myth, an aesthetic Arouse lust?

Here it is necessary to us in with a bold start in a metaphysics of art to swing, by repeating
the earlier statement that only as an aesthetic phenomenon the existence and the world appear
justified: in what sense are just the tragic to convince myth is that even the ugly and inharmonious
an artistic Game is that the will in the fullness of his eternal desire to play with themselves.
This elusive primordial phenomenon of Dionysian art is understandable but only to direct routes
and reported directly to the wonderful significance of musical dissonance as ever the music, placed
next to the world, alone can give an idea of ​​what is under the
to understand the world as justification of an aesthetic is Phaeno
Mens.

The pleasure that the tragic myth produces has the same home as the pleasurable sensation of
dissonance in music. The Dionysian, with its self perceives the pain Urlust, is the common Geburtsschooss
of music and tragic myth.

If not now in that we took the music to the aid of relation of dissonance, difficult problem
that the tragic effect much easier? Do we understand but now look what it's saying, in the tragedy
at the same time to do and about to desire the look out: what state we used artistically in regard
to the Dissonance just as would have to characterize that we want
to hear us and on hearing while also long.



Charles and his followers had ridden hard and did not draw rein till they reached the mountain
top and looked down into the valley of Roncesvalles. They blew the clarions loud, but no answering
sound was heard save the echoes from the mountain sides. Then down through the mists and darkness
they rode and saw the awful carnage. Roland and Oliver dead, Archbishop Turpin and the noble
Twelve, and all the twenty thousand stretched among the heaps of pagan corpses.

Charles fell upon his face and wept, for he had brought up and nourished Roland from a babe,
had taught him war and made him the bravest of knights and captain in his army. But anger burned
in his bosom and dried his tears, so that when his officers approached and told him that they
had found the tracks of the flying pagans he was ready to follow fiercely along their track.

Looking up, he saw that the sun was still some hours high, for God had miraculously stayed
its passage that the Christians might be avenged. They overtook the flying enemy in the valley
of Tenebrus, close by the swift torrent of the Ebro, and there with the swollen river in front
and the fierce Franks on the flanks and rear the pagans were slowly cut to pieces. Only Marsilius
and a little band, who had gone another way, escaped. Every Saracen in Tenebrus had perished
before the Franks gave up their bloody work. Back to Roncesvalles went King Charles, where
he buried the dead, all excepting Roland and Oliver, whose bodies he embalmed and carried in
his richest chariots on his return journey.

Bitterly mourned the king in spite of the richness of his revenge. "Oh my Roland," he cried,
"little pleasure have I in the land we have conquered. When I come again to my palace and people
ask tidings, what can I say but that we have conquered cities, provinces and countries and
left Roland dead? Then, when all the nooks and crannies
were empty, he took the sack on his back and walked back to the inn.

The unlocking was the treasurer this time do not worry, so he ran as a Brake pin to tell the king
the disaster. The old King was no less than he heard the incident, sent for her daughter and
cried, "Now look what a disaster your obstinate rebellion has caused. All supply of money is
gone, has the free kapp and made me bald as a church mouse. What a king I am now? A ruler no money
has neither head nor tail to providing our enemies the top. When the soldiers heard, I have nothing
more to them to pay their wages, they diverge. "Since the daughter said: "That can not remain
the case, we have by craft or force them looking to snatch the treasure again. "But before
they had time to list any try was already news that the prince had left the city. "Now must
we use violence, "said the daughter. "Let instantly summon all the host and pursue the mischievous
Free, who was not with his heavy load but fast Next may come. "The order was immediately carried
out. The next day the army was assembled; we broke up, the money continues nachzusetzen leading
man, especially the cavalry, on the Infantry and the last king with his daughter in a carriage.
 Then
with vision clouded by the blood and with fast-failing strength, Tierry aimed a blow with all
his force straight at the head of Pinabel. 

Under the magic of the Dionysian not only includes the covenant between man and man together again:
the alienated, hostile, or subjugated nature again celebrates her Versoehnungsfest with her
lost son, man. Again has the right
triumphed in trial by battle. From the other Goats was
now this, now that, to look after the shepherd, and each had their own Way to show him her
tenderness.

The brown, his own goat, came to him and looked to see if everything
ok with him was. Ropes were tied to the wrists and ankles
of Ganelon and fastened to four prancing horses. Whining and begging for his life, the traitor
lay extended while the horses, proud of their part, stood with noble arching necks ready without
whip or spur to drag the coward traitor limb from limb. Since hurts the election, what is worse
is. But the haughty arrogance of the passes in the war and the envious, envy, because they all
together to have a big job and only one wish, that we win. Can win to us only if we all agree.
