The finest pageant we ever had was arranged by the Festal Series, after the reorganization.
It was historic in design, illustrating the Elizabethan period in England. Dr. Ripley personated
Shakespeare; Miss Ripley, Queen Elizabeth, in a tissue paper ruff, which I helped to make;
Mr. Dana, Sir Walter Raleigh; Mary Bullard, the most beautiful of our young women, Mary Queen
of Scots, and Charles Hosmer, Sir Philip Sidney. The programme sent home to mother, at the
time, gives a list of the characters represented but it need not be further quoted here.

The parade was formed on the Knoll and the line of march was up the road to Pilgrim Hall, over
to the Cottage, around the Eyrie, and down the woodland way to the theater. The whole course
was lined with spectators, coming from Boston and from all the neighboring towns. At the grove
a series of historic tableaux presented the principal personages in significant pictures, and
these were accompanied by Old English ballads and Shakespearian songs. The finale was a stately
minuet, beautifully danced by four couples. They had been drilled for weeks by Miss Russell
and as she was more than satisfied with the performance, it was, no doubt, nearly perfect.
The audience seemed to be of that mind as they refused to disperse until the minuet had been
repeated.

The following season we had a smaller pageant, the costumed personages being the characters
in Shakespeare's comedy "A Midsummer Night's Dream." This was the most important play ever
given in the grove, and as an out-door production, it antedated any similar performance in
America. I have seen "A Midsummer Night's Dream" given in the open several times since, but
the magic of the first impression has never again been felt.

With all our love of recreation, there were no sedentary games in our repertoire. Cards were
unknown. The General was said to like a quiet game of whist in his own room, but if he had
a pack of cards, it was probably the only one on the Farm. There was no prejudice against cards
or chess or any other game so far as I know, but no one cared for any form of amusement that
separated two or four from all the others. I imagine that even courting, the divine solitude
of two, must have been handicapped by this persistent penchant for all being together.

The spell that drew these sympathetic associates like a magnet was in great part that charm
of the general conversation, the memory of which still lingers wherever traditions of Brook
Farm are cherished. The never failing succession of entertainments especially in summer were
enjoyed to the full by the happy Farmers, but it was conversation, the mutual exchange of bright
ideas that afforded their chiefest enjoyment. Not literature, not the drama, not the dance,
but the fascination of human speech in its best employ attracted and held their enthralled
attention. It is impossible to report in writing even the heads of this discourse, pervading
as it did the atmosphere of Brook Farm as currents of electricity pervade the air in breaths.

The bubbles that break on the lips are past mending. The effervescence and sparkle of wine
can only be known as the glass is filled. The fine art of conversation can be perfected only
by choice spirits whose hearts are light, whose sprightly wit, gay good humor and alert intelligence
make their utterances almost intoxicating.

Some attempts have been made to chronicle famous Brook Farm conversations but the best record
could hardly be more than a jest book. The alert sallies and quick retorts, the pat allusions
and apt quotations, the exaggerations, the absurdities, the shrewd witticisms, the searching
satires, the puns and improvised nonsense verses might possibly have been registered on paper,
but the spirit of merriment, of good fellowship and mutual understanding that made thoughts
to live and words to sing--the spirit of Brook Farm--no snap-shot camera could ever have caught.

These talks were not all for fun, either. Happy and blithesome, the Farmers were, at heart,
earnestly devoted to purposes held sacred. They were inspired by high ideals. Noble conceptions
and beautiful beliefs found expression in fitting phrase. Rippling mirth flowed in an undercurrent
of serious, sincere faith and hope and love.

One more matter may be referred to in connection with our recreations, namely, there was no
hunting over our acres. The woods became a refuge for birds and small game. No gun was ever
heard there, and the shyest creatures learned they were safe, among friends who loved them.
Rabbits excepted. Under Mr. Hosmer's direction we boys trapped rabbits industriously, not for
sport but to prevent them overrunning the place. From the traps they were transferred to the
warren and thence either to the kitchen or to market.

Gray squirrels troubled us some by raiding the cornfield next the woods but their depredations
were not very extensive. Ex-president Jefferson had the same trouble at Monticello, the squirrels
destroying the outside rows of his cornfield. His feeble-minded brother conceived the brilliant
idea of checkmating the little robbers by not planting any outside rows. The Farmers improved
on this plan by planting an extra outside row for the gray thieves to feed on.

CHAPTER VII

THE SCHOOL

Education at Brook Farm began in the kindergarten--only we did not know it. The word was not
in the dictionaries of that period, and Froebel was yet to be heard of in Massachusetts; but
the rudiments of the kindergarten system were devised and put in practice by our folk in response
to a new demand. The little ones, too old for the nursery and too young for the school, demanded
some adequate provision for their care while their mothers were at work. In the community the
one person best suited to fill any requirement was directed to the undertaking by natural selection.
This was one of the normal though scarcely recognized results of the organization of industry
Among the many workers there was always one who could do whatever was to be done better than
any of the others, and to this one, young or old, man or woman, full charge of the work was given.

The one person best qualified to take charge of these toddlers was a charming young lady, Miss
Abby Morton, whose sincere interest in children invariably gained their young affections. Miss
Morton gathered her group of older babies on the grass or under the elms whenever weather permitted
and at other times in the parlor of Pilgrim Hall. Her first object was to make them happy and
contented, and to this end she invented and, arranged games and songs and stories, contrived
little incidents and managed little surprises with never failing ingenuity. Learning as well
as teaching, she gradually gave a purposeful bent to her song-and-dance diversions, making
them effective lessons as well as pleasant pastimes. Health and strength for the growing babies
were promoted by proper exercises, a good carriage and graceful movement of little arms and
legs being duly considered. Polite manners, and the correct use of language were taught by
precept and example. More than all, the juvenile minds were, directly and indirectly, drilled
to acquire the habit of paying attention.

The power of paying attention, of concentrating the whole force of the mind on one object,
is a native gift. Those who are endowed with this gift are the men and women destined for high
careers. They command confidence. They are leaders in great undertakings. Success attends them,
humanly speaking, with certainty. There is, also, the faculty of taking notice, of becoming
consciously aware of the impressions received by the senses. This faculty man shares with the
animals below him in the scale of being, and, in both man and brute, it is susceptible to cultivation.
Training the faculty of observation develops the habit of paying attention, and this habit,
though less efficient than the inborn gift, may be so confirmed as to become second nature.

Whatever the community accomplished or failed to accomplish, the Brook Farm School rendered
important service in educational progress by demonstrating the practicability of cultivating
the habit of attention. The teachers in all classes and in all lessons throughout the school
made ceaseless efforts to win and hold attention. This was not incidental or accidental, but
was an integrate part of the educational plan, intelligently designed and deliberately pursued,
with intent to train the pupils in the practice of concentrating their minds on the one thing
before them until it became a fixed habit.

Years after the Brook Farm School had closed its doors, I was called to enter another school--the
awful school of war. The first word I had to learn in that school was the command, "Attention!"

Attention means life or death to the soldier; victory or defeat to the army. In civil life
it aids incalculably in promoting prosperity, the ability to give instant attention to matters
coming up for consideration being one of the first qualifications of the successful business
man. And if he has not such ability originally it may be imparted to him as a habit, by early
training. Miss Morton did not begin too early; and the teachers who followed her did not persist
too earnestly in the endeavor to impress this habit deeply on the minds of their pupils.

When my own children were beginning to be interested in juvenile literature, they found great
pleasure in reading again and again "The William Henry Letters" and other stories by Mrs. Abby
Morton Diaz. On making inquiry I was much gratified to learn that Mrs. Diaz was our Abby Morton
of the Brook Farm Kindergarten. It was no wonder she could write letters and stories appealing
to children. Her understanding and her sympathies brought her in close touch with them. She
knew their minds and their hearts, their likes and their dislikes and what she wrote of them
and for them they accepted, knowing that every word was true to nature. It is observable too,
that in her writings she still holds to the purpose of illustrating to her young readers the
necessity of early acquiring the habit of paying attention.

Brook Farm was practically an industrial school, though not so named. It was the first I ever
heard of where instruction in the useful arts was regularly given as a part of the educational
course. The fine arts were not very extensively taught at the time, and all we had was literature,
drawing, music, and dancing. These four studies were very well supplied with good teachers,
everything the school promised to do being well done, but they were not given nearly so much
time as the industrial arts. Every pupil old enough to work was expected to give two hours
every Monday and Tuesday, and every Thursday and Friday to work under an instructor in the
shops on the farm, in the garden or the household. The pupils could select their own work and
could make a change of occupation with consent of the instructor. No one was obliged to take
the Industrial course, but very few declined, even the aristocratic Spaniards taking hold of
work like good fellows as they were. Idling was not in fashion.

I worked, for a while, four hours every day in the week. Cedar was found competent to act as
first assistant to the president--in the cow-stable. Care of the cow being regarded as a disagreeable
duty, Dr. Ripley took it upon himself, just as Mrs. Ripley took the scrubbing of the kitchen
floor. Mrs. Ripley had other little matters to look after, general oversight of the girls,
teaching Greek, entertaining distinguished guests, writing clever musical plays for the Festal
Series, etc., but she kept the floor clean all the same.

In my honorable office I succeeded Nathaniel Hawthorne. The president and Cedar arose at 5
A. M., fed and milked 18 or 20 cows, and cleared up the stable. We bathed, dressed and breakfasted
at 8 A. M. At 9 A. M. Dr. Ripley was in his office and I in the school room. In the evening
two hours more were given to the cows. I liked the work, liked the cows, and especially liked
to be with Dr. Ripley. His flattering report that Cedar could milk like a streak secured for
me the maximum wage, ten cents an hour, so that, at twelve years of age or thereabouts I was
earning nearly enough to pay the cost of board and lodging.

The milkers were necessarily late at breakfast and supper and these meals we took with the
waiters, the pleasantest company in the dining room. Dr. and Mrs. Ripley were charming table
companions and the bright girls were merry as happy children. Perhaps Cedar did not fill Hawthorne's
place quite so well at table as in the stable, but there were no intimations given to that
effect. Making the most of the present moment was in order. Looking backward was not.

Nathaniel Hawthorne was one of the first members to join the community and was one of the first
to leave it. He thought he could do better than to spend his time and energy in digging over
a manure-pile with a dung fork. Do better he certainly did, for himself and for the world.

I have been asked more than once if the illustrious, poetic and romantic Hawthorne did actually
feed the pigs at Brook Farm. My answer is that I do not know as I was not there during his
residency, but I think he did not, my reason for thinking he did not being that there were
no pigs to feed. The suggestion may have arisen from a passage in his Notes when he speaks
of going out with Rev. John Allen to buy a litter of pigs. Minot Pratt, our head farmer, had
some sort of interest in a place across the brook, and there may have been a pig-pen there,
but if there was one on our place it was unknown to sharp-eyed youngsters who knew every rabbit-run
in the woods, and every swallow's hole in the sand banks. Many of the farmers were vegetarians
and most of them had a Hebraic aversion to pork. That viand was never seen on the table except
with the baked beans always served on Sunday; Mother Rykeman managing to keep on hand a supply
of middlings for the bean-pot.

Hawthorne cherished kindly memories of Brook Farm and these memories embodied in the Blithedale
Romance show his warm and appreciative interest in the life of the community. I fail to find
anything like the portrait-painting which others have discovered in the delineations of Blithedale
characters. There are personal traits alluded to suggestive of Dr. Ripley, of Georgiana Bruce,
of Orestes Brownson and others, but these hints are not definite enough to identify them with
the personages of the book. As to the assumption that Margaret Fuller served as a model for
Zenobia, that seems to me so far fetched as to be near absurdity.

Hawthorne visited Brook Farm occasionally, and I remember seeing him, a large, handsome man,
walking up and down the Knoll or seated under the big elm, alone. He had not then attained
fame and did not attract attention as a celebrity.

My industrial education was not confined to the cow-stable. At different times I worked in
the green-house with John Codman, in the fields and meadows with everybody, and in the orchard
and tree-nursery with Mr. Dana. On one occasion teacher and pupil were sitting on the ground,
budding peach-seedlings, when a stranger approached and demanded a hearing. Gerrish had brought
him out and had directed him to Vice President Dana as the authority he should consult. "Free
speech, here," said the vice-president, without looking up from his work.

