Charming reasoning!--And let him tell me, that the assurance I had given him was all he wished
for. It was more than he could ask. What a happiness to have a woman of honour and generosity
to depend upon! Had he, on his first entrance into the world, met with such a one, he had never
been other than a man of strict virtue.--But all, he hoped, was for the best; since, in that
case, he had never perhaps had the happiness he now had in view; because his relations had
always been urging him to marry; and that before he had the honour to know me. And now, as
he had not been so bad as some people's malice reported him to be, he hoped he should have
near as much merit in his repentance, as if he had never erred.--A fine rakish notion and hope!
And too much encouraged, I doubt, my dear, by the generality of our sex!

This brought on a more serious question or two. You'll see by it what a creature an unmortified
libertine is.

I asked him, if he knew what he had said, alluded to a sentence in the best of books, That
there as more joy in heaven--

He took the words out of my mouth,

Over one sinner that repenteth, than over ninety-and-nine just persons, which need no repentance,*
were his words.

     * Luke xv. 7.  The parable is concerning the Ninety-nine Sheep, not the
Prodigal Son, as Mr. Lovelace erroneously imagines.

Yes, Madam, I thought of it, as soon as I said it, but not before. I have read the story of
the Prodigal Son, I'll assure you; and one day, when I am settled as I hope to be, will write
a dramatic piece on the subject. On the Staatshof

Theodor Storm

I can only say single, only what happened, not how it happened, I
do not know how it came to an end, and whether it was a fact or just
an event, which brought about the end was.

But as the memory drops hergibt me, I will tell it.

The small town where my parents lived, was on the border of the marsh, down to the sea several miles
expands its grassy level. leads from the Nordertor the landscape a mile route to a church
village, with its trees and Strohdaechern largely on the immense Wiesenflaeche visible. Side
of the road across the whitewashed Pastorate goes across the country a foot trail over the
fens, as Here, the individual, almost exclusively used for grazing land area used to be called,
by a Heck to the other, but over a narrow bridge the gaps through
which the fens of each other divorced.

Here I went in my youth often, and I with another. I can still see the grass in the Sunshine sparkle
around us and far away the scattered farmsteads with its white buildings in the clear summer air.
The heavy cattle, which were ruminating beside the foot platforms,
stood up when we voruebergingen, and gave us an escort to the next
hedge, and sometimes drinking in the pits got an ox his broad forehead
and yelled far out into the countryside.

At the end of the path that takes almost half an hour, under a gloomy grove of set and silver
poplars, as it has no other property of this region exhibit was the "Staatshof. The house was
built on a moderately high hill, after the manner of the country, a so-called Heuberg, in which the
housing and Wirtschaftsraeume are united under the same roof, but
the graft, which drew around him, was particularly wide and deep,
and the large garden, within the buildings that surrounded them, in
earlier times was created with patrician luxury.

The homestead was once among many others in possession of the now entirely extinct family van Roden,
from during the last two centuries, a series of penny masters Ratmaennern and the landscape and my
native city mayors have emerged .-- Ninety Courtyards, it was said, had they been measured and
in the arrogance that make hundreds of full. But the times were turned and it was wrong came
in between Well, people said; the good God had laid in the middle, and a yard to the other was
in foreign hands about gone. At the time when my memory begins, only the Staatshof was still
owned the family, but no one of these self uebriggeblieben as the
aging owner and an almost four year child, the daughter of a former
deceased son.
He put up his lip--I am sorry for it, Madam--a man of breeding, a man of politeness, give me
leave to say, [colouring,] is much more of a black swan with you, than with any lady I ever
met with.

Then that is your misfortune, Mr. Lovelace, as well as mine, at present. Every woman of discernment,
I say as I say, [I had a mind to mortify a pride, that I am sure deserves to be mortified;]
that your politeness is not regular, nor constant. It is not habit. It is too much seen by
fits and starts, and sallies, and those not spontaneous. You must be reminded into them.

O Lord! O Lord!--Poor I!--was the light, yet the half-angry wretch's self-pitying expression!

I proceeded.--Upon my word, Sir, you are not the accomplished man, which your talents and opportunities
would have led one to expect you to be. You are indeed in your noviciate, as to every laudable
attainment.

LETTER XXXII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE [IN CONTINUATION.]

As this subject was introduced by himself, and treated so lightly by him, I was going on to
tell him more of my mind; but he interrupted me--Dear, dear Madam, spare me. I am sorry that
I have lived to this hour for nothing at all. But surely you could not have quitted a subject
so much more agreeable, and so much more suitable, I will say, to your present situation, if
you had not too cruel a pleasure in mortifying a man, who the less needed to be mortified,
as he before looked up to you with a diffidence in his own merits too great to permit him to
speak half of his mind to you. Be pleased but to return to the subject we were upon; and at
another time I will gladly embrace correction from the only lips in the world so qualified
to give it.

You talk of reformation sometimes, Mr. Lovelace, and in so talking, acknowledge errors. But
I see you can very ill bear the reproof, for which perhaps you are not solicitous to avoid
giving occasion. Far be it from me to take delight in finding fault; I should be glad for both
our sakes, since my situation is what it is, that I could do nothing but praise you. But failures
which affect a mind that need not be very delicate to be affected by them, are too grating
to be passed over in silence by a person who wises to be though in earnest in her own duties.

I admire your delicacy, Madam, again interrupted he. Although I suffer by it, yet would I not
have it otherwise: indeed I would not, when I consider of it. It is an angelic delicacy, which
sets you above all our sex, and even above your own. It is natural to you, Madam; so you may
think it extraordinary: but there is nothing like it on earth, said the flatterer--What company
has he kept!

But let us return to the former subject--You were so good as to ask me what I would advise
you to do: I want but to make you easy; I want but to see you fixed to your liking: your faithful
Hannah with you; your reconciliation with those to whom you wish to be reconciled, set on foot,
and in a train. And now let me mention to you different expedients; in hopes that some one
of them may be acceptable to you.

