Nothing is more extraordinary than the navigation of Magellan upon this ocean, which he called
Pacific, because for four months no storm assailed him upon it. The privations endured by the
crews during this long space of time were excessive. The biscuit was nothing more than dust
mixed with worms, while the water had become bad and gave out an unbearable smell. The sailors
were obliged to eat mice and sawdust to prevent themselves from dying of hunger, and to gnaw
all the leather that it was possible to find. As it was easy to foresee under these circumstances,
the crews were decimated by scurvy. Nineteen men died, and thirty were seized with violent
pains in their arms and legs, which caused prolonged sufferings. At last, after having sailed
over more than 12,000 miles without meeting with a single island, in a sea where so many and
such populous archipelagos were destined to be discovered, the fleet came upon two desert and
sterile islands, called for that reason the Unfortunate Islands, but of which the position
is indicated in much too contradictory a manner, for it to be possible to recognize them.

In 12 degrees north latitude and 146 degrees longitude, on Wednesday the 6th of March, the
navigators discovered successively three islands, at which they greatly desired to stop to
recruit, and take in fresh provisions; but the islanders who came on board stole so many things,
without the possibility of preventing them, that the sailors were obliged to give up the idea
of remaining there. The natives contrived even to carry off a long boat. Magellan, indignant
at such daring, made a descent with forty armed men, burned some houses and boats, and killed
seven men. These islanders had neither chief, king, nor religion. Their heads were covered
with palm-leaf hats, they wore beards, and their hair descended to their waists. Generally
of an olive tint, they thought they embellished themselves by colouring their teeth black and
red, while their bodies were anointed with cocoa-nut oil, no doubt in order to protect themselves
from the heat of the sun. Their canoes of curious construction, carried a very large matting
sail, which might have easily capsized the boat if the precaution had not been taken of giving
a more stable trim by means of a long piece of wood kept at a certain distance by two poles;
this is what is called the "balance." These islanders were very industrious, but had a singular
aptitude for stealing, which has gained for their country the name of the Islands of Thieves
(Ladrone Islands).

On the 16th of March was seen, at about 900 miles from the Ladrones, some high ground; this
was soon discovered to be an island which now goes by the name of Samar Island. There Magellan,
resolving to give his exhausted crews some rest, caused two tents to be pitched on land for
the use of the sick. The natives quickly brought bananas, palm wine, cocoa-nuts, and fish;
for which mirrors, combs, bells, and other similar trifles were offered in exchange. The cocoa-nut,
a tree which is valuable beyond all others, supplied these natives with their bread, wine,
oil, and vinegar, and besides they obtained from it their clothing and the necessary wood for
building and roofing in their huts.

The natives soon became familiar with the Spaniards, and told them that their archipelago produced
cloves, cinnamon, pepper, nutmegs, ginger, maize or Indian-corn, and that even gold was found
there. The most important are Luzon, Mindoro, Leyte, the Ceylon of Pigafetta, Samar, Panay,
Negros, Zebu, Bohol, Palawan, and Mindanao.

