Colonel Anderson, now a prosperous planter, has his own happy home life, and his aged father
shares the best there is in it. He still preaches in the quaint old church, repaired but not
modernized, and his appearance and life give eloquence to his faltering words. The event of
the quiet year is the annual visit of Rita and Captain Windom with their little brood. Then
truly the homes abound in breezy life; but sturdy, blue-eyed Warren Graham is the natural leader
of all the little people's sport. The gallant black horse Mayburn is still Iss's pride, but
he lets no one mount him except his master. Aunt Sheba presides at the preparation of state
dinners, and sits by the cradle of baby Grace. She is left, however, most of the time, to her
own devices, and often finds her way also to the cemetery to "wisit dat dear little lamb, Hilda,"
murmuring as she creeps slowly with her cane, "We'se all a-followin' her now, bress de Lord."

Jinny's stories of what she saw and of her experiences abroad have become so marvellous that
they might be true of some other planet, but not of ours. Dusky faces gather round her by the
kitchen fire, and absolute faith is expressed by their awed looks. Old Jehu has all the chickens
and "sass" he wants without working for them, and his son Huey has settled down into a steady
"hand," who satisfies his former ruling passion with an occasional coon-hunt. Both of the colonels
have the tastes of sportsmen, and do all in their power to preserve the game in their vicinity.
They have become closer friends with the lapsing years, and from crossing swords they look
forward to the time when they can cross their family escutcheons by the marriage of the sturdy
Warren with another little Rita, who now romps with him in a child's happy unconsciousness.

There are flecks of gray in Graham's hair and beard, and deep lines on his resolute face, but
he maintains his erect, soldierly bearing even when superintending the homely details of the
plantation. Every one respects him; the majority are a little afraid of him, for where his
will has sway there is law and order, but to the poor and sorrowful he gives increasing reason
to bless his name. His wife's faith has become his. She has proved it true by the sweet logic
of her life. In their belief, the baby Hilda is only at home before them, and the soldier without
fear and without reproach has found the immortality that he longed for in his dying moments.
He is no longer a cherished, honored memory only; he is the man they loved, grown more manly,
more noble in the perfect conditions of a higher plane of life. The dark mysteries of evil
are still dark to them--problems that cannot be solved by human reason. But in the Divine Man,
toward whose compassionate face the sorrowful and sinful of all the centuries have turned,
they have found One who has mastered the evil that threatened their lives. They are content
to leave the mystery of evil to Him who has become in their deepest consciousness Friend and
Guide. He stands between them and the shadows of the past and the future.

THE END