People were trooping out from the shelter of the clubhouse. With half an eye, Higham observed
these; chuckling at thought of the everincreasing number of spectators to his rare comedy.
Of a sudden, the chuckle changed to a gasp.

Out through the doorway, and onto the veranda, strolled Colonel Osbourne, owner of the Lochaber
Collie Kennels. With him walked the Mistress and the Master.

At the Mistress's side paced Lad.

"It was so careless of us to leave the suitcase at home!" the Mistress was saying. "I don't
know how we could have groomed him, Colonel, if you hadn't come to our rescue by turning that
kit bag's heaven-sent contents over to us. Besides, it gave us the excuse to bring Laddie up
into the house; instead of leaving him all alone in that black stall. He hates thunderstorms,
and--"

A yell, from somewhere, interrupted her. The yell was caught up. It merged into a multiple
roar of inextinguishable laughter. The Mistress saw a hundred faces all turned in one direction,
The faces were convulsed with mirth. A hundred derisively wondering fingers were pointing.
She ran to the veranda rail and looked down.

Across the patch of greensward, from the stables, a man and a dog were advancing. The man was
shaking his fist at the world at large and fairly dancing with rage.

But it was the dog, and not he, that caused the Homeric gusts of merriment and the gobbling
chorus of amazed questions. The dog was a collie; noble of aspect, massive of coat.

But that same coat vied with the setting sun in garish brilliancy of hue. Never since the birth
of time, had such a beast been seen by mortals. From the tip of his aristocratic nose to the
plume of his sweeping tail, the collie was one blazingly vivid mass of crimson! He fairly irradiated
flaring red lights. His coat was wet and it hung stickily to his lean sides, as if he had just
come from a swim. And it was tinted like a chromo of a prairie fire.

Following more slowly to the veranda's edge, Colonel Osbourne had begun a reply to the Mistress's
half-finished speech of gratitude for his hospitality.

"I was only too glad to be of service," said he. "That's a grand dog you have. It was a real
pleasure to help in his grooming. Besides, I profited by it. You see, my Lochaber King was
quartered in a muddy corner under the veranda. So I took the liberty of telling my man, Rice,
to put him in that comfortable big stall of Lad's. I am the chief gainer by the--"

His courtly speech became a gurgle of horror. For, his eyes fell on the ragingly advancing
Rice. And, by deduction, he recognized the crimson monstrosity at Rice's heels as his beloved
Lochaber King.

Before the apoplectic Colonel could speak, Lad created a diversion on his own account. He had
been sniffing the air, reminiscently, for a few seconds. Now, his eyes verified what his nostrils
had told him. A pallidly glaring and shaking man, leaning against the veranda rail for support,
had an oddly familiar scent and appearance to Laddie.

The collie stepped forward to investigate. The nerve-smashed Higham saw him coming; and thrust
out one gloved hand in frightened rebuff.

The flicking gesture was unpleasantly like a blow. As the menacing hand slapped toward his
jaws, Lad caught at it, in wary self-defense.

He recalled this man, now. He remembered he had been bidden to "watch" him. He did not spring
at his assailant. But a warning snap answered the frenzied thrust of the hand. His teeth closed
lightly on the glove-fingers, just as Higham, in fear, jerked back his arm.

The loose glove came away in the dog's mouth.

Colonel Osbourne, wheeling about to demand some explanation of his kennel-manager, beheld a
bare hand as vividly crimson as Lochaber King's ruined coat.

"Laddie," observed the Mistress, that evening, as she placed on the top trophy-shelf an embossed
silver cup, antique, and nine inches high, and stood back pride fully, to note the effect.
"Laddie, I know--I just KNOW,--you'd have won it, even if poor Lochaber King had competed.
But,--oh, I wish I could make head or tail of any of the things that have happened, today!
How do you suppose it all started, anyhow, dear?" she asked, turning to her husband for help
in the riddle.

"I'd be willing to bet a year's pay it 'all started' about six feet from shore in this lake,"
responded the Master, "and about a fortnight ago."

But he spoke it in the depths of his own guiltily exultant heart. Outwardly, he merely grinned;
and said with vacuous conviction:

"Laddie, you're a grand dog. And,--if you didn't win that cup from Lochaber King in one way,
you certainly won it in another!"

CHAPTER IV. Hero-Stuff

Life was monstrous pleasant, for Lad, at the Place. And never, except in early puppyhood, was
he lonely. Never until the Master was so foolish as to decide in his own shallow human mind
that the big collie would be happier with another collie for comrade and mate.

After that, loneliness more than once crept into Laddie's serene life; and into the dark sorrowful
eyes behind which lurked a soul. For, until one has known and relied on the companionship of
one's kind, there can be no loneliness.

The Master made another blunder--this one on his own account and on the Mistress's,--when he
bought a second collie, to share Lad's realm of forest and lawn and lake. For, it is always
a mistake to own two dogs at a time. A single dog is one's chum and guard and worshiper. If
he be rightly treated and talked to and taught, he becomes all-but human. Because he is forced
to rely solely on humans, for everything. And his mind and heart respond to this. There is
no divided allegiance.

One dog in a home is worth ten times as much to his owners, in every way, as are two or more
dogs. Especially if the one dog be such a collie as Sunnybank Lad. This the Master was due
to discover.

On a sloppy and drippy and muggy afternoon, late in October,--one of those days nobody wants,--the
Master came home from town; his fall overcoat showing a decided list to starboard in the shape
of an egregiously bulged side-pocket.

The Mistress and Lad, as ever, came forth to greet the returning man. Lad, with the gayly trumpeting
bark which always he reserved for the Mistress or the Master after an absence of any length,
cavorted rapturously up to his deity. But, midway in his welcoming advance, he checked himself;
sniffing the sodden October air, and seeking to locate a new and highly interesting scent which
had just assailed his sensitive nostrils.

The Master put an end to the mystery, forthwith, by reaching deep into his overcoat's swollen
pocket and fishing out a grayish golden ball of squirming fluff.

This handful of liveliness he set gingerly on the veranda floor; where it revealed itself as
an eight-weeks old collie pup.

"Her name is 'Lady,'" expounded the Master, as he and the Mistress gazed interestedly down
upon the sprawling and wiggling puppy. "Her pedigree reads like a page in Burke's Peerage. She--"

He paused. For Lad had moved forward to where the infant collie was trying valiantly to walk
on the slippery boards. The big dog regarded the puppy; his head on one side, his tulip ears
cocked; his deep-set eyes friendily curious. This was Lad's first experience with one of the
young of his species. And he was a bit puzzled; albeit vastly interested.

Experimentally, he laid one of his tiny white forepaws lightly on the mite's fuzzy shoulder.
Instantly, the puppy growled a falsetto warning to him to keep his distance. Lad's plumed tail
began to wag at this sign of spirit in the pigmy. And, with his curved pink ribbon of tongue,
he essayed to lick the shivering Lady. A second growl rewarded this attention. And Lady sought
to avoid further contact with the shaggy giant, by scrambling at top speed to the edge of the
veranda.

She miscalculated the distance or else her nearsighted baby eyes failed to take account of
the four-foot drop to the gravel drive below. Too late, she tried to check her awkward rush.
And, for a moment, her fat little body swayed perilously on the brink.

The Mistress and the Master were too far away to catch her in time to prevent a fall which
might well have entailed a broken rib or a wrenched shoulder. But Lad was nearer. Also, he
moved faster.

With the speed of lightning, he made a dive for the tumbling Lady. As tenderly as if he were
picking up a ball of needles, he caught her by the scruff of the neck, lifting her in the air
and depositing her at the Mistress's feet.

The puppy repaid this life-saving exploit by growling still more wrathfully and by snapping
in helpless menace at the big dog's nose. But Lad was in no wise offended. Deaf to the praise
of the Mistress,--a praise which ordinarily threw him into transports of embarrassed delight,--he
stood over the rescued pup; every inch of his magnificent body vibrant with homage and protectiveness.

From that hour, Lad was the adoring slave of Lady.

He watched over her, in her increasingly active rambles about the Place. Always, on the advent
of doubtful strangers, he interposed his own furry bulk between her and possible kidnaping.
He stood beside her as she lapped her bread-and-milk or as she chewed laboriously at her fragment
of dog-biscuit.

At such times, he proved himself the mortal foe of Peter Grimm, the Mistress's temperamental
gray kitten, with whom he was ordinarily on very comfortable terms. Peter Grimm was the one
creature on the Place whom Lady feared. On the day after her arrival, she essayed to worry
the haughty catkin. And, a second later, the puppy was nursing a brace of deep red scratches
at the tip of her inquiring black nostrils.

Thereafter, she gave Peter Grimm a wide berth. And the cat was wont to take advantage of this
dread by making forays on Lady's supper dish. But, ever, Lad would swoop down upon the marauder,
as Lady cowered whimperingly back on her haunches; and would harry the indignant cat up the
nearest tree; herding her there until Lady had licked the dish clean.

Lad went further, in his fealty to the puppy. Sacrificing his own regal dignity, he would romp
with her, at times when it would have been far more comfortable to drowse. He bore, without
murmur, her growling assaults on his food; amusedly standing aside while she annexed his supper's
choicest bits.

He endured, too, her occasional flurries of hot temper; and made no protest when Lady chose
to wreak some grievance against life by flying at him with bristling ruff and jaws asnarl.
Her keen little milk teeth hurt like the mischief, when they dug into his ears or his paws,
in one of these rage-gusts. But he did not resent the pain or the indignity by so much as drawing
back out of harm's way. And, afterward, when quick repentance replaced anger and she strove
to make friends with him again, Lad was inordinately happy.

To both the Mistress and the Master, from the very outset, it was plain that Lady was not in
any way such a dog as their beloved Lad. She was as temperamental as Peter Grimm himself. She
had hair-trigger nerves, a swirlingly uncertain temper that was scarce atoned for by her charm
and lovableness; and she lacked Lad's stanchness and elusive semi-human quality. The two were
as different in nature as it is possible for a couple of well-brought-up thoroughbred collies
to be. And the humans' hearts did not go out to Lady as to Lad. Still, she was an ideal pet,
in many ways. And, Lad's utter devotion to her was a full set of credentials, by itself.

Autumn froze into winter. The trees turned into naked black ghosts; or, rather, into many-stringed
harps whereon the northwest gales alternately shrieked and roared. The fire-blue lake was a
sheet of leaden ice, twenty inches thick. The fields showed sere and grayly lifeless in the
patches between sodden snow-swathes. Nature had flown south, with the birds; leaving the northern
world a lifeless and empty husk, as deserted as last summer's robin-nests.

Lady, in these drear months of a dead world, changed as rapidly as had the smiling Place. From
a shapeless gray-gold fuzzy baby, she grew lank and leggy. The indeterminate fuzz was buried
under a shimmering gold-and-white coat of much beauty. The muskrat face lengthened and grew
delicately graceful, with its long muzzle and exquisite profile.

Lady was emerging from clownish puppyhood into the charm of youth. By the time the first anemones
carried God's message of spring through the forests' lingering snow-pall, she had lost her
adolescent gawkiness and was a slenderly beautiful young collie; small and light of bone, as
she remained to the day of her death, but with a slimness which carried with it a hint of lithe
power and speed and endurance.

It was in the early spring that the Master promoted Lady from her winter sleeping-quarters
in the tool-house; and began to let her spend more and more time indoors.

Lady had all the promise of becoming a perfect housedog. Fastidious, quick to learn, she adapted
herself almost at once to indoor life. And Lad was overjoyed at her admission to the domain
where until now he had ruled alone. Personally, and with the gravity of an old-world host,
he conducted her from room to room. He even offered her a snoozing-place in his cherished "cave,"
under the piano, in the music room the spot of all others dearest to him.

But it was dim and cheerless, under the piano; or so Lady seemed to think. And she would not
go there for an instant. She preferred the disreputable grizzly-bear rug in front of the living
room hearth. And, temporarily deserting his loved cave, Lad used to lie on this rug at her
side; well content when she edged him off its downy center and onto the bumpy edges.

All winter, Lady's sleeping quarters had been the tool-house in the back garden, behind the
stables. Here, on a sweet-smelling (and flea-averting) bed of cedar shavings, she had been
comfortable and wholly satisfied. But, at once, on her promotion, she appeared to look upon
the once-homelike tool-house as a newly rich daylaborer might regard the tumbledown shack where
he had spent the days of his poverty.

She avoided the tool-house; and even made wide detours to avoid passing close to it. There
is no more thoroughgoing snob, in certain ways, than a high-bred dog. And, to Lady, the tool-house
evidently represented a humiliating phase of her outlived past.

Yet, she was foredoomed to go back to the loathed abode. And her return befell in this way:

In the Master's study was something which Lady considered the most enthrallingly wonderful
object on earth. This was a stuffed American eagle; mounted, rampant and with outflung wings,
on a papier-mache stump.

Why the eagle should have fascinated Lady more than did the leopard-or-bear rugs or other chase-trophies,
in the various downstairs rooms, only Lady herself could have told. But she could not keep
her eyes off of it. Tiptoeing to the study door, she used to stand for half an hour at a time
staring at the giant bird.

Once, in a moment of audacity, she made a playful little rush at it. Before the Master could
intervene, Lad had dashed between her and the sacred trophy; and had shouldered her gently
but with much firmness out of the room; disregarding her little swirl of temper at the interference.

The Master called her back into the study. Taking her up to the eagle, he pointed at it, and
said, with slow emphasis:

"Lady! Let it ALONE! Let--it--ALONE!"

