"I heard my stepmother--I call her my mother--say some thing once. She belonged to a white
family named Bell. They had a lot of slaves. My stepmother was the house girl; so she could
get on to a lot of things the others couldn't. She stayed in the house. That was in slavery
times. The speculators who were buying colored folks would put up at that place. Looked like
a town but it all belonged to one person. The name of the place was Cloverdale, Tennessee.
My stepmother said that a gang of these folks put up at Cloverdale once and then went on to
Nashville, Tennessee. On the next day a nigger sold the speculator. He was educated and a mulatto,
and he sold his master in with a bunch of other niggers. He was just fixin' to take the money,
when his master got aware of it, and come on up just in time. I don't know what happened to
the nigger. It was just an accident he got caught. My stepmother said it was true.

Good Masters

"My mother had a good master. At least, she said he was good. Slaves from other plantations
would run away and come to her master's place to stay. They would stay a good while.

"My father said his master was good to him too. My father's young master has come to see us
since the War. He got down low and used to come 'round. My father would give him turns of corn.
You know when you used to go to the mill, you would carry about two bushels of corn and call
it a milling or a turn. My father would let his young master shell a bushel or two of corn
and carry it to the mill. He got poor and sure 'nough you see. We had moved away from them
then, and he got in real hard luck. He used to come and sit a half day at a time at our house.
And father would give him the corn for his family. We were living in Dickson County, Tennessee
then. Seems like we was on Frank Hudson's place. We hadn't bought a place for ourselves then.

Ku Klux Klan

"You know they used to ku klux the niggers. They went to the house after the War of an old
man named Hall. They demanded for him to let them in but he wouldn't. They said that they would
break open the door if he didn't let them in. He didn't let them in, and they broke it down.
When they started in, his wife threw fire brands in amongst 'em and he knicked one down with
an ax. Them that wasn't hurt carried the wounded man away and it was reported the next day
that he was sick. They never did bother the nigger no more and he never had no charges made
against him.

Runaway Negroes--After Freedom

"It was over forty years ago. Me and my wife lived at a big sawmill near Elliott, Arkansas,
just ten miles outside of Camden. White folks used to come up there and catch niggers and carry
them back to Louisiana with them, claiming that they owed debts. One time two white men came
to Elliott looking for a nigger. They came through the Negro quarters and all the men were
off that day because it was a holiday. The nigger saw them first and ran to the woods. They
ran after him and caught him. They came back through the quarters and tied him to one of the
horses and then went on to Louisiana--them ridin' and him walkin' tied up with his arms behind
him and roped to the horse like he was some kind of cattle or something. The niggers followed
them with guns a little distance, but one nigger telephoned to El Dorado and the officers there
were on the lookout for them. At night, the officers in plain clothes went over and chatted
with them white men. When they saw the nigger, they asked what it was they had there. They
told the one that asked that it was a damn nigger that owed money back in Louisiana and got
smart and run away without paying up. The officers drew their guns and put handcuffs on them
and carried them and the nigger away to Jail.

"They put everybody in jail that night. But the next morning they brought them to trial and
fined the white men a hundred and fifty dollars apiece and after the trial they turned the
nigger loose. That broke up the stealing of niggers. Before that they would come and take a
Negro whenever they wanted to.

"Niggers were just beginning to wake up then, and know how to slip away and run off. We had
whole families there that had run off one by one. The man would run away and leave his children,
and as they got old enough, they would follow him one by one.

Right After the War

"Right after the War, my people farmed on shares. We had a place we leased on the Hudson place
that we stayed on. We leased it for five years but we stayed there seven or maybe eleven years.
When we left there we bought a place of our own. On the Hudson place we cleared up about thirty
acres of land and 'tended it as long as we stayed there. We put out a lot of fruit trees on
it. Had lots of peaches, and plums, and quinces--do you know what quinces are?--and danvils
(these danvil plums you know). They are kinda purple looking fruit made in the shape of a prune.
They are about two inches through--jus' about half as big as your fist.

"When we moved to our own place, we stayed in the same county. It was just about three-fourths
of a mile from the Hudson place--west of it.

Moving to Arkansas

"I came to Arkansas with the intention of going to school. But I jus' messed myself up. Instead
of goin' to school, I went and got married. I was out here just one year before I got married.
I married the first time in 1887--February fourteenth, I think. My first wife taken sick with
rheumatism and she died in 1908. We were married thirty-one years. I married again about 1913.

Vocational Experiences

"When I was able to work, I worked in the railroad shops--boiler maker's helper. Before that
I farmed and did other things. Went from trackman to machinist's helper and boilermaker's helper.

Opinions

"Young folks Just need the right handlin'.

"I don't mix in politics."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mary Tabon, Forrest City, Arkansas Age: 67

"Pa was sold twice to my knowing. He was sold to McCoy, then to Alexander. He was Virginian.
Then he was carried to Alabama and brought to Holly Grove by the Mayos. I have wore four names,
Alexander, Adams, Morgan, and Tabon.

"My mother's owners was Ellis from Alabama. She said she was sold from the Scales to Ellis.
Her father, sister, and two brothers was sold from Ellis. She never seen them no more. They
found Uncle Charles Ellis dead in the field. They never knowed how it come.

"My parents had hard times during slavery. Ma had a big scar on her shoulder where the overseer
struck her with a whoop. She was chopping cotton. She either wasn't doing to suit him or wasn't
getting along fast enough to suit him.

"Ma had so many little ones to raise she give me to Nancy Bennett. I love her soul in her grave.
I helped her to do all her work she taught me. She'd leave me with her little boy and go to
church and I'd make cakes and corn bread. She brag on me. We'd have biscuits on Sunday morning.
They was a rarity.

"One day she had company. She told me to bake some potatoes with the jackets on. I washed the
potatoes and wrapped them up in rags and boiled them. It made her so mad she wet the towel
and whooped me with it. I unwrapped the potatoes and we had them that way for dinner. That
was the maddest she ever got at me. She learned me to cook and keep a nice house and to sew
good as anybody. I rather know how to work than be educated.

"Mr. Ash give me a lot of scraps from his garment factory. I made them up in quilts. He give
me enough to make three dresses. I needed dresses so bad." (One dress has sixty-six pieces
in it but it didn't look like that. They sent it to Little Tock and St. Louis for the county
fairs. Her dresses looked fairly well.)

"I was born at Holly Grove, Arkansas. Alexander was the name my pa went by and that was my
maiden name."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Liza Moore Tanner, Helena, Arkansas Age: 79

"I was born in north Georgia. It was not fer from Rome. We belong to Master Belton Moore and
Miss Jane Moore. They had a big family, some grandchildren old as their own. That was my job
playing wid the children. My parents' name Rob Moore and Pilfy Calley. She lived five miles
from Belton Moore's house. She was hired out over at Moore's the way she and papa met up. I
know now I was hired out too. I run after them children a long time it seemed like to me. I
loved them and they cried after me. I get so tired I'd slip off and go up in the loft and soon
be asleep. I learned to climb a ladder that very way. It was nailed up straight against the
side of the wall. They'd ask me where I been. They never did whoop me fer that. I tell 'em
I been asleep. I drapped off 'sleep. I was so tired. Papa helped with the young calves and
the feeding and in the field too. Mama was a fast hand in the field. They called her a little
guinea woman. She could outdo me when I was grown and she was getting old. She washed fer the
Calley's. All I remember they was a old man and woman. Mama lived in the office at their house.
He let her ride a horse to Moore's to work. I rode home wid her many a time. She rode a side
saddle. I rode sideways too. She used a battling stick long as she lived when she washed.

"Papa died two years after the surrender in Atlanta, Georgia. The Moore's moved there and he
went along. He left mama at Master Calley's and I was still kept at the old home place. Aunt
Jilly kept me and my two oldest sisters. Her name was Jilly Calley. I seen mama right often.
They fetched papa back to see us a few times and then he died. We all went to Atlanta where
he was buried. Mama lived to be purty nigh a hundred years old. She had fourteen children.
I had two sisters and eight half-brothers and three half-sisters. Some died so young they never
was named. My stepfather was mean to her and beat her, caused some of their deaths. She was
a midwife in her later years. She made us a living till I married. She was gone with Dr. Harrison
a lot. He'd come take her off and bring her home in the buggy. I married and immigrated to
Dell, Arkansas. We lived there a year and went to Memphis. Mama come there and died at my house.
She got blind. Had to lead her about. My steppapa went off and never come back. He got drunk
whenever he could get to it. We hunted him and asked about him. I think he went off with other
women. We heard he did.

"Freedom--I heard Miss Jane say when she was packing up to go to Atlanta, 'I will get a nurse
there. They will make her go to school.' I thought she was talking about me. I wanted to go.
I loved the children. I got to go to school in the country a right smart. I can read and write.
Me and my two sisters all was in the same class. It seemed strange then. We had a colored man
teacher, Mr. Jacobin. It was easier for me to learn than my sisters. They are both dead now.

"I got three living children--one here and two in Memphis. After I got my hip broke I live
about with them so they can wait on me.

"I don't know about this new way of living. My daughter in Memphis raising her little girl
by a book. She don't learn her as much manners as children used to know. She got it from the
white lady she works for. It tells how to do your child. Times done changed too much to suit
my way of knowing. 'The Old Time Religion' is the only good pattern fer raising a family. Mighty
little of that now."

Interviewer: Pernella M. Anderson Person interviewed: Fannie Tatum, Junction City, Arkansas
Age: Born 1862

"I was born on Wilmington landing in 1862 on the Ouachita River and was carried away when I
was two years old. My mother ran away and left my sister and me when we was three and five
years old. I never saw her any more till I was eight and after I was eight years old I never
saw her again in forty years. After my mama left me old Master Neal come here to El Dorado
and had me bound to him until I was twenty-one. I stayed there till I was twenty-one. I slept
by the jamb of the fireplace on a sack of straw and covered with saddle blankets. That was
in the winter when snow was waist high. In summer I slept on naked floor and anywhere I laid
down was my bed just like a dog.

"I wasn't allowed to eat at the table. I et on the edge of the porch with the dogs with my
fingers. I worked around the house and washed until I was nine and then I started to plowing.
At ten I started splitting rails. My task was two hundred rails a day. If I didn't cut them
I got a beating. I did not know what a coat was. I wore two pieces, a lowel[HW:?] underskirt
and a lowel[HW:?] dress, bachelor brogans and sacks and rags wrapped around my legs for stockings.
That was in winter. Summer I went barefooted and wore one piece. My sun hat was a rag tied
on my head.

"I did not know anything about Sunday School nor church. The children would try to teach me
my ABC's but master would not let them. Never visited any colored people. If I see a colored
person coming I run from them. They said they might steal me. After I got grown they let me
go to a colored party and they whipped me for going. Tried to make me tell whether or not a
boy come home with me but I did not tell it; one come with me though. That was the first time
I got out. Of course they sent one of the boys along with me but he would not tell on me.

"I never slept in a bed until I was twenty-two years old. Never was with any colored people
until I was grown. My play was with white children. My father was a white man. He was my ma's
old master and they was Neals. They kept my hair cut off like a boy's all the time. I never
wore a stocking until I was twenty-two and my hair did not grow out and get combed until I
was twenty-two. My old master and mistress would have been mean to me but I was so smart they
did not get a chance. The only thing I was treated like a dog.

"I live in Junction City but am here visiting my daughter."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Anthony Taylor
                    2424 W. Ninth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 68, or 78?

"I was born in Clark County adjoining Hot Spring County, between Malvern and Arkadelphia. Clark
County was named after old man General Clark. He was worth four or five thousand acres of land.

"My father's name was Anthony McClellan. Why they called me Anthony Taylor was my stepfather
was named Taylor. My mother's name was Lettie Sunnaville. My mother has been dead thirty or
forty years and my father died six months before I was born. He died a natural death. Sickness.
He was exposed and died of pneumonia.

"Fayette Sunnaville was my grandfather on my mother's side. That was my mother's father. Rachel
Sunnaville was my mother's mother's name. I don't know the names of my father's people. They
was sole[HW:?] in slavery. But it is been so far back; I don't remember nothing, and I don't
know whether they would or not if they was living.

"We stayed on the old plantation for seven or eight years before we had sense enough or knowed
enough to get away from there and git something for ourselves. That is how I come to raise
such big potatoes. I been raising them fifty years. These are hill potatoes. You have to know
how to raise potatoes to grow 'em this big. (He showed me some potatoes, sweet, weighing about
seven pounds--ed.)

"I have heard my mother and my grandfather tell lots of stories about slavery. I can't remember
them.

"Old man Bullocks had about eight or ten families that I knew about. Those were the families
that lived right near us in the quarters. I didn't say eight or ten hands--I said eight or
ten families. Them was the ones that was right near us. We was awful small after freedom but
them what was with him stayed with him quite a while--stayed with the old master. He would
pay them so much after freedom come.

"Lawd. I could tell you things about slavery. But I'm forgitful and I can't do it all at once.
He had the whole county from Arkadelphia clean down to Princeton and Tulip--our old mars did.
Lonoke was between Princeton and Tulip. Princeton was the county-seat. He must have had a large
number of slaves. Those ten families I knew was just those close 'round us. Most of the farm
was fur pine country land. There would be thirty or forty acres over here of cultivation and
then thirty or forty acres over there of woods and so on. He had more land than anybody else
but it wasn't all under cultivation.

"He's been dead now twenty or thirty years. I don't know that he was mean to his slaves. If
he had been, they wouldn't have gone on after freedom. They would have moved out. You see,
they didn't care for nothing but a little something to eat and a fine dress and they would
have gone on to somebody else and got that.

"Wasn't no law then. He was the law. I worked all day long for ten cents a day. They would
allowance you so many pounds of meat, so much meal, so much molasses. I have worked all day
for ten cents and then gone out at night to get a few potatoes. I have pulled potatoes all
day for a peck of meal and I was happy at that. I never did know what the price of cotton was.

"Where we was, the Ku Klux never did bother anybody. All there was, every time we went out
we had to have a pass.

"My grandfather and grandmother were both whipped sometimes. I don't know the man that whipped
them. I don't know whether it was the agent or the owner or who, but they were whipped. Lots
of times they had work to do and didn't do it. Naturally they whipped them for it. That was
what they whipped my grandparents for. Sometimes too, they would go off and wouldn't let the
white folks know where they was going. Sometimes they would neglect to feed the horses or to
milk the cows--something like that. That was the only reason I ever heard of for punishing them.

"I heard that if the boss man wanted to be with women that they had, the women would be scared
not to be with him for fear he would whip them. And when they started whipping them for that
they kept on till they got what they wanted. They would take them 'way off and have dealings
with them. That is where so much of that yellow and half-white comes from.

"There was some one going through telling the people that they was free and that they was their
own boss. But yet and still, there's lots of them never did leave the man they was with and
lots of them left. There was lots of white people that wouldn't let a nigger tell their niggers
that they was free, because they wanted to keep them blind to that for years. Kept them for
three or four years anyway. Them that Bullocks liked was crazy about him. He would give them
a show--so much a month and their keeps. I don't remember exactly how much it was but it was
neighborhood price. He was a pretty good man. Of course, you never seen a white man that wouldn't
cheat a little.

"He'd cheat you out of a little cotton. He would have the cotton carried to the gin. He would
take half the corn and give us five or six shoats. After he got the cotton all picked and sold,
the cotton it would all go to him for what you owed him for furnishing you. You never saw how
much cotton was ginned, nor how much he got for it, nor how much it was worth nor nothing.
They would just tell you you wasn't due nothing. They did that to hold you for another year.
You got nothing to move on so you stay there and take what he gives you.

