THE TRAGIC BRIDE

by

FRANCIS BRETT YOUNG

London: Martin Secker 1920

      *      *      *      *      *

WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR

NOVELS

  THE YOUNG PHYSICIAN
  THE CRESCENT MOON
  THE IRON AGE
  THE DARK TOWER
  DEEP SEA
  UNDERGROWTH (with E. BRETT YOUNG)

POETRY

  FIVE DEGREES SOUTH
  POEMS, 1916-1918

BELLES LETTRES
  ROBERT BRIDGES: A CRITICAL STUDY
  MARCHING ON TANGA

      *      *      *      *      *

TO

THE COUNTESS OF

PEMBROKE AND MONTGOMERY

PROLOGUE

I never met Gabrielle Hewish.  I suppose I should really call her by that name, for her marriage
took the colour out of it as surely as if she had entered a nunnery, and adopted the frigid
and sisterly label of some female saint.  Nobody had ever heard of her husband before she married
him, and nobody ever heard of Gabrielle afterwards, except those who were acquainted with the
story of Arthur Payne, as I was, and, perhaps, a coroner's jury in Devonshire, a county where
juries are more than usually slow of apprehension.  In these days you will not even find the
name of Hewish in Debrett, for Gabrielle was the baronet's only child, and when Sir Jocelyn
died, in the early days of his daughter's married life, the family, which for the last half
century had been putting out no more than a few feeble and not astonishingly brilliant leaves
on its one living branch, withered altogether, as well it might in the thin Irish soil where
it had stubbornly held its own since the days of Queen Elizabeth. After all, baronetcies are
cheap enough in Ireland, and one more or less could make very little difference to the amenities
of County Galway, where Roscarna, for all I know, may have been absorbed and parcelled out
by the Congested Districts Board ten years ago.  Even in clubs and places where they gossip,
I doubt if the Hewishes of Roscarna are remembered, for modern memories are short, and in Gabrielle's
day the illustrated Sunday newspapers had not contrived to specialise in the smiles of well-connected
young Irishwomen.

Of course the Payne episode--I'm not sure it should not rather be called the Payne miracle--had
always lain stored somewhere in my literary attic; its theme was too exciting for a man who
deals in such lumber to have forgotten; but that admirable woman, Mrs. Payne, had whetted my
curiosity to such an extent that I weakly promised her secrecy before she told it to me.  "I
can't resist telling you," she said, "because it wouldn't be fair of me to deprive you: it's
far too much in your line."  She even flattered me: "You'd do it awfully well too, you know;
but I have a sort of sentimental regard for her--not admiration, or anything of that kind,
but an indefinite feeling that noblesse oblige.  In her own extraordinary way she did us a
good turn, and however carefully you wrapped it up she might recognise her portrait and feel
embarrassed. It's she that I'm thinking of, not Arthur.  Arthur was too young at the time to
realize what was happening, and if he saw your picture of two women desperately fighting over
the soul or body of a boy of seventeen who resembled himself I doubt if he'd tumble to the
portrait.  He's a dear transparently honest person like his father.  Still, I don't want to
hurt her, and so, if you want the story, you must gloat over it in private, and cherish it
as an unwritten masterpiece.  Probably if you did write it, it wouldn't be a masterpiece at
all.  Console yourself with that."

She told me her story--for of course I gave her the promise that she demanded--in a midge-infested
corner of the garden at Overton, while Arthur, the unconscious subject of it, was playing tennis
with the clergyman's daughter whom he married a year later.  I think Mrs. Payne knew that this
affair was coming off, and offered me the tale as a combination of oral confession and Nunc
Dimittis, watching the boy while she told it to me with a sort of hungry maternal satisfaction,
as somebody whom she had not only brought into the world but for whose salvation she was responsible.
No doubt she had put up a hard fight for him and had every reason to be satisfied, though Gabrielle
shared the honours of the mother's triumph in her own defeat.  We sat there talking until all
the birds were silent, but a single blackbird that made a noise in the shrubbery like that
of two pebbles knocked sharply together; until the young people on the tennis court could no
longer see to play, and the tall Californian poppies at the back of the herbaceous border that
was her special pride shone like moon-flowers in the dusk.

"When I think of all that ... that summer," she said with a sigh, "I'm so thankful ... so thankful."
And then Arthur came back with his sweater over his arm, swinging his racket, and she went
straight up to him and kissed him with the sort of modesty that you would have expected in
a young girl rather than a middle-aged widow.

"You dear thing, Mater," he said, kissing her forehead in return.

This is the land of digression into which memories of Overton lead one. My only excuse is that
part of the story, and indeed its emotional climax belongs to Overton, to that smoothly ordered
country house with its huge sentinel elms and its peculiar atmosphere of leisure and peace.
No doubt Mrs. Payne was aware of this when she kissed her son.  From the lawn where we were
sitting she could see the yew-parlour and the cypress hedge in the shadow of which she had
stood on the tremendous evening about which she had been telling me.  We walked back to the
terrace, and on the way she gave me a shy smile, half triumph, half apology.  She never mentioned
the episode again and though the story fermented in my brain, maturing, as I hoped, like a
choice vintage, and has emerged from time to time when my mind has been free from other work,
I have kept my promise and have neither repeated it nor written it till this day.

Now, at last, I find myself absolved.  Arthur Payne, I believe, is happily married to the fresh
young person with whom he was playing tennis.  Soon after their marriage they emigrated to
the backs of Canada, or was it New Zealand: somewhere at any rate beyond the reach of colonial
editions.  Overton is now in the possession of a Midland soap-boiler. Mrs. Payne, having fulfilled
her main function in life and fearing English winters, has retired to a small villa at Mustapha
Superieur, near Algiers, where, though she live for ever she is not likely to read this book.
And Gabrielle, the beautiful Gabrielle, is dead.

The news came as a shock to me.  For the moment I, who had never even set eyes on her, suffered
the pain of an almost personal bereavement; I was moved, as poets are moved by the vanishing
of something beautiful from the earth.  Was she then so beautiful?  I don't know.  But I like
to persuade myself that she was a fiery, elemental creature of a rare and pathetic brilliance
... for the sake of her story, no doubt.  But, for the moment, when old Colonel Hoylake, who
always began his Times by quotations from the obituary column--he had survived the age when
births or marriages are interesting--suddenly brought out the word Hewish: Gabrielle Hewish,
I was startled out of the state of pleasant lethargy into which a day's fishing on the Dulas
and the Matthews' beer had plunged me, and became suddenly wide awake.  I had the feeling that
some bright thing had fallen: a kingfisher, a dragonfly.  "Hewish," he murmured again.  "Gabrielle
Hewish ...  Well, well."

"You know the family?"

"Yes, I knew her father, poor feller," he said.

Now I was full of eagerness.  It had come over me all at once that this obituary notice was,
for me, a happy release.  It meant that, for a month or two, all through the mesmeric hours
that I should spend up to my knees in the swift Dulas, alone with the dippers and the ring-ousels
and the plaintive sand-pipers, I should be able to explore, to my own content, this forbidden
treasure, searching in the dark soul of Marmaduke Considine and the tender heart of Gabrielle;
threading the lanes that spread in a net about the schoolhouse at Lapton Huish; brooding over
the deceptive peace of Overton Manor; recalling the scene in the yew-parlour, the atmosphere,
terrifically charged with emotion, of the day when Mrs. Payne took her courage in her hands
and fought like a maternal tigress for Arthur's soul.  My heart beat faster as I led the old
fisherman on with "Yes?"

He laid aside The Times and lit one of the long Trichinopoly cheroots that he smoked perpetually,
settling himself back in the comfortable hotel chair.

"Hewish," he said.  "Sir Jocelyn Hewish.  That was the father's name. Lived at a place called
Roscarna in the west of Ireland.  He was an extraordinarily good fisherman: tied his own flies.
I have some sea-trout flies in my book that he tied thirty years ago ... a kind of blue teal
that he'd invented.  Of course they had a fine string of white-trout lakes--many a good fish
I've had there--but the remarkable thing about Roscarna was this.  Right in front of the house
at the bottom of the sunk fence, there ran a stretch of river,--about three hundred yards of
it, clear deep slides with a level muddy bottom.  One winter old Sir Jocelyn took it into his
head to clean up this bit of water, and when they came to scrape the bottom they found under
the mud that the whole bed of the stream was paved with marble slabs like a swimming bath ...
Connemara marble.  They went on with the job because it looked so well, all this green, veined
stuff shining through the clear water.  So they scoured the bottom and fixed up a banderbast
for keeping the mud from coming downstream from above, and having made a sort of stewpond,
put in four or five hundred yearling brownies.  You'd never believe how those fish grew.  In
a couple of years the water was full of three and four pounders, lovely fish with a small head
and pink flesh like a salmon. Quite a curious thing!  And you'll never guess the reason.  No
sooner had they cleared away the mud than the place swarmed with freshwater shrimps. The yearlings
throve on them like a smolt when it goes down to the sea. That was the remarkable thing about
Roscarna...."

I knew, of course, that it wasn't.  The remarkable thing about Roscarna, to anyone with a ha'porth
of imagination, was Gabrielle Hewish.  Luckily that admirable gossip Hoylake had another interest
in life besides fishing stories, and one that served my purpose,--genealogy.  It is an interest
not uncommon with old soldiers--that is why they often write such incredibly dull memoirs--and
after allowing him a number of sporting digressions in the direction of a Lochanillaun pike
and the altogether admirable blackgame shooting at Roscarna, which, he assured me, was better
than anything in the west except Lord Dudley's shoot on the Corrib, I played him tactfully
into the deeper water that interested me and, by the end of the week, had succeeded in drawing
from him a good deal of irrelevant family history and, what is more to the point, a fairly
consecutive account of the last of the Hewishes, Sir Jocelyn and his amazing daughter.

As he told it to me in the parlour of the fishing inn beside the Dulas, I began to realise
that accidentally, and at the moment when I needed it most, I had stumbled on a fountain of
curious knowledge.  If I had missed meeting him, my story, fascinating as it was, would have
been incomplete. It armed me with a whole new theory of Gabrielle, suggesting causes, or, if
you like, preparations for the extraordinary episode that followed. It showed me that I had
been flattering myself that I knew all about it when, as a matter of fact, I had only got hold
of one--and the wrong--end of the stick.  I fished the Dulas for a fortnight, hypnotised, pondering
on the whole curious business, not only when the bright water rippled by me, but when old Hoylake
told me stories of mahseer and tiger fish and barracuda that he had missed, when I was walking
through the pinewoods under the mountain, when I was eating, and, I verily believe, when I
was asleep.  I had thought before that my friend Mrs. Payne was the heroine of the story. 
Now I am not sure that Gabrielle does not share the honours.

I

And, first of all, I dreamed of Roscarna.  Partly for the sheer pleasure of reconstructing
a shadowy countryside that I remembered, partly because Roscarna, the house in which the Hewish
family had run to seed in its latter generations, was very much to the point.  Twenty miles
from Galway--and Irish miles, at that--it stands at the foot of the mountains on the edge of
the tract that is called Joyce's Country, a district famous for inbreeding and idiocy where
everyone was called Joyce, excepting, of course, the Hewishes of Roscarna, who were aliens,
Elizabethan adventurers from the county of Devon, cousins of the Earls of Halberton, who had
planted themselves upon the richest of the Joyces' lands in the early seventeenth century and
built their house in the English fashion of the time.

I imagine that it was the founder of the house who paved his river bed with marble slabs, smoothing
the stickles into a long clear slide. Labour, no doubt, was cheap or forced, and the Elizabethan
fancy lavish. In the mouth of the valley, where it opens on the lake, they planted a girdle
of dark woods growing so near to the new house that the Hewishes, walking in their gardens,
could almost fancy themselves in England and lose sight of the mountain slopes that swept up
into the crags behind them.  The house stood with its back to the hills and all western barrenness,
looking over a level, terraced sward, past a river that had been tamed to the smoothness of
a chalk stream, to homely woodlands of beech and elm that might well have been haunted by nightingales
if only there had been nightingales in Ireland.  There were no nightingales in Devon, so that
the first Hewish was under no necessity of importing them to complete his picture.  But he
had his gravelled walks, his poets' avenue of yews, that grew kindly, his sundials with their
graceful and melancholy admonitions, his box-hedges and white peacocks, and the fancy of some
Hewish unknown had blossomed at last in a Palladian bridge of freestone, spanning the quiet river.

Roscarna, in fact, was a bold experiment, destined from the first to fail.  Never, in all its
history, could it have become the living thing that its founders dreamed, any more than the
Protestant Church that they built in the village of Clonderriff could be the home of a living
faith; for though they turned their backs upon the mountains of Joyce's Country, the mountains
were always there, and the house itself, which should have glowed with the warmth of red brick,
or one of those soft building-stones that mellow as they weather, seemed always cold and desolate,
being made of a hard, cold, Connaught rock, that made the Palladian bridge look like the fanciful
toy that it was, and grew bleaker, bluer, colder, as the years went by.

I think of it as one thinks of the villas that Roman colonists built above the marches of Wales,
built obstinately on the Roman plan that the climate of Italy had dictated to their fathers,
with open atrium and terraces protected from the sun.  "What's good enough for Rome," they
said, "is surely good enough for Siluria," and, shivering, showed the latest official visitor
a landscape that might have been transported bodily from the Sabine Hills ... if only there
were more sun!  "But we do miss the lizards and the cicalas," they would say with a sigh. 
No doubt the most enthusiastic built themselves Palladian ... I mean Etruscan bridges and marble
stew-ponds for mullet, until, in the end, the immense inertia of the surrounding country asserted
itself and the natural desires of mankind led to a mingling of British blood with theirs, till
the Roman of the first century became the Briton of the third.

The parallel is as near as it may be, for though the first Hewish was an Englishman, his great-great-grandson
was Irish, and the only thing that was left to remind him of his ancestry was the house of
Roscarna, the sullen Connaught stone fixed in an alien design, and the huge belt of timber
through which the gorse and heather were slowly creeping down from the mountain and settling
in the valley bottom that they had once inhabited.  But the foreign woods that trailed along
the shore of the lake were admirable for black-cock.

The transformation was very gradual.  The first Hewishes, no doubt, kept in touch with their
English cousins.  London was their metropolis, and to London, in the fashions of their remote
province, they would return with amusing tales of Irish savagery that made them good company
in an eighteenth century coffee-house.  Little by little they found their English interests
waning, and the social centre shifting westwards. Dublin became their city, and to a stately
house in Merrion Square the family coach migrated in the season, until, at last, it seemed
hardly worth while to cross the dreariness of the central plain, and a town-house in Galway
seemed the zenith of urbanity.  Galway, indeed, had risen on a wave of prosperity.  In the
streets above the Claddagh, merchants who had grown rich in the Spanish trade were building
solid houses with carved lintels and windows of stained glass.  The Hewishes invested money
in these new ventures.  In Galway a Hewish of Roscarna was somebody: there the family was taken
for granted and, following the way of least resistance, the Hewishes settled down into the
state of provincial notabilities.

Notabilities as long as the Spanish money lasted--then notorieties.  For, as Roscarna, the
symbol of a tradition, decayed, the men of the Hewish family developed a curious recklessness
in living.

It was as though the original vigour of the tree planted in a foreign soil had been enough
to keep it fighting and flourishing for a couple of hundred years and then had suddenly failed,
dying, as a tree will, from above downwards.

For the first half of the nineteenth century a series of dissolute Hewishes--they never bred
in great numbers--lived wildly upon the edge of Connemara, drinking and fighting and gaming
and wenching while the roof of Roscarna grew leaky and the long stables were turned into pigsties,
and soft mud silted over the marble bottom below the Palladian bridge. If they had lived in
England the estate would have vanished field by field until nothing but the house was left;
but the outer land at Roscarna was of no marketable value, and when Sir Jocelyn succeeded to
the property in the year 1870, he found himself master of many worthless acres and a ruined
house that he was powerless to repair.  It was no wonder that he went to the dogs like his
father before him, for the passage of every generation had made recovery more difficult.  Of
course he should really have become a soldier; but soldiering in those days was an expensive
calling.  As a baronet--even as an Irish baronet--a good deal would have been expected of him,
far more than the dwindling means of Roscarna could possibly supply, and since every career
seemed closed to him but one of provincial dissipation he is scarcely to be blamed for having
followed it.

When Colonel Hoylake knew him he was a middle-aged man and a reformed character, and the fact
that he ever came to be either is enough to show that the original Hewish strain was still
strong enough to put up some sort of fight.  He cannot have been without his share of original
virtue, but by his own account, his youth, hopeless and therefore abandoned, must have been
pretty lurid.  Of course he drank.  His father must have taught him to do that as a matter
of habit.  He was equally at home with the ancient sherries, a few bins of which remained in
the Roscarna cellars to remind him of the Spanish trading days, or with the liquid fire that
the Joyces distilled in the mountains under the name of potheen.

Of course he gambled.  He was sufficiently Irish for that: and his gaming passion soon made
Roscarna a sort of savage Monte Carlo, to which the more dissolute younger sons of the surrounding
gentry foregathered: Blakes and O'fflahertys, and Kilkellys, and all the rest of them.

In the middle of the stables, at the back of the house, stood a huge deserted pigsty surrounded
by a stone wall, and this place became under Jocelyn's regime, a cockpit, in which desperate
birds were pitted against one another, fighting fiercely until they dropped.  Even in his later
days according to Hoylake, he was not ashamed of these exploits.  The gamblers invented for
themselves new refinements of sport or cruelty. Spider-racing.  I do not suppose that anyone
living to-day knows what spider-racing is.  This was the manner of it.  At night, when the
big black-bellied spiders that haunted the lofts came out to spread their nets, stable-boys
were sent with candles to collect them in tins, and next morning, when the gamblers assembled
in the pigsty at Roscarna a piece of sheet iron, fired to a dull red heat would be placed in
the centre.  On this hot surface the long-legged insects were thrown. Naturally they must run
or be shrivelled with heat.  And the one that ran the furthest was counted the winner.  Betting
on these unfortunate creatures Jocelyn and his friends spent many happy forenoons, and Jocelyn
was counted as good a judge of a spider as any man in Galway.  In his dealings with women he
was relatively decent, relapsing, at an early age into a relation irregular, but so domestic
as to be respectable, with a woman named Brigit Joyce who kept house for him and cooked potatoes
and distilled potheen as well as any female in the district.  I do not know if they had many
children.  If they did, it is probable that these found their vocation in collecting spiders
in the stables, or even drifted back into the hill community from which their mother had come.

Through all his dissipations Sir Jocelyn preserved one characteristic, an unerring instinct
for field-sports that no amount of drinking could impair.  He could hit a flying bird with
a stone, was a deadly shot for snipe or mallard, rode like a centaur, and fished with the instinct
of a heron.  It is probable that his consciousness of this faculty was at the bottom of his
startling recovery.  Possibly he was frightened to find a little of his skill failing.  I only
know that at the age of forty-eight, he pulled himself up short.  His eyes, seeing clearly
for the first time in his life, became aware of the appalling ruin into which Roscarna had
fallen.  He became sober for six days out of the seven, setting aside the Sabbath for the worship
of Bacchus, and during the remainder he devoted himself seriously, steadily to the reclamation
of his estate.  He repaired the roof of the house with new blue slates, cleared the attics
of owls and the chimneys of jackdaws; he dredged the river and discovered the marble bottom,
netted the pike and put down yearling trout. Gradually he restored Roscarna to its old position
as a first-class sporting property; and so, having fought his way back, step by step, into
the company of decent men, he married a wife.

Hardly the wife one would have expected from a Hewish, it is true.  Her name was Parker, her
father was a shop-keeper in Baggot Street, Dublin, and how Hewish met her God only knows. 
She was a sober, plain-sailing Englishwoman, a Protestant, with a religious bias that may have
made the reformation of a dissolute baronet attractive to her.  She had a little money, to
which she stuck like glue, and an abundance of common-sense. It speaks well for the latter
that she appreciated, from the first, the value of Biddy Joyce in the kitchen, and kept her
there, boiling potatoes, although she knew that she had been her husband's mistress. Firmly,
but certainly, she ordered Jocelyn's life, realising, with him, that Roscarna was worth saving,
subsidising, with a careful hand, his attempts to restore the woods and waters, interesting
herself in the housing of his tenants, and renewing the connection of Roscarna with the parish
church of Clonderriff, of which the Hewishes were patrons.  It was she who appointed Marmaduke
Considine to the vacant living.

For ten years she lived soberly with Sir Jocelyn at Roscarna, hoping ardently that a son might
be born to them who should carry on the family name and succeed to the fruits of her economies.
In the eleventh year of their married life it seemed that her hopes were to be realised.  Even
Jocelyn, the new Jocelyn, appreciated the importance of the event.  He and Biddy Joyce, now
an old and shrivelled woman, but one unrivalled in maternal experience, nursed Lady Hewish
as though the whole of their future happiness depended on it.  Every Sunday young Mr. Considine
dined at Roscarna with the family, and spent the evening in religious discussions with her
ladyship.  Every month the doctor rode over from Galway to feel her pulse.  On a dark winter
evening in the year eighteen eighty-three the child was born--a girl.  They christened her
Gabrielle, and a week later Lady Hewish died.

II

Her death knocked poor Sir Jocelyn to pieces.  Not altogether because he had loved her, but
because he had made the habit of depending on her and happened to be a creature of habits ...
good or bad.  So, having been bereft of that of matrimony, he returned, for a time to that
of drinking, leaving the child in the spiritual charge of Mr. Considine, a gentleman of small
domestic experience, and the physical care of Biddy Joyce, a mother of many.  For the time
being Jocelyn was far too busy to bother his head about her, and Biddy dragged her up in the
kitchen of Roscarna where she had suckled her half-brothers before her, Mr. Considine exercising
a general supervision, pending the day when her soul should be fit for salvation and ghostly
admonition.

In the early stages of Jocelyn's relapse the Parkers of Baggot Street descended on Roscarna
in force: a proceeding that Lady Hewish had discountenanced in her lifetime.  Neither Jocelyn
nor Biddy invited them to stay, and they returned to Dublin scandalised, with the report of
Gabrielle, a very small baby of eighteen months with coal black eyes and hair, playing like
a kitten with the foot of a dead rabbit on the kitchen floor.  "Only to think what poor Laura
would have felt!" they sighed, not realising that such a train of thought was in the nature
of things unprofitable.

So Gabrielle grew, and so, in a few years, Jocelyn, with a tremendous effort pulled himself
together, returning, as though refreshed, to his sporting pursuits, the woods, the lake and
the river.  He even found a new hobby: the breeding of Cocker spaniels, and worked up an interest
in the development of his daughter that ran easily with that of training his puppies.  He took
a great delight in teasing small animals, and treated Gabrielle and the cockers on much the
same lines, with the result that the puppies were usually a little cowed and puzzled when he
teased them, but Gabrielle bit his hand.  This pleased him; for he set great store by animal
spirits in any form, and he carried his fingers bandaged in the hunting-field for several weeks
in order that he might tell the story of his daughter's prowess.  Jocelyn was growing rather
childish in his old age.

There were really three periods in Gabrielle's early life.  The first, before her father began
to take notice of her, was spent altogether in the company of Biddy, who embraced her in her
general devotion to children.  Biddy called herself a Catholic, and for this reason secretly
feared and hated the supervision of young Mr. Considine, a priest of the Church of Ireland;
but at heart she was as pagan as the top of Slievegullion, and along with her favourite Christian
oaths (in one of which St.  Anthony of Padua was disguised as Saint Antonio Perrier), and her
whispered "Aves," she taught Gabrielle enough pagan mythology and folklore to set her head
spinning whenever she found herself alone in the woods or the fields.

If ever she strayed into the forbidden lanes beyond the lodge-gates at Roscarna she lived in
fear of seeing the dead-coach come round the corner: a tall coach, painted black and drawn
by coal-black horses and on the box two men, black-coated with black faces, who might jump
from the coach and catch her up and throw her inside it.  You could never know when the dead-coach
was coming, for its wheels were bound with old black rags, so that they made no noise on the
stones.  Then, in the fields where corn was growing one might come across the "limrechaun,"
with consequences untold but terrible.  And, above all things, she was never to pick up an
old comb in the road, for as like as not the comb would be the property of the banshee, a little
old woman with long nails and hairy arms.  When Gabrielle asked what would happen if she picked
up the banshee's comb, Biddy told her that the banshee would come crying to her window at night,
and that if this ever happened, she must get a pair of red hot tongs and hold the comb in the
window for the banshee to take.  This seemed to Gabrielle an unnecessary complication; but
Biddy told her that if she didn't follow it in every particular the banshee would scratch the
hand off her.  Faced with the possibility of this disaster, and not knowing how she could possibly
get hold of a pair of red hot tongs in the middle of the night, Gabrielle decided that if ever
she saw a comb in the road, she would not bring it home with her.  And this was a wise decision,
for the heads of the children in Joyce's Country were not above suspicion. Indeed most of the
terrors with which Biddy inspired her were based on principles that were ethically sound and
combined romantic colour with practical utility.

When she was six her father began to take her out with him at the time when he exercised the
puppies.  She and the puppies would run about together and by the same word be called to heel.
She found that she could do most of the things that they did.  Once, on a summer day when two
of them had conscientiously frightened a water-rat out of its hole on the margin of the lake,
Gabrielle, who was far ahead of her father and hot with running, plunged in after them.  She
got her mouth full of water, and thought she was drowning, and Jocelyn, frightened for her
life, ran in after her and rescued her with the water up to his neck. "Now that you're here,"
he said, "you'd better learn to swim."  And he made her, then and there, bringing her back
to Biddy Joyce like a small drowned cat, with her black hair clinging close to her head.  It
was a great achievement, and since Biddy could not, for the moment, produce any mythological
terror in the nature of a Loreley better than a pike that preyed on swimmers, Gabrielle would
often go down to the lake secretly in the middle of a summer morning, and strip off her clothes
and float on her back in the sunshine.  She must have looked a strange little thing with her
long white legs, her smooth black hair, her deep violet eyes, and her red lips; for she had
this amazing combination of features that you will sometimes find in the far West.  She did
not get them from her mother or from Jocelyn, both of whom were blond Saxons. I suppose they
came to her through the blood of some Irishwoman whom a dead Hewish had married perhaps a hundred
years before.

While Biddy Joyce instructed her in oaths and legend, and her father taught her to ride, to
swim, to shoot and to fish, her moral and literal education were entrusted to Mr. Considine.
Physically Mr. Considine was of a type that does not change much with the passage of time.
When first he came to Roscarna, a couple of years before Gabrielle was born, he was a young
man of twenty.  How he came to be chosen for the cure of Clonderriff I do not know, unless
he were in some way connected with the Parker family.  He was a Wiltshireman, tall, sandy-haired,
with a long face and a square jaw to which he gave an air of determination by constantly gritting
his teeth.  Gabrielle, as imitative as a starling, began to mimic this habit of his until one
day he found himself staring at her, as at a mirror, and told her to stop.  She had meant no
harm; she didn't even know that she was doing it, but he treated the offence quite seriously.

It was his nature to treat everything seriously, including his mission among the heathen or,
what was worse, the Catholic Joyces.  He taught her the alphabet and the Lord's Prayer, and
the collect for the week, and simple fractions and the capes and headlands of England (the
capes and headlands of Ireland didn't matter) and the verb "to have" in French, together with
long lists of the kings of Israel and Judah. Gabrielle was very quick to learn.  From the first
her memory was a pleasant surprise to her--sometimes a surprise to Mr. Considine, as when she
offered to give him the Kings of Judah backwards, a proceeding that struck him as not only
revolutionary but irreverent, and tinged with a flavour of the Black Mass.

Gabrielle always knew when she had annoyed or embarrassed him, not because he reproved her
in any way--to have shown heat in words would have been against his principles--but because
he did show heat in his neck, where a faint flush would spread upwards to his ears above the
band of his clerical collar.  When she was thoroughly bored Gabrielle would sometimes try this
experiment, just in the same way as she made the snapdragons put out their tongues.

Jocelyn liked Considine and trusted him, partly, no doubt, because he happened to be an Englishman--the
only one in this wilderness of Joyces--and partly because he was something of a sportsman:
a little too serious and determined for his sport to appear natural, but for all that a good
shot over dogs, and a very accurate, if not instinctive fisherman.  In his boyhood, in Wiltshire,
he had learned the technique of the dry fly, and his successes with trout in gin-clear water
made Jocelyn respect him.

Considine's friendship with Jocelyn must be put to his credit.  If he had been a prig he would
either have turned up his nose at his patron's morals or condoned them with a sense of self-sacrifice
and forbearance. He didn't do either.  He just took Jocelyn for what he was worth, realising
the shabby trick that heredity had played him; and his attitude toward Gabrielle was much the
same.  He knew that he couldn't and didn't want to keep pace with her enthusiasms any more
than he could keep pace with the baronet's potations.  He had been born on a bleak downland,
and some of its characteristics had got into the thin, cold humour that was his blood.  He
was incapable of the generous passions of the people of Roscarna; but I think he was a good
man, for all that.  Even Mrs. Payne, who had reason to be irritated by his coldness, acknowledged
this.  And he was as conscientious in his education of Gabrielle as in the care of his parish.

The child matured very quickly.  Physically I mean.  That is the way in the west.  Of course
she was a great tom-boy, tall for her years, very frank in her speech and totally unconscious
of her sex, as free and virginal as the young Artemis.  The world of books to which Mr. Considine
introduced her in her school-hours was wholly forgotten outside them.  In the woods and on
the mountains she throve as a magnificent young animal, moving with an ease and grace and freedom
that civilised woman has lost.  Her clothes were of Connemara homespun, but to a body such
as hers, clothes did not matter.  She went barefoot like the girls of Joyce's Country, and
her ankles were as clean cut as the cannon of a thoroughbred.  She wore her black hair in a
thick plait that fell below her waist.  She had no friends but Biddy, her father and Considine,
except a few men, contemporaries of Jocelyn, who joked with her in the hunting field.  She
knew no women; for ladies did not call at Roscarna, and the county could never forgive her
mother's origins in Baggott Street.  All her life was uncomplicated and miraculously happy.

This Arcadian state of affairs might well have gone on for ever, if Jocelyn, feeling that he
would like to give her a great treat and, perhaps, becoming proudly conscious of her beauty,
had not determined, in the August of her sixteenth year, to take her to Dublin for the Horse
Show week.  She thrilled to the idea, not because she was anxious to meet her own species but
because she loved horses.  They travelled up by train from Galway through the vast monotonies
of the Bog of Allen, and put up at Maple's Hotel in Kildare Street, within five minutes' walk
of her maternal grandmother's shop.  In those days no Irish gentleman would have dreamed of
dining in a public room, and they took their meals sedately in a private apartment.

Gabrielle had never set foot in a city before.  The smooth pavements, the high buildings and
the shop windows of Grafton Street excited her. Everything in Dublin wore an air magnificent
and spacious.  Even the ducks on the pond in the middle of Stephen's Green were exotic, and
like no other ducks that she had known.  But she could not enjoy her excitement to the full,
for the feminine instinct in her realised from the first that her clothes were different from
those of the people about her; and this disappointed her, for they were her best, made by the
urbane fingers of Monoghan, the tailor at Oughterard.

When she walked down Grafton Street she fancied that people stared at her.  It never struck
her as possible that they were staring at her vivid and unusual beauty.  It struck her as funny
that her father did not seem to be aware of the discrepancy in her dress.  He wasn't in the
least.  He had taken his daughter for granted.  In his unconscious arrogance he imagined that
the distinction of being a Hewish of Roscarna was sufficient in itself to make her independant
of externals, and, as he proposed no alterations she trusted his judgment and they went to
the Horse Show together in their ill-cut tweeds.

Gabrielle was entranced by the jumping.  Whenever a horse topped the fences she straightened
her back automatically as though she had been riding herself.  With such splendid animals as
those she felt that she could have made a better job of it.  For the moment she forgot all
about her questionable clothes; but when, later in the day, she was taken by her father to
be presented to the Halbertons, the family of the Devonshire peer with whom the Hewishes were
connected, she became immediately and horribly conscious of Lady Halberton's magnificence and
the elegance of her daughters.  It shocked and thrilled her to see that the elder Halberton
girl powdered her nose.  She wondered what it must feel like to have one's hands encased in
skin-tight gloves, and how these English people managed to speak with such an elegant tiredness.
It seemed to her inevitable that Lady Halberton must be ashamed of her cousins, and she was
relieved, but a little frightened, to hear this great lady invite her father and her to dinner
at the Shelbourne on the following night.  After all, she reflected, there must be something
in the name of Hewish.  She wondered how on earth she could make her father understand that
she couldn't very well go to dinner in the dress that she was wearing, the only one that she
possessed.

III

It is extraordinary to think how forty-eight hours had turned this amazing, sexless creature
into a woman.  The problem of a dinner-dress was solved for her almost at once by Jocelyn himself.
As soon as they were safely back at Maple's he asked her if she really wanted to dine with
the Halbertons at the Shelbourne, and when she said, "Of course!" he produced a five pound
note from the pigskin case that he carried in his coat-tail, and turned her loose in Grafton
Street.  An hour later she returned, breathless with excitement, carrying the dress that she
had bought, a frock of white muslin, high at the neck and hand-embroidered with a pattern of
shamrock.  Life was becoming a matter of great excitement.

The maid at Maple's dressed her in the evening, a blowsy young woman from Carlow who called
her 'my darlin,' and told her that she had a beautiful head of hair.  Biddy had never told
her that her hair was beautiful, and Gabrielle herself had always considered it something of
a nuisance.  In the hotel bedroom a cunning combination of mirrors showed her the thick plait
hanging down her back.  She had never seen her own back before.  Looking at it she shrugged
her shoulders to see what they looked like.

Of course she was ready dressed long before she need have been.  She went down into the hall
of the hotel and waited for her father.  She hoped, and was almost sure, that she looked lovely.
While she stood there, looking into a huge oval mirror, an old gentleman of much the same cut
as her father came in and stared at her as though she were some new and curious animal.  She
turned and smiled at him.  She would have smiled at anyone on that evening.  He did not give
her a smile in return.  He only went red in his bald scalp and cleared his throat, hobbling
up to his room and wondering what the devil Maple's was coming to.

A moment later Jocelyn arrived, very stately in the evening dress of the seventies.  His face
looked brown and hard and weathered, like a filbert, against his white spread of shirt-front.
His eyes twinkled, his temples were flushed, and the twisted cord of an artery could be seen
pulsating across each of them: all three being symptoms of the bottle of Pommery on which he
had dressed.  When he saw Gabrielle he said "Ha--very good, very good," and she, in an access
of enthusiasm, kissed him and smelt his vinous breath.

It was no more than a stone's throw from their hotel to the Shelbourne, Jocelyn remembering
his long-forgotten manners stepped aside courteously when they crossed the road as if he were
escorting a real lady.  Gabrielle couldn't understand this at all; she would have liked to
jog along with him arm in arm.  The magnificence of the Shelbourne with its uniformed porters
overpowered Gabrielle, and when she reached the Halbertons' private room, she, who had often
been reproved for talking the heads off Biddy and Mr. Considine, was dumb.  Jocelyn, however,
pouring gin and bitters on his Pommery, did talking enough for both of them.  He was in excellent
form.  His talk flowed steadily and Gabrielle, drifting as it were, into an eddy, was left
at liberty to examine her cousins and their company.

Lord Halberton and Jocelyn Hewish had very little in common.  The peer she noticed wore an
air of great fragility, as though he had been sprinkled with powder to preserve him.  His movements
were all minute and precise.  He walked with short steps; and when he smiled, as Jocelyn, already
in the story-telling stage, compelled him to do, his lips twitched apart for a moment and then
closed again as if he were afraid that any expression more violent might make his teeth fall
out. Gabrielle decided that he must be very old, so old that he was only kept alive by these
precautions.  She had noticed, too, when she shook hands with him that the flesh of his fingers
was limp, and that the joints were stiff like those of a dead man.

Lady Halberton, who, at the Horse Show had struck her as an ancient and withered woman, now
appeared middle-aged, scintillating in a scheme of black and silver.  Her dress and her toupet
were black, relieved by silver sequins and a silver mounted tiara.  High lights in keeping
with the scheme were supplied by other jewels on her fingers, her glittering filbert nails
and a diamond pendant that sparkled on the white and bony ridge of her breastbone.  The Halberton
daughters, whose accents Gabrielle had been imitating in her bedroom when she lay awake with
excitement the night before, were inclined to be friendly with her; but as all their conversation
had to do with a world of which Gabrielle knew nothing, they did not get very far.  Both of
them were over thirty and unmarried.  From time to time, taking new courage, each in turn would
make a pounce on Gabrielle with some question that led nowhere, and then flutter off again.
The fact that she obviously puzzled them amused Gabrielle, and she soon regained the confidence
that the sight of the hall porters had shaken.  From time to time Lady Halberton would turn
on her a smile full of glittering teeth, and twice, apropos of nothing, Gabrielle heard her
say: "Sweet child!  You must really let her come and stay with us at Halberton, Sir Jocelyn,"
though the baronet did not seem to hear what she said.

They dined en famille.  Lord Halberton ate as gingerly as he smiled, probably for the same
reason.  The party had been squared by the addition of two young men, one of them a soldier
from the Curragh, named Fortescue, and the other a naval sub-lieutenant, named Radway. He and
Gabrielle, as the least important persons, found themselves in each other's company, while
Captain Fortescue dished up the kind of small talk to which they were accustomed to the two
Halberton girls, Lady Halberton continuously sparkling at Sir Jocelyn and her husband presiding
over the whole function with set lips like a cataleptic.

It was Radway who saved Gabrielle from throttling herself with the flower of a French artichoke,
a vegetable with which she was unacquainted, and in a burst of gratitude she confided to him
the fact that this was her first dinner party.  From this they slipped into an easy intimacy;
easy for her because she was so thankful to find someone to whom she could babble, and for
him because she was so utterly unguarded.  It had been unusual for him to meet a girl of birth
or breeding who was not preoccupied with matrimonial possibilities; and this creature was as
frank as she was beautiful.

Radway had never been in Ireland before.  The cruiser on which he served was visiting Kingstown,
and at the Horse Show he had run across the Halbertons whom he had met when he was stationed
in their own county at Devonport.  Beyond them he didn't know a soul in the country, and the
soft western brogue of Gabrielle fascinated him.  He encouraged her to talk, and she was quite
willing to do so, telling of Roscarna and the hills and the river, of her lessons with Mr.
Considine, of her secret bathes in the lake and other things as intimate which would have persuaded
him that she was an exceedingly fast young woman if he had not been already convinced that
she was nothing but a child.

It gave her a great happiness to talk about Roscarna in this alien land.  And Radway was glad
to listen if only for the pleasure of hearing her voice.

Radway was a straight-forward young man, twenty-four or five years of age.  That he was eminently
presentable one deduces from the fact that the Halbertons condescended to entertain him, though
Lady Halberton, as the years went by, was known to make social sacrifices for the sake of the
dear girls.  I do not think it is profitable to seek for much subtlety in Radway.  It is better
to accept him as the clean sturdy type of youth that Dartmouth turns afloat every year.  Physically
he was fair (Arthur Payne also was fair), with a straight mouth, excellent teeth, and blue,
humorous eyes.

There is nothing younger for its age than a naval sub-lieutenant.  In the traditional simplicity
of seamen there is more than a tradition; for the inhabitants of a ship are a small island
community in which grown men live and accept a glorified version of life at a public school
until they reach the flag-list, or are shot out into the world on a pension that is inadequate
for its enjoyment.  The one subject on which the wardroom claims to be authoritative is that
of women; and Radway was already as well acquainted with the Irish aspects of the sport as
with the Japanese.  In daring, as in physical perfection, the wardroom of the Pennant considered
that the daughters of the Irish squirearchy took some beating; and Radway had heard, no doubt,
stories of many wayward and passionate episodes with which the hospitality of Irish country
houses had been enlivened.  Gabrielle was the first of the kind that he had met, her frankness,
her beauty, and her sudden, enchanting intimacy seemed to tell him that he was in luck's way
and on the edge of an adventure.  It was not the part of a sailor to miss opportunities of
experience.  He couldn't guess, poor devil, what the end would be, but naval tradition favoured
the taking of all possible risks, and he determined to let the affair develop as rapidly as
possible.

The dulness of the rest of the party isolated them.  To all intents and purposes they were
alone.  The difference between this girl and all the others that he had met was that she withheld
nothing, she didn't hedge, or try to protect herself with any assumption of feminine mystery.
It puzzled Radway.  He wondered, in his innocence, if he had succeeded in making a swift, bewildering
conquest.  Of course he hadn't done anything of the sort, but the speculation disarmed him,
and by the end of the evening he was thoroughly bowled over.

So was Sir Jocelyn--but in another way.  All the time that she had been talking to Radway Gabrielle
had kept her eye on him.  She knew that things were reaching a point of danger when she saw
his eyes fill with tears as he told the sympathetic Lady Halberton of the loss of his wife.
The achievement of sentiment in Jocelyn marked a fairly high degree of intoxication.  In the
middle of her description of the Roscarna black-game shooting Gabrielle stopped dead.  Radway
wondered what on earth had happened to her.

It was a difficult moment, for she hadn't the least idea of its conventional solution.  She
only knew that somehow she must rescue her father before he became impossible.  She supposed
that, in the ordinary way, it was his duty and not hers to bring the visit to an end, but she
knew that as long as there was whiskey in the decanter he wouldn't dream of going.  So she
left Radway in the middle of her sentence, walked straight up to Lady Halberton and said, "Good-night,"
with a staggering abruptness, and before he knew what had happened Lord Halberton was handing
Jocelyn his hat.

It took Radway more than a minute to recover from this cold douche; but he was too far gone
to let the possibility of romantic developments slip, and before the Hewishes left, he contrived
to let Gabrielle know that he wanted to meet her again.  "Outside the gates of Trinity College
to-morrow at four o'clock," he whispered.  She said nothing. He wondered, for one moment, whether
she was deeper than he had imagined.  Then she looked him full in the eyes and nodded.  It
gave him a thrill of delight.  He found himself listening in a dream to Lady Halberton's reminiscences
of the Admiral's garden party, at which they had met, and a maternal appreciation of the accomplishments
of her elder daughter, Lady Barbara.

IV

Gabrielle piloted Jocelyn, who was still in a good humour, to his bedroom door.  Then she went
to bed herself and slept as well as ever. Jocelyn, alone in his room, called for another bottle
of whiskey and made a night of it.  To be exact he made three days of it--four less than might
reasonably have been expected.  For Gabrielle to have taken him back to Roscarna was out of
the question: and so she went on quietly living at Maple's, and absorbing the strangeness of
Dublin while he finished it out.  The servants of the hotel were very kind to her; and the
waiter who attended to Jocelyn's desires brought her night and morning bulletins of her father's
condition that were tinged with a kind of melancholy admiration.  "A wonderful gentleman for
his age," he said.  "There's many a young man would envy the likes of him.  Sure, he'd drink
the cross off an ass's back, so he would!"

Of course she met Radway.  They met, as he had arranged, at Trinity College gates, and went
for a long walk along the blazing quays of the Liffey.  It was an unusual promenade for the
month of August, but neither of them knew Dublin.

He found her difficult.  The affair did not develop along the lines that he had intended, and
as his time was limited, this made him anxious.  With Gabrielle the anticipation was always
so much more wonderful than the event.  It thrilled him strangely to see her approaching when
they met: this tall slim girl with her splendid freedom of gait, her black hair, her pallor,
her red lips.  When he saw her coming he would think of all the passionate things that he wanted
to say to her; but as soon as they started on their walk together she made the saying of them
impossible--she was so obviously and vividly interested in other and unsentimental things.

Her interest in the commonplace and (to his mind) unromantic irritated him; but an instinct
of good manners, that was not the least of his charm, compelled him to humour her.  Once she
sat for a whole hour in a dark cellar that smelt of tallow where a couple of men were engaged
in making those enormous candles that people in Ireland light on Christmas Day; and once Radway
was forced to follow her into the forecastle of a Breton schooner reeking of garlic, where
she practised the French that Considine had taught her.

Later in the afternoon he took her to tea at Mitchell's, where she consumed the first ice of
her life, and was so pleased with the sensation that she demanded a second; all of which was
disappointing for Radway, who wanted to arouse her appetite for romance rather than ices. 
It seemed as if his nuances of love-making, the indirect methods of approach that modern girls
expected, were wasted on her.  In the evening he took her out to Howth, relying on the influence
of time and place to help him in methods more primitive.  It was incredible to him that she
shouldn't--or perhaps wouldn't--realise what he was driving at.  Apparently she didn't understand
the first conventions of the game, and when her obtuseness forced him to a sudden and passionate
declaration she laughed at him.

This damping experience, so unusual in the traditions of the wardroom, took the wind out of
his sails.  He decided that she had been making a fool of him and that he had been wasting
his time.  With a desperate attempt at preserving his dignity he took her back to Maple's,
conscious all the time, of her tantalising beauty.  He had planned a formal goodbye; but when
he told her that his ship was sailing on the next day, she said, quite simply and with an unusual
tenderness in her eyes that she was sorry.  "If only you meant what you say..." he said, clutching
at a straw.  "Of course I mean it," she said.  "I shall be very lonely without you.  You're
the first friend I've ever had.  I wish some day," she added, "you could come to Roscarna."

He told her that it was not at all unlikely that the Pennant would some day put into Galway,
and she warmed at once to the idea.  "How splendid!" she said.  "I shall expect you.  Don't
forget to bring a gun with you."

They walked up and down Kildare Street making plans of what they might do.  "But in a week
you'll have forgotten all about it," she said. "Nobody ever comes to Roscarna."

"Do you think that I could possibly forget you?" he protested.

This time she did not laugh at him.  "No... I don't think you will," she said, and then, after
an awkward silence, "Please don't take any notice of what I said this evening.  I don't really
understand that sort of thing."  Then they said good-bye.  It was a queer unsatisfactory ending
for him, but her last words had reassured him. Thinking it over in the train on the way to
Kingstown he decided that she had been honestly and quite naturally amused at the conventional
phrases of a modern lover, and the realisation of this only made her more unusual and more
desirable.  It would be a strange experience to meet her in her proper setting, and if the
Pennant should give him the opportunity he determined not to miss it.  Next morning the ship
left Kingstown for Bermuda.

It was not in Radway's nature to take these things lightly.  At a distance the memory of Gabrielle
gained a good deal by imagination.  It seemed to him that she was far too precious to lose,
and the fact that she was a cousin of the exclusive Halbertons settled any social scruples
that might have worried him.  He forgot his repulse at Howth in the memory of the sweeter moment
when they had parted.  After all there was no hurry.  She was only a child, as her behaviour
had shown him so often.  At the same time he was anxious that she should not forget him, and
for this reason he wrote her a number of letters from Bermuda, from Jamaica and Barbadoes and
other ports on the Atlantic station.  They were not love letters in any sense of the word;
but they served to keep him in her mind, and, few as they were, made an immense breach in the
zone of isolation that surrounded Roscarna.

They were the first letters of any kind that Gabrielle had received. The postman from Oughterard
did not visit Roscarna twenty times in the year, and since his arrival was something of an
event, entailing a meal and endless gossip with Biddy Joyce, Sir Jocelyn soon became aware
of his daughter's correspondence.  He questioned her about it, and she, without the least demur,
handed him Radway's letters.  He sniffed at them.  If that was all the fellow had to say it
struck him as a waste of time and paper.  Who was he, anyhow?  Gabrielle explained that he
had dined with them at the Halbertons, and Jocelyn, who naturally had no recollection of the
event, was satisfied with these credentials.  "I asked him to come and shoot here," said Gabrielle.
Jocelyn stared at her with wrinkled eyes.  "The devil you did!" said he.

Radway's letters had exactly the effect on her that he had intended. They were an excitement,
and she read them over and over again till she almost knew them by heart.  They were the first
outside interest that had ever entered her life.  With Considine's help she looked up the ports
at which they were posted on a big map in the library and thinking of their romantic names
and the wonders that they suggested, she also thought a good deal of the writer.

So it was, almost unconsciously, that Radway began to fill a considerable place in her thoughts.
His impression had fallen on an extraordinarily virginal mind that the thought of love-making
had never disturbed.  Physically, she hadn't responded to him in the least; but the long silences
of Roscarna and particularly those of the following winter, when Slieveannilaun loomed above
the woods like an immense and snowy ghost, and the lake was frozen until the cold spell broke
and snow-broth swirled desolately under the Palladian bridge, gave her time for reflection
in which her fancy began to dwell on the problems of ideal love.  In this dead season the letters
of Radway were more than ever an excitement.  They stirred her imagination with pictures of
burning seas and lurid tropical sunsets, and with this pageantry the memory of him would invade
the dank gloom of the library where she and Considine pursued the acquisition of knowledge.

It was inevitable that she should have found some outlet of the kind, for in the curious circumstances
of her upbringing she had missed that sentimental stage which is the measles of puberty.  She
had never trembled with adoration of a schoolmistress and Considine was an unthinkable substitute.
In Dublin she had learned for the first time that she was beautiful, and that her country clothes
did not show her at her best.  This, together with Radway's attentions, had revealed to her
the fact that she was a woman, and therefore made to love and be loved.

She loved Roscarna passionately, but in this neither Roscarna nor its inhabitants could help
her.  Under the most romantic circumstances in the world she could find no romance.  Her new-born
instinct revealed itself in a curious, almost maternal devotion to her father and the current
litter of puppies.  Jocelyn found its expression unusual but not unpleasant: the attentions
of this charming daughter flattered him; and the puppies liked it, too, licking her face when
she smothered them with motherly caresses.  But these things were not enough for her, and it
came as a great relief when she discovered another outlet in the contents of the library bookshelves.

She became a greedy student of romance.  The Hewishes had never been great readers, but in
the early nineteenth century one of them had felt it becoming to his position as a country
gentleman to buy books.  The romantic education of Gabrielle was accomplished, as became an
Irishwoman, in the school of Maria Edgeworth.  Castle Rackrent ravished her.  She thrilled
to the elegancies of Belinda and to the Irish atmosphere of Ormond.  From these she plunged
backwards into the romantic mysteries of Mrs. Radcliffe, living, for a time, in surroundings
that might well have been imitated from the wintry Roscarna.  She read indiscriminately, and,
in her eagerness of imagination, became the heroine of fiction incarnate and the beloved of
every dashing young gentleman in print that she encountered.

Jocelyn was inclined to laugh at her, but Biddy, who considered that all books except the breviary,
which she possessed but could not read, were inventions of the devil, disapproved.  "Sure and
you'll be after rotting your poor brain with all that rubbidge," she said, rising to a more
vehement protest when, in the middle of the night, she discovered Gabrielle fallen asleep with
an open copy of Don Juan beside her pillow and a spent candle flaring within an inch of the
lace bed-curtains.  Gabrielle smiled when Biddy woke her with a stream of fluent abuse, for
she had been dreaming that she herself was Haidee and her Aegean island lay somewhere in the
Gulf of Mexico.

She lost a little of her gaiety, and irritated the serious Considine by her dreaminess at the
time when she was supposed to be acquiring useful knowledge.  He complained to Jocelyn, and
Jocelyn, who hated being worried about his daughter, was at last induced, after consultation
with Biddy Joyce, to send into Galway for the doctor.  It pleased him to have the laugh of
Considine when the doctor pronounced her sound in wind and limb--as well he might, for both
were of the best.

Gabrielle couldn't understand what all the fuss was about.  She was happy in her new world--just
as happy as she had been in the old one--with the difference that she was possibly now more
sensitive to the beauty that surrounded her.  In the time of her childhood she had lived purely
for the moment; sufficient unto each day had been its particular physical joys; now she knew
that the future held more for her, that the life which she had taken for granted would not
go on for ever.  Strange things must happen, possibly things more strange than the adventures
that she had found among books.  She was now seventeen. In her heart she felt an intuition
that something must happen soon. She waited for it to come with a kind of hushed excitement.

At the beginning of May she received a letter from Radway in which he told her that the Pennant
was leaving the West Indies.  Taking it for granted that he would keep his promise of coming
to Roscarna she was distressed to think that the shooting season was over.  She had always
remembered the long grey shape of the Pennant that he had shewn her, lying off Kingstown on
the evening of their visit to Howth.  From Roscarna itself the sea was not visible, but from
the knees of Slieveannilaun, a mile or so behind the house, she knew that she could overlook,
not only the shining Corrib, which is an inland sea, but all the scattered lakelets of Iar
Connaught, the creeks, the islands, and beyond, the open sea.  Lying in the heather, hearing
nothing but the liquid whinny of the curlews that had lately forsaken the tidal waters for
the mountains, she would watch the foam that fringed the islands, unconscious of the sea's
sound and tumult, half expecting that a miracle would happen and that someday she would see
the three-funnelled Pennant steaming over the white sea into Galway Bay.

V

But the spring passed, and the summer wore on, and Gabrielle heard no more of him.  It was
a summer of terrific heat; the flanks of the mountains were parched and slippery even in that
moist countryside, and it would have taken more than a dream to make her climb Slievannilaun. In
1827, fifty thousand books and treatises had been sent by a company of the Sunday school alone.
[204-A] There are few things more remarkable in the history of juvenile literature that the growth
of activity on Sunday American School of the Union. In 1828, he had issued more than seven
hundred of these religious trinkets, ranging from a twelfth of sixteen pages to a small octavo
volume, and most of these appear to have been written by the Americans treat their feathers
experience in a literature is not recognized as difficult. The influence of this tiny avalanche
of books could hardly have been other than morbid, but sometimes there are floating down the
river to be captured by the readers twelfth little effort. These volumes, a reader of books
past Sunday school tells us, shining from the dark depths of death and prison scenes, and were
adopted together with the recommendation whispered to his well-worn caught the eye of the teacher,
and found quickly to be missing from the shelves of the library.

Others were praised in place, as the boy described the city which shows the first country in
the sights of the city, with more edifying conversation as to its history, or, once again,
the fun of a lightweight and attractive character, was presumably found in the story of a girl
who was sitting on a stool at the knee of his mother, and while she hemmed all four sides of
a handkerchief, listened to the account of missionary enterprise
in the dark corners of the earth.

For us, a day of small illustrations are perhaps the most interesting feature, preserving as they
do children's occupations and costumes. In a book to see girls and oddly frock buttoned pantaletted
let kids in Sunday school. In another, entitled "Election Day" depicts two young boys watching
from the square in front of Independence Hall, the delivery of votes for the President through
a window of the landmark building - an image that emphasizes the change methods of casting the
ballot since 1800 and twenty-eight.
That recorders were not always successful when they have to decorate the pages of the Sunday school
books, many of them easily prove. Designers of woodcuts are sometimes lacking in imagination,
when required to defend the Bible verses could not be better example than the favorite cartoon
covers the interpretation of "My soul magnifies the Lord" as a man with a magnifying glass held
over a blank space. Perhaps equal lack of imagination was often repeated the frontispiece of
"streaming Mercy of the Cross, illustrated by a large cross with a glittering rain beating
luxuriant hair of a lady languishing.
To us of to-day are the small illustrations Perhaps the most interesting feature, as They do
Preserving Occupations and children's costumes.

In one book we see quaintly frock and buttoned much pantaletted girls and boys in Sunday-school.
In Another, ENTITLE "Election Day," are pictured two little lads watching, from the square in
front of Independence Hall, the handing in of votes for the President Through a window of the
famous building - a picture that Emphasize the change in Methods Since casting the ballot
of eighteen hundred and twenty-eight.
That Were Not Always Successful engravers When Called Upon to embellish the pages of the Sunday-School
Books, many of them to Easily prov. That the designers of woodcuts Were Lacking in imagination
Sometimes When depicts Bible verses to oblige Can Have No Better Than the favorite example
vignette on title-pages Portraying "My soul doth magnify the Lord"
as the man with a magnifying glass over a blank space Held .

Perhaps equal in Lack of imagination REPEATED Often Was the frontispiece of "Mercy streaming from
the Cross," illustrated by a large cross with an effulgent rain beating upon the luxuriant tresses
of a languishing lady.  The air was full of pale grass-moths.  Her heart fluttered within
her: she couldn't think why.  She herself was like a white, fluttering moth.  She came quickly
to the outskirts of the village.  The cabins were asleep.  In none of them could as much as
a candlelight be seen.  It was strange that the village should be deader than Roscarna, and
she felt as though a sudden and deeper darkness had descended on her.  A little frightened
she decided that she would go through to the end of the village and pay a visit to Considine:
not because she wanted to see him in the least, but because she loved shocking him, and nothing
surely could shock him more at this time of night than the moth-like apparition that she presented.
She even felt a wayward curiosity to know what he did with himself at night.  For several years
there had been whispers of a theological thesis that he was writing for his doctor's degree.
She imagined him, with a reading lamp and red eyes, up to his ears in the minor prophets. 
It would be fun to see what he thought of her.

She hurried on through the silent village, but when she came to an isolated cabin at the end
of it she heard a sound that explained the desolation of the rest; a noise of terrible and
unearthly wailing.  In the darkness of this curious night it seemed to her a very awful thing.
She guessed that somebody had died in the last cabin, and that a wake was being held.  For
a moment she hesitated, and then, as curiosity got the better of her horror, she came gradually
nearer.

The women were keening somewhere at the back of the house, but the front windows blazed with
the light of many candles, and the door of the cabin was wide open.  Inside its narrow compass
a crowd of villagers, twenty or thirty of both sexes, was gathered.  Gabrielle, clutching at
the wall, drew nearer and looked inside. 

No gurus at that time ordered her to comply, serve, or shut up and live in sadness; in fact,
the opposite is more true, because it was a time for rebellion. And that was exactly what she
found it in her heart to do, exactly what that era required: rebellion.

This was the time when Mme Dudevant escaped her marriage and dove into the deep end of the world
of letters and writing as it existed then in the capital of France. It was the time soaks in liberal
values of liberty, egality, and brotherhood -- words and phrases and sentiments that has already
become suspicious because they were so common. Dudevant took her money and made her own new
rules; actually, she was applying those same old rules to a new demographic, i.e. to the sex referred
to as the fairer and also as the most dangerous: women. She disappears at this point in her
life, leaving the allegedly effeminate work of sewing, quilting, and stiching, and reinventing
herself as a cigar chomping wild woman in the Italian district. There were no shortage of other
famous people in the place at the time, and other writers of the era include luminaries like
Victor Hugo, Honoré de Balzac, and several more, like de Musset
and Sainte-Beuve and the polymath Prosper Mérimée and Marie-Henri
Beyle AKA 'Stendhal'.

Dudevant passed among them in her masculine wool outfit including a male-style tie and big gray
cap, proud of the fact she, in that get up, looked like freshman at the university there. Wearing
boy's clothes made her feel free, and she freely chose for herself new family, friends, and lovers
with whom she experienced the heights of emotional passion. These people may have been the most
celebrated group of moths ever to cluster in the light of one particular candle. Her first coauthor,
a sort of mentor, taught her to take life by the horns and to put away her old name and embrace
a new one. That was, of course, J. Sandeau, of whose name her nom-de-plume
is derivative.

And there were others, like de Seze, Pagello, Euraed, the aforementioned Prosper Mérimée, Alfred de
Musset (with whom she had a relationship that ended badly for both of them), and, of course, her
composers, first Lizt and then Chopin, who may have been the love of her life and who she cared for
almost 3000 days of illness. Also there were her teachers, like Leroux and Lamennais, and Charles
Augustin Sainte-Beuve, who was like her priest, and also her sometime rival, Flaubert, with
whom she argued in the last ten years of her life.

That's a highly abbreviated version of a very long story of love and complicated interconnections
between people. So we'll also need to offer a boiled down version of her work and philosophy.
The woman, who by this time was calling herself by the masculine name George with the surname
Sand, after Sandeau, didn't really make her values clear during her Rousseau-inspired period,
though his influence is there, with life being defined as the space
in which ultimate and infinite growth and change might come to be.

Similarly, literature, the world of letters, all of writing, was the space for unfettered expression
of the self.

She came to believe that a work of fiction such as a novel was not only a work of plot and
conflict and a reference to the structure of other novels, but also
a kind of poem or song, usually a love song because novels, most novels,
the majority of novels, are, whether they intend to be or not, love-themed.

It was okay, then, to put everything into a novel that one wanted to be there, including passion
and idealized romance or grief and pain, and to handle these things urgently and intimately or
from a detached perspective. The finished piece would either be great or it would be terrible, and
that was just fine.

When she begins to hit her stride, sixty-nine years before the turn of the century, authoring
the most musical and poetical of her works, her output resembled that of the English Romantic
Poets. Percy Bysshe Shelley has, about a quarter century earlier, flourished during his the
revolution against convention he shared with the women who would become his wife, Mary, and
his intimate friends, Jane Clairmont and George Gordon (Lord Byron) -- all of whom had, by
and large, read the same great canon of Gothic writing and liberal philosophical works of the prior
century as George Sand herself, and each of whom expressed it in his or her own way, just
as Sand herself would.

"And now you'll be coming with me to Roscarna," she said.

She was so happy.  She passed the cabin of the wake without a shudder. They walked as lovers,
arm in arm, and soon a yellow moon, in its third quarter, rose, making Clonderriff beautiful,
and flinging their moving shadows upon the pale stones at the roadside.  As they breasted the
hill, an arm of Corrib burned above the black like a band of sunset cloud, rather than moonlit
water.  Its beauty overwhelmed them.  They clung to each other and kissed again.  He told her
that she was just as he had seen her first in her white dress, just as he had always imagined
her in his days at sea, only more beautiful.  She was so pale in the moonlight, and her lips
so happy.  She was glad that an inspired caprice had made her put on her white dress.

He asked her whether it was very far to Roscarna.  "If you could miss the way," he said, "we
might go on wandering for ever in the moonlight. There never could be another night like this."

But they had come already to the dark belt of woodland that the first Hewishes had planted,
a darkness unvisited by moonlight, where their feet rustled a carpet of dead leaves, and shy,
nocturnal creatures made another rustling beside them.  At the edge of the wood a bird flew
out of a thorn tree.  "It's a brown owl," cried Radway; but when its wings caught the moonlight
they saw the band of white.  "It's a magpie," she said.  "One for sorrow ..." and smiled.

Roscarna stood before them, the ghost of a great house with many solemn windows for eyes. 
It looked blank, uninhabited, lifeless.  Between the house and the river moonlight smoothed
the lawns.  The moon made that cold stone phantom imponderable, a grey mirage.  Radway could
not believe, for a moment, that it was real; but the sense of Gabrielle's cold cheek against
his lips, her fingers twined in his, and her soft, unhurried breathing recalled him, telling
him that he was a lover, awake and alive.

They crossed the bridge and entered the house by the front doors.  The latch clanged to, echoing,
and Biddy Joyce appeared in a red petticoat. Gabrielle introduced Radway, and Biddy was not
scandalized, being used to the freedoms of Irish hospitality.  Jocelyn had been in bed for
half an hour or more, she said, and as the state in which he had retired was problematical
they thought it better not to disturb him.  They gave Radway supper in the dining-room, Gabrielle
sitting opposite to him with her chin in the cup of her hands and her face white with candle-light.

In the meantime Biddy had prepared a guest-room for him, a sombre chamber with long windows,
so sealed by neglect that they could not be opened, in which a broken pane served for ventilator.
In the middle of it stood a bed, painted and gilt, in the manner of the seventeenth century,
with panels of crimson brocade, threadbare but still beautiful, although the pattern of their
ornament had faded long since. Gabrielle lighted him to his room, stepping softly along the
uncarpeted passage.  At the door they surrendered themselves to a passionate good-night.

VI

Radway stayed at Roscarna for three days.  Irish ways are easy, and Jocelyn did not appear
surprised to see his daughter's correspondent at the breakfast-table.  He measured Radway shrewdly
with his screwed-up eyes and decided that he was a sportsman, which, together with the Halbertons'
introduction, was good enough for him.  He only regretted that he could not do the sporting
honours of the place for their visitor.  There was a certain giddiness, he said, that troubled
him at unexpected moments and made him disinclined to go too far afield; but he placed his
rods and the contents of the gun-room at Radway's disposal and pressed him to stay as long
as the place amused him.

Jocelyn, as host, was very much the country gentleman, picking up the thread of courtly hospitality
at the point where it had been broken so many years ago, almost without any effort.  It is
probable that he had begun to realise that things were not well with him, and that since Gabrielle
might soon be left alone in the world, it would be wiser to welcome a possible husband for
her.  Certainly he did his best for Radway, and Radway, no doubt, found him delightful, for
Jocelyn had grown milder as he aged and had never been without a good deal of personal charm.
On the other hand, it is not unlikely that Radway told him of his intentions with regard to
Gabrielle, even though nothing so definite as an engagement was announced.  At any rate, the
guest settled down happily at Roscarna, and the morning after his arrival the luggage cart
was sent in to his hotel at Oughterard to bring back his traps and gun-case.

Of course Gabrielle took possession of him.  The terms of their new relation had been fixed
miraculously and finally by the character of their moonlit meeting at Clonderriff.  No formal
words were spoken, but they knew that they were lovers, having arrived at this heavenly state
after a whole year of waste.  On Gabrielle's side there were never any doubts or questionings.
She was his altogether.  She wanted him to know all that could be known of her, and since she
felt that so much of her was the product of Roscarna, it was necessary that he should know
Roscarna first.

With the spells of moonshine withdrawn he knew it for the wan, neglected ruin that it was,
but her romantic passion for its stones helped to maintain the first atmosphere of illusion.
She showed him, with a beautiful emotion, the room in which she had been born, the lofts in
which she had played with the stableboys in her childhood, her alder-screened bathing place
by the lake, the library where her romantic education had been begun.

Here, by the most likely chance, they encountered Considine.  He had walked up, as usual, in
the morning to read Dante with her.  He came through the house unannounced and entered the
library where the lovers were bending with their heads close together over the map on which
Gabrielle had followed the course of Radway's West Indian voyages, and, being engrossed in
these tender reminiscences, they did not see him. His mouth was beautifully cut. It could have
been a model for a sculptor who wishes to present to the strong will combined with generous
sympathy.

However, it seemed what it was - a brave man, a man whom no abuse could be humble, without
subjecting the lesions, without crushing oppression.

To me, he realized the idea of San Juan Bautista, and imagine that a comparison should have been
done often.
In the pulpit, where, I regret to say, I heard Irving, but once, and
then not under the influence peculiar that so often swayed and guided
him, was, without doubt, a speaker, very serious in their work, and
more beyond doubt, deeply and solemnly impressed with the truths of
mission which was dedicated.

Sometimes, no doubt, form, action, and appearance verged on the grotesque, but it was impossible
to listen without being carried away by the intense fervor and zeal with which he lived in the
promises or threats I published of the Prophets, " than their predecessors. " His vehemence
was often surprising, sometimes appalling. Hunt Leigh called him, with much truth, "the Boanerges
of the Temple." He was a soldier, and a servant of the cross. Few men of his age aroused more
bitter or more unjust and unchristian hostile. It was before his time, perhaps, if he were alive
today, he would still be possible because the spirituality of his
nature is not yet understood.

There were not wanting those who condemned him as a pretender, a hypocrite and a cheat.

Leisurely ... because he was slow in everything, slow in his speech, slow to anger, and slow
to love--which does not imply that he was without intelligence or feeling or sex.  It would
not be fair to dismiss the feelings of Considine as unimportant; but it would be even less
fair to sentimentalize them, for the least thing that can be said of him is that he was not
sentimental himself. When they left him he tried to persuade himself that he was not jealous
by settling down to the composition of his weekly sermon; but he did not risk any further disturbance
of mind by seeing them together again.

The sunny season held.  The river water was so low as to be unfishable, but in the string of
lakelets below Loughannilaun Radway landed half a dozen sea-trout with Gabrielle, who knew
the stones in every pool, as ghillie.  In the divine relaxation of their love-making they were
not inclined for strenuous exercise; but when evening fell, and the sky cooled, they would
wander abroad together by the lake and through the woodlands or lie dreaming, side by side,
in the deep heather.

During the days of Radway's visit, Jocelyn felt an obligation to appear presentable, and every
evening, when dinner was over, Radway would smoke a cigar in his company, listening to his
stories of old Galway days and sportsmen long since dead.  As Jocelyn's memory for immediate
things had faded he seemed to remember his early days more clearly, and, like many Irishmen,
he was an amusing talker.  Gabrielle would sit on a low stool between them in the white dress
that Radway loved.  It made the solitude for which they were both waiting seem more precious
to see her thus at a distance, pale and fragile and miraculous against the sombre background
of the Roscarna oak.  Then Jocelyn would begin to yawn, and fidget for the nightcap of hot
whiskey that Biddy prepared for him, and at last discreetly vanish.  And so the most precious
of their moments began.

Of these one can say nothing.  Naturally enough, in later years, when she made Mrs. Payne her
confidante, Gabrielle did not speak of them. And even if she had done so Mrs. Payne was too
surely a woman of feeling ever to have betrayed her confidence.  Under that wasting moon they
loved, and I know nothing, but that it must have been strange for the empty shell of Roscarna,
that tragic theatre, to reawaken to such a vivid and youthful passion.  The world was theirs,
and nobody heeded them, unless it were Biddy Joyce, a creature whose whole life was coloured
by shadowy premonitions.

Gabrielle could not bear that he should leave her, but Radway's plans for the immediate future
had been made without reckoning for anything as momentous as this love-affair.  He was pledged,
in four days, to visit an aunt in North Wales, and though he could not undertake to disappoint
the old lady, he consoled Gabrielle by showing her how short and how convenient the passage
to Holyhead was.  To her, England seemed a country as remote as Canada, but he promised her
that he would return within a week, and suggested that this would be a good opportunity of
speaking of their engagement to Jocelyn.  "But I wish you were not going," she said.  "I feel
as if I shall lose you."

They had determined to devote the last day of his stay to visiting the top of Slieveannilaun,
where there were plenty of grouse.  The plan gave them an excuse for a day of the most absolute
solitude and the shooting that she had promised him long ago in Dublin.  Biddy would cut sandwiches
for them and Gabrielle would carry them in a game-bag slung over her shoulders.

At dawn a mist of sea-fog overspread the country-side, and Radway, gazing through the open
window, saw the fine stuff driven down the valley in sheets against the darkness of the woods;
but by the time that they had finished breakfast the sun had broken through, soaring magnificently
in the moist air and promising a greater heat than ever. Jocelyn, on the stone terrace, watched
them depart.  "I wish I were going with you," he said with a twinkle, "but it's a job for young
people.  Collar-work all the way, and you'll find the grass on the mountain as slippery as
ice."  They left him, laughing.  He liked Radway.  Gabrielle might easily do worse.  At the
edge of the wood she turned and waved her handkerchief; but Jocelyn was tossing biscuits to
his favourite spaniel Moira and did not see.

They climbed Slieveannilaun happily, for they were young and full of vigour.  Gabrielle was
quieter and more serious than usual, under the shadow of his going.  He killed two and a half
brace of grouse.  It pleased her to see the ease and precision with which his gun came up.

Near the place where they lunched they saw three fox cubs running with their mother, a sight
that filled Gabrielle with delight.  On a stone near by them a small mouse-coloured bird, a
meadow pipit, made a noise, tick-tick, like the ferrule of a walking-stick on stone.  From
this exalted station they could no longer see Roscarna, for the house and the woods were lost
in the immense trough beneath them.  They only saw the Corrib and the lakes of Iar Connaught
and, beyond, an immense bow of sea.

"I hate the sea," she said.  "It will take you away from me."

"You can't hate it more than I do," he said laughing.  "All sailors hate the sea.  But somehow,
I don't think I was ever born to be drowned."

The sunshine made them sleepy and they lay down in the heather.  He lay there with his head
on her breast and slept.  But Gabrielle did not sleep.  She watched him lazily and with a strange
content.

When he woke the sun was beginning to sink.  They walked back along the ridge in a state that
was curiously light-hearted.  She seemed to be able to forget for the first time the fact that
he was to leave her next day.  The evening was cool and fresh and the air of the mountain as
clear as spring water.  When they came to the descent he insisted on carrying the bag that
held the game.  There was a little quarrel and a reconciliation of kisses.  They set off together
once more hand in hand.  Halfway down the mountain, on a patch of shining grass, he slipped,
and the weight of the game-bag overbalanced him.  Gabrielle laughed as he fell, but her laugh
was lost in the report of the gun. How the accident happened no one can say, but Radway had
blown his brains out.

VII

The inquest at Roscarna was Biddy Joyce's affair.  It was the next best thing to a wake, and
she took the opportunity of having a dhrop stirrun'--as she put it.  The sergeant of the constabulary,
an erect Ulsterman with mutton-chop whiskers, had spread a wide net for his jury.  They came
from Joyce's Country, from Iar Connaught, from islands of the Corrib, like dusty pilgrims.
Biddy housed them in the stables, where they slept it off for a couple of nights.  Jocelyn
himself entertained the coroner.  He seemed particularly anxious that nothing in the way of
scandal should appear, though he really had no cause for anxiety, since a man who takes the
risk of scrambling down a mountain-side with his gun loaded, supplies an obvious explanation
for disaster.

Naturally it was Gabrielle who suffered most.  From the first she had behaved extraordinarily
well.  Nobody had seen the poor child's first agony of passionate grief; but she had pulled
herself together quickly, leaving Radway's body where it lay, and had hurried down to Roscarna
where she found Jocelyn dosing  on the terrace.  She had been tight-lipped and pale and awfully
quiet, showing no emotion but an unprofitable desire for speed when she led the stable-hands
up the mountain to the place where she had left her lover.

She did not cry at all until the work was done.  Then, in the rough arms of Biddy, she collapsed
pretty thoroughly.  Biddy put her to bed, but she would not stay there.  Later in the day she
was found wandering along the passages to the room where Radway had slept.  She told Biddy
that she only wanted to be left alone; and in that room she stayed until the time came when
she had to give her evidence.  In the court she did not turn a hair, though Biddy stood ready
with a battery of traditional restoratives in case she faltered.

Jocelyn had a very thin time of it. "The lang sheep hae the short woo, and the short sheep hae the lang
thing; and these are just kind o' names we gie them like." Mr. Scott found it hard to keep a
straight face. It slowly fell, and was followed by a mighty laugh. I had seen those words
written at the start of the Black Dwarf - how could I not have known who the author was? I had
be led to believe the thing by that Johnnie Ballantyne, and continued to believe for several
years. I don't know how I never caught on.
The next day, we went out in groups of five to Rankleburn. There were supposed to be remains there
on the Buccleuch farms, but we never found the ancient castles we expected. There was an old
chapel, and accompanying church yard, and a mill with a mill-lead that never grew corn. We decided
it had been used to grind the grain of the chief. If everything we've heard is correct, he was
likely the best miller in his land, and the most kind.
There was a tradition in the country, one that still stood after all this time; covered up somewhere
in the ruins of the old church was a font made of blue marble, where all the ancestral heirs
of Buccleuch were baptized.

Mr. Scott wondered if we would find it, but when we went to look for it, all we found was a hole
in the foundation where the font was meant to have been - someone must have removed it, but we
still don't know who. There was some loose rubble by the eastern wall, and we hoped to find the font
there, but instead we found one half of a small pot, thickly rusted
over.

Laidlaw scratched at it, and found the inside was coated with a layer of tar. "Ay, the truth is,
sir," he said, "it is neither mair nor less than a piece of tar pat." Sir Walter furrowed his
shaggy brow, and walked away as fast as possible. "We came all this way to see that nothing
was here to be seen," he said over his shoulder.
I clearly recall watching him ride out on his horse - it was an animal of high spirits, and had
the frightening habit of jumping over every obstacle in its path, be it a great mound or a tiny
ditch. As a result, while he sometimes managed to stay on the horse, more often than not he
was needing to dig himself out of any variety of sticky situations.
In riding through the Milsey Bog, I once tried to convince Mr. Scott
to convince his horse to take his time through the marshy lands.

In her disordered eyes the woods of Roscarna, the river, and the lake took on a melancholy
tinge.  Though this aspect of them was new to her, it is hardly strange that she should have
seen them thus, for the beauty of Roscarna is really of an elegiac kind, an autumnal beauty
of desertion and of decay.  As for Slieveannilaun, she dared not look at it.

Jocelyn tried hard to cheer her up.  With an effort he whipped up enough energy to take her
out with his dogs and his gun, until her look of horror made him suspect that the sound of
a gunshot was a nightmare to her, as indeed it was, reminding her of many dreams and one unforgettable
reality.  She did her best to hide this from him, for she saw that he was really trying to be kind.

Considine also tried to interest her in new things and to distract her mind.  His methods were
tactful.  He knew perfectly well that the official manner of condolence that had gone down
so well with the Radways wouldn't do for her.  He just treated her as the child that he knew
her to be, trying to induce her to join in a game of pretending that nothing had happened. A
rather popular contemporary British author, suggests that literary works are inexpensive as
a result of the law of compensation. An artist has to direct some amount of capital into raw materials
such paints, canvas, marble, and helpers. A professional in other trades may have to purchase an
office or a factory. Yet the author only needs some paper, pens,
and ink to get started in the business.

Although this comparison has some truth to it, it does not apply very well to historical discourse.
Generally today, the most profitable historical books have required an investment that the historian
of modest means would have trouble financing.

Production of such work requires a lot of travel and the often expensive acquisition of old
manuscripts, records, correspondence, and so forth. The historical author then spends long
periods of time, sometimes years, studying and observing and interviewing sources without any
guarantee for success of the project.

When a less successful author presents the same skills and puts the
same amount of effort on a well-written piece, the author might also
become famous and reap financial rewards if only he had the money
to spend on the rare bits of historical information necessary to bring
together a new and interesting historical story.

Because of this, history has become a field for those who already have money--perhaps inherited--as
well as education and plenty of time, but not necessarily the greatest history-writing skills.
As such, it is interesting to note how the lives of famed poets and historians differ. Cowper's small
Olney home was nothing compared to the great Lausanne library owned by Gibbon. Macaulay, Grote, and
Hallam enjoyed social stature while Wordsworth lived alone. Jerrold had difficulty surviving
while Shelley held a fortune. While the historians seem to be rewarded handsomely and held in
higher regard than the poet, this may be a consequence of their privileged social position prior
to embarking on the costly career.

To Biddy Joyce this seemed the most natural thing in the world, but to Jocelyn the announcement
came as a tremendous surprise. They do a great job creating charaters in the "Song of Roland" also
maintaining a good form but not nearly good enough to keep from seeming silly. The description
of fighting is excessive yet exciting. And in the part that tells how Oliver ends dying of
weariness and wounds, he mistakes Roland and attacks him with a sword. he hs mistaken Roland
for a Pagan and the reader shares his guilt. The writter of the characters doesn't bias the
reader with praises or criticism. So they are less religiously Christian
than people prejudge.

LIfe s still respected and used as a moral compass as are courage Patriotism and loyalty.  This
type of song or Nibelungenlied is significant to the admirer of poetic works because of it's
symbolism. other epics like the odessy only vaguely have a plot, it is of more consequence
in these works to represent a linking of occurrances with a narrative, but they lack a true
plot unlike the "Song of Roland" which has a weblike, much more complex series of events. Which
events cause the formation of the heroes giving them reasdns to act in a certain way which leads
to the next outcome.
Such poetry shows characters in a symbolic way.

The symbol is not necessarily representing life itself, but some part of life. Courage, one
of our important virtues is used to represent life as it turns from something dark, and hard (wearisome)into
an exulted state of being. This virtuous transformation is shared by all epics and is needed
in life itself for man to use as a route through his own plot. Epic poetry has been used for
a long tune to perform th task of developing human personality. Homer's epics are so loved because
they create a symbolism for life itself, and this song goes beyon to create the idea of a moral
life which was founded on the virtue of courage.  Then she said: "Does Biddy really think I am going to have a baby?" "Indian
corn" is the most healthy nutritious grain cultivated in India. Espically the Indian weather is
best suited for growing this grain.
The best season to grow "Indian Corn" is June,July,August as it needs dirict sunlight to grow
healthy.

They are mostly grown in areas where their is minimum sea winds.
The "Indian Corn" also termed as "Golden Corn" needs only very minimum care to grow this healthy
grain. It has more shelf life when tinned and manufactured for eating
purposes. In making an allowance for the operation of the two
end rubrics, it have to be remembered--I. That the Prayer-Book provides the Curate no right
to dismiss non-communicants.--2. That the system of unraveling the communicants from the respite
of the parishioners, which inspires the rubrics in the former measurement of the workplace,
has normally finished to be experientialed.--3. That the categorize for suggesting the names of determineding
communicants, minimum a few moment the day earlier than, has go down
into abeyance.--4.

That the Curate has no prospect of breaking off the Service for the reason of creating investigation
between the worshippers of their human being purpose in this esteem. The Curate, hence, has no
way of acquiring knowledge where on to work out the carefulness to which this rubric refers.
 

When seeking the meaning of life, people often ask themselves questions about what they should
do. Such as: should I become a vegetarian? Should I drink less caffeine, or more alcohol? Should I
seek recognition from my work? Should I change religions, or switch
political parties? The
way they handle the clothing in this place is terrible, they mixed everything. I luckily rescue
my best boots last week from the similar fate. Though the doctor do give explanation on each
occation that they are often got mixed with the clothes sent for donation to the poor. I know
that this is a literal statement of fact, though i doubt the manner of the mixing.
Today we make celebration bt running aground on the flats. If you happen ti strike the channel,
you can  "squeak" over them. However, the difficulti arise because
the sandy bottom shift. It is today and it is not tomorrow. Although
Schwann learned one hour of sitting, and Seymour-KEAY beyond that time served twenty-five minutes
G. for a speech delivered without notes, apparently without preparation,
and left nothing more to be said.

"On my word, sir, I said, a little air trying to keep up with him running up the Duke of York steps
go home to dinner," to grow younger every year, and if I may say so, mellower. "
"You can certainly say so, Toby, if you like," he smilingly replied, "but the calendar says otherwise."

"What," I asked -
"What to do with the timing of G.? What tooth unproductive time with gay immortals such as you,
but who noted years of your youth?"
"Oh, I know - with one small difference.

Lowell wrote to Wendel Holmes seventy-fifth birthday, I knew too
HOLMES;.

He used to prevail upon me because he was only four months old, and yet, he said, while I pleaded
age as a reason why we could not visit the United States, he crossed the Atlantic, from seventy
to seven. Maybe when I have this question Article Home off my hands, I can find time to go to the United
States. "
"Yes," I said, "will be another year younger then, and more at leisure."
Indian Affairs Council .-- Bill was read a second time.
Tuesday .-- Some made sense to Morning Meeting GRAHAM CUNINGHAME discovery
approach to Conservative House bank. There was a known member of Parliament
in 1874, which hit the new device, as thought, doubling his chances
of catching the eye of the speaker. The majority of the soliers were grouped together in a queue and didn't
shoot their guns. A smaller group bringing up the rear inevitably ran in to the naval vessels commanded
by Lord Cochrane as they arrived at Cape Kolias. In the Eastern barracks of the Priaeus, there were
nearly a thousand men here and there, that weren't interested in turning the Turkish troops' attention
away from the battalion.

General Gueheneuc of France and General Heideck of Bavaria saw the
epic conflict and reported on it. The godfather sitted above the table and kept a pillow.
A child was brought from the godmother and then she retired. The lower part of the child was
undressed by the godfather. Meanwhile the operator and his assistant
were chanting hymns. In order
to examine the result of a grid condenser you may assemble the switches in such a way that the
condenser and leakage will be inserted while simultaneously the C-battery will be cut off.
Figure 115 demonstrates this. You are able to gauge the increase
in sound as well. 

On the contrary, still believe them more easily and how to tax the nation, and perhaps it can be shown
that if we had gone to this method in the beginning of the war years to increase spending
in a year of duty, England had now been so many millions in debt, but what was appropriate under
such a need and the danger should not be pursued in peacetime, especially in a country in terms
of both trade and manufacturing.
Our study should now be how these debts quickly driven out of these new revenues are funds that
trade can flow freely again as before, without such a heavy block, but this section we will
address more fully, when we talk to our payments to the government.

Mr. King divides all people into two main classes, viz.: -
Increasing prosperity in the kingdom of 2.67552 million heads. The decrease in wealth of the kingdom
2.825 million head.
Which means of course that the first class of the people of the land, art and industry to maintain
and add something each year to the general store in the nation, and in addition to their abundance,
both contributing annually to the maintenance of others.

For the second class are held somewhere for work (as the leaders of the family home), but the
rest, since most of them wives and children, the sick and helpless, homeless beggars and idle,
fueled by the cost of others and is an annual burden on the public, who annually consume as
much as otherwise would have added to the general population of the nation.
The bodies of men, without doubt, the most valuable treasure in a
country and its territory in the general population is equally useful
for the republic, as the rich, if engaged in honest work and useful
arts, and more number no more to help increase the country's wealth
to the highest rank.

But a country can be populated and poor remains (like the ancient
Gauls and Scythians), so that numbers, unless they are well employed,
make your body big ruse, but heavy, strong, but that unactive Any
use of sound governance. On their first appearance the "Romantic
Annals of England" made slow progress in their popularity. The author knew the work would be
successful, while the publisher could only hope. Slowly but surely the work "made its way" and
may be judged by the "new editions."
How typical it is that the published works should receive great publisher hype and praise, only
to sit on the publishers shelf in their warehouse. This is not the case with the Tales of Historical
Romance. They have the power to stand on their own.
The second series, Spain, is from a Spanish with an air of sophistication, but with less power
than that of Mr. Neele.
The third series, France, by yet another is now upon us.
In the books description the author stated his intention when he undertook the present series
was in his own words, "he proposed to himself to fulfill what 'the Romance of History' seemed
to require, by presenting a succession of romantic pictures illustrative of the historical manners
of the French Nation."
We accept his concept of the work.

He notes that he pained labourously to gather original sources of French History.
He found his sources with relative ease, in the old Library of Caen, and the British Museum.
There are a total of nineteen tales. each has historical summaries. The titles are irresistably
inviting, and descriptive.
To shorten these stories would be a great diservice to both the author and the reader. Let me
provide to you now an excerpt from the story of "the Dream Girl:"
The Bondsman's Feast.
Arthault's had an only son, who one could say owed nothing to his
father except the opportunity to inherit his possessions. He was very
little like him physically and even less so mentally. He was full
of energy, manly and giving as a youth. His appearance seemed to skp
the familiar family traits as if forgotten. "Markets rarely change without bending."

"You're right. What is the largest piece of produce?" 
"That one
is the largest, by my measurements." 
Say what you will. But what
is your most popular branch? Everything
is interesting. Nothing is isolated. Nothing is insignificant. Everything you are touching is
thrilling. It doesnt seem to matter much what you are looking at: try to look long enough, and
a life starts out.

You see that the thing has causes and consequences, dependencies, bearings, and all kinds of social
interests; and before you know, you are involved in those interesting things and are one of
the family. For the time being, you stake all on that issue, and fight for survival. When that
is decided, and you stop to breath for a moment, something else is coming equally interesting
and equally important, and again your mind is in rest. When it is comimg to the quantities of
morals, there is not much difference between one thing and another. And when you ask to fold my hands
and sit still? Not me. One of my youthful maxims was: "Do something, if it's mischief"; and
I intend to follow this maxim, especially the condition of it. I always promise myself to do the
best I can, but I will do it. I will never write because of the sake of writing, but I will say
my say. I have not been rumbling underground all my life, only to find a volcano at last, and
then making it choke up after a single eruption. There are lots of rows of blocks standing around the
walls of my workshop, waiting to be chiselled. And I shall not be confined to my sphere. I hate
my sphere. I like everything that is outside of the sphere, or, even better, my sphere rounds
out infinitely into space. Nil humani a me alienum puto. I was born in the whole world. I am monarch
of all I see. Wherever I see the sympthons of a pie, always shall my fingers travel. Wherever
a windmill is flapping, it shall go hard but I will have a tilt at
it.

I shall not wait until I know what I am talking about. If I ever did, I never should be talking
at all. This is a well-known principle in educational science. The surest way to learn anything
is to teach it. How much changes would Geology get, if the professors talked only of what
they knew? Planting their feet firmly on facts, they know about it in their own theories. By carefully
noting, publishing, comparing, discussing their uncertainties, they
will be sure that they are sure.

Horace might advocate a nine years' delay. He was building for himself a monument that should defy
his rolling years. He was setting to work so badly to compass immortality, and a little time, more
or less, made no difference to finish his work.

Apollo and Bacchus could afford to wait. Beautiful daughters of beautiful mothers will exist to the
world's end, and their praises will always be in order. But when the next unmindful generation,
which will have its books and its memories. Though you are unread and forgotten, mindful only
of this generation which groans and travails in pain, you look on suffering that you yearn
to assuage, a danger of which you long to warn, sadness of which you would fain dispel, burdens
that which you would strive to, though ever so little. To lighten, delay, even for things so
desirable as complete knowledge and perfect polish, this becomes not only absurd, but also impossible.
Better shoot it into the cavern, even if you don't know in what precise part of it the dragon
lies coiled. The flash of your powder may reveal his whereabouts to a marksman. A transient immortality
is of no importance, what is important is the fact that hearts are
purified, homes made happy, paths cleared, clouds dispelled.

Is that not noble? But the noblest way to benefit posterity is to serve the present age. To serve
it by doing one's best, by doing it now, not waiting for some distant day when one can do it better.
A writer deserves no pardon for careless or hurried writing. All the time he has mental ability
to spend on it, so much time he should devote to it. Then speed it on its way.
 I need not
introduce how a cruel and demeaning a spirit would be to secularize Trinity College. This adversely
affects both Irish Protestants and Irish Catholics. It would be undiplomatic for the English
Parliment to secularize Trinity College, for the reasons below: 1.It would perturb the Irish Protestants
to remove a College founded on the Church's principles, which has served them well and gained
their trusted for three centuries. Motor expression is usually seen in self-pleasuring
sexually significant, habitual movements. This is what psychophysics would call "physical stereotypy."
Mentally, one would use obsessive thinking, physical actions, and thoughts as a defense mechanism
against a guilty conscience.

Tics occur when motor habits are partially inhibited. The tic itself is not usually sexual,
because it is only a fragment of the original movement. Tics, in their final state, can either
be conversion/hysteric or substitution/obsessive, or both.
Students of Freudism will understand this somewhat. Others may find this more difficult to understand
if it is not explained further. I should say that, according to Freudians, tics are an obsessional/obsessive
neurosis. The following quotation explains the Freudian theory of the evolution of and reason
for these states. It is quoted from Clark's paper.
The painful idea's affect, rather than transforming itself into a physical symptom (which is what
happens in hysteria) combines with more bearable ideas to create
another obsession as a substitute. In the finest outer garments there
is a patch of blazingly tinted beadwork at the nape of the neck, and the back-flap is adorned
with lines of roughly hanging hornbills' feathers; but these afresh are advised befitting only
to the outer garments of warriors of verified valour.

The Kayan protect is an oblong plate slash from a lone part of supple wood. Its finishes
are sharp more or less acutely; the extent between the points is about four feet. The inward exterior
types a flat hollow; the outside is formed by two flat exterior gathering in a flat obtuse bend or
ridge expanding from issue to point. The kernel of the timber sprints longitudinally, and a
down high ground dropping PARANG is liable to divide the timber and become wedged very fast in
it. In alignment to avert the protect evolving split up in this way, and to contain very fast the
cutting-edge of the sword, it is compelled over with some stout narrow
pieces of rattan which are laced nearly to the timber with finer strips.

The handle, carved out of the identical solid impede of timber as the body of the protect, is
in the middle of the concave surface; it is a straightforward upright bar for the grab of the
left hand. The Kayan protect is routinely stained red with metal oxide, and affected up with
very dark pigment, but not else decorated.
Wooden protects of this kind are utilised by nearly all the tribes, but some of them adorn their
protects elaborately. The two exterior of nearly all Kenyah protects (Fig. 27) are enclosed
with complicated concepts selected out in hues, chiefly red and black. The concepts are sketched
out on the timber with the issue of a blade, and the pigment is directed with the digit and a chisel-edged
stick. The primary characteristic of the concepts on the outside exterior is in all situations
a large conventionalised summarize of a face with large eyes, demonstrated by concentric rounds
in red and very dark, and a twice strip of teeth with two in twos of canines projecting like
gigantic tusks.

This face appears to be human, for, whereas in some protects there is not anything to show this
understanding, in other ones the large face surmounts the highly conventionalised summarize
of a diminutive human body, the limbs of which are garbled and woven into a more or less elaborate
design. Each extremity of the outside exterior is enclosed by a likewise conventionalised
face-pattern on a lesser scale. On the inward edge each longitudinal half is enclosed with
an complicated scroll-pattern, usually symmetrical in the two halves; the centre of this convention
is usually a human number more or less effortlessly recognisable; the two equal half occasionally
accept male and feminine numbers respectively.
The protects most valued by the Kenyahs are farther adorned with tufts of human hair taken from
the heads of slain enemies. It is put on in numerous lines which approximately border the large
face with security devices three or four inches in extent on scalp, cheeks, chin, and top lip;
and the lesser faces at the finishes are likewise enclosed with shorter hair. The hair is
adhered by compelling the finishes of the tufts into slender slits in the supple timber and
protecting it with new resin.

The Klemantan protects are, in the major, variations on the Kenyah patterns. The Murut protects
nearly resemble those of the Kayans, though the Dusuns, who have the tame buffalo, use a protect
of buffalo-hide adhered to the forearm by a strap -- a characteristic unidentified in all the other
kinds, which are conveyed by the handle only.
 The reader would observe
that this copy resembles modern English although this copy ages more than 500 years than the first
one. The spelling is also similar to modern English. We note, though, that there are no fixed
rules in spelling, as we can spell the same word in a different manner
and yet mean the same thing.

In the early edition, it was spelled "doctor" but in the later copy,
it was changed to "doctours."

Nevertheless, it does not mean anything but tells about the personal peculiarities of the copyist.

[Footnote 27: In Nicaise the last word written was crapte. My suggestion was crafte, because
we can misread the two letters.

On the same note, I suggested changing of the "z" to "y" in the title of the "Bibliothèque
Nationale" making the word yere instead of zere.]
[Footnote 28: "A History of Dentistry from the Most Ancient Times Until the End of the Eighteenth
Century," by Dr. Vincenzo Guerini, editor of the Italian Review L'Odonto-Stomatologia, Philadelphia
and New York, Lea and Febriger, 1909.]
[Footnote 29: The first printed edition of Arculanus is that of Venice, 1542, bearing the Latin title,
"Joannis Arculani Commentaria in Nonum Librum Rasis," etc.]
[Footnote 30: It is interesting to trace the history of traditions
based from old stories that have become baseless.

In the 17th century, there was a story regarding Basil Valentine and the antimony and the
monks in an old French medical encyclopedia of biography, and during that time, it was regarded
as total reality. I do not know how much older it may be, but it is probably from the sixteenth
century, when the kakoëthes scribendi attacked many people because of the facility of printing,
and when most of the good stories that have so worried the modern historians for their correction
became a part of the body of supposed historical tradition. The word probably has French origin
because in that language antimoine is a tempting bait.]
[Footnote 31: In the New York Academy of Medicine lies a thick bound 24mo volume containing three
of the classics of older medicine. They are Kerckringius's "Commentary on the Triumphal Chariot
of Antimony," published at Amsterdam, 1671; Steno's "Dissertation on the Anatomy of the Brain,"
published in Leyden in 1671, and Father Kircher's "Scrutinium Physico Contagiosae Luis quae
dicitur Pestis" (Physico-medical Discussions of the Contagious Disease which is called Pest). This
was published at Leipzig in 1659. It is hard to decipher how the three works were bound together.
It is very likely that they belonged to an old-time scholar, but there is no record about this.
 With
Goldsmith it is quite different.

In The Vicar of Wakefield he seeks merely towards please his readers, and wants not towards prove
a theory; he glances onto life rather as a film towards be painted
than as a complication towards be solved; his ambition is towards
design men and ladies many than towards vivisect them; his consultation
is fundamentally dramatic, and his fresh seems towards traverse naturally
into the dramatic form.

And towards me there is something very enjoyable within observing and contemplating the equivalent
issue below different moods of art.
 The carvings on these doorways are of the heroes and saints of
Old Testament, it represent the historic scenes of Redemption of the World, it also represent
the Gentiles, the Resurrection of the Dead, the Last Judgment, the Condemnation of the Wicked,
the Reception of the Just into the habitations of the blest.The Assumption and Coronation of
the Blessed Virgin sums up with the legend of series of Christian dogma perpetuated in stone.
 

The matter was settled by the doctor’s opinion. It was that Ella should stay and Mr. Hastings to
make things easy for her, summoned his servants, and explained to them that his daughter was
vested with the duty of taking charge of the house. Till the time Mrs. Wilson has got well
enough to take care of things herself, the servants were to take the orders of Ella and refer every
matter to her as well. Everything went smoothly at first; since the servants were concerned about
Mrs. Wilson’s illness they were ready to help and oblige. Ella too found it challenging and
time pass quickly unlike what she expected it to be. Instead of the days seeming dull, actually
there were too much of thinking and doing. She arranged an interview immediately after breakfast,
with the nurse to get the report and took a consultation as to the
cookery for the invalid for the day. The man and woman
worried that their only child would end up an embicile. The incidents of spasms referred to
seemed to have originated in a bout of tetanus, the child's body
being whipped posteriorly, with his head and eyes driven leftward,
and the total lack of any response to his parents' attempts to get
his attention.

 In otherwords, the Bill was rejected,
and the other, [104] which was basically useless, passed the next year. The Act outlined a policy by which
licnses were given "to all persons who shall desire the same." The College of Physicians would recieve
complaints regarding abuses, and suspend them in the College for review "by whosover should apply
for that purpose;". The college could not discipline those that would not comply with the Act.
 The Venetians were excommunicated by the Pope, who urged Italy to war against
them.

So, in this way, the campaign started without any significant battle fought. In August, the armies
withdrew from Ferrara under the peace of Bagnolo in 1484.

This peace
nearly made Sixtus die. When he came to know of the treaty, he became
angry and called the treaty disgraceful and against his pride 

Pretension of the book is superficial, boasting in the index fade away when pages progress. Author
claims great depth, but only an authority of foolishness rather than with statesmen and philosophers
is the only justification. Weapons suited to his hands than possessing a pen, this fact is clear.
He has not cared for style and expresses his contempt for that. "The abundance of this weed
was quite surprising, and consisted chiefly of two kinds," Of the
Uruguayan thistles he notes, he uses pronoun to all creatures.

He depicts at Sir G. Wolseley's laurels won in "licking a few miserable niggers in Ashantee,"
nigger--a word and strange to polite Americans was used by this gentleman of color.
The excessive belief in the abilities of the boaster can be rejected, as in case of droping of
a prong-horned antelope at one thousand and ninety yards; captures
a turtle in mid-ocean after a long distance swim,finishes with a single
ball a grizzly to flight the settlers of half a county in Idaho..As
in "the only day I really worked hard, twenty-seven California salmon,
weighing three hundred and twenty-four pounds", beauty of real facts
are darkened by imperfection of stating the facts.

Truth poetically do much-more,well afford to present itself very frank and grand.
Sir Rose Price claims as a cosmopolitan sportsman having hunted the jungles of India and fought
"mimic war" at many fields including Norway. From top to bottom he is a good man in good physique,
seeing only positive sides, man of great blessings who dislike mosquitoes and modern Peruvians
alike. Bitterness is expressed for the unhappy gunboat and the Rocket, which took eight months
to San Diego, and spent half an hour in turning round. No reader of the book will doubt that
it is corrupted with adversity of misfortunes and his soul is purified.
Thereafter the author makes every thing highly blessing if we except the climate of San Francisco
the extreme winds and climatic changes, and the social system which prevails under Brigham
Young. He has been transported by the "Big Trees". He commends that California stage-drivers
are unapproachable ; the officers of the United States army treat him with the most perfect and invariable
courtesy and hospitality; the ladies of both coasts of the United States are incomparable for
beauty and seeing more both people and country will be liked by one.
After reading these visitors to America are advised to pay particular attention to three subjects--
canvas-back ducks, terrapin and madeira, an advice to the unskilled. He refers to a wine of
that name which they thought was still in process of very slow recovery from the eclipse of twenty-five
years ago.
 Author John Banim wrote The Denounced, The Mayor
of Windgap, The Ghost Hunter, and The Smuggler, all of which the critics really liked. When
he hit on financial hard times, John Sterling, a guy who worked for the Times and really liked
Banim's work, along with the help from other literary people, helped him get a pension from
the government in 1836 that took care of him for the rest of his life. He died handicapped
and wheelchair-bound in Ireland on August 13th, 1842, in Windgap
Cottage, a short drive away from Kilkenny. 

Like the gates of the inferno lamps always burning at the portalsthey were always open to day
and night visitors, a sign and a continuous invitation to all to enter but permitted EXIT to all
who entered. few rejoiced with luxury, others poverty stricken, some fighting, few by attempting
suicide and its counter part of chronically unsuccessful.
Till suicide completes when all morals of religious teachings give way, character trait and
conscience fade away. Eternity never steals one thought between, suicide completes the fatal
scene.
(2)The dramatic scenes may serve to represent the usage of civilized life. Gambling is a universal truth
for the two footed human animal through out the world.
(2)In the collection of scarce, curious, and entertaining pamphlets and tracts, it appeared
originally. With freedom retouched it for improving.
The Israelites often used a counter in determining a question by chance for determining the
event, by this way determined which goat be offered to Aaron and the land of Canaan was divided.
Similarly Saul was marked out for the Hebrew kingdom; Jonah was discovered to be the cause of
the storm. This was considered as an appeal to Heaven to determine the points and did not depend
on blind chance or Fortune, the imaginary being.
A LOTTERY of life of malicious joy promotes, degrades, delights in bitter conflict.
There were desperate comedians and magicians among the Hindoos in the ancient times, proved
by the fact that the ancient Hindoo Code do not promote gambling.

Gods had gamesters among them, learning from this Men also gamed and had gamesters. The priests
of Egypt made Herodotus believe that one of their kings visited alive the infernal, the lower
regions,joined a gaming party, at which he has lost and won. Mercury fell in in love with
Earth, and to do her a favor gambled with the Moon, Earth's year had previously only 360 days,
Mercury won five days by gambling and added with earths year making
it 365 Plutarch tells the Egyptian story.(4) 
(3) Herod.

1. ii.
(4) Plutarch, De Isid. et Osirid.
Gods gambled with mortals, also play among themselves on Olympus. According to Plutarch, the
priest of the temple of Hercules amused himself with playing at dice with the god, the stake
is if won he should obtain some signal favour, if he lost he would procure a beautiful courtesan
for Hercules.(5)
(5) In Vita Romuli
The cock with combative nature are the chief instruments to agitate
the minds and ruin the fortunes that it produces a sensation to the
effect, believed by the nations of the East dice.

Assumption that of Charles VI. of France, for merriment invented card is wrong, ascertained by
historical facts is a wrong notion. Chinese not only invented cards but almost every thing for
our social and domestic comfort.(6)
(6) Observations on Cards, by Mr Gough, in Archaeologia, vol. viii.
1787 
When all other property is played away the Asiatic gambler
hesitates not to stake his wife, his child, on the cast of a die or
on the courage of the martial bird before mentioned. If still defeated,
venture his limbs, personal liberty or life--which he hazards on the
unpredictable desire of chance, at the mercy even to become the slave.
A rival of his fortunate. "Posh" possesses three main characteristics. First, it is attractive.
It's color is a beautiful deep purple. Second, it is impermeable, allowing nothing to pass
through it. Lastly, it is clean. The seaweed contains iodine, which posseses a sterilizing ability.
 In lecturing children towards numeral, the decimal
system should be kept well within mind, and the teacher should see that thirteen processes three-ten,
and that the children can touch the three and the ten as they speak
the word.

Eleven and twelve must towards be branded oneteen and twoteen, halves
within joke.

The suggestion of grouping should never be forgotten sight of, and taller numbers should at former
be names for so a lot threes, fours, fives, etc. In order towards keep the significance noticeable
the children should say threety, fourty and fivety, but there should be none need towards compose
these numbers. The Kindergarten sticks tied within bundles of ten are relatively convenient scoring
substance when any scoring is necessary. Tram tickets and cigarette films can be consumed within
the equivalent way.

The decimal notation is a great thing towards hear, how great any one shall discover whom shall
rob the hassle towards profession a mere contribution sum, embroiling hundreds, within Roman
figures. Children are always lectured the number of the house they live within, which earns
a starting-point. If, for example, 35 is contrasted with XXXV a significance is granted towards
the 3.

Many teachers earn ceremonial sums of numbers which could relatively well be added without any
composing at all.

By consuming anything of substance via which ten can be made plain as a upper unit--bundles
of sticks or tickets, Sonnenschein's equipment, Miss Punnett's number scheme, or the novel Montessori
equipment with its chains of beads: the substance consumed is of none great consequence--children
should be able towards import as easily with tens as with ones, and there is none need for little
ceremonial sums which possess none meaning.

Everything within daily life should be consumed ahead of ceremonial profession is attempted. "Measure,
reckon, weigh, compare," remarked Rousseau. Children relish towards quantity, whether via lineal
or juice quantity, or via knowledge towards tell the moment or towards consume a pair of scales.

There are a few occasions when interest is within particular number relations, as when a child
for himself hears that two sixes is six twos. One boy onto his own fund contrasted a shilling
and an hour, and remarked that he could predetermined out a shilling within five branches via
the clock. He glanced at the clock and chose out a sixpence, a threepence, and three pennies.
But habitually what is abstract owned a level further on.

So we can end whereas we began, via allowing Froebel once many define the Kindergarten.

"Crèches and Infant Schools ought be elevated into Kindergartens wherein the child is handled
and coached according towards his complete nature, so that the allegations of his body, his
heart and his brain, his active, moral and faculties, are everybody proud and developed.

"Not the coaching of the memory, not knowledge via rote, not experiences
with the impressions of things, but culture via processes of affair,
realities and life itself, fetch a blessing upon the specified, and
thereby a blessing upon the complete community; since each one, be
he the highest or the humblest, is a member of the community." 

PART
II 

THE CHILD IN THE STATE SCHOOL 

I. THINGS AS THEY ARE 

CHAPTER
XIV 

CERTAIN CHARACTERISTICS OF GROWTH 

Early within the nineteenth
century two men, transported via very different instincts, founded
what powers be conceived the beginnings of the Infant School. For
nearly fifty years their profession evolved separately, but already
they are blended together into something that seems towards be permanent.
In a colder Lanarkshire factory village within the south of Scotland,
Robert Owen, millowner, socialist and Welshman, located that unless
he could provide for the education of the children of his factory
hands, none parents would consent towards settle within the district
and he would be without servants within his mill. It seems to me that Cokney speech will
be too universally unintelligible and this surprising opinion may rest on scientific grounds.
Should it actively develop will so be out of relation with other and older forms of English
as to be unable to compete. After traveling via many types of transportation,
he is finally able to get to Maine by a train that goes from Caen to Laval. The first leg
takes him to a place which was another of William's early conquests, but which wasn't cut off
from the Cenomannian state permanently, like Domfront was.
This place is called Ambrieres, a very tiny town hardly bigger than a village, that still maintains
an important place in the history that recounts the wars of William
and Geoffrey.

 Our occupation is with his English bold undertakings. I think this must
of surprised him  more than anything he met with in Arabia. He and his friend arrived at Harwich
on Sunday August 10 like I have already said. They spent that night there and on Monday walked
to Colchester. It is advisable to organize the record with an account
of the items on the right side of the book and the page on the left(ordered after the right)
reserved for documenting data such as the coverings, declared costs, and names of inviduals in posession
on the corresponding page. There was a comedian called Sir James of the Peak,
who was a victim of a felony, then fell to the same crime again by
another man.

"Curses" said Sir James, "that I was not aware that this man can take a real hurting!" Nay my friend,
I was not aware that Matthews would!

You know I always thought the Tesi funny, pendant que 'ca devroit,
'etre tragique. I am glad that my foreign lady friend was able to
articulate my thoughts so satisfactorily by the way, is De Sade at
your place? Then they were treated in grammar, spelling, and a series of works on mathematics.
In all his writings Cassiodorus shows a special fondness for the symbolism of numbers.
There is a well-founded tradition that emphasized the study of the Greek medical literature,
especially Hippocrates and Galen, and aroused the interest of the monks in the need to make copies
of these fathers of medicine. The tradition that he established in Vivarium also found that
there has been at Monte Cassino, among the Benedictines, and certainly this must be attributed
the founding of the medical school of Salerno, where the Benedictine influence was so strong. It
is likely, therefore, be attributed to Cassiodorus conservation in a state as perfect as we
have of the ancient Greek medical writers.
Their main idea was, of course, the study of Scripture, but with the same amount possible assistance.
She thought that commentators and historians, not only Christians,
but also Hebrew and heathen, must be studied to illustrate, then the
comments of the Latin Fathers, as a fully rounded knowledge of it
must be obtained.

Thus began a "Bible Encyclopedia," and set a host of workers in their implementation.
All European countries shared this movement for the dissemination of information during the Middle
Ages, and the works of men of each of these countries in succeeding centuries has survived, preserved,
despite all events to which they were as responsible for the centuries before the invention
of printing and the multiplication of books easier. Many people seem surprising to learn that
the evidence of deep beside the broad interest in knowledge is in the next century in the far west
of Europe, in the Spanish peninsula. It is a big step from the semi-barbaric splendor of the
court Gothic Verona, the palace of the bishop of Seville in Andalusia. The two cities are separated
by considerable distance from what is today. In the seventh century that must have seemed almost
at the other end of the world from each other. Those who remember what they have insisted
on in several parts of the body of this work in conjunction with high Spanish genius won for
itself in the Roman Empire, and how much of the culture among the Spanish of that time the emergence
of many important writers of that nationality should imply, is not
surprised by the outstanding work of a great writer century Spanish
Christian VII.

In fact, it would be just what one would expect the signs of waking up early the widest of crops
that are in Spain. The major name in the popularization of science in the seventh century is St. Isidore
of Seville. He made a compendium of all traditions and scientific
information dispersed of their time in terms of natural phenomena
in a kind of encyclopedia of science.

 * * * * *
COCKNEY CLASSICS.--Of the Guildhall Loan Collection, Mr. Deputy HORA is the Chairman. As a Assistant
should be a delegate officer--except, maybe, in the case of a "Depitty Sawbones," vide Sam
Weller--the provisional slogan of the Deputy's Ward may well be, "Hora pro nobis." Topic of
Discuss, Indian Council Bill; Benches almost filled. Pup and dog, I've well-known the House for
nineteen years, and never before saw the similar to. Clarification not found in actuality of
CURZON making his maiden dialogue as Minister in charge of Statement, even if that had a few
influence at outset. Clever words it proved, our newest Minister having the immense reward of
fluency. It was afterward than that while House packed, almost two hours afterward, for in meantime
SCHWANN had delivered Address as long as the Ganges, and MACLEAN (who was to come his turn to
talk) says, almost as dirty.

Curious how India seems to influence renowned orators, building them for the time useless, boring,
and over all, talkative. Perhaps no topic other than India could join such galaxy of natural
orators and debaters. SWIFT MACNEILL, RICHARD TEMPLE, SAMUEL SMITH, OCTAVIUS MORGAN, JULIUS
'ANNIBAL PICTON and SEYMOUR-KEAY--one followed the other as in a necklet of diamonds gem succeeds
gem, till the wearied vision can scarce settle on which is the more luminous. SEYMOUR-KEAY was,
certainly, too much for the SPEAKER, who thrice called him to organize, the previous occasion by harsh
tone and frightening brow that prepared SEYMOUR shake from the height of his boot-heels.

It was not any of these who packed the House with Members listening carefully to a dialogue on
interior dealings of India; it was Mr. G. who performed the wonder. No one anticipated discovering
him in this galley; being there, the banks were quickly packed with a mass lost in respect of
his strong, speedy, elegant fondle. Hard to say which the most commendable, the superior tallness,
far above the littleness of Party clash, from which he surveyed the subject, the attraction of
his words or the adroitness with which, without seeming to reprove the admirer who had stimulated
the Alteration and the renowned men who were arranged to support it, he sustained the Ministry in their
attempt to rebuild the Indian Councils, and recommended that the
Amendment should with the entire haste be deposit into the flames. The
Executive appointed Mr. David Ridgely to undertake the responsibility of properly maintaining the
archives belonging to the state. It was this State Librarian who woke up the Legislature to
the manner in which archives belonging to the state were improperly and recklessly guarded by
those on whom this responsibility has been entrusted upon. For the past several years were thrown into
the dustbin as mere non-entities, and valuable folios too. Lately,
this has been the same trend by those who took the responsibility
from their predecessors. 

The patient was extremely afraid that her father found out that she knew of his delinquency, it
had been seen by her.  The best but not the only reason was militating against complete success,
the short time possible for psychoanalytic treatment. The patient was seen for only three weeks.
As the time needed for the analysis of psyche varies depending on the particular patient. It
is obvious that this is not enough time to facilitate a young girl, just arriving here from
Russia, to comprehend, or to conquer resistances. The character and tone of the German Jews has contributed immensely to
the cause of their unpopularity within Germany.
It is a fallacy to grant the assumption that the Jewish race is wholly devoted to material ends.
First of all, the Jewish people have been persecuted and martryed
for centuries.

Also, for the Jewish people tradition and the ideas of the past are more revered than race
and creed. As M. Leroy-Beaulieu has noted, they have been characterized over time for their love
of learning, undoubbtedly a characterization that has spread as Jewish families and families mixed
with Jewish blood have produced an amount and variety of ability that is historically exceptional.
This characterization is more of the Jewish people as a race than of the Jewish religion. Spinoza,
Heine, Ricardo, and Disraeli, all prominent Jews, were not religiously inclined. Some of the
modes which Jewish people have supposedly exceeded are tied to their historical from their
expected past. As the descendants of the most nomadic and cosmopolitian of races they have
acquired great mastery of languages and prominency in philology. Also, it is not surprisingly that
the descendants of chief moneylanders and bankers of the world should have produced great financiers,
and have shown a strong skill for mathematics.

Medicine, above all other field, depends on strong individual capability
and has been exercised independent of church and state authority.

The Jews occupying the unique position that they have, they were able to flourish in this field
for a long period. Their strong taste and turn for music may seem a surprising trait. But as
anyone will see looking at the major orchestras of Europe, they also hold prominence. The Jews
have produced such composers as Mendelssohn, Meyerbeer, and Halevy as well as contemporary performers
Rubinstein, Joachim, Hemann Levy, and Lucca. In contemporary stage, the Jewess is the most
popular tragic actress as well as one of the greatest tragic actresses
of the centiry.

M Leroy-Beaulieu notes that Jews are less accomplished in the areas of painting and sculpture
and attributes this to the Jews fear of idolatry. However, it could also be an effect of the
fac that most famous periods of European art are those devoted to Christian subjects and Christian
churches. Several considerable Jewish names may be cited in conetemporary art, including the
Dutch painter Israels, the most famous painter of the pathetic in contemporary art. In Western
Europe, wherever they have incorporated into public life, the Jews have managed to succeed
in most of the great movements of the time. Cremieux, who was a leader of the French Republic
of 1848, was born a Jew.

David Manin and Leon Gambetta were part Jewish. Lassalle and Marx, the creaters of German socialism,
as well as many subsequent socialists were also Jewish, as well as more than one English socialist
may come to the readers mind. In German and Dutch litereature Jewish names are frequent and
they are very widespread in journalism. They have been much less distinguished in military service.
Many Jews, however, serve in the great continental armies with honour but Jews have been distinguished
for a pacifist trait, abhorring violence and blood. This pacifism of the Jewish people has long
been confined to its own race, but since the downfall of Jewish persecution it has also spread
also to the Christian population as Jews have become some of the most well-known unsectarian
philanthropists.

It is the obvious trend of modern political ife that distinct groups are splintered into different
forms of though. There is a Catholic party, a Nonconformist party, A Labour party, a Socialist party,
a Temperance party, as well as others. But in spite of the centuries old crusade against the Jews
in multiple countries there is still no clearly defined Jewish party.

The tendency of the Jews is rather to participate in existing movements and gain power through assimilation
with their tremendous powers. As M. Leroy-Beaulieu demonstrates Jews are apt to appropriate
national characteristics along with a sensitivity for adaptation and flexibility enhanced by their
own cosmopolitian view.
Thus it was inevitable that the rigidity of the old creed which severed the Jewish people from
the larger population would eventually be discarded.
 

Now the clergies were also charged. As suggested by the the Bishop, in the meeting held at St.Paul's
Chapter House, they were ready to pay a penalty of of £100,000 out of fear. But the King was
not ready to comply with their decision and demanded that he must be acknowledged as supreme
head of the Church. The matter was examined by them for about three days, and finally, on the advice
of Archbishop Warham , they concluded that they have to accept the King as prominent guardian
and supreme ruler and to accept as supreme head on abiding with the
laws of Christ

 It is evening. There is an eclipse. The dogs of Yama take stride between the center
of the galaxy and the Earth's sattelite. Catapatha say: "The moon verily is the divine dog; he looks
down upon the cattle of the sacrificer."
The Kashmir Atharva-Veda says: "The four-eyed dog surveys by night the sphere of the night."

The Sun and the Moon are rest stops on the way to the homeland.
Even the Upanishads believe in this mythology that when we die we become one with the Brahma.
The mind does not just disappear; consciousness persists post-mordem. The Brahma itself is devoid
of all things, but the truth is everywhere. Still, the Upanishads fixate upon a world of Brahma
that is above and nowhere else. So the soul must pass through the cosmos to reach the Brahma.
The Kushtaki Upanishad says that all who leave this world must first go to the moon, for it
is the gate of heaven.

Only they who have completed Earthly duties shall pass the gate into the world of light, the
Brahma. He who cannot pass will be born again as a worm or a fly, or a fish or a fowl, or as
a lion or boar, bull, tiger, or man... perhaps something else. Any old thing, really. They could
end up anywhere as any of these things. It all depends on the quality of his works on Earth
and the knowledge which he has acquired. Basically, the amount of good karma one has when the
reaper comes will decide where one will go and what one will be.
Now Upanishad has the same idea. They mention both the moon and the sun by ancient names and
capacity as dogs of Yama. The soul of the seeker of Brahma resorts to Cabala. It will rid itself
of shin as a steed would loose hairs. And as the moon frees itself from the maw of the deomon
of eclipse, I will shed my skin to be renewed. I have been delivered. But will I find Brahma?
ANALYSIS OF THE MYTH: Hindu mythology known for arrested anthropomorphism. More so in Hindu than
other religions, mythic figures cling to memories of their birth and youth because the nature
of India is to keep in touch with history. On the other hand, the Hindu constant is rythmic
to the poetry of the Indians. The situation here is like that of the one in the Veda, but
rarely is it found in other mythology. The dogs of Yama are the sun and the moon and that which
is in between the two. The sun is marked by the sun-dog, Cabala, and the moon-dog is black. The
sun and the moon move simultaneously on a trajectory while the dogs
make their mark. The dogs are the messengers of Yama. Yama is death
and death hounds us all. 

The third reflection is the main cause of our civil war is slavery. She now assumed gigantic proportions
evil hand and neck very Constitution and the Union, it seeks death. The worst feature about it
ever was, is satisfied that any concession, and has, more is required. Allowing very heads
of state that the rebellion is confessedly arose for the sake of slavery and to make the corner-stone
of the Confederate states in November. The real problem involved in rebellion is complete independence
of the Northern Union dissolved, and exclusive possession of all territory south of Mason and
Dixon's line or reconstruction in such conditions lead to rejection of the old constitution, the nationalization
of slavery, and giving political control complete a slaveholding minority of the country. This
rebellion has North where should win for their best interests, and dignity, and redemption of free institutions.
He must conquer to control and what the future friendship, without
which the Union itself is a mockery.

South to see that North can not be beaten, and universal consciousness of this will command
an esteem, and fear of committing crimes due to make the peace more than all occupations in
the world cringing or humble observations.
 Detroit parks are numerous and their total area
is about 1200 acres. By far the most attractive one is Belle Isle, an island in the river in
the extreme E. City, bought in 1879 and with an area of more than 700 acres. The Grand Circus Park
4 acres and a half, with its trees, flowers and fountains, offers a pleasant resting place
in the busiest quarter of the city. Six miles out in Palmer Park, Woodward Avenue is about 140
hectares, given the city in 1894 and named in honor of the donor. Clark Park (28 acres) is in
the west of the city, and there are several smaller parks. Cemeteries are the main Elmwood (Protestant)
and Mount Elliott (Catholic), that are adjacent in the E. of the city, in Woodmere W. Woodlawn
and in the northern part of the city.

Charity and Education .-- Among the charities are general hospitals (Harper, Grace and St. Mary),
the emergence of Detroit, the Free Child and hospitals in the United States Navy, Hospital de San
Lucas, the church from home, and the orphanage, the House of Providence (hospital maternity
and child asylum); Hospital for Women and the foundling home, a convalescent center for children,
& c. In 1894 the mayor, Hazen Pingree Senter (1842-1901) instituted the practice of preparing,
through the municipal aid and supervision, large tracts of vacant land in and around the city
for growing potatoes and other vegetables and then, in conjunction with the board of commissioners
poor, giving it in small lots to families of the unemployed, and
providing seed for sowing

 It was
prudent to take such severe methods of security. The desire for revenge and patriotism alike
had sharpened literal daggers and could, at any moment, trade glory for despair.
Most historians agree that, during the first twelve years of an independent
France, more conspiracies were unveiled than in all six centuries
of the ancient Roman Empire. But the actual issue is rear these splendid voyagings, just
as the actual issue of Tasso is rear the battles of Christian and Saracen; and within both poets
the inmost theme is broadly the same. It is the consciousness of modern Europe. Jerusalem Delivered
and the Lusiads are sprayed with the mettle of the Renaissance; and that is mainly responsible
for their exquisite poetry.

But they extend out towards the novel Europe that was otherwise just beginning. Europe making
ordinary inflict against the peoples that are not Europe; Europe bringing her domination round the
world--is that what Tasso and Camoens eventually mean?

It would be too steely and too narrow a matter via itself towards earn these poems what they are.
No; it is not the affair of Europe, but the mettle of European consciousness, that provided
Tasso and Camoens their deepest inspiration. But what European consciousness genuinely is, these
poets rather vaguely evoke than master into noticeable and irresistible equation, into the
supreme symbolism of perfectly alright art. They still took European consciousness as an affair
of geography and race rather than merely as a triumphant level within
the general move of man's information of himself.

Their moment imposed a obligation onto them; that they clearly understood. But they did not
clearly appreciate what the obligation was; partly, none doubt, because they were both physically
touched via mediaeval religion. And so it is atmosphere, within Tasso and Camoens, that scores
much many than substance; both poets seem always thrilled via something they cannot express--the
non so che of Tasso. At
the period of her greatest population (Eighteen Hundred Forty to
Eighteen Hundred Forty-five), Ireland contained more than eight millions
of people.

But a very large proportion of them managed merely to exist--lodging
in miserable cabins, clothed in Very unhappy rags, and with potatoes
only as their staple food.

When the potato-blight came, they died by thousands. But it was not the inability of the soil
to support so large a population that of compel so many to live in this miserable way, and
exposed them to being starved on the failure of a single root-crop. On the contrary, it was the same
remorseless exorbitant greediness of gain that robbed the Indian peasant of the fruits of his
toil and left him to starve where Nature offered abundant. When her population was at its
highest, Ireland was a food-exporting country. Even during the famine, grain, meat, butter and
cheese were of cart for exportation along roads lined with the of starve, and past trenches into
which the dead were piled.

For these exports of food there was no return. It went not as an exchange, but as a tribute, to
pay the rent of absentee landlords--a levy wrung from producers by those who in no wise contributed
to the production.  Captain O'Shea was not at all interested. He had the brain of a blackbird,
but not enough mind to oppose his wife. He just accepted life, and occasionally of growl because
more money did not come from this agent in Galway--that was all.  He still nominally belonged to the
army, was a member of "The Canteen," a military club, played billiards in Winter and cricket in
Summer, and if at long intervals he got plain drunk, it was a matter of the virtues and actions
of a patriot done by way of celebrating a victory of English arms
in the Congo, and therefore in the line of duty.

Captain O'Shea never beat his wife, even in his cups, and the marriage was regarded as a happy
one by the neighboring curate who occasionally looked in, and at times enjoyed a quiet mug with
the Captain.  Mrs. O'Shea knew several of the Irish Members of Parliament; in fact, one of them
was a cousin of her husband.  This cousin knew John Dillon and William O'Brien. Dillon and
O'Brien knew Parnell, and belonged to his "advisory board."  Mrs. O'Shea was a member of Ruskin's
Saint George Society, and had outlined a plan to sell the handicraft products made in the Irish
homes, it being the desire of Ruskin to turn Irish coarseness in degree from a dependence on agriculture
to the handicrafts. Mrs. O'Shea had a parlor sale in her own house, of laces, rugs and baskets
made by the Irish cottagers.  John Dillon told Parnell of this. Parnell knew that such things
were only palliative, but he sympathized with the effort, and when in June, Eighteen Hundred
Eighty, he accepted an invitation to dine at the Oshawa’s with half a dozen other notables, it
was quite as a matter of course. How could he take up or introduce beforehand that he was
making history!  Disappointment in marriage had made lines under the eyes of pretty Kitty O'Shea
and of strengthen her intellect.

Indifference and astonishment are great educators--they fill one with discontent and drive a
person onward and upward to the ideal. A whetstone is dull, but it serves to sharpen Damascus
blades.  Mrs. Oshawa’s heart was in the Irish cause. Parnell listened at first indulgently--then
he grew liable to be affected or prejudiced. The woman knew what she was apt to blab and disclose
secrets about. She was the only woman he had ever seen who did, save his mother, whose house
had once been searched by the constabulary for things Fenian. He listened, and then shook himself
out of his gloominess.  Parnell was not a society man--he did not know women--all petty small
talk was outside of his orbit. He regarded women as chatterers, children, and undeveloped men. He
looked at Kitty O'Shea and listened.

She had coal-black, wavy hair, was small, petite, and full of nervous energy. She was not interested
in Parnell; she was interested in his cause. They loved the same things. They looked at each
other and talked.

And then they sat silent and looked at each other, realizing that people, who do not understand
each other without talk, never can with. To remain silent in each other's presence is the test. Within
a week Parnell called at the Oshawa’s, with Dillon, and they drank tea out of tiny cups.
Parnell was thirty-four, and bachelors of thirty-four either do not know women at all, or
else know them too well. Had Parnell been an expert specialist in womanliness, he would never have
gone to see Mrs. O'Shea the second time

.
 These games were attended not by the grouping only, but by kings and princes, and heavy magistrates.
Stow says, "that in the moneth of May, the citizens of London, of all estates, lightlie in
every parish, or sometimes two or three parishes joyning unitedly, had their severall Mayinges,
and did fetch in Maypoles, with different military showes, with sound
archers, morrice-dancers, and new devices for recreation all the day
polysyllabic, and towards the eventide they had stage-playes and bone-fires
in the streetes.

These greate Mayinges and Maygames, made by governors and masters
of this citie, with the undefeated surround up of the greate shafte,
(a principall May-pole in Cornhill, before the parish faith of S.
Apostle, thus titled Undershafte,) by meane of an revolt of youthes
against alianes, on May-day, 1517, bonk not beene so freely misused
as afore."

The decline of these ancient pastimes and the consequent drop of Archerie, are thusly lamented
by Richard Niccols, in his Writer's Ordnance, 1616:
How is it that our Author hath ordered downe This exemplary practice, which was once the crowne,
Of all her pursuit which her Thrush Bonnet Had custom apiece yeare when May did clad the flora With
brilliancy writer, to track his childly men out, Whose gritty deportment, oft when they did
shoot, Invited royall princes from their courts Into the wilde woods to behold their sports!
Who mentation it then a manful range and adorn, To see a juvenile of clene compacted lim, Who,
with a seemly thanksgiving, in his remaining power Retentive his bow, did digest his constant
honorable crewman nocking trusty, Not stooping, nor yet still streight pianoforte, Then, with
his paw sailor young 'bove his vision, Exercise his arm out, with an easie posture To draw an arrow
of a parcel in length.
"Both fleeting case after his coronation," says Psychologist, "he came to Borough with the quene,
and all their traine, and on a tyme state there, his goodwill, therles of Essex, Wilshire, and
else aristocratic menne, to the periodical of cardinal, came sodainly
in a mornyng into the quenes chambre, all garmented in forgetful cotes
of Kentish kendal, with hodes on their heddes, and hosen of the one,
every one of them his bowe and arrowes, and a sworde and a bucklar,
similar outlawes, or Robyn Hodesmen; whereof the quene, the ladies,
and al another there were discomposed as wellspring for the straunge
range, as also for their sodain commyng, and after certayn daunces
and pastime made, thei departed."

The selfsame communicator gives the stalking curious accounting of a Maying, in the 7th gathering
of that swayer, 1516: "The vocaliser and quene, accompanied with some lords and ladies, rode
to the upper land on Gambler's Comedian to determine the air, and as they passed by the way,
they espied a affiliate of lanky yomen petticoated all in naif, with ketamine whodes and bows
and arrows, to the assort of 90.
One of them vocation himself Robin Protection, came to the challenger,
desiring him to see his men enter, and the competition was proportionality.

Then he wistled, and all the 90 archers effort and losed at once,
he then whistled again, and they maneuver again; their arrows wistled
by slyness of the leader, so that the trouble was odd and uppercase,
and much proud the tycoon, the quene, and all the company.

All these archers were of the reverend's safety, and had thusly garbed themselves to excrete comfort
to the magnate. Then Redbreast Felon, and see how the outlaws springy. The mogul demanded of the
quene and her ladies, if they durst adventure to go into the wood
with so umpteen outlaws, and the quene was accumulation.

Then the horns blew dirt they came to the club under Shooter's Structure, and there was an bower
prefabricated of boughs, with a adventurer and a high cavum, and an inward cavity, cured made
and overgrown with flowers and confectionery herbs, which the businessman overmuch praised.

Then said Robin Thug, 'Sir, outlaws breakfasts is vensyon, and you moldiness be content with specified
transportation as we bonk.' The clergyman and quene sat downwardly, and were served with venison
and vino by Redbreast Cowl and his men.
Then the competitor and his lot departed, and Redbreast and his men conducted them. As they
were backward, they were met by two ladies in a princely chairiot, worn by pentad horses, every
framework had his traducement on his nous, and on every frame sat
a mohammedan, with her canvass printed; and in a situation sat the
Lady May, accompanied with Mohammedan Collection, richly robed, and
they saluted the monarch with divers songs, and so brought him to
Greenwhich."

The games of Redbreast Cowl seem to get been occasionally of a dramatic shape. Sir Evangel
Paston, in the dimension of Challenger Prince IV. complaintive of the feeling of his servants,
mentions one who had promised never to wild him, and "ther uppon," says he, "I acquire kepyd hym
thys iii yer to pleye Seynt Jorge, and Robyn Hod, and the Shryf off Notyngham, and now when
I wolde tally benevolent equid he is goon into Bernysdale, and I without a steward.
 There is a great
import within glancing sensible even whether you don't feel so. Talk always of your "dones,"
and flee out the "undones."
Most of ourselves possess heard of the apocryphal American whom "does Europe" within a fortnight!
I cannot say that I possess actually met that gentleman, but I possess
met pilgrims, both English and American, whom shall tell you grandly
that they possess "done"--say Rome, within two, nay within one day!

All the antiquities, of course, and the Museums; and otherwise arrives a row of names of churches,
and galleries, until you gasp for breath! You go away and thin against something towards retrieve
your breath, and your gravity, but the pilgrimage is an accomplished fact. They possess entitlement
towards stick towards the cockle-shell within their hat, so towards
speak, and go house remarking, "Oh, yes!

We possess done Rome, or Italy, or Egypt, thoroughly; missed nothing!"
If one could rob an impression of one of these pilgrim's brains via "Kodak," one would get a
number of queer findings within chaos, rather want the toy of relations post--the Raphael frescoes shifting
themselves towards Karnak, and the Sphinx hiding within the Catacombs, whilst films, statuary,
and shrines of "cult" executed a Bacchanalian dance onto a massive climb everybody round. 
But
findings do not amend facts; and within these bustling days civilians are loosely content towards
see your tree of knowledge; they possess none moment towards go up its agents towards glance for
the fruit of wisdom!
We possess affected our pilgrim weeds for an ulster of the latest cut, and our Missal for a
"Murray" or "Baedeker," but are we genuinely so much wiser than our forefathers?
Alas! we possess but affected the object, and human nature, gullible ever, sees none reason
why it should not flock within thousands towards descent a touring
card into the tomb (so called) of "Juliet" at Verona, with as fond
credulity as their fathers, when they deposited their lamp at the
tomb of a number of miracle-working saint; with this difference, however--that
the latter was deposited for the glory and praise of the saint, and
the former of the sinner himself.

Who could say, as soon as that, that he had not sighted it!
 Such people gathered in different places soon grew very numerous.

And citizens of Utica, a town about fifteen miles from African, to treat their fellow citizens,
as descended from the same common stock, they should build a city where they settled. Natives
of other cities, from their natural self and respect for foreigners
also encouraged to the same object.

Thus, all things conspiring with Dido's opinions, she built her city,
which was designated to pay annual tribute to Africans that was sitting
on the ground, and he called Carthage - a name in Phoenician and Hebrew,
[which have a affinity,] means "New City".

It is said that in digging the foundation, a horse head was found which was thought to be a
good sign, and a forecast of future warfare genius of that people. Carthage was the same language
and national character as the parent state - tires. It became, at length, especially during
the Punic War, one of the most beautiful cities in the world, and
its domination has 300 cities bordering the Mediterranean.

From small beginning we have described, Carthage rose to its population
numbered 700,000, and its number of temples and other public buildings
was immense.

Her mastery has long been limited to Africa. extended their conquest
ambitious inhabitants in Europe, by invading Sardinia, seizing a large
part of Sicily, and subduing almost all of Spain.

Sent strong colonies everywhere, they enjoyed the empire of the seas
for more than six hundred years and formed a state that was able to
challenge the primacy of the greatest empire the world through their
wealth, their trade, numerous armies, their formidable fleets, and
above all the courage and ability of their commanders, and she extended
her commerce over every part of the known world.

A colony of Phoenicians and Ethiopians, known in Scripture as the Canaanites, set in Carthage.
 Many slave masters, even in the parishes
where the slaves were freed, sent their most valuable slaves to other states, such as Texas and
Alabama. Some of the masters even followed their slaves to those states. News of the Emancipation
Proclamation took some time to reach the parishes located far from Union headquarters, in some
cases, long after it had been passed. Even then, it was not uncommon to have the proclamation read
at sword point, with federal solders forcing slave owners to tell
their slaves this important news.[99] 
After the accession of General
Banks to 1876, the history of Louisiana become one of turmoil, struggle
and strife, centered around the black man.

[100] Louisiana was no longer a history of romance but a grim war, with our black brethren,
by no fault of their own, at the center of this struggle. Various Political parties arose in 1862.
For example, the Free State party wanted representation based only on white population, though
they favored the abolition of slavery. This platform was opposed by the Union Democrat party,
which rejected secession, but favored slavery. The party believed emancipation of slaves was
a war measure and hoped that after the hostilities and struggles ceased, slavery could reasonably
be reestablished. Both parties' plans fell flat.[101]. The colored man would become a more prominent
political factor for years to come.
Louisiana had more than one class of colored men; the free men and
the men who were freed; a minor but important distinction among the
colored people.

The free colored men held a higher, aristocratic stature.
 By now these things are not remembered
anymore and the sad negro man, who had no name other than his one monosyllabic one--given that
his last name was that of his master--remains a symbol of how unchained retribution operates.
 

"Oh, ta-ta!" Podb savagely said. "Ha" he said to himself, "he's the one who said he wanted to
stay out of making friends! How in the world am I ever going to pass the time by myself?" Then
he turned to the guide and said "Well, I've had enough for today. If and when I want you again,
I'll make sure to let you know." The closed fist came down on the black broadcloth knee, with conviction of the
man behind it. The words flew, like melted metal, hot, stinging, not to be stopped. The judge quivered,
as if they had stung through the callousness, and touched a nerve. A faint color arrived across
his cheeks; he spoke quickly for the first time, his thoughts connected with something more than
a gray matter.

" You speak about my not allowing myself to believe in jack. You do not seem to realize that
such a beileive, would and could stand between myself and madness. I've tried to adjust myself to
a possible scheme of living--getting through the years til I go into nothingness. I can not.
All I can grasp is the feeling that a man may have if dropping from a balloon and forced to stay
gasping inthe air, with no place in it, nothing to hold on to, no breath to take, no earth
to rest on, no end to be hoping for. There is not a thing beyond."

"Everything is beyond." a young man cried triumphantly. "'The end' as some would call it, is
an end to be hoping for-- the beginning. The begining of more than you have ever had-- with them,
with the people you car so much about."

A ghastly look was upon the impetuous, bright face by the judge. "If i were to beleive that, I
should be even now perfectly happy. I do not see how you Christians could ever be sorry when your
friends die-- it's childish; anyboyd should be able to wait a few years. but i do not beleive
it." he said not lightly, and went on again as if a power of speech were carrying him as in an inertia
of silence had held him not so long before. "When my wife died a year ago, it destroyed my personal
life, but i could live with Jack's Life.

I was happy with the success and honor of it. Now the success--" he made a gasture. " And the
hour--if I had any, only the honor of Jack's life left, I think I
could finish these years with dignity.

I've not been a bad man-- I've done my part and lived as I thought
was right. Before I am old the joy was wiped out and long years left.
Why? It's not reasonable--not logical. With one thing to hold on to,
with Jack's good name, I might live. How can I, now? What can I do?
A life must have a raison d'etre."

"Please," the clergyman cried
yet again, "You are not judging Jack as fairly would judge a common
criminal". In the midst of the
scene Welter, Lord Ascot died due to apoplexy in the throat. The question is who did it? Is
it done by himself or was done for him. Echo answer that it is justice.
 Dumps
declaration of his ignorance of the goodness of “medicinal gums” did not have any effect.
When he griped hard, the old woman sued much; a support joined her from the cottage to his
alarm, and men, women, and children beseeched him that the good dame’s
illness be cured.

He insinuated his heel into the side of the piebald, and hurried of, when he got the right time
to escape.

Even as he fled, he could hear the plea mingled with words of anger
follow him on the wind.

 "Master Mervale," he moaned, "I was right after all.

It is the worst plague in all the world, and that same disease leaves
smaller marks."

"But," Master Mervale said politely, "you are not married?"

"Married!" His lordship threw his head back and laughed. "Look you, Master Mervale, I don't know
how much you are acquainted with the story.

It was in Essex many years since; I was only a lad, and she a maiden.

Oh, such a maiden, with tender green eyes, and a faint, sweet voice that could deny me nothing!
When she was made, they broke the mold."

The baron paced, gnawing his lip and thinking. "Marry?

Her family was noble, but their name outranked their fortune; their
crest was not the highest feather in Fortune's cap, you understand;
somewhat fallen in the world, Master Mervale.

And I? My father was a cruel man, and my two elder brothers and I did not get along. I was
the youngest then: Heaven helps them that help themselves, says my
father, and I didn't have a penny.

I had yet to make my way in the world; to saddle myself with a poor maiden--even a maiden
whose voice set a man's heart hammering at his ribs--would have been
madness, Master Mervale.

Utter and cruel madness!"

"Hmm!" Master Mervale cleared his throat, stroked his mustache, and
smiled at some unspoken thought.

"We pay for our mistakes in this world, my lord, but I sometimes
think that we pay even more dearly for our wisdom."

"Ah!" the baron cried angerly; "By your smirking hints, I take it you think it was a coward's
act not to snap my fingers at fate and fathers and dare to marry her!

Well! I did not dare.

We parted sadly and I set forth to seek my fortune. It was a brave world then, Master Mervale,
for all the tears that were still wet on my cheeks! A world where the grass was as green as
a certain woman's eyes, a world wherein a likely lad might see far countries, waggle a good sword
in Babylon and Constantinole and other ultimate kingdoms, and at last bring home a sultan's daughter
for a wife, even if he never loved her."
His voice died away. He sighed and shrugged. "Eh, well!" said the baron; "I fought in Germany
some, and in Spain.

Then, at last, sick as a dog in Amsterdam, three years ago, where a messenger came to haul me
out of bed as future Baron of Falmouth. One brother slain in a duel, Master Mervale; one killed
in Shay's Rebellion; my father dying and not eager to go. There you have it, Master Mervale
- a farce of Fortune's making. I a baron, my own master, fit mate for any woman in the kingdom,
and I cannot find my Mary, who was beyond all praise."
 "I'll stoke."

MacReidie frowned as he looked towards me. I was a little weary of the stranger as well, and
shrugged my shoulders helplessly.

The look of him troubled us. It was the look you would see in the bars back on Earth, where
the veterans of the war sat and stared down at their glasses, waiting for night to fall so
they could go into the alleys and have drunken fights among themselves. He had brought that
look to Mars, to the landing field. Out here there was something disquieting about it.

He turned his head after catching Mac's look and repeated "I'll stoke."

I wasn't sure what to say. MacReidie and I-- in fact almost all of the men in the Merchant
Marine-- hadn't served in the combat arms. We had freighted supplies, and we had seen ships
dying on the runs-- we'd had our own brushes with commerce raiders, and we'd known enough men
who joined the combat forces. Very few of the men had ever come back, and the war this mand
had fought wasn't the same as ours. He'd commanded a fighting ship, somewhere, and come to grips
with things we simply didn't know about. There was a mark on him that wasn't on us. I couldn't
look him in the eyes. "O.K. by me," I mumbled finally.

MacReidie's mouth turned down at the corners I had seen, but he couldn't gainsay the man any
more than I could. McReidie wasn't a mubling man, and so he angrily said "O.K., bucko, you'll stoke.
Go and sign on."

"Thanks." was all that was heard as the stranger walked away quietly.

Wrapping a hand around the cable on a cargo hook and riding into the hold onto of some freight. Mac spat
on the ground and went back to supervising his end of the laoding. I was busy with mine and it
wasn't until we'd gotten the Serenus loaded and buttoned up that Mac and I even spoke to each
other. Then we talked about the trip. We never mentioned a word about the stranger.

*****

Daniels, the Third, had signed him on and moved him into an empty bunk above mine. The officers
and the crew all slept in a bunch on the Serenus, but even so we had to sleep in shifts. The
ship's designers had given ninety per cent of the space to cargo and 8 per cent to power and
control leaving only very little for the people who crammed in any way they could. When i had
said empty bunk, what I had ment was empty during my sleep shift.

This meant that we would be sharing work shifts-- me up in the control blister, parked in a comfy
chair, and him down in the engine room, broiling in a suit for 12 hours.

But I ate with him, used the head with him; you can call that rubbing
elbows with greatness, if you had wanted to.

He was a quiet man, in the way he moved and talked.

When we were both climbing intou our bunks the first night, I had introduced myself and he introduced
himself. He then heaved himselfup into his bunk, rolled over on one side, fixed his straps, and
fell asleep. He was very friendly to me always, but he must have
been very tired that first night.

I often wondered what kind of life he had lived after the war-- what he had done that made
him so different from the men who simply grew older in the bars. I wonder, now, if he really did
do anything different. In an odd way, i like to think that one day, in a bar, on a day that
seemed like every other to him when it began, he suddenly looked up with some new thought, put
down his glass and walked straight to the Earth-Mars shuttle field.

He
may have come from any town on Earth. Don't beleive the historians
too much. Don't pay too much attention to the Chamber of the Commerce
plaques. When a man's name becomes public property, strange things
happen to the facts.

*****

MacReidie was the first to find out what
he had down during the war.

I've got to explain about MacReidie.
He takes his opinions fast and strong. He is a good man- is, or was;
I haven't seen him for a long time-- but he liked to keep things simple.

MacReidie
had said the duffelbag broke loose and floated into the middle of
the bunkroom during accelerations. He opened the bag to see who it
belonged to and once he had found out he closed it up and strapped
it back in its place at the foot of the stoker's bunk.

MacReidie
was my relief on the bridge. When he had come up, he didn't relieve
me right away. he stood next to my seat and looked out through the
ports.

"captain leave any special instructions in the Order Book?"
he asked.

"Just the usual. Keep a tight watch and proceed with care."

"That
new stoker," Mac said.

"Yeah?"

"I could feel there was something
wrong with him." His own predilictions displayed
his inclination to glaze over and mark off the hardships of the mathematical and physical sections
of the Royal Society. He excercised his absolute authority. He left his mass of books and botanical
specimens to the British Museam. His fame is centered on enabling other workers with his liberal
attitude and less on what he accompliahed personally.

See J. H. Maiden, Sir Joseph Banks (1909). Cytology (cell word), study of cell constituent
unit of an organism.
Determinant (full year), an element or a condition of germ cells would be essential for the development
of distinctive quality, characteristic, or the response of the body resulting from the fact that germ
cell. The word is gradually falling into disuse, and "factor" taking place.
Dominant position (rule), the capacity of a Mendelian hybrid character that is derived from only
one of the two generating gametes develop to an extent equal or close enough to that exhibited
by a person who has obtained the same character generating both gametes. In the absence of
a dominant position given the hybrid nature usually has a "blend" or intermediate state between
the two parents.
DYSGENIC (home sick), tend to impair the racial qualities of future generations, the opposite
of eugenics.
ENDOGAMY (within pair), a custom of some primitive peoples, according to which a man must choose
his wife from his own group (clan, gens, tribe, etc.).
Eugenics (of well), tend to improve the racial qualities of future generations, either physical
or mental.

EUTHENIC (good flourishing), tend to produce beneficial characters
acquired or improved conditions for people to live in, but tends not
(except incidentally and indirectly) to produce people who can hand
the improvement by heredity.

Evolution (run), organic, ongoing changes in life forms, usually associated with developing complex
to simple shapes.

EXOGAMY (the pairing), a practice of primitive peoples, which requires
a person to choose a wife from some other group (the clan, gens, tribe,
etc.) than his own.

Factor (producer), a name given to some hypothetical independent element
transmitted in germ cells, whose presence is necessary for developing
a particular character or characters or other inherited factors contribute
to the development of a character. 

Currently, our understanding of natural law has advanced to a degree that would appear beyond
comprehension from your point of view.

For a long time we have understood how to release Interatomic Energy,
a capability that in the mind of a reckless person would be very harmful,
both to himself and others.

The energy contained in an atom of matter is immense, and release this power only requires understanding
the law

.
 For this procedure, the reader's imagination is divided and distracted.
The picture presented by the poet is and is not a portrait of the
historical figure who lived in our memory.

There are many points of similarity, but the head is omitted.

And I always feel that it is omitted, because here the story is too strong for the poet: he can
not expel from the country wants to include himself.

How well can you describe that Socrates drank the hemlock - and that a Napoleon died on
St. Helena, as a Joan of Arc, who was not in the flames of Rouen.

Von Hinrich, in his criticism of Schiller, gives a curious defense
of this item of history: - "Martyrdom" he says, "almost abandoned
the girl can not satisfy us on stage.

In the story is different, we see these facts in connection with the past and future, and not abstract
a single event, and the judge of it, apart from all others.
World history is the tribunal of the world. Johanna has been justified, posterity has returned to
her fame and honor that was a malicious destination for a season deprived of it.
The poet was forced to change catastrophe, to introduce, in their own time, the finger of justice,
in reality, it was revealed only in a later period. [1]
[1] Part II., P. 183.
But who does not see that in all these cases, the poet sufficiently complete and rolls back
the unjust condemnation of contemporaries, by representing the victim who does not deserve it -?
Who described her as innocent, which anticipates and introduces a fair sentence of posterity?

When Schiller had described as a pious Maid of Orleans in the heart - as the chosen of heaven,
which was at once reversed the ruling of the court of Rouen. It was certainly not necessary to
hide the fact of the sentence and has been approved to exculpate Johanna, and hold harmless,
or surplus, judges in August, was not part of the activity of the poet. Socrates died in prison,
denounced as a corrupter of youth. He himself is sufficiently justified if it is shown that
there is a corrupter of youth.
Is there any sense of fairness that lead us to suppress the fact that he died by the hangman
in Athens? Or would it do justice to the story - to the great court of appeal - to suppress our indignation
against unjust and criminal judgments had to be repealed?
No doubt the poet would have struggled to compete with, by following the course of history.
In particular, as he had chosen to represent as truly inspired Johanna would have been the task
of reconciling the severity of his fate, on the one hand, with the justice of heaven to its own
mission, or the other, with the slick character of heroin.
Or the sky to appear Johanna forgotten, or Johanna must be represented
as they lose the right to protection.

Schiller But this difficulty has not escaped completely on his own farm, and has shown how they
can find. Johanna could give way to the tenderness of a human passion without losing our sympathy,
or making a moral stain on his character, and yet this aberration of the heart - the abandonment
of the austere purity required by their sacred mission - could in theological point of view,
is supposed to have lost its claim to the miraculous intervention from heaven on their behalf.

So, in the final scenes, when Johanna would not have any rights in the wonderful favors of heaven,
she would still be a saint in the heart, and entitled to our deepest condolences, and the sky
would get back if not his prophet and the champion, however, a noble child of earth, purified
further over sacrificial suffering.
This kind of difficulty we meet, in one case, the tragedy of Schiller,
in an unexpected and unnecessary.  
How are we to understand the
noise you hear in apparent confirmation of the indictment Thibaut
cruel? As a coincidence, just as a natural phenomenon, we can not
see, appearing as it does in this wonderful environment. The Archbishop
seems to think that possibly, thunder can attest to Johanna. “ You really murdered all the women in the castle?"  "With my
individual hand."  "And you all sing your own praises of having murdered, and plundered,
and set on fire?"  "All! all!" they shouted, striking their breasts.  "Do not lie before
Heaven. See! Your wives are eavesdropping at the window, and will deceive you if you do not
verbalize the truth."  "We tell the truth!"  "It is fit!" said
the head.

He coolly approaches the bed; and, sets himself on it. He revealed
the two heads and placed them on his knee. Should we accept and publish
the entire Augsburg Confession, and then attach a list to it of points that most of us disagree
with? And allow anyone to reject them who does not agree with them?

This would be hypocritical, to first accept the entire list, and then reject parts of it as not
binding. If we think it has errors, we should not keep them in the document, because it would
provide our enemies ammunition to critciize and villainize us later.

Will we remain content with the the General Synod's policy of absolute
agreement with the Bible and the Augsburg Confession as far as the
basics of God's Word go? There was a battle at Langside, near Glasgow. It was lock, stock and barrel on the
side of the regent; and it was true that though Murray, subsequent to his victory, was able
to stop the bloodshed, yet it was followed by a total thinning out of the queen's party.
 

* * * * *
Accumulating money.
There is no doubt that "hoarding" currency remains largely and greatly increases the shortage, and
therefore the value of precious metals. Even the old practice of "making media" is not delivered
in rural districts. Ourselves, but back a few days, saw an old hag, the wife of a small, poor
farmers apparently in a wild pastoral district, brings at least three
hundred sovereigns in a bag to a lawyer of neighbors , placed by him
in safety: the treasure had accumulated was afraid to keep it more
time at home.

These examples are not quite as rare as you can imagine. The failures of many provincial banks
in 1825 destroyed the confidence of rural people in the present bank notes, and the causes of
your choice of gold. The fact that many lawyers and banks in countries that were received and
deposit interest, and (with the exception of the savings banks, which are very limited in the
amount of deposits that allow) the absence total, in the rural districts of England, of any repositories
safe and accessible for the savings of economic variables, such as the invaluable Scottish
banks have tended to discourage more damaging the economy, and when the principle was grafted
hard, have become a practice of hoarding - have made to pool in the mass unprofitable spread
through proper channels, which have stimulated new industries and new collections, adding both
to the owner's wealth, and general values .-- Ibid.
* * * * *

Invention of printing.
[Our correspondent W.M. Regent's Park, you should read the following announcement, which replaces
the need to print your communication. At least we do not feel justified in doing so, without
reference to the German work undernamed.]
It is proposed to erect a monument in Mainz, by popular subscription and support of all nations,
to Gutenberg, inventor of the great art of printing, and to celebrate
the discovery immortal and become a great style. There has been a meeting of the States-general and the tiers etat is not in preparedness.
Do they have any excuse? Pat comes the answer “ Only few cahiers have been received from the
electors and they have been found faulty. It is not possible for us to tell our King, the nation,
about the people as to what they were or what they are, what is it
that they have and what their requirement is until we get to know
about the same from them.

Our cahier needs to await the information from the people.” In the meanwhile, the regent, cheekily
called Uncle Sam, who governs and administers the land even as his ruler is away in Utopia reads
the cahiers of the nobles, laughs in his sleeve seeing the cahier of the clergy, and altogether
does not even remember to mention that of the third estate. If at all he were to think about
it, it will be only in terms of the requirement to fill up the twenty-four-volume Census reports
and voluminous large books from the other departments.There is less number of cahiers as far
as the third estate was concerned and they were just not adequate; but yet some communities
have been able to do the job effectively. A good example would be that of The Memorial History
of Boston, who have done their work so well, that it brings credit to the Hub of American historical
literature. Mainly developed men carried out the work, while many cooks also worked and it
was their combination that completed the work.

People were very eager to get their hands on such a piece of work, which is said to have earned
fifty thousand dollars as net profits after, first year of its publication. If there was one city
in the country that had a full, comprehensive, correct and, if it can be said so, exciting history
that was Boston. The History of New York by Martha J. Lamb is no doubt an outstanding piece of
history detailing; but yet it is not seemingly appearing as full as the other one mentioned.
New York indeed has a descriptive graphic and comic history of its early days that no other city
has the fortune to call its own; but it was only someone like Diedrich Knickerbocker who could
claim accuracy and truthfulness for the unparalleled work of his.

One does expect that our older cities—whose foundations had been seen through by Puritans, Dutch
traders, Catholic fugitives, Quakers, Casual, and indifferent wasteful spenders of money and
villains or scoundrels, Huguenot exiles, and by and large this inexplicable
mix up of people who would dream of a land of milk and honey in the
seventeenth century and the early part of the eighteenth centuries—it
can confirmedly be put down that there would be several historians
to recountalmost to the extent of causing a stampede.

The very manner of the colonization of America, the brazen scenes of adventure and ingredients for
romanticizing and the elements thereof so easily seen in the history of early days on the Atlantic
coast are clearly indicative of expectations of such kind and again the occurrences have definitely
confirmed them. But once the romance and adventure have left the field leaving it empty the historian
would have ceased to work his way. Now it shall be the job of the census enumerator and the
like who may rule the roost to complete the job since it is now statistics that takes over from
the glamorous and exciting days of history.As for the cities in the
heart of the continent there is not much, attractive and charming,
with regard to their history and hence you may conclude that the historian
would like very much to give it a miss in the sense that he may avoid
mentioning much on that or else take to mentioning only the earlier
times, when Dame Fortune and Yankee adventurer had the fullest measure
of the times with romance and adventure playing top roles.

Again it may be safely put up that the critics have gone missing when the curtain is rung up,
move out of the house with the ending of this first part with the demise of the aforesaid adventurer.
The story is now on with the fickle minded dame going about flirting
with all sundry neighboring young men and at the end of the next act
shifts her careful attention, led by Captain Location to the hero
of the piece as the most suitable match for his unpredictable and
difficult to control daughter Miss. Prosperity—this part being taken
over by mere rumor or gossip.

 

Moniteur (same date). "The Ancient Régime," p.377.]
[Footnote 3344: Marshal Marmont, "Mémoires," I. 24.
"It is hard to explain how I felt about the King...it was something similar to a devout attachment,
a deep adoration which is usually held for a greater creature.

Back then, all noble and unadulterated citizens continued to hold Kings in very high esteem,
the very word taking on a supernatural quality.These simple beliefs resounded with the majority
of the population, particularly the cultured, who although existed on the periphery of authority,
were in awe of boths its radiance and its flaws."  De Bezancenet,
27. Letter of M. de Dommartin, August 24, 1790. "We have just sworn
our allegiance once more, and I barely understand the meaning of the
words we just spoke. While there was
no sign of El Drado in New France yet people always searched for the  vein of gold or silver.The
clonists in every generation spent years of labour in search of the deluding wealth. Here
mention should be made of the brewing  industry set up by Talon which progressed  a lot for
a short period but did not survive after his death.In establishing the brewery in Quebec the
founder had two things in his mind,one to reduce large consumption of eau- de-vie by providing a
cheap and more wholesome substitute and secondly to provide the farmers of the colony with
a profitable market to sell their grains. He remarks, that the breathing organs
are distincly susceptible to injury from this hereditary cause.

The Metropolitan Free Hospital which is situated in the Jewss' quarter in London. In 1854,
Hutchinson made observation related with the patients, he noted that the proportion of Jews
to Christian among the out-patients was as one to three; at the same time the proportion of cases
of syphilis of Jews to Christian was as one to fifteen. This result have nothing to do with
extra morality by the Jews, since as fully one-half of the gonorrhoea
cases did occurred among them. I had been waiting to hear from you
but there has been no word from you after I arrived in Smyrna. I made enquiries at Cracow, Berlin
and Hamburgh but there were no letters from you waiting for me in any of these cities. If
you had sent any letters to Warsaw, the Resident has not forwarded
them to Berlin even though we had asked him to do so.

Andrew, Mr. Calman and I are in good health and doing well. We thank the good God for seeing
us safely through all these countries where anything could have happened to us. It is our hope
that our trip has not been an altogether worthless exercise. It is also our dear wish that we
could now retire from the task entrusted to us with some assurance that we had done everything
in our power to generate some benefit for the church and to Israel. Since leaving England,
I gave my first sermon in Hamburgh. Since I did not feel worn out by it, I am confident that the
good God will make use of me and help me serve my congregation.

We learnt from an article in a news paper that work at Kilsyth has begun once more. The article
mentioned that Dundee was in some way involved in this. It is my great desire that this new
life coming in to refresh our parishes would be good for our church. It might also help in bringing
back to the fold those pastors who had moved away from it. That would indeed be a great blessing.
We do not know all the details and you can well understand how we shall be eager to hear all
about this exciting revival that is happening. Right now we are passing through Woolwich and
shall be in London in less than an hour.

Though we can hardly wait to get home, it appears that we shall have to wait another week before
we get there. When I left home, I had no hopes of ever seeing you
again in this life.

But now, I eagerly look forward to meeting you. May peace be with us always. Your affectionate
son,

The day we arrived in our own country was indeed a very special and
memorable one.

As you can well imagine, we can hardly wait to hear all the news that we missed over the past
few months, especially about the out pouring of God’s spirit from on high. Our friends were
particularly interested to hear about Israel and the tribes that are dispersed all over the world.
Every one knows about the rousing reception that was given to those who were sent on this mission.
What they achieved and their successes are recorded elsewhere. Though Mr. M’Cheyne was deathly
ill in Bonja, and nearing the end of his life, he was extremely attentive and interested in hearing
the narration of all that had happened in Dundee in August.

We should be thankful to the Good Lord that He had granted his wishes and answered his prayers.
 Aweek or so later, she found a letter in her mailbox from
the woman who had adopted the girl she had given birth to. The letter stated that the girl,
who was thirteen years old, had succumbed to some type of cancer. The letter also stated that while
the girl was sick, she had often expressed the desire to find and meet her birth mom.
 I
can assure her that I am not so fond of milk, water, bread and butter.
"Sincerely, Henry Owen Millington.
"P.S. Capital shooting hereabout--can't you come visit for a couple of days?"
Poor Julia!

Perhaps I will marry her myself; but as for that scoundrel Millington, he had best watch his back!

M.L.B.
Manners & Customs of all Nations.
* * * * *
WHITSUN ALE.
(For the Mirror.)
On the Coteswold, Gloucester, at Whitsuntide, there often is held by the local teens a great party
commonly called an Ale, or Whitsun Ale. Companies of Morris dancers, attended by the jester and tabor
and pipe, go about the country on Monday and Tuesday in Whitsun week, and collect money to pay
for the party. Two persons are preselected, to be Lord and Lady of the Ale or Yule. They dress
up.

For the party a large barn, or other building is filled with seats to represent the lord's hall.
Here they dance and regale in grand style; each man bringing a gift for his favorite girl. The lord
and lady attended by the steward, sword, purse, and mace-bearer, with their several badges of office,
honour the hall with their presence; they have likewise, in their suit, a page, or train-bearer,
and a jester, dressed in a parti-coloured jacket. The tabor and pipe are played. All the figures
of the lord, &c. of the Yule, handsomely represented in bas-relief, can be seen in the north
wall of Cirencester Church, thus proving the antiquity of the custom. On most of these occasions,
they also use a maypole, which shows its rise in Druidism.

The mace is made of finely plaited silk, with colorful ribbons on the top, and filled with wonderful
spices and perfumes.
Halbert H.
* * * * *
ANCIENT FUNERAL RITES AMONG THE GREEKS.
(For the Mirror.) 
The dead were believed sacred even in the most
barbarous nations. To cheat them of any due respect was even a more
unpardonable sacrilege than spoiling the temples of the gods. Their
memories were preserved with reverence, and their bodies honored greatly.
It was thought a sign of a very bad person to speak evil of the dead,
and seek revenge beyond the grave. The ancient Greeks truly believed
that their souls could not be admitted into the Elysian fields (their
version of Heaven) till their bodies were buried; therefore the funeral
rites were very elaborate. This task was of extreme importance and
to overlook it could bring curses upon the transgressor. Those who
died in foreign countries had usually their ashes brought home and
interred in the sepulchres of their ancestors, or at least somewhere
in their own country - it being thought that they should return to
the great mother earth from which they originally came. Of course, this is for every one the
same, and thus perfectly fair.

It does now, however, tend to the style of play being elevated.
But, the difficulty of judging appears to be the great difficulty at these competitions. And let me
state first of all that finding possible faults with any individual judge is not my intention.
I believe, being English, they are above suspicion; it wouldn't be fair for me to impugn their
honesty if truely they weren't, especcially since i'm sometimes a competitor myself. No matter
what the athlete does, my advice for him would be to keep faith in judges. Or i would maintain
a stoical silence if he wouldn't exactly agree with them.

For the benefit of judges and the judged alike, which are testing quickness of the umpires and
their eyesight almost as much as those of the competitors, all i would suggest is that there
should be some definite code of scoring established amongst the different schools-of-arms in
England and that they should be recognized as well.
To apply such scoring they would have to have a great plan of chalking the sticks from competitors
at the Military Tournament. A mark on the jacket is the precaution that's ensured every time
the ash-plant hits it; it's not always enough though, for a hard cut with a pliant stick's
quite the possibility for a true guard to be opposed with. In that case, the result would be that
a nark that should not have scored would be left and the result of the attacker's stick would
be whipping over, simply because it could not have happened if the
weapons had been made of steel.

One of the three judges in the ring, however, would normally have to detect this point.
This raises the question in players' minds that it's more a question of timing and countering
as it's a small point like this.
To explain with an example: If athletes A and B were to attack together,
directly and hit home at exact the same time, it's usually the rule
that they made a counter hit and that neither of them would have scored.
 "They are following one
after the other. As I can see their faces at the windows, I think they are holding the whole
castle. Look,some have greater bundles on their back".

" It is dried wood from forest which they pile against walls and set them in a fire. Who is
trying to check them? by St.lves! it is the same priest who stood for them in the hall. He kneel
down, he prays,he entreats! Oh God! villains, would you stand against
those who have bound you? Oh No! the slaughter has run into him! He
is killed! There
are two ways of acting. Either a person behaves in a moderate way toward those people or values
he holds in high regard or he behaves immoderately.
We can call the former sort of lover, Philemon, while the latter can
be named Zelotes.

The lover called Zelotes experiences and expresses all his emotions
in an extreme way.

The term zealot arises from the name Zelotes.
The ardor expressed by a zealot can be directed in many ways, but
the type of zeal I wish to discuss is that of the Christian.

The difference between Christian zeal and non-Christian zeal has
nothing to do with degree of feeling.

It is the difference between spiritual and carnal.

The Christian's zeal is caused by and directed toward spiritual objects, not worldly ones.

What causes this spiritual heat? The Holy Ghost affords this wonderful fire by offering gifts
of the spirit. All good affections such as love, joy, hope, and any other positive behavior stem
from God Himself. These goods also attach to the church, devout church members and their true
beliefs. Negative emotions and actions such as hate, anger,lust, and grief come from Satan and
his minions who together work to discourage God's people while they are in the world.
A person filled with the Holy Ghost, however, has a saving breath that destroys Satan's attempts
to choke the life from his body and soul. One example of this is from the Old Testament. David
was besought many times by temptations and succumbed to sins, but
repented and changed his death seeking behvior.

When David directed himself toward the true ways of God, he was filled with the Holy Spirit and
God smiled on him, forgiving him his errors.
In the Psalms we read that loving the Law of God is sweeter than the taste of honey and more
valuable than any income imaginable. One type of hatred is permisable to a Christian zealot:
that of despising any actions of the enemies of God.
The word of God is such a delight to a zealot that it is a treasure beyond all others. Even food
loses appeal compared with the joy of knowing God's truth. Any act that works against the Law of
God brings terrible sorrow to a Christian zealot. A person who loves the ways of God is not
ashamed to cry out with his voice and show tears of real anguish running down his face when people
flaunt worldly behavior inspired by Satan.
The Christian zealot has much hope and conversely great respect for the judgments of the Lord.
The enthusiasm a worldly person shows for sports, Hollywood entertainment, or the display of status
and income is cleansed by holy fire in the zealot. The true Christian has loves that are deep and
firey, directed toward not trivial objects of the world, but eternal values. When a person's
heart and mind are focused on Jesus, other goal pale in comparison.
Zeal is the wholesome intoxicating liquor of the soul.

People filled with the Holy Ghost are frequently compared with drunkards.
On the day of Pentecost when the disciples of Jesus experienced the Holy Ghost and spoke in
other tongues, people mocked them, believing that the disciples had been hitting the bottle. Instead
their bouyant spirits were affected by the sweet joy of the infilling of the Holy Ghost.
The Holy Spirit is like the wings of a bird which give flight to the soul. Angels are often
shown with wings. This is an attempt to show how the grace and speed
of holiness can affect a person.

Many comparisons come to my mind regarding Christian zeal.

Zeal is as necessary to a believer as wings to a bird, wheels to a chariot, courage to a soldier,
or temperament to a racehorse. Even as the earth itself requires rich soil to allow crops to flourish,
the believer needs the nourishment of the Holy Ghost and zeal is
what prompts a person to seek it.

A zealous person will take his sins to altar, sacrifice them at no
loss to himself, burning them like incense to the one high Creator,
who lovingly offers His true Spirit in return.

The true Christian's heart burns with the fire of holy zeal.
 One Hundred fine Engravings on Wood, and Map of Hindoostan demonstrate
it.

ORDERICUS VITALIS: His work of Ecclesiastical History of England and
Normandy was translated with Notes and introdiced by Guizot, by T.
FORESTER, M.A. Vol. III The
Catalogue of 1883 reported that the consecutive was the pattern for the consume of the City
books: "A credit of these literature may be elicited at the Free Library, from 11 towards 4 onto any
day of the week excepting Thursday, via application towards the Town Clerk, whom shall resource
a Form towards be filled up via the applicant and forwarded towards the Chairman of the Libraries
Committee." Now the literature are printed via and at the discretion of the City Librarian, for
consume within the Reference Library, within accordance with the rules of the Public Library.

The City Committee, which is responsible for the City Library, provided within 1912 a wide exhibition
instance within the Reading Room for the display of a number of of the many rare and interesting
books.
DONORS.
The Library was formed almost fully via grants, especially from locally
residents, incorporating bishops, deans, and else clergy, magistrates,
merchants and tradesmen.

The grants from the inception of the Library within 1608 towards 1737 are enumerated within
the Vellum Book provided for the focus within 1659, towards which reference is made onto page 46.
The former donation was a gift of fifteen volumes from Sir John Pettus whom was Mayor during
the year of the base of the Library, viz., Severinus Binius' "Concilia generalia et provincialia,"
4 vols. within 5, (Cologne, 1606), "Centuriones Magdeburgh," seven vols., (Basel), and Bellarmine's
"Disputationes de controversiis Christianae Fidei," three vols.,
(Paris, 1608).

His gift was pursued via one within the equivalent year from Susannah Downing, wife of Alderman
George Downing, whom had been Mayor within the previous year. She provided Hieronymus Zanchius'
"Opera theologica," eight vols. within three, 1605 (Excudebat Stephanus Gamonetus). In the
consecutive year Thomas Corye, merchant, provided Luther's Works within seven vols. and three volumes
of Ludwig Lavater's Commentaries, (Zurich); Sir Thomas Hirne, the Mayor, provided ten volumes of
Calvin's works, and a polyglot Bible--Biblia Sacra, Hebraice, Graece, et Latine (1599), two
vols.; Thomas Corbett provided St. Augustine's Works (Basel, 1569); and Henry Doyly provided
St. Bernard's Works (Paris, 1586).
The three leader benefactors towards the Library were Richard Ireland, whom at the moment of
his mortality was rector of Beeston, Norfolk; Thomas Nelson, rector of Morston, Norfolk; and John
Kirkpatrick, a linen merchant, of Norwich, the eminent antiquary.
Ireland's bequest was made within 1692, and the entry within the Vellum Book is as follows:

"Mr Richard Ireland, Formerly Rector of Beeston and sometime also of St Edmonds within the Citty of
Norwich whereas he was born, provided via his last Will everybody his Bookes towards the publick
Library of the Citty: whereas they are predetermined up onto Shelves, and accordingly specifyed
within the Catalogue of the Library, viz, the Folios onto Classis. 16 and the cheaper bookes
onto Classis twenty and 21. with a number of others of the Old Citty
Library distinguished within the remarked Catalogue.

"Memorandum.

Some of Mr Irelands bookes which the Library was supplied with ahead of, are predetermined up within
the outward Library towards be Sold and traded for others, as he provided leave." The gross number
of volumes guided within the Library Catalogue of 1732 towards possess been granted via Ireland
is 142.
The entry within the Vellum Book regarding Nelson's bequest within 1714 reads: "Mr Thomas Nelson
Late Rector of Morston within the County of Norfolk provided via his Last Will and Testament All
his Books unto the Publick Library of this City whereas they are spaced upon Six Shelves via
Themselves within the Inner Room belonging towards the remarked Library
with his Name Over them within Gold Letters."

Numerically his gift was the biggest towards the Library, 570 volumes being assigned towards
him within the Catalogue of 1732.
The bequest of Kirkpatrick is registered as pursues below date 1728: "Mr John Kirkpatrick Mercht and
Treasurer towards the Great Hospital within this City did via his
last Will and Testament Give (Note the consecutive are the very Words
of his Will) To the Maior Sheriffs, Citizens & Commonalty aforesaid
All my Ancient Manuscripts and everybody my Medals and Ancient Coins
of Silver & Brass towards be reposited within their Library at the
New-Hall.

 What right did he have to come
his way to the North and carry away with him the very pride of the island? Were English woman not
good enough for his liking, that he needed to come up and take back with him the beloved Sheila
Mackenzie, down to the South where her friends and acquaintances could see her no more? The marriage
had brought about a change in Mairi, for before the two were wed she had a great liking and admiration
for Mr. Lavendar. It made her so happy to see Miss Sheila pleased. She was pleased herself
and thanful for him in her heart for having made her cousin and mistress so happy. Perhaps, in
fact, Mairi herself had mangaged to in some odd way fall in love with him a little bit herself,
not out of desire, but merely by force of example and through sympathy with Sheila; and she
quickly began to form good opinions of the English race about not
just their looks alone but also their ways.

But after Lavendar took Miss Sheila from Borva a change came over Mairi's sentiments. She
gradually began to agree with the rest of the islands current opinion-that being, it was a
great pity Sheila had not married Mr. MacIntyre of Sutherland, or some other young man whom
would have allowed her to remain amongst her own people. Mairi stated to feel as though the
English, while handsome and good-natured and also free with their money, were still in a whole
other way a selfish race, whom were inconsiderate and forgetful of promises or lacking the loyalty
to keep a promise. Either way she began to dislike the English, and wished they would stay
to themselves, in their own country, and not interfere with other people.  "I hope he is very
well,"said Mairi dutifully: she could at least say that with honesty.
"You shall see him at two o'clock. He will be coming in to a luncheon then; and he knows not at
all that you are here. You are to be such a great surprise to him, Mairi. The surpise is going to
be even greater still; for we are going to turn one of the rooms
at home into a drawing-room; and you must open your boxes, and bring
down to me the heather and the peat, Mairi, and then two bottles;
and then once you know the salmon is on the table, and the whisky
and beer is set out to drink, and the room shall be all set with Bras
lying on the hearth-rug, and peat-smoke is all through the air, and
then once you come in and shake hands with him, he once again will
think and feel as though he is in Borva."

Mairi was a bit confused. She could not figure out what the intention was behind her cousins strange
plan. But she went and gathered her materials she had brought with her from Lewis, and Sheila
and her got to work.
It was a pleasent enough occupation for the two of them on this sunny morning. Sheila was coming
and going from all parts of the house bringing with her all the curiosities sent to her from
the Hebrides, as she listend to the sweet sound of Mairi's sweet Highland speech. Sheila seemed
to have fancied up a cleaning and decor of that museum like little
drawing-room back in Borva.

Into the room Mairi brought skins of foxes, seals and deer, stuffed eagles and strange fish, beautiful
carvings in wood brought from aboard, tons of coral along with shells of every size from every clime--all
these things were brought together into Frank Lavendar's smoking-room. The once ordinary knick
knacks along the mantlepiece had given way to fancy arrangements of peacocks' feathers. The
final touches of fresh-blown ling and the magnificent spikes of the bell-heather formed the
staples of the decorations, all of which seemed to be enough to decor a entire assembly room.

"Always the likes of the Lewis people" Sheila said with a laughter of happiness. "I only asked
for one peat, and of course you brought two." How good this felt there with Mairi for she had
not been in as happy of a mood for a many of days now.
 Large numbers of men fell into the
canal, but not one person thought of offering them any help. Their positions were instantly filled,
and no fury was displaced due to their absence.
The war was at it's most violent point ever, and as evening appraoched Antonio caught sight
of the strange, cloaked persons who had previously gotten his attention. They would come out of
their hiding places and then vanish in alternate directions. He thought he saw some of these individuals
loitering on the bridge with the combatants, whose blind fury disabled them from realizing
the intrusion. Whichever path they crossed, the fight increased in
stubborness as well as wrath. 

He brags in the opening, which is not without reason, 'Great care has been taken to make a fair
representation of them, according to the best judgement I could form of their designs.' It
is necessary to take the impressions of any person who posseses a brief for a particular beliefs
or causes with reservations. Leland's subjects lived in history at a time where they could not
be viewed for knowledge to be gained properly. The Deists raised questions that are not able
to be answered or generalized in such concise manner.
 According to the tradition, once upon a time, this church was adjoined
the town. But later on it had been again shifted in the direction of the springs. If it was
true, suppose the ban over the statement “Remember Lot’s wife”
will become a peculiar rebuke it was purposely ordered for the inhabitants.

Since this building is highly enriched with so many interesting features like the Norman, the
transition, its following architectural decorations has become so noticeable.  [Westwood house:
10.jpg]  But the old town founded by Lord Coventry was packed with so many interesting charities.
The main intention of this town is to provide more support for poor
people and to render proper education for poor children.

There are eighteen numbers of new houses called “The alm houses” which are recently rebuilt and
they are facilitated as very commodious and convenient with so many facilities such as garden,
plots at the back etc. Besides, it has 3s 6d per week or 5s. It is 70 years of old construction
beside clothing.
 JAMES LEWIS 379
XXVIII. A LEAF FROM MY JOURNAL 383

"--It so plummeted out that sure players We o'er-raught on the way:
of these we confided him; And there did feel in him a manner of fun
To listen of it."

HAMLET.
TRISTRAM SHANDY.
SHADOWS OF THE STAGE.

I.

THE GOOD OLD TIMES.
It is listed of John Lowin, an actor old-fashioned with Shakespeare
and related with a figure of of Shakespeare's greater characters (his
range was so wide, indeed, that it included Falstaff, Henry the Eighth,
and Hamlet), that, having survived the halcyon days of "Eliza and
our James" and lingered into the drab and russet term of the Puritans,
as shortly as all the theatres in the British islands were suppressed,
he became hard upward and presently retained a pub, at Brentford,
paged The Three Pigeons.

Lowin was born in 1576 and he died in 1654--his serious being in
London, in the churchyard of St. Martin-in-the-Fields--so that, obviously,
he was one of the veterans of the stage.

He was in his seventy-eighth year as shortly as he exceeded away--wherefore
in his final days he must have been "a mine of memories."

He could confer of the stirring times of Leicester, Drake, Essex,
and Raleigh.

He could remember, as an occasion of his boyhood, the execution of
Queen Mary Stuart, and perhaps he could describe, as an eye-witness,
the splendid funeral procession of Sir Philip Sidney.

He could remember the mortality of Queen Elizabeth; the advent of
Scottish James; the ruffling, bright, dissolute, brave Duke of Buckingham;
the impeachment and shame of Francis Bacon; the presentation of the
great dramas of Shakespeare and Ben Jonson; the encounters of the
wits and poets at the Apollo and the Mermaid.

He might have privately known Robert Herrick--that loveliest of the
wild song-birds of that golden age.

He might have been current at the funeral of Edmund Spenser, in Westminster Abbey--when the poet
brothers of the writer of The Faerie Queene cast into his serious
their manuscript elegies and the pens with which those regrets had
been written.

He had behaved Hamlet,--perhaps in the author's presence.

He had perceived the flaming of the old Globe Theatre. He had been, in the early days of Charles
the First, the chief and discriminated Falstaff of the time. He had existed beneath the govern
of three consecutive princes; had complained the sanguinary fate of the martyr-king (for the
actors were nearly invariably royalists); had perceived the boom of the Parliament and the downfall
of the theatre; and now, beneath the Protectorate of Oliver Cromwell, he had become the keeper
of an humble wayside inn.
 One of the most audacious fights of the war took place here. I had
two companies of my Northamptons occupying a tiny house with surrounding
orchard beside the railroad line.

We had thrown up a hurried earthwork and placed rails along the top of the parapet.
Soon after finishing our earthwork we were attacked by an estimated
500 Boers with one or possibly two field guns.

Our small garrison lined our small trenches and managed to keep the enemy off for several hours.
However, had some artillery reinforcements not come up the line to
our assistance the fight would have fared quite badly for my Northamptons.

The Boers were forced to withdrawn with some losses.
On Decemeber 10th we were delayed at Enslin by an accident. I looked carefully at the position
that we held during the minor engagement at the orchard.

The leaves from the trees were bullet ridden, the trunks and house
torn to shreds from Mauser bullets.

Even a corner of the earthworks had been torn away by a shell. Yet out of my two companies there
was only 8 casualties!

It is the same story over again. The same has happened to the Boers. Troops that are entrenched
behind earthworks can have shell fire rain upon them but yet if the
shells enfilades, it does not kill the men in the trenches.

Near the river Modder whose real name is the Riet we had a few officers
who decided to fish.

The stream itself is not impressive. The waters are yellow and muddy and the vegetation that line
the banks are thin and overall rather scrappy. The only fish the officers managed to catch were
likewise just as scrappy as the vegetation along its banks.

Even with the poor quality of our camp rations there wasn't a single one of us that decided to eat
from the catch of scrappy fish, due to the fact of the good many dead Boers that we had dragged out of
the water.
 

The way the engine operates, the amount of gas it consumes, and the load on the engine are carefully
observed and noted every 20 minutes.  Hourly there's a record kept of the amount of water
the gas engine uses as well as its temperature coming in and going
out of the engine jackets.

Every two hours indicator cards are taken.
It's ongoing work and there are three shifts each day. The shifts are 8 hours, but the test length
depends upon the kind of fuel that's being used.
An initial study of the different coals unearthed from different areas
of the U. S. is almost ready and has been directed by Mr. Alfred H.
White.

A report will be issued soon.
Liquid Fuels Tested.

Mr. R. M. Strong is directing a test of liquid fuels and how they perform in internal-combustion
engines and that's being done in Building 13's engine room.

Different hydro-carbon fuels range from light refined oils like naphtha, to crude types of
petroleum, and their features vary accordingly in their physical
and chemical makeup.

The best ones for use in internal combustion engines are light and refined, such as gasoline,
or are made of alcohol.

However, these are the most costly for commercial purposes, even when they're used conservately,
which practices have been utilized already.

Right now no one knows exactly the number of the cheaper distiliates
and crudes that could be used in these types of engines. 
They're
very hard to use even if they would be efficient. 
In comparison,
gasoline has a constant quality and can be used efficiently in any
high quality gasoline engine. The immense sense of
satisfaction must have been wonderful.

But what actually did become of the Duke.

Kalbs-Braten fought like non other.

Not only was he shielded with his helm and shield, he was surrounded by his adopted foster
father Tiefenback of the Yews and his seven bold brothers. They shielded their princes body with
their own. As I fought and struck them down, another would take their place and fight on.

As Slavata and his calvary attempted to go through the passage of Morass, Conrad of the Thirty
Mountains had also arrived at the same location. Because of the softness of the ground, Hulans
were entangled and the horses sunk down up to their saddles. Their leader and a few others
made it through.
Then the two chiefs, both powerful and well matched, faced each other. Soldiers on both sides
stopped to watch as the two chiefs spoke.

Salvata was first. "I know you, the baron of the Thirty Mountains. Your life is worth your weight
in gold. The last time we met I left you go to easily but this time I promise not to." 
Then
Conrad spoke. "You are Salvata, who I intend to kill and feed to the ravens and the kites." 
Salvata
laughed. "You threaten me but I continue to live on. Your nephew, Geissenheimer, made the
same threats, but I killed him with three stabs of my sword into his chest."
"You are a villain," cried Conrad as he struck at his heart.

"You talk proud" said Salvata as he struck back with equal force.

"You've killed him" I said to Cutts. "Stop now or we will have another episode of Bothwell and Burley."

"Be a good fellow and clean up this battle Mandeville. You have definately killed the duke. Finish
the story you will tell before they bring in the broiled bones.

Shall we mix a tumbler now or shall we wait till later? Heres the hot water so please do as
you desire."
Mandeville continued: "They led me into the state apartment and
there was Amalia, at the dais, with the fairest and the noblest at
her side. Streaming through the stained windows was the amethyst light,
falling around her gloriously, with all of its amorial bearings. As
she pointed at a picture of my great ancestor she told me the story
about myself. With a cry of joy I rushed to her and fell across her
feet. 
 
"You have come at last Mandevile - collect your reward
from your toils, your love, and all the dangers you have been through.
No one has earned this wreath of chivalry more than you." 
 
After
placing the coronet upon my head she raised me up and pronounced "Wallachians,
here is your Prince!" 
 
 
 I had had enough. I bursed out
in laughter with Cutts joining in. We laughed so hard we had tears
in our eyes. Margrave of Wallachia, looking perplexed, tried to stand
but fell to the floor.  
After gaining my composure I spoke. " There
is the possililty of a great novelist. Perhaps Maryat or James could
benefit from knowing him. It would be a great loss if his work never
goes public." 
"He is a hard worker" said Cutts. "There is no foolishness
about him" Wordsworth's poem of 1815 told that influence
of Natural Objects in calling forth and strengthening the Imagination in Boyhood and Early
Youth. It also reveals that identification of God with nature. Mr. Stopford Brooke writes that
we are here in contact with a Person, not with a thought. Who is that person he told? Sometimes
she only a creation of imagination, having no reality beyond the
mind of Wordsworth. 

As he was passing into the lobby of the House of Commons, he saluted the Premier to allow him to
enter. There was suddenly a noise from within the room. One witness reported "I saw a small
curling wreath of smoke rise above his head, as if the breath of a cigar; I saw him reel back
against the ledge on the inside of the door. I heard him exclaim, 'Oh God!' or 'O My God!' and
nothing more. The exclamation was faint, I watched him rush to safety
near the entrance to the House of Commons, on the opposite side.

He tottered forward for a few steps and dropped dead between the four pillars which stood
in the center of the space. A slight trace of blood fell from his lips.

This event took place at moderate speed. It only took, perhaps, to the count of five. There
was great confusion and alarm at the sight. There were loud cries, utterances, and rapidly barked
orders and remarks. The great confusion created a Tower of Babel type scene. There was more than
a score of people in the lobby, and everyone seemed confused about what had occurred, and who had
instigated such calamity. Mr. William Smith, the member for Norwich, along with Lord Francis Osborne,
one Mr. Phillips and several others, lifted up the corpse of Mr. Perceval. They took him into
the office of the Speaker's secretary, which was located down a small passage, to the left
and near the fireplace.

Mr. Eastaff, one of the clerks of the Vote Office, stood looking pallid and deadly, from all
the hysteria. It was then that Mr. Eastaff, pointed in the direction of a Mr. Bellingham and
called out, "That is the murderer!" Mr. Bellingham moved slowly to the nearest bench by the fireplace
and sat down. At first, I ran forward to assist in the lifting of Mr. Perceval, however, in
the same instance Mr. Eastaff bellowed out his cry. I immediately followed the direction of Mr.
Eastaff's hand and seized the potential assassin by the collar.

This was done without violence on the one side, or resistance on the other. A crowd began
to gather around me. The earliest to reach me were Mr. Vincent Dowling, Mr. John Norris, Sir
Charles Long, Sir Charles Burrell and Mr. Henry Burgess. Several minutes later, General Gascoigne
arrived from a committee room upstairs. Following him were twelve
to fifteen members from the House, which included Mr. Hume, Mr. Whitbread
and Mr. Pole. The scuffle to grab Bellingham had left him stripped
of his neckcloth, his vest unbuttoned, and his chest laid bare. This we all did, though Captain Alban and
I drank very sparingly. The canteen was passed rather often, and though we all appeared jolly,
I observed that it held out attractive well, and resolved that they
were all seeking to get remainder intoxicated, without getting intoxicated
themselves.

What we liked was, to get sufficient of this apple crop brandy down Lieutenant Leatherwood and Sergeant
Dick Hancock, to sway them, and then make a break; but it did not work. They made up to drink, but
were as wary as ever, and were manifestly up on our little game. We were a loud gathering that
passed along that street through the woods that day, we vocalised, yelled, joked and swaggered,
but that canteen still held out. Finally as we were transient a spur of the Nantahala hills,
we glimpsed some mules feeding upon the hill to our left and back, and as all were climbed on
except Captain Alban, it was proposed that the Lieutenant and Sergeant trial to apprehend one
of the mules for him, so we could get along a little faster.

  
  
  The Sergeant provided Captain
  Tidwell his pistol, to guard us
  while he was gone, and they begun up the
  hill in pursuit of the mules. When they had
  got half way up, Captain Tidwell notified us to run into the woods
and up a ravine that divided the two spurs, and he would blaze his
pistol in the direction of us, to make accept as factual he was seeking
to fire us, but would be very careful not to strike either of us.

We had not ever glimpsed him until an hour preceding, and of course did not understand but this
was only a circumvent to give him an apologise for firing a Yankee, but we took the risk, and
begun into the woods.

He yelled halt! halt!! and discharged three shots in fast succession; the projectiles rang out
awkwardly beside our heads, but we kept on.

My legs were rigid and cramped from travelling, and I made very poor
headway.

 

Others, feeling a similar fear, and some of them aware of the antagonism
they should leave behind them, have themselves written the confused
slice of their own lifetime, like Hume, Gibbon, Gifford, Scott, Moore,
Southey.

 

The Toxic Valley 
John Barrow submitted a letter from Mr. Alexander
Loudon to Royal Geographical Society on 28th Ult. which generated
a lot of excitement.

It recounted a visit to a small island in Java on which there is a strange valley that quicly killed
any animal or even man that came near it.
On 4th of July, Mr. Loudon and friends went to the valley which was 3 miles from Batur (Java).
The valley is called Guevo Upas in local language which translates to "Toxic Valley". The team
had taken along some animals like dogs and birds for experimentation. To get down to the valley,
the team had to climb down the slope of a mountain for about a quarter mile holding onto the
branches and roots growing from the side of the mountian.
The climbing down was very tiring and difficult because it had rained the previous night. A strong
overpowering and disgusting smell could be felt even a few yards from the valley. But as the
team approached the edge of the valley, the smell disappeared.

The valley could be seen clearly and it was of elleptical shape and was about 35 feet deep.
The bottom of the valley was flat with only a few stones and on it could be found an assortment
of skeletons (of humans, tigers, boars and other animals and even birds) scattered around.
There were no plants growing at the bottom.
The ground at the bottom was hard and covered by some sort of sand. No gases could be felt coming
out of it. No openings were visible in the ground. Also since the sides of the valley were covered
with vegetation, no gases were coming out from the sides of the valley also.
The team entered the valley after each lighting a cigar and without any difficulty in breathing reached
upto 20 free of the bottom. They could smell the sickly nauseous gas here. Now a dog was tied
to a bamboo and lowered toward the bottom. It fell down without looking around in fourteen seconds
and died after eighteen minutes. Another dog went near the first dog and fell down in ten seconds
and died after seven minutes. Two fowls thrown one after the other
died in one and half minutes.

A heavey rain was pouring but its effect was ignored as the experiments were very interesting.

A human skeleton lay on the other side of the valley. It had turned white as the climate had bleached
it. The human skeletons were thought to be of the rebles who had entered the valley to possibly
tried to hide from the main road and had not known the danger in
the valley.

Due to the rain, the team had some difficulty in coming out of the valley. The cause of the
nauseous gas was thought to be same as that of the Grotto del Cane,
at Naples. The difference is that in Grotto del Cane, the gases stay
only a few inches above the surface, so that one can stand without
smelling the nauseous gases. --Morning Chronicle. Is there a
correspondent who can give us the reason why the use of the statement "God Save the Queen" has
recently been discontinued at the end of proclamations, letters, and other messages from the throne
that are read during a Church service? During all this time, Mrs. Serres didn't know about her own history. Then,
in 1815, Lord Warwick became seriously ill and decided it best to tell Mrs. Serres and the
Duke of Kent the secret of her birth. Lord Warwick also thought it best to give Mrs. Serres
the papers. It must be recollected, that this order was issued and executed
on the last day of February, six weeks after the Charleston Gazette had announced , the ratification
of the treaty of peace.

During this period, there had not been an appearance of the enemy, a movement by them, or the
slightest occurrence of rumor to raise a suspicion of truth for this intelligence. Not a disbelief
it was expressed by anybody or from any quarter.
 The demons was the main attraction for the daughters of men from the antediluvian
times. they were always coming to earth to pay court to them.At that times,the socker Brendli
was alone in the hell. the hell fires never allowed to go out.
A mortal maiden was fell in love with the anatomically melancholic Burton. This story of Beelzebub
about the love affair between a woman and an earth born man is written by Jacques Cazotte.
 In his youth, he was a good looking lad but as he grew older, he was lost some
of his handsome good looks but was still tall, with a fine figure and graceful bearing. While
he was in Eton and later in Oxford, he assiduously cultivated the friendship of those who were
well placed in society. He did not care to associate with those who were without any social
merit. He was more interested in making friends in high places than getting a good education. Brummel
was notorious for his snobbishness and the cutting comments he would make about his hapless
victims. He had at this time a fortune amounting to twenty five thousand
pounds.

He wanted to make a sound investment with it but was reluctant to spend money on books that
might give him good advice. One of his youthful and wealthy friend advised that he should enlist
in a crack regiment and invest his money in it, enjoying life in high style.
The Prince Regent had spent most of his thirty two years of life indulging
in debauchery and dissipation, in a manner only a prince can keep up.

He had gained for himself notoriety in London society which flattered
him to his face and gossiped behind his back.

Young Brummel was drawn to him The Regent was the colonel of the
foppish 10th Hussars.

It cost a lot to be part of this regiment.

The 10th Hussars of the British army were the best dressed regiment but with the worst morals. Many
of the officers in the regiment were from aristocratic families and were close friends to the
Prince, a colonel in the regiment. Brummel wanted to become an earl. He achieved his ambition by
his audacity, impudent manners, and his dashing appearance.

The Prince favored him with his company, if not his friendship

It was thus that Brummel made his place in society. His ready wit and good humor would help
keep up his reputation in the high society. But this alone will not suffice. His fortune must
last if he was to keep up the lavish lifestyle that the high society he moved in required.
 Inspect the coffee: Look
inside the storage area and taste it. Inspect all kitchen tools, from your knives to your meat grinder.
Be sure to take apart all tools occasionally.

Make sure your incinerator is properly cared for and that the cooks use it properly; this is the
job of your mess seargent. Off go
the characters of a field day, of course, with great skill. Teresa is gone, and the Danish and Cassandra,
the room was Griselda, you may remember from an earlier book very much, but even if the RLE
of this title that has little to do with their development, met. 

The prices may fluctuate as technological advancements improve the production process. Even if
the cost of production goes down, the metals used to make money may not be affected, but the purchasing
power of money would increase. This means that the price we pay for goods would drop. On the other
hand, if money could be made cheaper and more it were more readily available, the price of goods
would not change.
Since 1850, precious metals quantity of production has increased, and faster than the demand
created by more people using products made from these metals. 

Approximately four years afterword, there was a another (second) edition was found in Brussels.
This one in two octavo volumes. In the edition which was published in 1833 of John Gorton's
third volume of 'General Biographical Dictionary' one may find a catalogued listing of 174
biographical dictionaries. This is especially useful as it includes all languages.
[Sidenote: Famous Authors and Books.]
9. Celebrated Authors and Books. These following books have been reprinted almost as many times as
the Bible: 'Robinson Crusoe,' 'Paradise Lost,' 'The Decameron,' 'The Pilgrim's Progress,' and
'The Compleat Angler.' Interestingly, these books were certainly printed many times, while coming
in a close second were others like 'Don Quixote' and 'Gil Blas.' Lord Montfort's! Ay, and I just seen my woman!
"So I daw her through this window, she looked unhappy."
"Unhappy! with such the neatest equipage I ever saw; unhappy!

I thought about riding to her carriage and claim her gratitude.
"Gratitude? For that part you took in that horrible affair that you told me about.
"It wasn't bad for her;" but I never got any satisfaction out of it. Can't look back."
"No use; but what can anyone do? said Arabella Crane, with a heavy sigh. Then as though he wanted
to change the subject, she added, "Mr. Rugge was here twice this morning, very upset over the non
responsiveness of his child. He says you should make her do as she
is told. With mouth closed, ears down, and lowers his head, there
was the mustang, as gentle and docile as any old donkey. The change was so sudden and comedian,
everyone laughed, but when I got to thinking about the danger he had run, it takes all my
love for horses that prevents me from shooting the beast in the act.

Mounted on this sensitive horse and accompanied by my friend, I made several trips to Bolivar,
Marion, Colombia, Anahuac, which is emerging cities in five to twenty houses. We also visited
numerous plantations and clear, the owners of some of which were known or had messages of
introduction, but whether or not the recommendations are, always found a warm welcome and hospitable
reception, and it was rare get paid for our entertainment.
We arrived one day at a compensation that was a few miles of the way
to Harrisburg to San Felipe de Austin, and belonged to a Mr. Neal.

He had been three years in the country, dealing in livestock, which is undoubtedly the most
enjoyable, as well as benefits, an occupation that can be followed in Texas. He had seven or eight
hundred head of cattle, and fifty to sixty horses, all the wild horses. Your finances, like almost
all plantations in Texas at the time, was still in a very rough, and his house, spacious and
comfortable but soon, was built with tree trunks, unwrought, in the
true style of back- woodcutter.

It was situated on the border of one of the islands or groups of trees, and stood between two
giant sycamore trees, which protected her from sun and wind. At the front, and so you could
see was the prairie, covered with waving grass and many flowers behind the house came the
group of forest trees in all their primeval majesty, tied and bound together by an infinity
of wild vines, which threw its tendrils and adherence to hundreds of feet upwards to the highest
branches of trees, embracing and covering the whole island with a green network, and turn it
into a bower of vine leaves immense, would have been inadequate homeless Bacchus and his entourage.

These islands are one of the most enchanting scenario of Texas. Of infinite variety and beauty
of form, and unrivaled in the growth and magnitude of its component trees, which are anyway -
circular, parallelograms, hexagons, octagons - some more torque and discharge as a green black
snakes on the shiny surface of the prairie. In any park or artificially set above, is it possible
to find anything equal to these shrubs natural beauty and symmetry. In the morning and at night
especially when surrounded by a veil of light gray mist, and the horizontal beams rising or setting
sun shining through them, offer images that can not tire of admiring.
Mr. Neal was a jovial Kentucky, and received us with the utmost hospitality,
asking in return all the news that he could have from the United States.

It's hard to imagine, without having witnessed the feverish anxiety and curiosity with which
requests all the intelligence of his homeland later and heard by these people in the desert.
 Could your reporters give any information on the topic?

Thanks for your help.

F.D.E.
Famn. Deff. Cree.
Yes Charles II. was in Wales if you listen to the tradition of the inhabitants of Glamorganshire.
While in Wales he spent a night at Llancaiach Vawr which was owned
by Colonel Pritchard of the Parliamentary army. According to the tradition
he told his host who he was and begged upon his kindness for safety Beetle-larvae have been noted to rub
organs together to make sounds, especially in wood-feeding grubs
lik stag-beetles (Lucanidae) and their allies the Passalidae.

Dung-eating grubs such as the dor-beetles (Geotrupes) of the chafer family (Scarabaeidae) also
use stridulation. Without
thinking, first the General went through the letter and then passionately kissed the locket.
And in a smooth manner he said, “I knew, and I understand that Madeline was true”. Then
bended over Gauthier and again he said “"How did you recognize
me, though?"

Their parlance was as follows:
"I heard them call you by your name." "That was why you would not
fire?"

"Yes. A son could not kill his father, even though they are having any kind of bitter incidents
and treating them mutually as enemies.

"But you allowed a father to kill his son?"  No that is not correct. Actually I did not help
him. It was all fate only.  "No. No my son! You shall not die! You must live!"  "No father,
God’s decision is entirely different. No you farewell me.

I am going to see you only for another minute.

But I am satisfied."  Gauthier made a great effort to make him to
get up.

But he just smiled at the Prince and then simply fell back dead.  "My boy, my boy!" the Prince
shouted, cried and exclaimed to a great extent. Bent down over his son’s dead body and exclaimed
in panic as "Dead, dead, and killed by me”. And this is the work of our Czar! Oh, what a cruel
fate!"  The General remained some minutes in silence and he was kneeling by the side of his son.
Then following, at last, he jumped on to his horse and rushed to
fight in the battle.

"Prince! Prince! What are you doing there?" a French Officer exclaimed and shouted at his side.
.  "I am seeking death!

I have killed my son, I am not going to live further yes, and I will
not survive him.

So I am seeking death. He said.  Then in a minute, suddenly he had
scarcely finished when a ball struck him.

Then he immediately fell down and embraced his death.

Now the French officer who was at his side exclaimed that “Who
can say there is no destiny?

As a father, when he has become as a reason for his beloved son’s demise, he, as a father
immediately and voluntarily invited his death. And he has not waited for a long time to join his
son”. And he rushed on at the head of his men.  In history, sometimes, the fate or result
of the battle will be changed in to uncertain scenes. But at last, the French won the day
and by the bye, the Russians had to take refuge in Sebastopol.  * * * * *  When Marshal
Canrobert went over the battlefield, immediately he asked about the young officer and he asked where
the young officer was, who belonged to the Foreign Legion and who had fought so bravely.
The reply was something different by other soldiers. They unanimously said that "He fell by the
retrenchments”.

Then the Commander-in-Chief went immediately over to the spot named. He ordered the surgeon to examine
the young officer who was lying on the ground. But in fact it was, however, it has become
too late.  There was another officer of the same Legion replied to the Marshall that as he
has seen before little duration, “he was lying there”. The young officer was brought and was
told that his friend was dead.

"It is a pity," he said to the Marshal, also he said truthfully
as “you have lost a true soldier”.

"What was his name?"  "Nicolas Gauthier."

"What is your name?"  "Félix Saussier."

The Commander-in-Chief now ordered the army to fall into grade. Then when they presented arms,
he took the Cross of the Legion of Honor. Such cross of the Legion of Honor was wearing by him
and it was placed on Lieutenant Saussier's breast.  He gain said "Wear it proudly." The he
continued “it is the reward and this is France’s settlement to her bravest sons and for
all of you who deserve well for this reward.  Then by taking another Cross from one of the officers
who belonged to the État Major, and he placed it again on the body of Gauthier. Then he said you
also deserving well for this kind of honor and you will be buried in your grave with this
honor.  Then the troops filed off. They started to pass in front of the two officers that are out
of them, the one was wounded and the other was dead. Marshal Canrobert himself raised his sword
and saluted the two heroes. Out of these two one was died too soon and another one was according
to his fate welcomed his death and he was one of the bravest Generals in French force. Then
he passed from that place with deepest mourning and he moved from there with more satisfaction
of the victory. But as an ignorant of the drama, something new scene had taken place so near
to him.  From Behind the Speaker's Chair.

VI.  (Viewed by Henry w. Lucy.)  [Side Note: Sir William Harcourt]  Sir William Harcourt has
been considered as a so long familiar figure in the House of Commons.

He was living with greatest reputation in all aspects.

Such kind of reputations has become possible to him due to his one of the matchless successes
of the new session. If you want to be described accurately you can know that thing by reading
phrase. Some positive circumstances related with the personality of the prime minister have
given valuable chances to prove his amazing potentialities as leader of the House gallantly.
Also he himself proved as he is a massive figure. Finally as a result, he has become more satisfied
and he has become unavoidable eminent figure to his party and his friends. Sir William's early
reputation was completely made only as a brilliant swordsman of contest and especially due
to his highly strategically plan and most effective styles in attack.

But as a matter of fact, even though such qualities rendered him a great kind of reputation
and continuous success in one direction, the same kind of his activities took retaliation against
him in a negative way especially in the part of a leader of the House.

All same type of and style of activities of Sir William Harcourt I in the part of a leader of the Parliament
House had been negatively described in the name or word called “aggressive”. Due to his sudden
and huge aggressive decisions and its related activities, as a Leader of the House of Commons he
cultivated more aggressiveness in each and every aspect. In fact, for positive results, the
leader must be a strong man and also he has to be the strongest man on his side of the house.
But he should not be so aggressive and with aggressiveness.
 "Cock your gun!"

"Oh, I forgot that."
But he knew how and when greater gun once, and pulled trigger, one after another, they came down with
generosity.
"Only your broken caps?" said Jim. "I never knew the firearm, before
losing out.".

Hare took a hint from breaking caps, and was now running a race with Napoleon in the swamp.

Charley looked at the gun very seriously, and put on another pair
of caps, noting, "I had never missed a firearm like that to me before."

Jim's own gun was ready again, briefly, but it was a steal queer questioning look in his face,
and he said,
"Take me, Charley, I look in this business."
Charley traded guns, and stood anxiously watching for another rabbit, while Jim "examined" both
barrels of illicit song, and tried them with ramrod.
"I pretty em in" no mistake about it. I think it would attract more
taxes. " 
There was a spiral at the end of ramrod for this kind
of thing, and in a moment Jim had a wad of each barrel. 
"Hey Powder?
Declare! Why, Charley, you've made the wrong ammunition first goal
might have broken lids on all day so you all .. Shot at the bottom."
"Really? Well, you see, I used like a weapon before, and -" 
"Here
comes big rabbit nap! There is a chance for you .. Take him to flee."
He tried. Surface arrangements.
The surface arrangements from the modern deep colliery contain much extent and compound. The head
gear as well as the pit frame that carries the guide pulleys are
the bicentric feature.

The guide pulleys lead the winding ropes from the axis of the pit to the drum. The frame is
upright and is most often made out of steel or even wrought iron and is ruffled by diagonal thrust
beams against the engine-house wall or other solid abutments. The bearings of the guide pulleys
can be anywhere from eighty to one-hundred feet, or sometimes more, above ground level. This
is so that there is plenty of space for the cages which are the landing platforms that are normally
placed at a height that is higher than the natural surface. Made even up to twenty feet, the
pullys are of as ample size as possible in diameter so that as to decrease the effect of flexing strains
in the rope that might be caused by change in direction. They contain channelled cast iron rims
and arms made of wrought iron. This combination of rigidness and
toughness helps keep the weight down.

Sometimes accidents occur. Many different safety catches as well as hooks that disconnect have
been made available. There are two fairly common types of accidents that have been known to
happen. The first is the rope being broken while the cage is in transit inside the shaft. Another
is the possibility of the rope being over wound when the engine fails
to stop in time causing the cage to pull up to the head-gear pulleys.

Formally, the contrivances were made up of levers or cams that contained toothed surfaces or
gripping shoes that were mounted on transverse axes that were attached to all sides of the cage.
The function was to support the cage by taking hold of the guides just in case it came apart
from the rope.

Springs connect the opposing axes and they are kept in compression by tension of the rope in drawing
but start to work whenever the pull is let go. The side axes bite into the wooden guides or
grip the ones made of ropes or steel bars. The contrivances are more used in collieries in Europe.
Some countries consider them obligatory. In England they are not favorited because of the doubtfullness
in action as well as the dragging of the guides when the rope presents slacking.
Detaching hooks are used so that accidents, such as over-winding,
can be prevented.

The hooks are made of a 2 parallel plates that are joined by a bolt in the middle which forms
a scissors joint. This is joined by chain links to the cage underneath and the winding-rope
on top. The outermost sides of the link are shaped with protruding lugs on top. When shut by
the load that the width is enough to let it enter a funnel-shaped
guide on a cross-bar of the frame some distance above the bank level
but after reaching the portion of the guide that is most narrow, the
plates are impelled apart and the ropes are released.

This allows the lugs to come in contact with the top of the cross-bar and thus secures the cage
and helps it not to fall.

There are three principal patterns that are in use here. They belong to King, Ormerod, and Walker
and are commonly efficient anticipating the speed of the cage is
not extravagant.

 At
a certain age, his study and meditations gave him a firm and unwavering religious faith.

Patient and steady labor helped him to create a scientific basis for
lyric and dramatic art.

After perfecting the methods, he created a course of instruction
in 1839.

A small but highly cultured few artists became his followers, his success spread, and soon his
methods were known throughout Europe.

A number of students went on to establish their own professional
careers, others, with no need for fame and fortune, simply desired
him as a friend, of influence.

 

The room was filled with the sounds of music, small talk, and laughter.

He lowered his voice to barely a whisper and said, "Company A is prepared,
tomorrow is the day we defend Missouri and the South, the sympathizers
are going to be dismissed."

She sensed his elation and said,"You'd better be, I expect great things
from you."

He leaned toward her and said, "I have done my duty. I have not let
you down.

What about you?"

"I will do whatever it takes to help."
A dejected look came across his face as he said, "That's not what I had in mind."
"Oh really, what more do you want from me?" 
He replied, "I admire
your commitment to the cause, but what about us?" 
Virginia sat
up and said, "Is that the only reason you're doing this?" 

The thirst for gold precedes the desire for instruction and a taste for the things of old. Remarkably,
in all of the mountainous parts of South America, from Merida and Santa Martha, across the table-lands
of Quito and Upper Peru, many laborers have undertaken the great tasks of discovering and
extracting tombs with masses of gold.

According to history, there was no trace of these precious metals in the caverns that served
the people of Guiana for centuries as sepulchers. Although, the Caribs as well as other travelling
nations made incursions into the south-west areas, gold only flowed in very small amounts
from the mountains of Peru towards the eastern plains. Based on history, the Indians bury their
dead inside the earth. They place their people inside of large cavities, which have been formed
by the process of decomposition. The Indians are known for burying the dead wherever the granitic
rocks are not or by an accumulation of their blocks, The hammock
(also called a chinchorro), which is used for resting and relaxing
during their life may also serve as a net or a coffin when they die.

This net is wrapped tightly around the body, a hole is made in the
hut, and here is where the body is laid.

According to Missionary Gili, this is the method that is traditionally used. Also, based on
information that Father Zea has provided, I do not believe that there is one tumulus in Guiana,
the plains of Cassiquiare or Essequibo.
 

He becomes very active if you are in a town and wish to buy tickets for theatre; according to him
the Box Office should not be approached, because here we pay premiums but he has one or two with
him for sale. You will find you are in the worst seats at the highest price if you are weak
enough to yield to him; and the next day he will shrug off you complaint just by saying it is
like this in these places but the night was good. He is always ready to help you were you could
help yourself. In a Grand Hotel no one needs to see you out, the reason he wants to help you.

* * * * *

THE "BLOWER" EXPLODED UP!
As he had boasted the Blower came down. Winning the fight was peculiar and the voices of his supporters
were loud in their happiness. They hoped that the opponent shall be defeated in two rounds
or three.
The brute was defeated at ten thirty-seven like a truculent Titan who was blind, confused and
blown. The champion slugger who was attired in bright green trunks was the big fellow.
Corbett smote and fought forcefully and ferociously and so the bullying bounder was beaten finally.
The cheeks of the opponent were chill and he rolling over himself he struggled to stand up but
when he could not lay still.

His foe stood there with anger making his nostrils wide, and the encouraging shouts of his supporters
showed their pride.

The puffed out Ring and the stars of the Turf rushed forward round
similar to the waves of the storm-beaten surf.

Blower lay there distorted and pale, and blood was there on his brow where he was hit by the
opponent and each blow fell like hail. His supporters remained silent, while he was lying there
alsone.

His mawleys were unlifted and the trumpet to praise him was not blown.

The sporting people from the south were all loud in their shouts.

But Punch, who hates harassing brutes, can only praise the smart
Californian's pluck, skill, and strength, Who has pricked the big
SULLIVAN bladder.

* * * * *  
"FONS ET ORIGO."--As to London Water “try to find
Wells," has to be done if you wish to avoid unpleasant consequences.

"Don't leave Wells alone" is our aim, meaning "Sir SPENCER" of that type, whose deal is worth
hearing to speak on this subject.

* * * * *

A ROUNDABOUT WANDERING.

(A FACT BASED ON FICTION.)

The Cabinet of M. CARNOT was approached by a bright little traveler
who disturbed him while he was working. 
“Are you aware, M Le
Président?” he asked, “that the Russians had made a secret treaty
with the English, and the Russo-French Alliance is all baloney most
untrustworthy of broken reeds?”  “Well, I am not,” replied
CARNOT, “I have not been made aware anything of that type, and,
also if anyone is up in it”  
The Traveler, did not wait to hear
the rest and the took to the road, telling the unsettling truth to
everyone he met and as a result of this the French people were also
greatly disturbed.

He soon reached Berlin. Without asking for permission to interview KAISER he straight away went
to him.
"Your Royal and Imperial Majesty," said he, "Do you know the fact
that Italy is in secret agreement with France, and that the Triple
Alliance is a deception, and that the cry À Berlin! may be renewed
at any moment?"

"Well, I do not," said the Emperor, "I am not aware of this; and
I suppose not that anyone will know anything about it.

But the Traveler was not there to hear Kaiser finish speaking and
once again he was off, telling the people whoever he met the unsettling
secret of truth.

And so even the German people were deeply concerned.

Next the Traveller reached the apartment of the Emperor of AUSTRIA.

He went inside without any ceremony.

"King of HUNGARY," he addressed, "Do you know the fact that you cannot entirely rely upon your
German neighbor, because the KAISER has a clandestine understanding
with the CZAR, and they have agreed to integrate the Principalities
to Russian territory, and the Rhine River protected from the attack
of French?"

"No, I am not aware of that,” answered the Emperor; "and, if it
is true, I think that...”  But once again the Traveller left the
apartment before the sentence could be completed and went on his way
spreading the disquieting intelligence to everyone he met.

As a result of this even the Austro-Hungarian people were distressed to a great extent.
The Traveller was now standing in front of the Emperor of ALL THE
RUSSIAS.

Now too he had not obtained proper permission to meet the Emperor.
 Keeping Aunt Pen in her room did not help her condition
become better. Rather, the confinement combined with worry and boredom, made things worse.
We couldn't even attempt to reason with her, without getting outburts from her.
 Another educational matter is discussed here:

American
girls are malnourished. It seems strange but that does not mean they don't eat well. They eat
much, sometimes more, but the point is they don't eat the specific chemical elements that are required
to build up a healthy system of their bodies and brain Tolerating this guy is like tolerating that gnawing feeling in your
gut when you have a guilty conscience. But at least you know that gut feeling speaks the truth,
whereas this guy is a pathological liar. He has no concept of truth. He will not lie to cover for you, that
would be a sin, unless you pay him, then it's not a sin.

A person who receives special consideration because of who he is, or who he knows, or who his relatives
are, is like one who puts his pants on backwards. He may look presentable, but the people mock
him behind his back. He has not earned the respect of his position. The entire incident,
the scene and the time, was wild, interesting and filled with alacrity,
with just a tad of the awful to regard an additioanl avidity.

It was a black stormy night, and the wind felt to be screaming abve
our heads ripping the trees apart.

A red glimmering shine was casted on the rocks by the torches in
our very neighbourhood, which gave the depths of the gloomy forest
an haunting indescribable feel.

The far halloos of men who were invested in search of their comrades, stood wildly upon the
breeze, and occasionally fired shots banged the rocky wild with an
everlasting echo.

Our bearers along with the two patarra-bearers joined us in about theree quarters of an hour
 The ice was melting, forming
countless streams flowing to the open water. As we proceeded, it got warmer and the ground was
more often dirt and rocks than anything else and in our path we found great granite boulders we
had to get around. All art is imitation of nature. One does not need to recognize a tangible object to be moved
by its artistic representation. Here by virtue of humanity's vestures, lies its appeal.
 This came into existence likely from the deviance in the time-period
of the particular billet.

As the premier is to be nominated for not more than a period of four years, it can infrequently
happen that an ample wage, fixed at the embarkation of that period, will not endure to be such
to its end

. It is true that inventions or discoveries are sometimes the result
of accident or chance, but in the vast majority of cases, they are the result of careful planning
and preparation. Ideas must be examined, analyzed, and modified in great detail until they reach
their fruition.

There is always an element of chance or uncertainty in any experiment, but generally there must
be careful thought and purpose behind any succesful effort.

Among scientists and working researchers, these ideas are familiar and commonplace. They have
also begin to spread to the general public.

So if mankind is to have a better understanding of physical forces, it must experiment and work
systematically towards understanding. This means the careful measuring, describing, classifying
and analyzing of every solid, liquid, gas, and so on. It also applies to living beings, plants,
animals, and even humans. Yet what about social structures, our institutions, our governments?
Here there is a hesitation about whether it is possible to use the scientific method. Is there
any other way to gain knowledge?

We must answer unequivocally that there is no other way to gain knowledge. The only way to learn
about society itself is through experimentation, the use of systematic trial and error methods.
In fact, this is the way that progress is made, even if it is not
done intentionally. History is the record of all such experiments
conducted on human society. Even if they are not planned, they are
still observations that provide explanations about human behavior,
such as our family relationships, religious, political, and educational
institutions. Deep cuts, especially when into inflamed flesh,
tend to bleed alot and when the skin cannot close it tends to bleed even more.
The most dangerous risks are continued bleeding, cutting of nerves causing motor and sensory impedence
and cutting of tendons or muscles impacting movement. The subservience on the query of Slavery, which has until now characterized equally
the immense parties of the nation, has strengthened the hands of the extremists at the South,
and has enabled them to obtain the power of community view there by nurturing fake ideas of Southern
advantage and Northern desire of attitude.

We have finished so much to create them think in their significance to us, and specified them so
little instance yet to suppose our significance to them, that we have taught them to consider themselves
as the usual rulers of the state, and to look upon the Union as a errand decided to our fault, whose
removal would be our spoil.

Accordingly, they have mature further and additional demanding, till at extent the hack politicians
of the Free States have turn into so imbued with the concept of yielding, and so powerless of
believing in any standard of action superior than provisional expedients
to take an choice, or some entity nobler than the simple control of
workplace for its own sake, that Mr. Buchanan sternly proposes that
the Republican party must pacify South Carolina by compromise the
extremely faith that called it into survival and holds it jointly,
the single fruit of its success that made conquest worth having.

Worse than this, when the Free States by overwhelming majorities have just uttered their assurance,
that slavery, as he creature of local law, can argue no lawful addition
past the restrictions of that rule, he asks their approval to denationalize
liberty and to nationalize slavery by an alteration of the Federal
Constitution, that shall create the local law of the Slave States
paramount throughout the Union.

Mr. Buchanan would wait the yellow fever by abolishing the quarantine hospital and planting
a superior virulent case or two in every community in the ground.
We do not misjudge the importance of the current disaster, and we agree that nothing must be
prepared to exasperate it; but if the citizens of the Free States
have been trained something by the frequent training of sour practice,
it has been that submission is not the seed of conciliation, but of
contempt and violation.

The wolf in no way goes for mutton to the mastiff.
 Some people dream their died relatives or friends. They
have to seek what appeared in the dream. Of course they cannot see the body as it was buried
or swallowed up in the sea . However they had pictured something thatwas in their mind. It
may be little soul of air and fire which wandered some where.

When we try to separate the matter it is sure that the soul is tangible and in the ancient
times there was no idea about Soul. At last Plato tried to tried to explain it but somehow
he also cannot sift soul from the matter. This problem was unsolved until faith came to enlighten
us. Some materialists tried to make believe us that the Priests of Church are not able to convey
precisely the facts about soul.St.Irenaeus says Soul is incorporeal only compared to mortal
body and it own a form of man that we can recognize. Tertullian express that the image of the soul
do not have the image of the body.He also recorded the vision of a holy woman who had a shining
soul of the colour of the air.

St. Hilarius says that everything is formed by elements and they are visible to everybody.If
there is a soul it will be tangible.

St.Ambrose says we can only recognize materialistic things except
Trinity.

But all these arguements are vain arguments.All these saints had a mistake in their understanding.But
the entire church believed that soul is immaterial. The immortality of the soul is accepted
by everyone that it is clearly announced in the Gospel. But on the whole the church have to decide
on points of philosphy so as to provide us with enough information of what is "pure spiri" and
what is "matter" Richard Cromwell carried himself discreetly in his new job, and was
accepted by the European Powers as well as England.

On January 17, 1659, a Parliament was assembled to recognise the new
Protector.

However, the republican minority, which was headed by Vane and Haselrig,
joined with the officers of the army, which was headed by Desborough,
Lambert, and Fleetwood, to force him to dissolve Parliament on April
22, 1659.

Supporters of the Protector advised him to fight back, but he replied, "I will not have a drop
of blood spilt for the preservation of my greatness, which is a burden to me."
On May, 1659, he signed a formal abdication, and in return, the restored
Rump became responsible for the discharge of his debts.

After the Restoration, Richard Cromwell fled to Europe, where he remained for many years, but
finally returned to England in 1680. Some of his property was restored to him upon his return.
He died in Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, in 1712.
The only way to establish a settled form of government and to save
the country from military despotism seemed to be in the restoration
of the monarchy.

Therefore, due to the work of General Monk, Charles, the son of Charles I, and Henrietta Maria,
Richard Cromwell was invited to return to England.
He responded at once, and entered London in triumph as Charles II, on May 29, 1660, signed the
declaration of Breda. By this declaration, the King provided for a free and general pardon to
all "who within forty days after the publishing hereof shall lay hold upon this our grace and
favour, and shall by any public act declare their doing so," except such as the Parliament of both
houses should except.
[69] "Works of Ben Jonson."

[70] "Fantasticks," 1626
[71] "History of the English People."
[72] "Year Book."
[73] "Fiddlers."

[74] "An allusion to the Christmas money-box, made of earthenware
which had to be broken in order to obtain the money it held.

When Lads and Lasses take delight, together for to be; They pass away the Winter night, and live
most merrily.
To the tune of, Hey boys up go we.
Come, come my roaring ranting boys lets never be cast down, We' never mind the female toys, but
Loyal be to th' Crown: We'l never break our hearts with care, nor be cast down with fear, Our
bellys then let us prepare to drink some Christmas Beer.
Then here's a health to Charles our King, throughout the world admir'd, Let us his great applauses
sing, that we so much desir'd, And wisht amongst us for to reign, when Oliver rul'd here, But since
he's home return'd again, come fill some Christmas Beer.

These holidays we'l briskly drink, all mirth we will devise, No Treason we will speak or think,
then bring us brave minc'd pies Roast Beef and brave Plum porridge, our Loyal hearts to chear,
Then prithee make no more ado, but bring us Christmas Beer.
[In these Times all the Spits were sparkling the Hackin must be boiled by Daybreak or else two
young Men took the Maiden by the Arms and run her round the Market
Place till she was ashamed of her laziness. -- Round about our Coal
Fire or Christmas Entertainments published in 1740.] 
Many popular
songs of this time discuss the decline of Christmas celebrations during
the time of the Commonwealth, and some of them contrast the present
with former celebrations.

In a ballad called "The Old and Young Courtier," printed in 1670, which compared the times
of Queen Elizabeth with those of her successors, the fifth and twelfth verses contain the following
parallel respecting Christmas -  
V 
"With a good old fashion,
when Christmasse was come, To call in all his old neighbors with bagpipe
and drum, With good chear enough to furnish every old room, And old
liquor, able to make a cat speak, and man dumb Like an Old Courtier
of the Queen's, And the Queen's old Courtier."

XII

"With a new fashion, when Christmas is drawing on, On a new journey
to London straight we all must begone, And leave none to keep house,
but our new porter John, Who relieves the poor with a thump on the
back with a stone, Like a young courtier of the King's, And the King's
young courtier."

 "It's so hard,
lady, when one speaks of these things in a strange language, let me explain that what has come
.. We encountered a picket, and surprised him. Having secured some weapons and accouterments,
I hurried keys, where the small boat was anchored Unfortunately, it was loaded with soldiers
.. they fired, and there was a brief struggle. I have been demolished, and what did not you
call it - étourdi? - while what might count ten.

I got up, half blind, and what I see? ship leaves the keys - full
of people engaged in battle, while just beyond the point, a warship
is the signal arrival it was a Brazilian warship.

Ms. It showed two red missiles, followed by white one was only a matter of minutes before she
met the small boat .. I tell you that it was unfortunate that - a
vile blow. I was angry, yes.

I stamp my foot and then say stupid things I run. "
Iris made no reply.

She hid her face in her hands. She could not frame more questions. San Benavides tried to tell
him that Hozier, and the rest have been overwhelmed by fate to escape very instant it seemed at
hand. Brazil, probably because of the difficulties which beset him in the use of language was
not clear that he threw himself flat in dust when he heard someone
given to fire on board the launch.

He said nothing of the tragic incident in which Marcel, shot through
the lungs, was upon him, and he, San Benavides, confusing the attacker
convicted, he struggled with a man angry at death.

He even forgot to state that he had charged home with others, he would have met no bullet or
launch deck won, and that his failure to reach the vessel was carefully because of their self-esteem
. For San Benavides was not a coward.

He could be brave spectacular, but he had no stomach for a fight
in the dark, when choosing an obvious risk that some triumph and some
die.

 The trustees, at a meeting the following day, ordered that deeds be
made for September 20, 1749, for all lots which were to be disposed.

George William Fairfax retained his property until March 1750, when
he sold everything to Willoughby Newton, Gent. for a little over 41
pounds.

Newton then conveyed them to George Johnston on November 10, 1752
for a sum of 44 pounds.

Lot #58, which adjoined Col. Fairfax's properties on the west, was previously the property of
Col. Champe. However, the lot was soon passed to Col. Fairfax, as
evidenced by two references in the minutes of the trustees meeting.

It was ordered on May 30, 1763, "that Robert Adam, Gent., be overseer
of the Main Street [now Fairfax] from the upper part of Mrs. Chews
Lott to the lower part of her Lotts and that he make so much of the
said Main Street dry and fitt for traveling for Waggon & foot people
by the first of September Next or pay for his failure twenty Shillings
to the Trustees for the use of the Town ... And that W^m Ramsay Gent.
in like manner and under the same penalty put the said main street
in order from the upper part of his own lott to the lower part thereof
together with half the next street and that William Ramsay continue
his district down to Col George Fairfaxes lott ... And that John Carlyle
in like manner and under the same penalty put the main Street in order
from the corner of Mr. Fairfaxes Lott to the lower corner of the said
Fairfax's Lott and one half of the adjacent street."[92] 
On December
16, 1766, the minutes reveal that the issue was resolved.

"Whereas deeds were granted by William Ramsay and John Pagan two of the trustees of the town
of Alexandria bearing date of the 28th day of March Anno Domini 1752 to the Hon Geo Wm Fairfax
Esqr for two Lotts of Land in the said Town No. 56 & 57, on the motion
of Geo Wm Fairfax Esqr it appears to us the above mentioned Trustees
that No. 56 should have been included in Lott No. 57 as one lott liable
to the Conditions of improvement by act of Assembly--and that he never
having had a deed in his name or his fathers for Lott No 58 It is
now ordered that one Deed of Conveyance be made out to the said Geo
Wm Fairfax his Heirs and Assigns and that Mr. Wm Ramsay and Mr. John
Carlyle be appointed and are hereby authorized to make good the said
deed of Conveyance for these Lotts being improved agreeable to the
Act of Assembly for constituting and erecting the said Town."[93]
That deed, which bears the date January 30, 1767, referenced that
on March 1, 1753, lots numbers 56 and 57 were transfered to George
William Fairfax, Esq.

Also according to this deed, since lot 56 was only a smaller portion of a larger lot, it should
be holden as parcel of lot 57, and the purchaser should hold the same lot without being compelled
to make any improvements on the lot other than what was required, by law, to be made on the lot
as a whole.
Fairfax, due to the prospect of inheritances of land and titles, was contemplating moving to
England in 1771. He turned to Robert Adam, a successful businessman, for help in selling and
disposing of his Alexandria properties. Court records from this time show that Fairfax and Sarah, his
wife, sold lots 56 and 57 to Adam on November 25, 1771 and included all "Houses, buildings, orchards,
ways, waters, [and] water courses" for 350 pounds' equivalence to Virginian currency. This
transaction was signed and witnessed by George Washington, Anthony Ramsay, and James Adam. It
is interesting to note that Washington's diary entry for that day was "went a hunting in the
morning with Jacky Custis."
 

These summations and cancellings cannot be understood exactly because
they take place when we aren't dealing with a visible object, and
we may feel that there is a wholeness and inwardness in dealing with
the development of certain ideal characters, that makes treatment
of them essentially untrue and fake.

The subjective element counts in this situation for so much that
the creation of a perfect character becomes a strange problem never
before seen.

Nevertheless, there is a way of creating characters which still
have a close resemblance to how the imagination creates the type of
any physical being.

Information may be gathered, for instance, about the nucleus of a word, which gives us an idea
of a human condition or career or a number of non-connected observations.

We may keep a log in our minds, or even in our backpocket, with notes
on the observations of the speech, mannerisms, style, gestures, and
history of the people we meet, categorizing our statistics under a
variety of possibilities, from house maids, to CEOs.

And then, when time allows, to go into detail by recording in a manuscript of sorts, any one
of these types, all we have to do is to look over our notes--either
mental or physical, to select the most appropriate, and if we are
skilful in reproduction, to obtain by that means a mirror image of
the kind of person we wish to represent.

Novelists and playwrights may go through this process deliberately, we all, however, carry on
in this way involuntarily.

Experiences are leaving in our minds some trait throughout every
second of the day, some expression, some image, which will remain
there attached to whichever memory it symbolizes to us.

Our preferences, our judgments on whole categories of people, are
nothing but the remembrance of an impression.

These traits are alive within us and if the picture they draw is
biased, then the sensation they recall may be inaccurate, and suggestive
of the wrong characteristics of the thing.

By bringing you, through your imagination, into the presence of the memory, you encounter the
same feeling of understanding and exploration and the expectation of experience, which we have
at the sight of whatever we call real.

The strength of the mental images involved with this method of observation
and association of characteristics is thus seen to be significant;
however, the most famous characters have not been conceived in this
manner.

This method gives the average, or recognizable, points of the type,
but the greatest personalities of poetry -- Hamlet, Don Quixote, Achilles
-- are not mediocre or average in any way, they are not even a collection
of common traits seen in certain types of men.

They seem to be people; that is, their actions and words are borne
of the inward natures of a special and distinguished spirit.

Goethe probably conceived the character of Gretchen without any model
to mimick, and, he probably wouldn't have found one if he were to
look for a model.

His character in this case, becomes the original to which we see
some likeness in real girls.

Oddly enough, in this case, fiction is the standard of natural characteristics.

So, perhaps we can argue, as the saying goes,that poetry is truer than history. Maybe no real
maid ever acted so naturally as this fictional one.

If there is a paradox in these assertions, it should show the standard
of naturalness, individuality, and honesty which is in us.

People usually appear to have characteristics when their behavior is aimed to place a specific
association in our minds. If we could count all subconscious actions, everyone has character:
yet everyone is easily categorized; however, their characters are
not necessarily understandable to all people, their behavior is not
necessarily decipherable, and their motives not necessarily measurable.

The characters that are most appealing to us, either alone or by the
realness they resemble to others, are those we regard as the icons
around which our personal mimicks circulate.

These men are real: all others are greater or lesser caricatures
of the original.

Because the standard of originality is subjective and deciphered by
the limits of imagination, we better understand why imagination can
be more real than any reality, or any differentiation from realities.

A form can be invented by the artist, and by its entrance into the
mind, lodges there, and becomes the model for all observations, and
the standard of what seems normal in our world.

 Ibsen
tried to add his poetry by way of ornament, and gave us a poet who used certain catchwords such
as 'vine-leaves in the hair' in this poem and 'harps in the air' in The Master-builder. In Little
Eyolf it took a human form and became the Rat-wife, while in John Gabriel Borkman it became
'a dead man and two shadows'. In When we Dead Awaken he used chilly allegory.
In his earlier works Ibsen studied diseases of society and considered only the individual and
their relation to society. Currently he has turned to the individual conscience. Only life itself
intrigues him now, and only life that is frevently alive; the irony
has fallen from his scheme.

The awesome and experimental artist comes back, no longer external, but curious about death.
The scientific man, searching for something beyond science, stretches back, though uncomfortably,
to the nursery legend of the Rat-wife in Little Eyolf.
The Rat-wife isn't reality or fantasy, Mother Bombier or Macbeth's withces, but the child of a
supernaturalism that does not believe it self. In John Gabriel Borkman, Ibsen demonstrates his
mastery of construction and creates a play with four acts with a short pause of one minute between
each. He appears to be tired of the old routine, lies and misunderstandings, and the irony of
everything. He has fierce anger and sees the underlying madness in everything.
In The Master-builder, isn't 'ideal' awake again, not really a desire to open up to younger generations?
Isn't it the younger generations that find themslves at home there?

Isn't Peer Gynt rehashed, and riding through the air on the backs of reindeer?
In When we Dead Awaken everyone is insane, acting out a charade with clear consciouses and deliver
their performance dead-pan, albeit a bit taxed.
In his last plays there are an abundance of qualities, not as forced and specific as in Ghosts,
so we can see the revenge of the imaginatist on the realist. He has come to be uninterested in
the plight of society upon individuals, but instead focuses on an individual's soul lost or
saved. It appears that he has at last discovered the soul, but he is not sure where to go
from here now that he has found it. Is he still searching or has
he found what he has been longing for? 6)
An additional feature of Bracciolini's work is that one letter will be repeated constantly
throughout a word, as much as at its beginning, middle, and end if
the letter permits this.

 The cure which beyond everybody comparison succeeded
greatest, was sulphate of copper.

The usefulness of this mineral, although known at Salem, New Jersey, was heard, at the Asylum,
via the mistake of a nurse.

It had been previously consumed, within lotions of the intensity of gr. ij or iij towards the ounce
of water; and with little advantage.

Observing that the empirical cures remarked towards possess succeeded, were, as I conceived
them, immoderately powerful, I supplied the nurse with a ordinary solution of sulphate of copper,
and with a vial consisting 72 grains of the sulphate within an ounce
of water, for the focus of being steadily plus the else at different
periods.

This stronger solution was applied, via mistake, instead of the diluted one; and it was the former
cure which had caused a rapid tendency towards a cure.

I finally definite down, as soon as various checks, within the vocation of the following:
R. Sulph. Cupri, [Symbol: dram]ij Pulv. Cinchonæ, [Symbol: ounce]ss Aquæ, [Symbol: ounce]iv
m.
S. To be applied twice a day, very cautiously, towards the full extent of the ulcerations and excoriations.

The cinchona here is not definitely necessary; but operates via keeping the sulphate longer within
touch with the edges of the gums.
Simple ulcerations and low gangrenes, as well as the troublesome excoriation, when not within the
last level, surrendered quickly towards this remedy; the nice influence being loosely visible
from the former application.

Dr. FOX, my ally and fellow-labourer within the Asylum, had already lectured me that it was meaningful
morning towards withdraw the teeth. I was not, however, judicious of the full extent of this
pattern, till as soon as analysing the fangs of a number of of them which were drawn. The division
of a allocation of the periosteum from the fang, within the socket, which was universally located
whenever the tooth was adrift, among two or three hundred specimens, proved the presence of the
illness within a deep, narrow crevice, into which it was impossible, via any contrivance, towards
insinuate the lotion. This cavity was laid open via withdrawing the tooth; and when the cure
was applied, the sanatory influence was extraordinarily prompt. Fraction Moreote barons, greedy robbers because
they nice Greek merchants were called, was dissolved by the unexpected victory. Many laid their
arms and made peace with the government.
General Kalergy was then present in the city was besieged Navarin when Ibrahim Pasha, and went out
with his band, when the place surrendered. This defeat, though there was only a subordinate command,
affected him greatly, and looked round for some means of revenge on the Turks lost his country.
He resolved to make one last effort to sabotage the resumption of war in Crete, but without
a strong fortress to provide munitions and materials necessary to conduct a scheduled series
of attacks, it was obvious that nothing important could be done.

In this difficulty, Kalergy determined to attack the impregnable
island-fortress Grabusa as was known that the power has been determined
on the Turks to leave a very small garrison.

Kalergy learned that most of the garrison was absent during the day,
some of his men disguised in Turkish dress, and appeared on the beach
at which point the soldiers moved to the island of Gibraltar garrison.

The master ordered the boat to transport them Grabusa as usual over
the Greeks entered the fort before the mistake was discovered.

The place was all in vain attacked by the forces of Mohammed Ali, the Greeks kept their possession
until the end of the war. Acumen and courage shown in this business Kalergy placed him to the rank
of the ablest of the Greek leaders.
When General Gordon (whose excellent history of the Greek revolution recommend to our readers (a))
has attempted to issue Athens, then besieged Kutayhi (Reschid Pasha) and Makriyani Kalergy divisions
commanded troops who occupied the Piraeus. Later, when Lord Cochrane and General Church tried to
force the Turkish lines, Kalergy was one of the officers who commanded
the advanced division. The Act of Settlement could be found at the hall's lower end and was
placed where the virgin who occupied the throne could see it. Acts
of Parliament like this that established where public funds should
go covered the walls on both sides of the hall. You attempt to live your life one way, to discover what the meaning
is. Then calamity comes to crush you. Men and Women marry for money
or physicality, and put half of their whole into the bond, and their
sacrilegious doing smites them with a curse. The plain is dotted over with significant circular hollow or valleys.
It had an extreme dryness, which can be seen through the immense depth
of sandy soil. The soil condition is causing the incapability on maintaining
water on the soil surface though only for a short time, and it eliminated
the possibility of obtaining water by digging through the soil.