A broad field is that of Education; and while she strives to make acquisitions in the various
branches of knowledge, let her not forget that better education of the mind and heart. Talent,
without virtue to guide, is like a ship without sails or rudder, exposed to the wild winds
of the storm on the broad expanse of the ocean. What sadder spectacle can there be, than to
behold a mind employing its talents and its learning in endeavoring to lead its fellow-beings
away from the paths of rectitude, disregarding the laws of God and man, and refusing to acknowledge
the Source that gave it birth? From such an example we turn with sorrow and disgust, and gladly
look to those good and noble ones who have adorned their sex. The names of Hannah More, Maria
Edgeworth, Felicia Hemans, Letitia Landon, Harriet Martineau, and a host of others, show what
woman can do when properly educated; for they are equally distinguished in private, for their
amiable and domestic qualities, as in public for their high intellectual attainments. Let woman
follow their example, never failing to embrace all opportunities presented to her for moral
and intellectual improvement.

ONE FAMILY.

We are all brothers and sisters of one great family, and should always treat each other as
such. If you suffer provocation, let the remembrance that it is a brother who has injured you,
prevent retaliation, and secure for him entire forgiveness. He who can forgive injuries, puts
himself beyond the reach of harm, and secures a peace of soul more valuable than the gold of Ophir.

SUMMER THOUGHTS.

A FABLE.

I suppose most of the readers of this little volume have been in the country the past summer.
As you beheld the green grass, the fine spreading trees, and the beautiful flowers that sprang
up in your pathway, perhaps the feeling came over you that you could be far happier in the
country than in the city. We are very apt to suppose that change of place will produce a more
delightful state of feeling; forgetting that in a little time we should become familiar with
all these objects, and then we return again to our former selves.

Precisely so it is with children in the country. They come to this busy city, and eagerly gaze
at the varied shows which attract the eye, and would prefer to exchange situations with you;
but by and by they become wearied with sightseeing, and the home they have left rises before
them as a pleasanter abode than any other dwelling, however rich or elegant. Thus they learn
to be happy at home; and this is a most valuable attainment.

But, in order to be permanently happy, we must have something to do. There are other lessons
to be learned besides those we commit in the schoolroom. The whole world, indeed, is a school,
and we are daily committing our tasks. These teachings are preparations for our future happiness.

You have all noticed the growth of a tree. At first, only a little twig springs out of the
ground. And so with the flower. You deposit only a tiny seed; but in a little time a shoot
springs up, and by natural but slow processes the twig becomes a large shady tree, and the
shoot a beautiful blooming flower. Though they grow very slowly, yet they never rest. Day and
night the hidden processes are going on which help to promote their growth. Just so it is with
the minds of children. They are daily acquiring those habits which will eventually make the
whole sum of their characters. But then, great care is requisite how they form these characters;
that they may spring up in fair proportions, making their possessors worthy members of society.

I will illustrate this by a fable, which occurred to me as I walked over the beautiful garden
of a friend, with whom I spent a few weeks the past summer. We will suppose, for our present
purpose, that the flowers have an articulate voice.

A stately dahlia grew in a cultivated garden. There were many of the same species of flowers,
but no other had the peculiar variegated tints of this particular one. Every one, in passing
by it, was attracted by its beauty. It seemed as if vain of flattery, although we know it had
no ears to hear, for every day it seemed to increase in size and beauty. With its lofty head,
it gained a supremacy above all its neighbors, and the heavy shower and furious wind failed
to soil its petals or bend its graceful form.

Away off in the farther corner of the garden, under a hedge, bloomed a simple white clover.
It was entirely unheeded by the multitude, although it gave a sweetness and fragrancy to the
air, which made the invalid stop to inhale it. In its modesty it bloomed, in its lowly bed
it sought no observation, and was passed by as a simple white clover. By and by the mower's
scythe passed that way and levelled it among common grasses. It was gathered in the general
mass of hay, and became a part of the sustenance of the master's cattle.

The dahlia was plucked by the horticulturist, and placed in a glass receptacle, among kindred
flowers, where it was gazed at for a time; then it faded and was thrown among common rubbish.
During their lifetime we will suppose them to have conversed together.

"I," said the dahlia, "am queen of this garden. I attract every eye that passes; while you,
little clover, are hidden by the tall grass, and liable to be crushed at any moment."

"Well," replied the clover, "let it be so now; but look at our final end. You will be placed
in a glass, plucked from your native stem, where you will wither and die as a worthless thing;
while I shall be felled by the scythe, after I have reached my maturity, and then a thousand
tiny seeds will I strow around me; so that, another reason, I shall bloom all about the hedges,
and my usefulness will be appreciated. And pray where will you then be?" The dahlia blushed,
and hung its head for shame.

Here, children, is a fable designed to illustrate pride and humility. Which appears the most
beautiful, because the most useful? I know you will prefer humility to pride. If so, you must
remember that the peculiar traits you now cultivate are forming within you the one or the other.
By a thousand little kind acts, you can diffuse happiness in your homes; and all the while
you are disseminating these virtues, you are acquiring these lasting graces, in yourselves,
which will spring up, like the violet and sweet clover, leaving a fragrancy and beauty wherever
you have trodden.

A TALK WITH THE CHILDREN.

Dear children,--although I am almost a stranger among you, yet I feel a true interest in your
welfare. It gives me great pleasure when I enter the Sabbath school to meet your happy countenances
and smiling faces. Children, you do not assemble together for the purpose of passing an hour
that perhaps might pass unpleasantly elsewhere. It is for a higher and nobler purpose. It is
to gain useful and religious instruction from the Bible, the best of all books. You should
not be content with learning and reciting your lessons, but you should try to remember what
you learn. And when you grow up to be men and women, you will never regret it. It is in the
Bible that we are taught to love God, and all mankind.

When we enter the Sabbath school, may we learn to say, To-day is the Sabbath day, ever blessed
and beautiful; welcome to its holy and happy influence! Welcome, thrice welcome, the day of
sweet repose, and sweeter meditation. Spring is sometimes compared to childhood. In spring,
when the brooks fall gurgling down the mountain side, when the earth begins to be covered with
its verdant robes, when the birds are joyfully singing around, the trees gently waving in the
breeze, and all is gay and gladsome, we sometimes wish that it could always be spring. So in
youth, we sometimes wish we could always be young; but it cannot be. But as each season in
its turn, spring, summer, autumn, and even winter, clothed in its robes of snow, has its own
pleasures, so each season of life is wisely invested of God, with its own peculiar joys.

Though it is now spring-time, it will soon be autumn with you, when you must impart that useful
knowledge you will have gained in spring and summer. Now is the time for you to store up that
knowledge. If our childhood and youth are rightly employed, age will compare no more unfavorably,
as regards its joys, with youth and middle age, than does winter with spring. Endeavor, then,
to acquire that useful knowledge that will teach you so to live that you may set a good example
to all around you. Children, this beautiful world we live in was made for you. It is filled
with beauty, and when we look around upon it, our hearts within us say, how great and good
is our God! How wonderful are all of his works! The beautiful in nature is all the production
of his power. He spoke this world into being, and decorated it with sun, moon, and stars. Beauty
and loveliness are stamped upon everything that he has made. But no scene in the outward world
transcends in loveliness the Sabbath school, where the young come to receive Christian instruction.
And now, dear children, make this wise resolution; to love your Sabbath school, your parents
and teachers, all the world, and especially your heavenly Father, better than you ever have
before; and you will be better and happier children.

UNCLE JIMMY.

It was Saturday afternoon. The boys were enjoying their sports, when one of them espied Uncle
Jimmy coming towards them. "Look, boys," said he, "Uncle Jimmy is coming. We will ask him to
stop and tell us some stories."

Now Uncle Jimmy was a very aged man, bowed down with years, and so feeble that he could not
walk without the aid of his cane. When the weather was mild, he used to take short walks, and
the children were always happy to see him. They all claimed the privilege of calling him Uncle.
One little boy ran forward to assist him, and led him to a seat beneath a shady tree. Ball
and hoop were soon forgotten, as they eagerly pressed round the old man, to show him their
respect; for he always had a word for each of them.

"Do not let me interrupt your sports, boys; I am fond of seeing you at your plays. I had once
as many playmates as yourselves, and enjoyed them as well."

The little boy who assisted him to his seat, replied, "We had rather hear you talk to us, if
you please, sir; for we have not seen you for so long a time."

"True, true, I have been housed up, and it is rare, nowadays, that I walk so far as this. I'm
glad to see you all so well and happy. If you wish to keep so, be always temperate, and do
not neglect your duties. Whenever conscience whispers to you, 'I have done my duty,' you will
enjoy the sports allowed you.

"I have now in my mind the memory of an old friend. It is indeed pleasant to think of him.
He was remarkable for his industry, even when very young; yet at play he was as merry as the
merriest of us. His mind and his heart were in it. He became a very superior scholar. Some
of you may think that it was because he had superior talents, that he thus excelled in scholarship.
It is true, he had rare talents; but by his industry he made every talent ten talents; and
he always exercised his powers for the good of others, for he was benevolent in his disposition.
I am proud to think of him, when in his prime. Young and old were benefited by his instruction,
and he was universally beloved and respected; for he had become a useful preacher of the word
of God, and a devoted minister. His example of industry and perseverance exerted an extensive
influence upon others, and changed in some measure the whole face of society in the community
in which he lived."

Many more stories did Uncle Jimmy relate to the children, which I have not time to repeat now.
The afternoon was far spent ere any of them wearied of hearing him; and many a good lesson
did they receive, which I trust was as "good seed, sown on good ground." I trust my little
readers will as readily listen to the counsels of the aged, and as respectfully heed their
advice, as did these children. In this way, you will give promise of becoming wise and good.

The children waited on Uncle Jimmy to his home; and, when they left him, he prayed God to bless
them.

THE CHILD'S DREAM OF HEAVEN.

Mother, I dreamed of heaven; And all around were choirs of angels, singing Hymns of praise;
and children joining hands, And looking so bright and happy, that I wished I could be always
with them. And in their midst The Savior stood and blessed them, saying, "Suffer little children
unto me to come." Then all around were flowers so sweet, dear mother, That the whole air seemed
filled with fragrance, and The birds were warbling sweetest songs of love. The sky was fairer
than our sky, dear mother; And the sunshine seemed more bright; and as it beamed Upon the angels'
forms, they looked as though All made of light. And then I looked for those That left us, who,
you said, had gone to heaven, To join the angels round the throne of God. There I saw sister,
and my little brother We long since buried in the dark, cold ground, Whom I had thought I never
more should meet. They looked, dear mother, as they used to look, When they were well and happy;
ere disease Had robbed them of their beauty, or death's seal Fastened upon their features.
And their faces Beamed with a brightness never seen before. I asked if they were happy, and
if I Could join them; or if they would return To us again; and told them, mother dear, How
lonely we had felt since they departed, And left us in our grief; and how we missed Their pleasant
voices and their merry laugh; For though you said 'twas wrong to wish them back, I could not
think but you would welcome them. They were too happy in their angel home, To think of coming
back to earth again; And neither, said they, could I stay with them, Because my time was not
yet come. But they Would look upon us from their high abode, And ask our Saviour's blessing
on us both; And soon his arms would open, and his voice Would call on us to follow them; and
they Would welcome us to those bright realms above, Where they, with angels, now have found
a home; Where all shall find a home, a resting-place, After the toils of earth. Where skies
are bright, And spring forever reigns. Where flowers shall bloom In never-fading freshness,
nor be touched By winter's frost. And, more than all, where love Unites all hearts in one great
brotherhood, Nor separation comes to break the chain.

THE INFLUENCE OF SABBATH SCHOOLS.

"Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined,"--is an adage as true as it is ancient. One's
character, happiness, and usefulness, during his whole life, depends, in no small measure,
upon early education. The child taught to disregard the Sabbath, and lightly to esteem the
instructions of the Sabbath school, grows to manhood devoid of aught that can entitle him to
the society and respect of the good and virtuous. With a soul shrouded in midnight darkness,
he gropes his way through life, and at the grave sinks into oblivion, "by none esteemed, by
all forgot." However we may hope for such a soul, through the mercy of God, as we surely do,
it is not now qualified to enter upon and fully appreciate the purity and joys of Christ's kingdom.

We seldom hear of the execution or imprisonment of one who regarded in youth the Sabbath school.
Indeed, I think it impossible for one who has been successfully taught to reverence and to
love the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, to become an outcast from society. It is true, envy,
with its envenomed tongue, and malice, with its still more poisonous breath, may assail even
such a one; but their shafts will fall harmless at his feet. The shield of his soul they cannot
pierce. They cannot eradicate from the heart the influence of the high and holy lessons which
it received in youth. Its many sources of enjoyment they cannot destroy.

Pleasant and important, therefore, are the duties of teachers. The directing of tender affections,
and the development of youthful powers, are intrusted to their hands. If they perform their
duties faithfully, they may have the satisfaction of seeing the pupils of their charge useful
among men, devoted to right, and obedient unto God. Such an office is lovely. It is more than
lovely, it is holy. It blesses him who fills it. It exalts his affections, ennobles his purposes,
and enlarges his heart.

Do we not see the fruit of this labor in our own school? In the kindness and love of the children
for each other, in their faithfulness in the duties of the school, and in their respectful
and affectionate bearing towards their teachers and all others, do we not recognize some of
the fruits of Sabbath school culture? And may we not expect that such children will be beloved,
honored, and useful among men?

Do we not also see some of the fruits of these influences in the fraternal regard of teachers
for each other, in their devotion to their duties as teachers, and in their distinguishing
virtues as Christians? Have we not, especially, seen the fruit of these influences in the enduring
patience, calm hopefulness, and cheerful trust, of one of our number whom we have just followed
to her resting-place? The Lord make us faithful, that our end may be like hers.

MEMORY.

"O Memory! thou wak'ner of the dead! Thou only treasurer of vanished past! How welcome art
thou, when bright hope is fled, And sorrow's mantle o'er the soul is cast! Back o'er those
days too beautiful to last, Thy gentle hand will lead the saddened thought; And though the
tears may trickle warm and fast, Yet thy sweet pictures with such peace are fraught, The heart,
beguiled, exclaims, 'This is the fount I sought.'"

Memory! Who has not felt its influence! Who of us would wish to part with its delights and
quiet teachings! Beautifully adapted is the twilight hour to the cherishing of the recollections
of the past. It is then that the hum of busy life is hushed, and all nature seems resting from
its toil. Then, in undisturbed peace, rise before us the loved ones we have cherished, and
whose memories, like guardian angels, always attend us. We recall every affectionate word and
kindly deed, however trivial or little heeded at the time. And how sweet then are our thoughts,
and our recompense, if we have never caused them an unhappy moment! Half the bitterness of
affliction is removed by such blessed memories. Then let us make them ours. Let us so live
that it shall be possible for us to cherish them. Then will they bring to us many happy hours,
and sweet solace to the suffering heart. Each moment, as it flits by, enters its record upon
the tablet of memory, to be read with joy or sorrow at some future moment.

Then let each moment find some worthy deed to perform, or kind word to be spoken, that shall
cause a glow of pleasure and satisfaction when memory recalls it. All memories are not alike
pleasing; yet each may have its mission to perform. Past sin may bring pain with its recollection.
It comes as a warning, lest we should transgress again. If, then, we would treasure up for
ourselves pleasant memories for the future, we must guard well the present moment.

It is equally cheering to feel that we ourselves have a place in the memory of our friends.
What a motive it should be to us, then, to live in such a manner that their memory of us may
be as "the memory of the just," which the Scriptures declare to be "blessed."

SELFISHNESS.

The selfish man wrongs himself in attempting to wrong others. In filling his pockets unjustly
with gold, he drives away joy from his soul. He forgets his relationship to angels, and only
remembers his affinity to brutes.

TROUBLE.

Worldly trouble is the tonic of the soul. Affliction at once humbles us and gives us a relish
for spiritual food. Those providences which teach us the insufficiency of earth, make us lean
on heaven.

REVENGE.

Revenge is the putting out of one's own eyes for the sake of putting out the eyes of another.

A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

In admiring the virtues and moral excellence of one who holds a high rank in society, who fills
a distinguished place in the State, or occupies a responsible seat in the halls of science
or in the church, we are liable to be swayed in our judgment. His social position is a kind
of magnifying lens, through which all his virtues are viewed. But when a comparatively obscure
individual from the humbler walks of life claims our attention, we are better able to estimate
his virtues at their true value.

Such a one we meet with in the subject of this brief sketch. Miss Hannah S. Shedd was born
in Boston, February 5, 1826. The death of her father, preceded as it was by the death of her
mother, left her an orphan at the age of eight years. She was the second of three surviving
children by their father's second marriage, all of whom were left in charge of a half sister,
who was the eldest of five children by a former marriage, and who was all to them that a mother
even could be.

One of the parents was an Episcopalian in sentiment, the other a Universalist. The elder children
were attendants upon Universalist worship in the School street Church, while the younger attended
one of the Baptist churches of the city. Hannah, the subject of our sketch, continued under
the influence of Baptist doctrines and worship until about fifteen years of age, when at her
own earnest solicitation she was permitted to attend the Universalist church, and become a
member of the School street Universalist Sunday school.

The influence upon her feelings of the change in regard to a place of worship, was very marked.
She was naturally inclined to religious meditation and reflection, but was never satisfied
with what she had been accustomed to hear. Nor can she be regarded as singular, in this respect.
However true it may be that Christianity is adapted in its simplicity to the susceptibilities
of the young--and I believe this is eminently true--it is equally true, that the ordinary partialist
interpretations of it are not thus adapted to their susceptibilities. The young are not satisfied
with these. The clearer their perceptions, and the more comprehensive their thought, the greater
is their dissatisfaction. It was so with Hannah, even when but a child.

But when the hungerings of her soul found their appropriate aliment in the ministrations of
the venerable Hosea Ballou, then the sole pastor of the church to which she turned for peace,
the change was in the highest degree salutary. Her satisfaction was very great. She also found
great pleasure in accompanying her eldest sister to the Rev. Mr. Streeter's Friday evening
meetings; and so highly did she prize these religious privileges, that she could scarcely submit
to be deprived of them for a single evening or Sabbath without shedding tears.

Her natural amiability and generosity of disposition--a generosity especially marked in her
demeanor towards her eldest sister, who had become a mother to her--made the Universalist interpretation
of Christianity to be to her indeed the "bread of life." Not only did she seek for this spiritual
nutriment in the regular ministrations of the sanctuary and in the conference meeting, but
she turned also to the Sabbath school with the same fond devotion to Christian truth.

During the connection of the Rev. Mr. Soule with the School street Society, he established
a Bible class, of which Miss Shedd became one of the earliest members. She has often spoken
to the writer of this of the great profit she was conscious of having derived therefrom. She
was also one of the earliest members of the class formed by the present junior pastor of the
Society, Rev. Mr. Miner, and in the discharge of her duties in that capacity she showed uncommon
clearness of perception, and not a little vigor of thought.

At the age of fourteen she left school and took up the needle that she might aid her sisters
in gaining for the family an honorable maintenance. She has been known to ply the needle with
all diligence till ten o'clock at night, and then turn to her Sunday school book to make preparation
for the Sabbath. If this is an example of too severe application to toil, it shows at the same
time a devotion to spiritual culture in the highest degree commendable.

Strict integrity and a strong sense of justice characterized her even in her childhood. A little
circumstance bearing upon this point I will relate. She had been to an apothecary's shop for
some medicines, and on reaching home found that she had received back more change than was
due. Of her own accord she proposed to return it, nor would she willingly delay for a moment
the performance of so manifest an act of justice. She received from the apothecary the highest
encomium, and a reward for her integrity. In all her transactions she showed the same scrupulousness
in matters of right, and thus became a bright example for all children to imitate.

She was not less remarkable for her obedience to the wishes of her sister, than for her regard
for justice. She not only obeyed, but obeyed readily and cheerfully. And so sensible is that
sister of her great excellence in this respect, now that she has passed away, that she cannot
speak of her but with the deepest emotion.

She seemed to have very little power to bear disappointment. Her feelings were very tender,
and her sensibilities great. Disappointment, therefore, brought the ready tear to her eye;
and solicitous affection, if possible, removed the pressure which had caused it. But some of
the later revelations of her life indicated rare ability to endure disappointment, and to cherish
hope even in the audience-chamber of death. Thus will it appear in the end that her heart was
full of Christian confidence and holy trust.

In the course of June, 1850, it was observed by her friends that her health was manifestly
declining. She was advised to leave her employment at once, and seek in relaxation and change
of scene the reestablishment of her health and the restoration of her accustomed vigor. Accordingly
accompanied by her brother, she spent some three weeks of the month of July in various parts
of Maine; but health did not come back to her. Disease was too deeply seated to be beguiled away.

She returned to her home but to languish and die. When the news of her mortal illness reached
the Sabbath school, in which she had now been a faithful and beloved teacher for about a year,
it produced the most intense interest and solicitude. All felt that a dearly beloved sister
had become the victim of the destroyer. That, however, which was a source of unmingled grief
in the beginning, became a sanctifying power in the end.

When first informed that it was feared her disease would terminate fatally, she betrayed the
deepest emotion, with scarcely the utterance of a word. Her natural sensibility made the weight
upon her spirits seem insupportable. But when the first shock was past and her powers had had
time to rally, she was found equal to the trial that awaited her. That truth which she had
long loved, and which had produced very little of that Christian display by which the world
judges, had wrought silently but powerfully upon her understanding and her heart. It had begotten
hopes in a naturally hopeful spirit, stronger than death itself.

When her pastor from time to time spoke to her of the labors and sacrifices of Christ, of the
love of the Father and of the blessedness of immortality, leading her sometimes to meditate
upon the highest forms of Christian truth, the smile of satisfaction that played upon her countenance,
showed not only that her powers were equal to the effort, but that her heart was satisfied
with its fruit.

Her disease, which was consumption, was of a very painful character, especially as regarded
difficulty of breathing. She was compelled to sit up continually, almost to the hour of her
death. Yet in the moment of expected dissolution, so generous was her nature, her heart was
yearning for blessings on others rather than herself. At one time just before her death she
requested her pastor to remember in his prayer an absent sister, that she might recover from
a critical illness; and in one of his last interviews with her, she desired him to "attend
her funeral and comfort her brothers and sisters, and especially that sister who had been a
mother to her." "Oh, Hannah has always been a good girl" burst from the lips of that sister,--an
involuntary tribute to cheerful, ready obedience, and true excellence of heart. She had given
some little memento of affection to each of the family and friends, and enjoined upon her brother,
who still remains with the sisters, to "be sure and be kind to them," when she quietly fell asleep.

Thus died an excellent young woman, Oct. 2d, 1850, aged 24 years and 8 months. The strength
of her trust and the depth of her Christian experience could be seen in her meek submission
to suffering, in that remarkable patience which allowed not a word of murmuring to escape her
lips through the whole progress of her disease, and which enabled her to believe that every
providence of God is ordered in perfect wisdom.

Humble in her outward position, her spiritual attainments were of the most exalted character.
The stores of excellence treasured in her heart were made manifest in the hour of great trial,
and the Christian instruction to which she was accustomed to apply herself, begat the holiest
resignation and the most confident trust.

The fact that this good was in no small degree wrought in the Sabbath school, should lead the
Sabbath school teacher to understand the dignity and importance of his office, the opportunities
he enjoys for directing the affections of the young heart, and the necessity of a large measure
of Christian attainment to qualify him for the successful discharge of so great responsibilities.
May the example of our departed sister be sanctified to the good of all thus employed.

THE SABBATH SCHOOL BOYS.

"What do we go to the Sabbath school for?" asked a little boy of his companion who was some
years older than himself, and who had, as I discovered by their conversation, attended the
school for a long time, that is, compared with the time which many children, boys especially,
think it of any use to go to the Sabbath school. Some boys when at the age of twelve or fourteen
years, think they are too old to receive any benefit from Sabbath school instruction. Hearing
the question of this little boy, and observing the look of intelligence and sincerity in his
companion, and being desirous of knowing what answer would be given, I remained within hearing
of their conversation, and will try to present to the scholars in our school, through the medium
of "Our Gift," the good reasons which he gave to his little companion, (who was his younger
brother,) why he went to the Sabbath school.

Eld. B. I go because I like to go, and I like to go because I always enjoy myself there better
than I do anywhere else. I find pleasure in the singing, in the prayer, and in the lessons.
The lessons are not hard to learn when I understand them, and the learning of them is even
a pleasant task; for my teacher has a way of making our lessons interesting to us, in hearing
us recite. He asks us questions about the subject of the lesson before using the book, and
he generally finds some interesting matter relating to it, and we become so much engaged that
the time is gone before we are aware of it, and we have to stop and wait for the next session
of the school.

Young. B. I like the school too, though I have been only twice. How old was you when you first
went to the Sabbath school, brother?

Eld. B. I was seven years old, and I am now fourteen; and I mean to continue till I am able
to take a class myself. I want to have the pleasure of being a teacher in our school, and I
hope soon to do so, for the school is increasing very fast in numbers. There are a good many
small children coming into the school, and I think that I shall be wanted, for I observe that
there are not male teachers enough. Sometimes one teacher has to attend to two or more classes,
and the time of a session in the school is not sufficient to do this with much advantage. What
did you learn in twice going to the school? tell me that, and then we shall know, at least,
what you went to the Sabbath school for.

Young. B. I will tell you. After I had said a short lesson, my teacher gave me a little piece
called "The Child's First Hymn," which she said she found in a paper published in England.
It was published for the children of the Sabbath schools of Old England. She said it would
do for us, the children of New England, and wished me to learn it.

Eld. B. Well, brother, I am sure you have improved the few times that you have attended the
school. Have you learned the hymn? and how do you like it? Let me hear you repeat it. I should
like to know what the children are taught in the Sabbath schools of Old England. Will you please
to repeat it to me?

Young. B I will. I did as well as I could. I have learned the hymn, and am much pleased with
it. I think of it the last thing when I fall asleep at night, and awake in the morning with
it on my mind. But I will repeat it to you, and you will see that I have not been to the Sabbath
school, though for so short a time, for nothing.

The Child's First Hymn.

Listen, Father, to my prayer, Guard me with thy tender care; Teach a humble child to know,
The path of duty here below.

Set a watch upon my heart, Lest an evil thought should start; Make me gentle, kind and good,
Through the Savior's cleansing blood.

All I have, and all I see, Ever comes, great God, from thee; Help me from my earliest days,
In thankful hymns to sing thy praise.

Bless my parents with thy grace, On my kindred turn thy face; Through the darkness of the night,
Give me rest till morning bright.

Teach me day by day thy will, With pure love my spirit fill, Till I'm fitted for that rest,
In the mansions of the blest.

Eld. B. It is indeed a very pretty hymn, and I am glad you have learned it so well. I hope
you will never forget it. Here comes my teacher; and as it will be ten minutes before the school
commences, we shall have time for conversation.

Here the teacher drew near and spoke to the boys:--

Teach. Good morning, my boys; how do you do, this fine morning?

Eld. B. Good morning, sir; we are well, I thank you.

Teach. You are in good season this morning, and I am glad to see that you are. It is so much
better to be before our time, than to be a little late. We get along so much better with the
business of the school, and have time to converse together. Besides, to be in school at the
opening of the exercises, shows that you value and wish to improve its privileges.

