+405+. Phalli as amulets occur in all parts of the world; as symbols and perhaps as abodes
of deities, they have been held potent to ward off all evils.[736]

+406+. The female organ (yoni, kteis) appears frequently in figures of female deities, ordinarily
without special significance, religious or other, except as a sign of sex. In the rare cases
in which it is the object of religious veneration (as in India) it is subordinated to the phallos[737]--there
is little or no evidence for the existence of a yonistic cult proper.[738] Female deities act
as fully formed anthropomorphic Powers, embodiments of the productive energies of nature; they
are generally treated as persons, without special reference to bodily parts. The most definite
formulation of this conception appears in Çaktism, the worship of the female principle in nature
as represented by various goddesses, often accompanied, naturally, by licentious rites.[739]

+407+. Androgynous deities represent attempts to combine in a single person the two sides of
the productive power of nature. Such attempts are relatively late, implying a considerable
degree of reflection and organization; how early they began we have not the data to determine.
They are not found among savage or half-civilized peoples.

+408+. In Semitic lands no artistic representations of a bisexual deity are now known, but
evidence is adduced to show that this conception existed in early times. It has been sought
in two old Babylonian inscriptions published by the British Museum.[740] The first of these
(written in Sumerian) reads: "For [or, in honor of] the (divine) king of countries, the (divine)
Nana [Ishtar], the lady Nana, Lugaltarsi, king of Kish, has constructed," etc. Barton takes
the two titles "the divine Ishtar" (='king of countries,' masculine) and "the lady Ishtar"
to refer to the same deity, in whose person would thus be united male and female beings. If,
however, the king of countries and Ishtar be taken to be two different deities (as is possible),
there is no bisexuality. The second inscription, which is bilingual, has the expressions "the
mother-father Enlil," "the mother-father Ninlil" (Sumerian), rendered in Semitic "the father-mother
Enlil," "the father-mother Ninlil." These expressions probably signify not that the two deities
are bisexual, but that each of them fulfills the guarding and nourishing functions of a father
and a mother.

The expression in a hymn to Ishtar that "she has a beard like the god Ashur" may be satisfactorily
explained as an astrological statement, the meaning of which is that the planet Dilbat (Ishtar,
Venus) at certain times equals the sun (represented by Ashur) in brilliancy, her rays being
likened to a beard.[741] A similar astrological interpretation is offered by Jastrow of a passage
(to which attention was called by François Lenormant) in which a female Dilbat and a male Dilbat
are spoken of. Other astrological texts indicate that the terms 'male' and 'female' are employed
as expressions of greater or less brilliancy.[742] Lajard's view, that all Babylonian and Assyrian
deities were androgynous, hardly needs discussion now.[743]

+409+. Of a more definite character are expressions in two Phoenician inscriptions. In an inscription
of Eshmunazzar II (probably early in the fourth century B.C.) the great goddess of Sidon is
called "Ashtart Shem Baal."[744] The word shem means 'name,' and, if it be so interpreted as
to give the goddess the name of a male divinity, she may be understood to have partly male
form. But such change of name is hardly probable, and this is not necessarily the natural force
of the phrase. In Hebrew to "call one's name on a person or thing" is to assert ownership in
it or close connection with it.[745] In the West Semitic area some personal names signify simply
'name of such and such a deity,' as, for example, Shemuel (Samuel), 'name of El,' Shemzebul,
'name of (the god) Zebul,' denoting devotion or subordination to the deity in question. "Shem
Baal" as a title of Ashtart may then indicate her close relation with the god, or, perhaps,
if the expression be understood more broadly, her equality with him in power (the name of a
deity involves his attributes)--he was the great god, but she, the expression would say, is
not less mighty than he; or, less probably, baal may be taken not as proper name but as title,
the sense then being that the goddess is the lord of the city.[746] Another proposal is to
read "Ashtart shamē Baal," 'Ashtart of the heaven [sky] of Baal.'[747] There is a Phoenician
Baal-shamem, 'lord of the sky,' but nowhere else is the sky described as the abode of a baal,
and the transference of the local city-goddess to that region would be strange; nor in the
expression 'Baal-shamem' is Baal a proper name--it is merely a title.

+410+. Another phrase, occurring in many Carthaginian inscriptions, makes mention of "Tanit
face of Baal,"[748] an expression that may point to a female body with male face. Its indefiniteness--it
does not state the nature of the face (it may point to a beard)--makes it difficult to draw
from it any conclusions as to the character of the deity named.[749] But the probability is
that it is identical in sense with the one mentioned above. Tanit was the great goddess of
Carthage; she is called "Adon," 'lord,' and her equality with Baal is indicated by the statement
that she had his face, the word 'face' being here equivalent to 'personality' and 'power.'[750]

+411+. At a later period (early in the fifth century of our era) two authors, Servius and Macrobius,
make definite statements concerning a bisexual cult, apparently Semitic.[751] Both statements
occur in connection with Vergil's use of the masculine deus (ducente deo) as a title of Venus,
in explanation of which the cases of supposed bisexualism are cited.[752] What is said is that
there was in Cyprus a deity whose image was bearded--a god of virile nature, but dressed as
a woman, and regarded as being both male and female. Further, Philochorus is quoted to the
effect that men sacrificed to her in women's dress and women in men's dress. This last remark
does not necessarily point to an androgynous deity, for exchange of dress between men and women
sometimes occurs where there is no question of the cult of such a deity.[753] But the Cyprian
deity is said also to have been called Αφροδιτον (Aphroditos? or Aphroditon?)[754]--apparently
a male Aphrodite.

+412+. Leaving aside a few other notices that add nothing to our knowledge of the point under
consideration, we should naturally conclude, if we give any credit to the statements of Servius
and Macrobius, that there was a report in their time of a bisexual deity in Cyprus. As regards
Vergil's "deus," that may be merely a poetical expression of the eminence and potency of the
goddess. But the assertions of her bisexual character are distinct, even if the "beard" be
discarded. This latter may have come from a misunderstanding of some appearance on the face
of the statue; or, as has been suggested, there may have been a false beard attached to it
permanently or occasionally,[755] and from this may have sprung the belief in the twofold nature
of the deity. We are not told, however, that such a nature was ascribed to Aphrodite, or that
a beard was attached to her statue; and, if this was done, it is difficult to suppose that
a popular belief in the bisexuality of a deity could have arisen from such a procedure. Some
better ground for the statements of Servius and Macrobius there seems to have been, though
we do not know their authorities. In any case it may be concluded that the cult in question,
if it existed, was late, popular, and without marked influence on the Semitic religious development.
No figures or other traces of a bisexual deity have been discovered in Cyprus or elsewhere
(unless the Carthaginian Tanit be an exception), and all that is otherwise known of the character
and cult of the Babylonian Ishtar, the Phoenician Ashtart, and the Carthaginian Tanit (=Ashtart)
is against the supposition of bisexuality. Ishtar, originally a deity of fertility, became,
through social growth, a patron of war and statecraft; but there is no indication that an attempt
was ever made to combine these two characters in one figure.

+413+. The Phrygian figure Agdistis, represented in the myths as androgynous[756] (the myths
being based on cults), is connected with the worship of the Great Mother, Kybele (the embodiment
of the female productive power of nature), with whom is associated Attis (the embodiment of
the male power).[757] The myths identify Agdistis on the one hand with Kybele, on the other
hand with Attis--he represents in his own person the combination of the two generative powers.
But it is doubtful whether this was his significance in the actual worship, in which he hardly
appears; he was probably a divine figure of the same character as Kybele and Attis, worked
up by myth-makers and woven into the larger myth. His self-castration reflects the practice
of the priests and other worshipers of Kybele.[758] Thus culturally he is of little or no importance.

+414+. There is no evidence that this Phrygian figure was derived from Semitic sources. A certain
similarity between Phrygian and Syrian cults of gods and goddesses of fertility is obvious,
and the social relations between Asia Minor, Syria, and Cyprus make borrowing in either direction
conceivable. But cults of such deities might grow up independently in different regions,[759]
and the supposition that the Phrygian worship was native to Asia Minor is favored by the great
elaboration of its ceremonies and by their barbarous character. This character suggests that
the worship may have originated with savage peoples who preceded the Aryans in the country.[760]

+415+. The most definite androgynous figure is the Greek Hermaphroditos. It was only in Greece
that such a compound name arose, and that the composite form became established in art. It
is not certain when the Greek form was fixed. If the statement that Aristophanes used the term
"Aphroditos"[761] (or "Aphroditon") is to be relied on, it must be concluded that the conception
existed in Greece prior to the fifth century, probably in that case as a popular usage that
was unorganized and unimportant, since it is not referred to in the existing literature. But
of this Aristophanes we know nothing, and the vague statements of Servius and Macrobius may
be neglected as being without significance for the figure in question.

+416+. The name Hermaphroditos is said to occur for the first time in the fourth or third century
B.C.[762] This would indicate a gradual formulation of the idea, the result being the combination
of two divine forms into a single form. Aphrodite would naturally be chosen for the female
side, and the ithyphallic Hermes is appropriate for the male side--possibly the Hermes pillar
with Aphrodite bust was the earliest form.[763] The representations of Hermaphrodites show
a male body with female bust; the name Aphroditos would rather suggest a female body with male
additions. Other Greek bisexual figures are forms of Priapos and Eros.

An historical connection between the Greek and the Phrygian forms is possible, but is not proved.
In India the bisexual form of Çiva, which seems to be late,[764] connects itself with the licentious
character of his rites. Its historical origin is uncertain.

+417+. It does not appear that the cult of the Greek androgynous deities entered seriously
into the religious life of the people. In late philosophic circles they were treated merely
as symbols of the creative power of nature, and thus lost their character as persons.

+418+. The starting-point for the development of the hermaphrodite figure may perhaps be found
in two facts, the interchange or change of sexual characters[765] and the combination of two
deities to express a broader idea than either of them represents. The assumption of female
dress and sexual habits by males, and of male dress and habits by females, has prevailed over
a great part of the world.[766] The embodiment of this fact in a composite divine form would
be not unnatural at a time when there was a disposition to give expression, in the person of
gods, to all human experiences. Such definite embodiment is, however, rare in religious history,
probably, as is suggested above, because it involves a large generalization and a more or less
distinct symbolism. The first movement in this direction may have been naïvely sensuous; later,
as is remarked above, the symbolic conception became predominant.

+419+. The association of certain animals with certain phallic deities (as the bull with Dionysos,
the goat with Pan, the ass with Priapos) is a part of the general connection between gods and
animals, the grounds of which are in many cases obscure.[767] Pan's rural character may explain
his relation to the goat; the bull, the ass, and many other animals regarded as sacred, may
have been brought into ritual connection with gods by processes of subordination of divine
beasts and through collocation of cults. There is no evidence to show that the animals connected
with phallic gods were selected on account of their salacious dispositions or their sexual power.

+420+. Phallicistic cults, attenuated by advance of refinement, survived long, even into Christian
times, under modified forms.[768] In such cases they become merely devices of ignorant piety.
When the aid of a Christian saint is sought in order to secure fertility, the trust in the
phallus-symbol involves no unworthy desire; and what is true of medieval European peoples may
have been true of ancient peoples. In the ancient world these cults took many forms, ranging
from naïve faith to frank obscenity on the one hand and philosophic breadth on the other hand.
They take their place as part of the general worship of the forces of nature, and follow all
the variations of human culture.

CHAPTER V

TOTEMISM AND TABOO

+421+. Totemism and taboo are both of them intimately connected with the history of early religion,
but in different ways. Totemism is not essentially religious if religion be held to involve
worship of superhuman or extrahuman beings; it has, however, in many cases coalesced with religious
practices and ideas, and it is sometimes difficult to draw the line distinctly between it and
religion proper. Taboo, on the other hand, is founded on magical conceptions, and these are
nearly allied to the basis of early religion; it is more or less prominent in all early cults,
and has survived in the higher religious systems, though in these it is generally spiritualized.
The two lines of development, totemism and taboo, appear side by side in early cults, and influence
each the other; but their functions in the social organization of religion have been different,
and they are best treated separately. As the collections of material for their history are
still incomplete, accounts of them must be regarded as, to a greater or less extent, provisional.

TOTEMISM

+422+. The natural attraction of human beings for one another and the necessity of providing
effective means of defense against enemies have led men to associate themselves together in
clans and tribes. In such associations some form of organization arose as a matter of course;
experience early showed that men could not live together except under the guidance and control
of authoritative regulations. Such regulations dealt with fundamental facts of life, which
in the beginnings of society are mostly physical. The points requiring regulation are: the
relation of man to nonhuman things (animals, plants, and inanimate objects); the maintenance
of rights of life and property; and the sexual relations between human beings, especially marriage
as the basis of the family. The determination of what things may be eaten belongs more particularly
under "taboo," and is considered below. Customs and rules designed to protect life and property
have always coalesced with religious systems; they are mentioned in connection with the ethical
element in religion.[769] The other points--relations to nonhuman things and sexual relations--may
be conveniently considered together here; but, as the second point belongs rather to sociology
than to the history of religion, it will be sufficient, with an introductory word on marriage
restrictions (under Exogamy), to give the facts in connection with the various totemic organizations.

+423+. Exogamy.[770] All over the savage world the general rule prevails (though not without
exceptions) that a man must not marry a woman of his own clan; though the family proper (husband,
wife, and children) exists, the clan is the fundamental social unit. When a tribe contains
several clans it is commonly divided into groups (phratries), each phratry including certain
clans, and the rule then is that a man shall not marry a woman of his phratry. Usually the
number of phratries is two, but in some cases (as among the Australian Arunta and adjoining
tribes) these are divided so that there are four or eight exogamous groups (subphratries).
When the totem is hereditary the totemic clans are exogamous; otherwise (as among the Arunta)
marriage between persons of the same clan is permitted.

+424+. Whether the clan or the phratry preceded in time it is hardly possible to determine--clans
may have united to form a larger group, or an original group may have been divided into clans.
But in the latter case this original group was practically a clan, so that the question of
precedence in time is not important. Where clan exogamy exists without phratries it is possible
that these also formerly existed and have been dropped in the interests of freedom--that is,
they limited the choice of a wife to an extent that proved inconvenient.[771]

+425+. An almost universal feature of the marriage rules of low tribes is the classificatory
system of relationship. According to this system, the community being divided into groups,
terms of relationship indicate not kinship in blood but tribal status in respect of marriageability;
thus, the same term is used for a child's real father and for every man who might legally have
become the husband of his mother, and the same term for the real mother and for every woman
whom the father might have married; the children of such possible fathers and mothers are the
child's brothers and sisters; all possible spouses are called a man's "wives" or a woman's
"husbands"; and similarly with all relationships.[772]

+426+. The system has many varieties of form, and gives way in time to the formal recognition
of blood kinship. It has been held to point to an earlier system of "group marriage," in which
all the men of one group had marital relations with all the women of another group, and further
to a primitive custom of sexual promiscuity.[773] In the nature of the case these hypotheses
do not admit of proof or disproof. All that is certain is that the classificatory system has
been and is an accompaniment of one stage of social and religious development.

+427+. The effect of exogamous arrangements has been to prevent marriage between persons related
in blood.[774] In totemic organizations, when the totem is inherited, a division into two exogamous
groups makes marriage of brother to sister impossible, since all the children of one mother
are in the same group; and if there are four such groups and children are assigned to a group
different from that of the father and that of the mother, marriage between parent and child
is impossible. When the totem is not inherited (as is the case among the Australian Arunta)
similar results are secured by a further subdivision.

+428+. The particular exogamic customs vary considerably among early tribes, the differences
following, in general, differences of social organization. In some more settled savage communities
(as, for example, the Kurnai of Southeast Australia), in which there are neither classes nor
totemic clans, marriage is permitted only between members of certain districts.[775] Well-organized
social life tends to promote individual freedom in marriage as in other things. Marriage with
a half-sister was allowed by the old Hebrew law,[776] and Egyptian kings often married their
sisters.

+429+. Theories of the origin of exogamy. Exogamy has been referred to a supposed scarcity
of women, which forced the young men to seek wives abroad.[777] On the assumption of early
sexual promiscuity it has been regarded as a deliberate attempt to prevent the marriage of
blood relations.[778] It has been supposed to result from the absence of sexual attraction
between persons who have been brought up together.[779] An original human horde being assumed,
it has been suggested that the patriarch, who had possession of all the women of the horde,
would, from jealousy, drive the young men off to seek wives elsewhere.[780] From the point
of view of the totem as divine ancestor, exogamy has been supposed to arise from religious
respect for the clan blood, which is held to share the divinity of the totem, and would be
polluted (with danger to the clan) by outside marriages.[781]

+430+. Objections may be raised to all these theories. It is doubtful whether a scarcity of
women existed in early times; and supposing that there were not women enough in a clan for
the men of the clan, this would not stand in the way of men's taking as wives their clan women.[782]
The assumption of primitive sexual promiscuity, likewise, cannot be said to be distinctly borne
out by known facts.[783] Morgan's theory, however, is not dependent on this assumption--it
need only suppose repugnance to the marriage of blood relations. Such repugnance granted, the
main objection to the theory rests on the difficulty of supposing savages capable of originating
so thoughtful and elastic a scheme as the exogamous system. This is a point on which it is
not possible to speak positively. The lowest tribes have produced languages of wonderfully
intricate and delicate construction, and, supposing the process of constructing marriage regulations
to have gone on during a very long period, modifications introduced from time to time, to meet
conditions felt to be important, might conceivably result in such exogamous systems as are
now found.

+431+. As to absence of sexual attraction between persons brought up together,[784] this seems
to be a result rather than a cause of the prohibition of sexual relations between certain classes
of persons. The argument from habits of the lower animals is indefinite--no general habit has
been proven. In orgies in India and elsewhere no repulsion appears between persons of the same
family. In the ancient world marriage between such persons was legal and not uncommon.

