Harold's new-found affection was as deep as his nature.  An only child who had in his memory
nothing of a mother's love, his naturally affectionate nature had in his childish days found
no means of expression.  A man child can hardly pour out his full heart to a man, even a father
or a comrade; and this child had not, in a way, the consolations of other children.  His father's
secondary occupation of teaching brought other boys to the house and necessitated a domestic
routine which had to be exact.  There was no place for little girls in a boys' school; and
though many of Dr. An Wolf's friends who were mothers made much of the pretty, quiet boy, and
took him to play with their children, he never seemed to get really intimate with them.  The
equality of companionship was wanting.  Boys he knew, and with them he could hold his own and
yet be on affectionate terms.  But girls were strange to him, and in their presence he was
shy.  With this lack of understanding of the other sex, grew up a sort of awe of it.  His opportunities
of this kind of study were so few that the view never could become rectified.

And so it was that from his boyhood up to his twelfth year, Harold's knowledge of girlhood
never increased nor did his awe diminish.  When his father had told him all about his visit
to Normanstand and of the invitation which had been extended to him there came first awe, then
doubt, then expectation.  Between Harold and his father there was love and trust and sympathy.
The father's married love so soon cut short found expression towards his child; and between
them there had never been even the shadow of a cloud.  When his father told him how pretty
the little Stephen was, how dainty, how sweet, he began to picture her in his mind's eye and
to be bashfully excited over meeting her.

His first glimpse of Stephen was, he felt, one that he never could forget.  She had made up
her mind that she would let Harold see what she could do.  Harold could fly kites and swim
and play cricket; she could not do any of these, but she could ride.  Harold should see her
pony, and see her riding him all by herself.  And there would be another pony for Harold, a
big, big, big one--she had spoken about its size herself to Topham, the stud-groom.  She had
coaxed her daddy into promising that after lunch she should take Harold riding.  To this end
she had made ready early.  She had insisted on putting on the red riding habit which Daddy
had given her for her birthday, and now she stood on the top of the steps all glorious in hunting
pink, with the habit held over her arms, with the tiny hunting-hoots all shiny underneath.
She had no hat on, and her beautiful hair of golden red shone in its glory.  But even it was
almost outshone by the joyous flush on her cheeks as she stood waving the little hand that
did not hold Daddy's.  She was certainly a picture to dream of!  Her father's eyes lost nothing
of her dainty beauty.  He was so proud of her that he almost forgot to wish that she had been
a boy. The pleasure he felt in her appearance was increased by the fact that her dress was
his own idea.

During luncheon Stephen was fairly silent; she usually chattered all through as freely as a
bird sings.  Stephen was silent because the occasion was important.  Besides, Daddy wasn't
all alone, and therefore had not to be cheered up.  Also--this in postscript form--Harold was
silent!  In her present frame of mind Harold could do no wrong, and what Harold did was right.
She was unconsciously learning already a lesson from his presence.

That evening when going to bed she came to say good-night to Daddy.  After she had kissed him
she also kissed 'old Mr. Harold,' as she now called him, and as a matter of course kissed Harold
also.  He coloured up at once.  It was the first time a girl had ever kissed him.

The next day from early morning until bed-time was one long joy to Stephen, and there were
few things of interest that Harold had not been shown; there were few of the little secrets
which had not been shared with him as they went about hand in hand.  Like all manly boys Harold
was good to little children and patient with them.  He was content to follow Stephen about
and obey all her behests.  He had fallen in love with her to the very bottom of his boyish heart.

When the guests were going, Stephen stood with her father on the steps to see them off.  When
the carriage had swept behind the farthest point in the long avenue, and when Harold's cap
waving from the window could no longer be seen, Squire Norman turned to go in, but paused in
obedience to the unconscious restraint of Stephen's hand.  He waited patiently till with a
long sigh she turned to him and they went in together.

That night before she went to bed Stephen came and sat on her father's knee, and after sundry
pattings and kissings whispered in his ear:

'Daddy, wouldn't it be nice if Harold could come here altogether? Couldn't you ask him to?
And old Mr. Harold could come too.  Oh, I wish he was here!'

CHAPTER IV--HAROLD AT NORMANSTAND

Two years afterwards a great blow fell upon Harold.  His father, who had been suffering from
repeated attacks of influenza, was, when in the low condition following this, seized with pneumonia,
to which in a few days he succumbed.  Harold was heart-broken.  The affection which had been
between him and his father had been so consistent that he had never known a time when it was not.

When Squire Norman had returned to the house with him after the funeral, he sat in silence
holding the boy's hand till he had wept his heart out. By this time the two were old friends,
and the boy was not afraid or too shy to break down before him.  There was sufficient of the
love of the old generation to begin with trust in the new.

Presently, when the storm was past and Harold had become his own man again, Norman said:

'And now, Harold, I want you to listen to me.  You know, my dear boy, that I am your father's
oldest friend, and right sure I am that he would approve of what I say.  You must come home
with me to live.  I know that in his last hours the great concern of your dear father's heart
would have been for the future of his boy.  And I know, too, that it was a comfort to him to
feel that you and I are such friends, and that the son of my dearest old friend would be as
a son to me.  We have been friends, you and I, a long time, Harold; and we have learned to
trust, and I hope to love, one another.  And you and my little Stephen are such friends already
that your coming into the house will be a joy to us all.  Why, long ago, when first you came,
she said to me the night you went away: "Daddy, wouldn't it be nice if Harold could come here
altogether?"'

And so Harold An Wolf came back with the Squire to Normanstand, and from that day on became
a member of his house, and as a son to him.  Stephen's delight at his coming was of course
largely qualified by her sympathy with his grief; but it would have been hard to give him more
comfort than she did in her own pretty way.  Putting her lips to his she kissed him, and holding
his big hand in both of her little ones, she whispered softly:

'Poor Harold!  You and I should love each other, for we have both lost our mother.  And now
you have lost your father.  But you must let my dear daddy be yours too!'

At this time Harold was between fourteen and fifteen years old.  He was well educated in so
far as private teaching went.  His father had devoted much care to him, so that he was well
grounded in all the Academic branches of learning.  He was also, for his years, an expert in
most manly exercises.  He could ride anything, shoot straight, fence, run, jump or swim with
any boy more than his age and size.

In Normanstand his education was continued by the rector.  The Squire used often to take him
with him when he went to ride, or fish, or shoot; frankly telling him that as his daughter
was, as yet, too young to be his companion in these matters, he would act as her locum tenens.
His living in the house and his helping as he did in Stephen's studies made familiarity perpetual.
He was just enough her senior to command her childish obedience; and there were certain qualities
in his nature which were eminently calculated to win and keep the respect of women as well
as of men.  He was the very incarnation of sincerity, and had now and again, in certain ways,
a sublime self-negation which, at times, seemed in startling contrast to a manifestly militant
nature.  When at school he had often been involved in fights which were nearly always on matters
of principle, and by a sort of unconscious chivalry he was generally found fighting on the
weaker side.  Harold's father had been very proud of his ancestry, which was Gothic through
the Dutch, as the manifestly corrupted prefix of the original name implied, and he had gathered
from a constant study of the Sagas something of the philosophy which lay behind the ideas of
the Vikings.

This new stage of Harold's life made for quicker development than any which had gone before.
Hitherto he had not the same sense of responsibility.  To obey is in itself a relief; and as
it is an actual consolation to weak natures, so it is only a retarding of the strong.  Now
he had another individuality to think of.  There was in his own nature a vein of anxiety of
which the subconsciousness of his own strength threw up the outcrop.

Little Stephen with the instinct of her sex discovered before long this weakness.  For it is
a weakness when any quality can be assailed or used. The using of a man's weakness is not always
coquetry; but it is something very like it.  Many a time the little girl, who looked up to
and admired the big boy who could compel her to anything when he was so minded, would, for
her own ends, work on his sense of responsibility, taking an elfin delight in his discomfiture.

The result of Stephen's harmless little coquetries was that Harold had occasionally either
to thwart some little plan of daring, or else cover up its results.  In either case her confidence
in him grew, so that before long he became an established fact in her life, a being in whose
power and discretion and loyalty she had absolute, blind faith.  And this feeling seemed to
grow with her own growth.  Indeed at one time it came to be more than an ordinary faith.  It
happened thus:

The old Church of St. Stephen, which was the parish church of Normanstand, had a peculiar interest
for the Norman family.  There, either within the existing walls or those which had preceded
them when the church was rebuilt by that Sir Stephen who was standard-bearer to Henry VI.,
were buried all the direct members of the line.  It was an unbroken record of the inheritors
since the first Sir Stephen, who had his place in the Domesday Book.  Without, in the churchyard
close to the church, were buried all such of the collaterals as had died within hail of Norcester.
Some there were of course who, having achieved distinction in various walks of life, were further
honoured by a resting-place within the chancel.  The whole interior was full of records of
the family. Squire Norman was fond of coming to the place; and often from the very beginning
had taken Stephen with him.  One of her earliest recollections was kneeling down with her father,
who held her hand in his, whilst with the other he wiped the tears from his eyes, before a
tomb sculptured beautifully in snowy marble.  She never forgot the words he had said to her:

