"Well, you don't work hard enough--you don't keep up. It's not that they don't admire you--your
looks, I mean; they think you beautiful; they're delighted to bring you out at their big dinners,
with the Sevres and the plate. But a woman has got to be something more than good-looking to
have a chance to be intimate with them: she's got to know what's being said about things. I
watched you the other night at the Duchess's, and half the time you hadn't an idea what they
were talking about. I haven't always, either; but then I have to put up with the big dinners."

Undine winced under the criticism; but she had never lacked insight into the cause of her own
failures, and she had already had premonitions of what Madame de Trezac so bluntly phrased.
When Raymond ceased to be interested in her conversation she had concluded it was the way of
husbands; but since then it had been slowly dawning on her that she produced the same effect
on others. Her entrances were always triumphs; but they had no sequel. As soon as people began
to talk they ceased to see her. Any sense of insufficiency exasperated her, and she had vague
thoughts of cultivating herself, and went so far as to spend a morning in the Louvre and go
to one or two lectures by a fashionable philosopher. But though she returned from these expeditions
charged with opinions, their expression did not excite the interest she had hoped. Her views,
if abundant, were confused, and the more she said the more nebulous they seemed to grow. She
was disconcerted, moreover, by finding that everybody appeared to know about the things she
thought she had discovered, and her comments clearly produced more bewilderment than interest.

Remembering the attention she had attracted on her first appearance in Raymond's world she
concluded that she had "gone off" or grown dowdy, and instead of wasting more time in museums
and lecture-halls she prolonged her hours at the dress-maker's and gave up the rest of the
day to the scientific cultivation of her beauty.

"I suppose I've turned into a perfect frump down there in that wilderness," she lamented to
Madame de Trezac, who replied inexorably: "Oh, no, you're as handsome as ever; but people here
don't go on looking at each other forever as they do in London."

Meanwhile financial cares became more pressing. A dunning letter from one of her tradesmen
fell into Raymond's hands, and the talk it led to ended in his making it clear to her that
she must settle her personal debts without his aid. All the "scenes" about money which had
disturbed her past had ended in some mysterious solution of her difficulty. Disagreeable as
they were, she had always, vulgarly speaking, found they paid; but now it was she who was expected
to pay. Raymond took his stand without ill-temper or apology: he simply argued from inveterate
precedent. But it was impossible for Undine to understand a social organization which did not
regard the indulging of woman as its first purpose, or to believe that any one taking another
view was not moved by avarice or malice; and the discussion ended in mutual acrimony.

The morning afterward, Raymond came into her room with a letter in his hand.

"Is this your doing?" he asked. His look and voice expressed something she had never known
before: the disciplined anger of a man trained to keep his emotions in fixed channels, but
knowing how to fill them to the brim.

The letter was from Mr. Fleischhauer, who begged to transmit to the Marquis de Chelles an offer
for his Boucher tapestries from a client prepared to pay the large sum named on condition that
it was accepted before his approaching departure for America.

"What does it mean?" Raymond continued, as she did not speak.

"How should I know? It's a lot of money," she stammered, shaken out of her self-possession.
She had not expected so prompt a sequel to the dealer's visit, and she was vexed with him for
writing to Raymond without consulting her. But she recognized Moffatt's high-handed way, and
her fears faded in the great blaze of the sum he offered.

Her husband was still looking at her. "It was Fleischhauer who brought a man down to see the
tapestries one day when I was away at Beaune?"

He had known, then--everything was known at Saint Desert!

She wavered a moment and then gave him back his look.

"Yes--it was Fleischhauer; and I sent for him."

"You sent for him?"

He spoke in a voice so veiled and repressed that he seemed to be consciously saving it for
some premeditated outbreak. Undine felt its menace, but the thought of Moffatt sent a flame
through her, and the words he would have spoken seemed to fly to her lips.

"Why shouldn't I? Something had to be done. We can't go on as we are. I've tried my best to
economize--I've scraped and scrimped, and gone without heaps of things I've always had. I've
moped for months and months at Saint Desert, and given up sending Paul to school because it
was too expensive, and asking my friends to dine because we couldn't afford it. And you expect
me to go on living like this for the rest of my life, when all you've got to do is to hold
out your hand and have two million francs drop into it!"

Her husband stood looking at her coldly and curiously, as though she were some alien apparition
his eyes had never before beheld.

"Ah, that's your answer--that's all you feel when you lay hands on things that are sacred to
us!" He stopped a moment, and then let his voice break out with the volume she had felt it
to be gathering. "And you're all alike," he exclaimed, "every one of you. You come among us
from a country we don't know, and can't imagine, a country you care for so little that before
you've been a day in ours you've forgotten the very house you were born in--if it wasn't torn
down before you knew it! You come among us speaking our language and not knowing what we mean;
wanting the things we want, and not knowing why we want them; aping our weaknesses, exaggerating
our follies, ignoring or ridiculing all we care about--you come from hotels as big as towns,
and from towns as flimsy as paper, where the streets haven't had time to be named, and the
buildings are demolished before they're dry, and the people are as proud of changing as we
are of holding to what we have--and we're fools enough to imagine that because you copy our
ways and pick up our slang you understand anything about the things that make life decent and
honourable for us!"

He stopped again, his white face and drawn nostrils giving him so much the look of an extremely
distinguished actor in a fine part that, in spite of the vehemence of his emotion, his silence
might have been the deliberate pause for a replique. Undine kept him waiting long enough to
give the effect of having lost her cue--then she brought out, with a little soft stare of incredulity:
"Do you mean to say you're going to refuse such an offer?"

"Ah--!" He turned back from the door, and picking up the letter that lay on the table between
them, tore it in pieces and tossed the pieces on the floor. "That's how I refuse it!"

The violence of his tone and gesture made her feel as though the fluttering strips were so
many lashes laid across her face, and a rage that was half fear possessed her.

"How dare you speak to me like that? Nobody's ever dared to before. Is talking to a woman in
that way one of the things you call decent and honourable? Now that I know what you feel about
me I don't want to stay in your house another day. And I don't mean to--I mean to walk out
of it this very hour!"

For a moment they stood face to face, the depths of their mutual incomprehension at last bared
to each other's angry eyes; then Raymond, his glance travelling past her, pointed to the fragments
of paper on the floor.

"If you're capable of that you're capable of anything!" he said as he went out of the room.

XLIII

She watched him go in a kind of stupour, knowing that when they next met he would be as courteous
and self-possessed as if nothing had happened, but that everything would nevertheless go on
in the same way--in HIS way--and that there was no more hope of shaking his resolve or altering
his point of view than there would have been of transporting the deep-rooted masonry of Saint
Desert by means of the wheeled supports on which Apex architecture performed its easy transits.

One of her childish rages possessed her, sweeping away every feeling save the primitive impulse
to hurt and destroy; but search as she would she could not find a crack in the strong armour
of her husband's habits and prejudices. For a long time she continued to sit where he had left
her, staring at the portraits on the walls as though they had joined hands to imprison her.
Hitherto she had almost always felt herself a match for circumstances, but now the very dead
were leagued to defeat her: people she had never seen and whose names she couldn't even remember
seemed to be plotting and contriving against her under the escutcheoned grave-stones of Saint
Desert.

Her eyes turned to the old warm-toned furniture beneath the pictures, and to her own idle image
in the mirror above the mantelpiece. Even in that one small room there were enough things of
price to buy a release from her most pressing cares; and the great house, in which the room
was a mere cell, and the other greater house in Burgundy, held treasures to deplete even such
a purse as Moffatt's. She liked to see such things about her--without any real sense of their
meaning she felt them to be the appropriate setting of a pretty woman, to embody something
of the rareness and distinction she had always considered she possessed; and she reflected
that if she had still been Moffatt's wife he would have given her just such a setting, and
the power to live in it as became her.

The thought sent her memory flying back to things she had turned it from for years. For the
first time since their far-off weeks together she let herself relive the brief adventure. She
had been drawn to Elmer Moffatt from the first--from the day when Ben Frusk, Indiana's brother,
had brought him to a church picnic at Mulvey's Grove, and he had taken instant possession of
Undine, sitting in the big "stage" beside her on the "ride" to the grove, supplanting Millard
Binch (to whom she was still, though intermittently and incompletely, engaged), swinging her
between the trees, rowing her on the lake, catching and kissing her in "forfeits," awarding
her the first prize in the Beauty Show he hilariously organized and gallantly carried out,
and finally (no one knew how) contriving to borrow a buggy and a fast colt from old Mulvey,
and driving off with her at a two-forty gait while Millard and the others took their dust in
the crawling stage.

No one in Apex knew where young Moffatt had come from, and he offered no information on the
subject. He simply appeared one day behind the counter in Luckaback's Dollar Shoe-store, drifted
thence to the office of Semple and Binch, the coal-merchants, reappeared as the stenographer
of the Police Court, and finally edged his way into the power-house of the Apex Water-Works.
He boarded with old Mrs. Flynn, down in North Fifth Street, on the edge of the red-light slum,
he never went to church or attended lectures, or showed any desire to improve or refine himself;
but he managed to get himself invited to all the picnics and lodge sociables, and at a supper
of the Phi Upsilon Society, to which he had contrived to affiliate himself, he made the best
speech that had been heard there since young Jim Rolliver's first flights. The brothers of
Undine's friends all pronounced him "great," though he had fits of uncouthness that made the
young women slower in admitting him to favour. But at the Mulvey's Grove picnic he suddenly
seemed to dominate them all, and Undine, as she drove away with him, tasted the public triumph
which was necessary to her personal enjoyment.

After that he became a leading figure in the youthful world of Apex, and no one was surprised
when the Sons of Jonadab, (the local Temperance Society) invited him to deliver their Fourth
of July oration. The ceremony took place, as usual, in the Baptist church, and Undine, all
in white, with a red rose in her breast, sat just beneath the platform, with Indiana jealously
glaring at her from a less privileged seat, and poor Millard's long neck craning over the row
of prominent citizens behind the orator.

Elmer Moffatt had been magnificent, rolling out his alternating effects of humour and pathos,
stirring his audience by moving references to the Blue and the Gray, convulsing them by a new
version of Washington and the Cherry Tree (in which the infant patriot was depicted as having
cut down the tree to check the deleterious spread of cherry bounce), dazzling them by his erudite
allusions and apt quotations (he confessed to Undine that he had sat up half the night over
Bartlett), and winding up with a peroration that drew tears from the Grand Army pensioners
in the front row and caused the minister's wife to say that many a sermon from that platform
had been less uplifting.

An ice-cream supper always followed the "exercises," and as repairs were being made in the
church basement, which was the usual scene of the festivity, the minister had offered the use
of his house. The long table ran through the doorway between parlour and study, and another
was set in the passage outside, with one end under the stairs. The stair-rail was wreathed
in fire-weed and early golden-rod, and Temperance texts in smilax decked the walls. When the
first course had been despatched the young ladies, gallantly seconded by the younger of the
"Sons," helped to ladle out and carry in the ice-cream, which stood in great pails on the larder
floor, and to replenish the jugs of lemonade and coffee. Elmer Moffatt was indefatigable in
performing these services, and when the minister's wife pressed him to sit down and take a
mouthful himself he modestly declined the place reserved for him among the dignitaries of the
evening, and withdrew with a few chosen spirits to the dim table-end beneath the stairs. Explosions
of hilarity came from this corner with increasing frequency, and now and then tumultuous rappings
and howls of "Song! Song!" followed by adjurations to "Cough it up" and "Let her go," drowned
the conversational efforts at the other table.

At length the noise subsided, and the group was ceasing to attract attention when, toward the
end of the evening, the upper table, drooping under the lengthy elucubrations of the minister
and the President of the Temperance Society, called on the orator of the day for a few remarks.
There was an interval of scuffling and laughter beneath the stairs, and then the minister's
lifted hand enjoined silence and Elmer Moffatt got to his feet.

"Step out where the ladies can hear you better, Mr. Moffatt!" the minister called. Moffatt
did so, steadying himself against the table and twisting his head about as if his collar had
grown too tight. But if his bearing was vacillating his smile was unabashed, and there was
no lack of confidence in the glance he threw at Undine Spragg as he began: "Ladies and Gentlemen,
if there's one thing I like better than another about getting drunk--and I like most everything
about it except the next morning--it's the opportunity you've given me of doing it right here,
in the presence of this Society, which, as I gather from its literature, knows more about the
subject than anybody else. Ladies and Gentlemen"--he straightened himself, and the table-cloth
slid toward him--"ever since you honoured me with an invitation to address you from the temperance
platform I've been assiduously studying that literature; and I've gathered from your own evidence--what
I'd strongly suspected before--that all your converted drunkards had a hell of a good time
before you got at 'em, and that... and that a good many of 'em have gone on having it since..."

At this point he broke off, swept the audience with his confident smile, and then, collapsing,
tried to sit down on a chair that didn't happen to be there, and disappeared among his agitated
supporters.

There was a night-mare moment during which Undine, through the doorway, saw Ben Frusk and the
others close about the fallen orator to the crash of crockery and tumbling chairs; then some
one jumped up and shut the parlour door, and a long-necked Sunday school teacher, who had been
nervously waiting his chance, and had almost given it up, rose from his feet and recited High
Tide at Gettysburg amid hysterical applause.

The scandal was considerable, but Moffatt, though he vanished from the social horizon, managed
to keep his place in the power-house till he went off for a week and turned up again without
being able to give a satisfactory reason for his absence. After that he drifted from one job
to another, now extolled for his "smartness" and business capacity, now dismissed in disgrace
as an irresponsible loafer. His head was always full of immense nebulous schemes for the enlargement
and development of any business he happened to be employed in. Sometimes his suggestions interested
his employers, but proved unpractical and inapplicable; sometimes he wore out their patience
or was thought to be a dangerous dreamer. Whenever he found there was no hope of his ideas
being adopted he lost interest in his work, came late and left early, or disappeared for two
or three days at a time without troubling himself to account for his absences. At last even
those who had been cynical enough to smile over his disgrace at the temperance supper began
to speak of him as a hopeless failure, and he lost the support of the feminine community when
one Sunday morning, just as the Baptist and Methodist churches were releasing their congregations,
he walked up Eubaw Avenue with a young woman less known to those sacred edifices than to the
saloons of North Fifth Street.

Undine's estimate of people had always been based on their apparent power of getting what they
wanted--provided it came under the category of things she understood wanting. Success was beauty
and romance to her; yet it was at the moment when Elmer Moffatt's failure was most complete
and flagrant that she suddenly felt the extent of his power. After the Eubaw Avenue scandal
he had been asked not to return to the surveyor's office to which Ben Frusk had managed to
get him admitted; and on the day of his dismissal he met Undine in Main Street, at the shopping
hour, and, sauntering up cheerfully, invited her to take a walk with him. She was about to
refuse when she saw Millard Binch's mother looking at her disapprovingly from the opposite
street-corner.

"Oh, well, I will--" she said; and they walked the length of Main Street and out to the immature
park in which it ended. She was in a mood of aimless discontent and unrest, tired of her engagement
to Millard Binch, disappointed with Moffatt, half-ashamed of being seen with him, and yet not
sorry to have it known that she was independent enough to choose her companions without regard
to the Apex verdict.

"Well, I suppose you know I'm down and out," he began; and she responded virtuously: "You must
have wanted to be, or you wouldn't have behaved the way you did last Sunday."

"Oh, shucks!" he sneered. "What do I care, in a one-horse place like this? If it hadn't been
for you I'd have got a move on long ago."

She did not remember afterward what else he said: she recalled only the expression of a great
sweeping scorn of Apex, into which her own disdain of it was absorbed like a drop in the sea,
and the affirmation of a soaring self-confidence that seemed to lift her on wings. All her
own attempts to get what she wanted had come to nothing; but she had always attributed her
lack of success to the fact that she had had no one to second her. It was strange that Elmer
Moffatt, a shiftless out-cast from even the small world she despised, should give her, in the
very moment of his downfall, the sense of being able to succeed where she had failed. It was
a feeling she never had in his absence, but that his nearness always instantly revived; and
he seemed nearer to her now than he had ever been. They wandered on to the edge of the vague
park, and sat down on a bench behind the empty band-stand.

"I went with that girl on purpose, and you know it," he broke out abruptly. "It makes me too
damned sick to see Millard Binch going round looking as if he'd patented you."

"You've got no right--" she interrupted; and suddenly she was in his arms, and feeling that
no one had ever kissed her before....

The week that followed was a big bright blur--the wildest vividest moment of her life. And
it was only eight days later that they were in the train together, Apex and all her plans and
promises behind them, and a bigger and brighter blur ahead, into which they were plunging as
the "Limited" plunged into the sunset....

Undine stood up, looking about her with vague eyes, as if she had come back from a long distance.
Elmer Moffatt was still in Paris--he was in reach, within telephone-call. She stood hesitating
a moment; then she went into her dressing-room, and turning over the pages of the telephone
book, looked out the number of the Nouveau Luxe....

XLIV

Undine had been right in supposing that her husband would expect their life to go on as before.
There was no appreciable change in the situation save that he was more often absent-finding
abundant reasons, agricultural and political, for frequent trips to Saint Desert--and that,
when in Paris, he no longer showed any curiosity concerning her occupations and engagements.
They lived as much apart is if their cramped domicile had been a palace; and when Undine--as
she now frequently did--joined the Shallums or Rollivers for a dinner at the Nouveau Luxe,
or a party at a petit theatre, she was not put to the trouble of prevaricating.

Her first impulse, after her scene with Raymond, had been to ring up Indiana Rolliver and invite
herself to dine. It chanced that Indiana (who was now in full social progress, and had "run
over" for a few weeks to get her dresses for Newport) had organized for the same evening a
showy cosmopolitan banquet in which she was enchanted to include the Marquise de Chelles; and
Undine, as she had hoped, found Elmer Moffatt of the party. When she drove up to the Nouveau
Luxe she had not fixed on any plan of action; but once she had crossed its magic threshold
her energies revived like plants in water. At last she was in her native air again, among associations
she shared and conventions she understood; and all her self-confidence returned as the familiar
accents uttered the accustomed things.

Save for an occasional perfunctory call, she had hitherto made no effort to see her compatriots,
and she noticed that Mrs. Jim Driscoll and Bertha Shallum received her with a touch of constraint;
but it vanished when they remarked the cordiality of Moffatt's greeting. Her seat was at his
side, and her old sense of triumph returned as she perceived the importance his notice conferred,
not only in the eyes of her own party but of the other diners. Moffatt was evidently a notable
figure in all the worlds represented about the crowded tables, and Undine saw that many people
who seemed personally unacquainted with him were recognizing and pointing him out. She was
conscious of receiving a large share of the attention he attracted, and, bathed again in the
bright air of publicity, she remembered the evening when Raymond de Chelles' first admiring
glance had given her the same sense of triumph.

This inopportune memory did not trouble her: she was almost grateful to Raymond for giving
her the touch of superiority her compatriots clearly felt in her. It was not merely her title
and her "situation," but the experiences she had gained through them, that gave her this advantage
over the loud vague company. She had learned things they did not guess: shades of conduct,
turns of speech, tricks of attitude--and easy and free and enviable as she thought them, she
would not for the world have been back among them at the cost of knowing no more than they.

Moffatt made no allusion to his visit to Saint Desert; but when the party had re-grouped itself
about coffee and liqueurs on the terrace, he bent over to ask confidentially: "What about my
tapestries?"

She replied in the same tone: "You oughtn't to have let Fleischhauer write that letter. My
husband's furious."

He seemed honestly surprised. "Why? Didn't I offer him enough?"

"He's furious that any one should offer anything. I thought when he found out what they were
worth he might be tempted; but he'd rather see me starve than part with one of his grand-father's
snuff-boxes."

"Well, he knows now what the tapestries are worth. I offered more than Fleischhauer advised."

"Yes; but you were in too much of a hurry."

"I've got to be; I'm going back next week."

She felt her eyes cloud with disappointment. "Oh, why do you? I hoped you might stay on."

They looked at each other uncertainly a moment; then he dropped his voice to say: "Even if
I did, I probably shouldn't see anything of you."

"Why not? Why won't you come and see me? I've always wanted to be friends."

He came the next day and found in her drawing-room two ladies whom she introduced as her sisters-in-law.
The ladies lingered on for a long time, sipping their tea stiffly and exchanging low-voiced
remarks while Undine talked with Moffatt; and when they left, with small sidelong bows in his
direction.

Undine exclaimed: "Now you see how they all watch me!"

She began to go into the details of her married life, drawing on the experiences of the first
months for instances that scarcely applied to her present liberated state. She could thus,
without great exaggeration, picture herself as entrapped into a bondage hardly conceivable
to Moffatt, and she saw him redden with excitement as he listened. "I call it darned low--darned
low--" he broke in at intervals.

"Of course I go round more now," she concluded. "I mean to see my friends--I don't care what
he says."

"What CAN he say?"

"Oh, he despises Americans--they all do."

"Well, I guess we can still sit up and take nourishment."

They laughed and slipped back to talking of earlier things. She urged him to put off his sailing--there
were so many things they might do together: sight-seeing and excursions--and she could perhaps
show him some of the private collections he hadn't seen, the ones it was hard to get admitted
to. This instantly roused his attention, and after naming one or two collections he had already
seen she hit on one he had found inaccessible and was particularly anxious to visit. "There's
an Ingres there that's one of the things I came over to have a look at; but I was told there
was no use trying."

"Oh, I can easily manage it: the Duke's Raymond's uncle." It gave her a peculiar satisfaction
to say it: she felt as though she were taking a surreptitious revenge on her husband. "But
he's down in the country this week," she continued, "and no one--not even the family--is allowed
to see the pictures when he's away. Of course his Ingres are the finest in France."

She ran it off glibly, though a year ago she had never heard of the painter, and did not, even
now, remember whether he was an Old Master or one of the very new ones whose names one hadn't
had time to learn.

Moffatt put off sailing, saw the Duke's Ingres under her guidance, and accompanied her to various
other private galleries inaccessible to strangers. She had lived in almost total ignorance
of such opportunities, but now that she could use them to advantage she showed a surprising
quickness in picking up "tips," ferreting out rare things and getting a sight of hidden treasures.
She even acquired as much of the jargon as a pretty woman needs to produce the impression of
being well-informed; and Moffatt's sailing was more than once postponed.

They saw each other almost daily, for she continued to come and go as she pleased, and Raymond
showed neither surprise nor disapproval. When they were asked to family dinners she usually
excused herself at the last moment on the plea of a headache and, calling up Indiana or Bertha
Shallum, improvised a little party at the Nouveau Luxe; and on other occasions she accepted
such invitations as she chose, without mentioning to her husband where she was going.

In this world of lavish pleasures she lost what little prudence the discipline of Saint Desert
had inculcated. She could never be with people who had all the things she envied without being
hypnotized into the belief that she had only to put her hand out to obtain them, and all the
unassuaged rancours and hungers of her early days in West End Avenue came back with increased
acuity. She knew her wants so much better now, and was so much more worthy of the things she
wanted!

She had given up hoping that her father might make another hit in Wall Street. Mrs. Spragg's
letters gave the impression that the days of big strokes were over for her husband, that he
had gone down in the conflict with forces beyond his measure. If he had remained in Apex the
tide of its new prosperity might have carried him to wealth; but New York's huge waves of success
had submerged instead of floating him, and Rolliver's enmity was a hand perpetually stretched
out to strike him lower. At most, Mr. Spragg's tenacity would keep him at the level he now
held, and though he and his wife had still further simplified their way of living Undine understood
that their self-denial would not increase her opportunities. She felt no compunction in continuing
to accept an undiminished allowance: it was the hereditary habit of the parent animal to despoil
himself for his progeny. But this conviction did not seem incompatible with a sentimental pity
for her parents. Aside from all interested motives, she wished for their own sakes that they
were better off. Their personal requirements were pathetically limited, but renewed prosperity
would at least have procured them the happiness of giving her what she wanted.

Moffatt lingered on; but he began to speak more definitely of sailing, and Undine foresaw the
day when, strong as her attraction was, stronger influences would snap it like a thread. She
knew she interested and amused him, and that it flattered his vanity to be seen with her, and
to hear that rumour coupled their names; but he gave her, more than any one she had ever known,
the sense of being detached from his life, in control of it, and able, without weakness or
uncertainty, to choose which of its calls he should obey. If the call were that of business--of
any of the great perilous affairs he handled like a snake-charmer spinning the deadly reptiles
about his head--she knew she would drop from his life like a loosened leaf.

These anxieties sharpened the intensity of her enjoyment, and made the contrast keener between
her crowded sparkling hours and the vacant months at Saint Desert. Little as she understood
of the qualities that made Moffatt what he was, the results were of the kind most palpable
to her. He used life exactly as she would have used it in his place. Some of his enjoyments
were beyond her range, but even these appealed to her because of the money that was required
to gratify them. When she took him to see some inaccessible picture, or went with him to inspect
the treasures of a famous dealer, she saw that the things he looked at moved him in a way she
could not understand, and that the actual touching of rare textures--bronze or marble, or velvets
flushed with the bloom of age--gave him sensations like those her own beauty had once roused
in him. But the next moment he was laughing over some commonplace joke, or absorbed in a long
cipher cable handed to him as they re-entered the Nouveau Luxe for tea, and his aesthetic emotions
had been thrust back into their own compartment of the great steel strong-box of his mind.

Her new life went on without comment or interference from her husband, and she saw that he
had accepted their altered relation, and intended merely to keep up an external semblance of
harmony. To that semblance she knew he attached intense importance: it was an article of his
complicated social creed that a man of his class should appear to live on good terms with his
wife. The results already sketched were published as an article in the magazine then called Lucifer,
in November, 1895, and reprinted as a separate pamphlet bearing the title "Occult Chemistry,"
a pamphlet the surviving copies of which will one day be a recognised vindication of the method
that will at some time in the future be generally applied to the
investigation of Nature's mysteries.

For the later research which this volume deals with does establish the principle with a force
that can hardly be resisted by any fair-minded reader. With patience and industry-- the authors
being assisted in the counting in a way that will be described (and the method adopted involved
a check upon the accuracy of the counting)-- the minor atoms of almost all the known chemical
elements, as they are commonly called, were counted and found to bear the same relation to their
atomic weights as had been suggested by the cases of oxygen and nitrogen. This result throws back
complete proof on the original estimate of the number of minor atoms in hydrogen, a figure which
ordinary research has so far entirely failed to determine. The guesses have been widely various,
from unity to many hundreds, but, unacquainted with the clairvoyant
method, the ordinary physicist has no means of reaching the actual
state of the facts.

Before going on with the details of the later research some very important
discoveries arising from the early work must first be explained.

As I have already said clairvoyant faculty of the appropriate order
directed to the minute phenomena of Nature is practically infinite
in its range.

Not content with estimating the number of minor atoms in physical molecules, the authors proceeded
to examine the minor atoms individually.

Her icy magnanimity added the last touch to Undine's wrath. They knew her extremity, one and
all, and it did not move them. At most, they would join in concealing it like a blot on their
honour. And the menace grew and mounted, and not a hand was stretched to help her....

Hardly a half-hour earlier Moffatt, with whom she had been visiting a "private view," had sent
her home in his motor with the excuse that he must hurry back to the Nouveau Luxe to meet his
stenographer and sign a batch of letters for the New York mail. It was therefore probable that
he was still at home--that she should find him if she hastened there at once. An overwhelming
desire to cry out her wrath and wretchedness brought her to her feet and sent her down to hail
a passing cab. As it whirled her through the bright streets powdered with amber sunlight her
brain throbbed with confused intentions. She did not think of Moffatt as a power she could
use, but simply as some one who knew her and understood her grievance. It was essential to
her at that moment to be told that she was right and that every one opposed to her was wrong.

At the hotel she asked his number and was carried up in the lift. On the landing she paused
a moment, disconcerted--it had occurred to her that he might not be alone. But she walked on
quickly, found the number and knocked.... Moffatt opened the door, and she glanced beyond him
and saw that the big bright sitting-room was empty.

"Hullo!" he exclaimed, surprised; and as he stood aside to let her enter she saw him draw out
his watch and glance at it surreptitiously. He was expecting someone, or he had an engagement
elsewhere--something claimed him from which she was excluded. The thought flushed her with
sudden resolution. She knew now what she had come for--to keep him from every one else, to
keep him for herself alone.

"Don't send me away!" she said, and laid her hand on his beseechingly.

XLV

She advanced into the room and slowly looked about her. The big vulgar writing-table wreathed
in bronze was heaped with letters and papers. Among them stood a lapis bowl in a Renaissance
mounting of enamel and a vase of Phenician glass that was like a bit of rainbow caught in cobwebs.
On a table against the window a little Greek marble lifted its pure lines. On every side some
rare and sensitive object seemed to be shrinking back from the false colours and crude contours
of the hotel furniture. There were no books in the room, but the florid console under the mirror
was stacked with old numbers of Town Talk and the New York Radiator. Undine recalled the dingy
hall-room that Moffatt had lodged in at Mrs. Flynn's, over Hober's livery stable, and her heart
beat at the signs of his altered state. When her eyes came back to him their lids were moist.

"Don't send me away," she repeated. He looked at her and smiled. "What is it? What's the matter?"

"I don't know--but I had to come. To-day, when you spoke again of sailing, I felt as if I couldn't
stand it." She lifted her eyes and looked in his profoundly.

He reddened a little under her gaze, but she could detect no softening or confusion in the
shrewd steady glance he gave her back.

"Things going wrong again--is that the trouble?" he merely asked with a comforting inflexion.

"They always are wrong; it's all been an awful mistake. But I shouldn't care if you were here
and I could see you sometimes. You're so STRONG: that's what I feel about you, Elmer. I was
the only one to feel it that time they all turned against you out at Apex.... Do you remember
the afternoon I met you down on Main Street, and we walked out together to the Park? I knew
then that you were stronger than any of them...."

She had never spoken more sincerely. For the moment all thought of self-interest was in abeyance,
and she felt again, as she had felt that day, the instinctive yearning of her nature to be
one with his. Something in her voice must have attested it, for she saw a change in his face.

"You're not the beauty you were," he said irrelevantly; "but you're a lot more fetching."

The oddly qualified praise made her laugh with mingled pleasure and annoyance.

"I suppose I must be dreadfully changed--"

"You're all right!--But I've got to go back home," he broke off abruptly. "I've put it off
too long."

She paled and looked away, helpless in her sudden disappointment. "I knew you'd say that....
And I shall just be left here...." She sat down on the sofa near which they had been standing,
and two tears formed on her lashes and fell.

Moffatt sat down beside her, and both were silent. She had never seen him at a loss before.
She made no attempt to draw nearer, or to use any of the arts of cajolery; but presently she
said, without rising: "I saw you look at your watch when I came in. I suppose somebody else
is waiting for you."

"It don't matter."

"Some other woman?"

"It don't matter."

"I've wondered so often--but of course I've got no right to ask." She stood up slowly, understanding
that he meant to let her go.

"Just tell me one thing--did you never miss me?"

"Oh, damnably!" he brought out with sudden bitterness.

She came nearer, sinking her voice to a low whisper. "It's the only time I ever really cared--all
through!"

He had risen too, and they stood intensely gazing at each other. Moffatt's face was fixed and
grave, as she had seen it in hours she now found herself rapidly reliving.

"I believe you DID," he said.

"Oh, Elmer--if I'd known--if I'd only known!"

He made no answer, and she turned away, touching with an unconscious hand the edge of the lapis
bowl among his papers.

"Elmer, if you're going away it can't do any harm to tell me--is there any one else?"

He gave a laugh that seemed to shake him free. "In that kind of way? Lord, no! Too busy!"

She came close again and laid a hand on his shoulder. "Then why not--why shouldn't we--?" She
leaned her head back so that her gaze slanted up through her wet lashes. "I can do as I please--my
husband does. They think so differently about marriage over here: it's just a business contract.
As long as a woman doesn't make a show of herself no one cares." She put her other hand up,
so that she held him facing her. "I've always felt, all through everything, that I belonged
to you."

Moffatt left her hands on his shoulders, but did not lift his own to clasp them. For a moment
she thought she had mistaken him, and a leaden sense of shame descended on her. Then he asked:
"You say your husband goes with other women?"

Lili Estradina's taunt flashed through her and she seized on it. "People have told me so--his
own relations have. I've never stooped to spy on him...."

"And the women in your set--I suppose it's taken for granted they all do the same?"

She laughed.

"Everything fixed up for them, same as it is for the husbands, eh? Nobody meddles or makes
trouble if you know the ropes?"

"No, nobody ... it's all quite easy...." She stopped, her faint smile checked, as his backward
movement made her hands drop from his shoulders.

"And that's what you're proposing to me? That you and I should do like the rest of 'em?" His
face had lost its comic roundness and grown harsh and dark, as it had when her father had taken
her away from him at Opake. He turned on his heel, walked the length of the room and halted
with his back to her in the embrasure of the window. There he paused a full minute, his hands
in his pockets, staring out at the perpetual interweaving of motors in the luminous setting
of the square. Then he turned and spoke from where he stood.

"Look here. Undine, if I'm to have you again I don't want to have you that way. That time out
in Apex, when everybody in the place was against me, and I was down and out, you stood up to
them and stuck by me. Remember that walk down Main Street? Don't I!--and the way the people
glared and hurried by; and how you kept on alongside of me, talking and laughing, and looking
your Sunday best. When Abner Spragg came out to Opake after us and pulled you back I was pretty
sore at your deserting; but I came to see it was natural enough. You were only a spoilt girl,
used to having everything you wanted; and I couldn't give you a thing then, and the folks you'd
been taught to believe in all told you I never would. Well, I did look like a back number,
and no blame to you for thinking so. I used to say it to myself over and over again, laying
awake nights and totting up my mistakes ... and then there were days when the wind set another
way, and I knew I'd pull it off yet, and I thought you might have held on...." He stopped,
his head a little lowered, his concentrated gaze on her flushed face. "Well, anyhow," he broke
out, "you were my wife once, and you were my wife first--and if you want to come back you've
got to come that way: not slink through the back way when there's no one watching, but walk
in by the front door, with your head up, and your Main Street look."

Since the days when he had poured out to her his great fortune-building projects she had never
heard him make so long a speech; and her heart, as she listened, beat with a new joy and terror.
It seemed to her that the great moment of her life had come at last--the moment all her minor
failures and successes had been building up with blind indefatigable hands.

"Elmer--Elmer--" she sobbed out.

She expected to find herself in his arms, shut in and shielded from all her troubles; but he
stood his ground across the room, immovable.

"Is it yes?"

She faltered the word after him: "Yes--?"

"Are you going to marry me?"

She stared, bewildered. "Why, Elmer--marry you? You forget!"

"Forget what? That you don't want to give up what you've got?"

"How can I? Such things are not done out here. Why, I'm a Catholic; and the Catholic Church--"
She broke off, reading the end in his face. "But later, perhaps ... things might change. Oh,
Elmer, if only you'd stay over here and let me see you sometimes!"

"Yes--the way your friends see each other. We're differently made out in Apex. When I want
that sort of thing I go down to North Fifth Street for it."

She paled under the retort, but her heart beat high with it. What he asked was impossible--and
she gloried in his asking it. Feeling her power, she tried to temporize. "At least if you stayed
we could be friends--I shouldn't feel so terribly alone."

He laughed impatiently. "Don't talk magazine stuff to me, Undine Spragg. I guess we want each
other the same way. Only our ideas are different. You've got all muddled, living out here among
a lot of loafers who call it a career to run round after every petticoat. I've got my job out
at home, and I belong where my job is."

"Are you going to be tied to business all your life?" Her smile was faintly depreciatory.

"I guess business is tied to ME: Wall Street acts as if it couldn't get along without me."
He gave his shoulders a shake and moved a few steps nearer. "See here, Undine--you're the one
that don't understand. If I was to sell out to-morrow, and spend the rest of my life reading
art magazines in a pink villa, I wouldn't do what you're asking me. And I've about as much
idea of dropping business as you have of taking to district nursing. There are things a man
doesn't do. I understand why your husband won't sell those tapestries--till he's got to. His
ancestors are HIS business: Wall Street's mine."

He paused, and they silently faced each other. Undine made no attempt to approach him: she
understood that if he yielded it would be only to recover his advantage and deepen her feeling
of defeat. She put out her hand and took up the sunshade she had dropped on entering. "I suppose
it's good-bye then," she said.

"You haven't got the nerve?"

"The nerve for what?"

"To come where you belong: with me."

She laughed a little and then sighed. She wished he would come nearer, or look at her differently:
she felt, under his cool eye, no more compelling than a woman of wax in a show-case.

"How could I get a divorce? With my religion--"

"Why, you were born a Baptist, weren't you? That's where you used to attend church when I waited
round the corner, Sunday mornings, with one of old Hober's buggies." They both laughed, and
he went on: "If you'll come along home with me I'll see you get your divorce all right. Who
cares what they do over here? You're an American, ain't you? What you want is the home-made
article."

She listened, discouraged yet fascinated by his sturdy inaccessibility to all her arguments
and objections. He knew what he wanted, saw his road before him, and acknowledged no obstacles.
Her defense was drawn from reasons he did not understand, or based on difficulties that did
not exist for him; and gradually she felt herself yielding to the steady pressure of his will.
Yet the reasons he brushed away came back with redoubled tenacity whenever he paused long enough
for her to picture the consequences of what he exacted.

"You don't know--you don't understand--" she kept repeating; but she knew that his ignorance
was part of his terrible power, and that it was hopeless to try to make him feel the value
of what he was asking her to give up.

"See here, Undine," he said slowly, as if he measured her resistance though he couldn't fathom
it, "I guess it had better be yes or no right here. It ain't going to do either of us any good
to drag this thing out. If you want to come back to me, come--if you don't, we'll shake hands
on it now. I'm due in Apex for a directors' meeting on the twentieth, and as it is I'll have
to cable for a special to get me out there. No, no, don't cry--it ain't that kind of a story
... but I'll have a deck suite for you on the Semantic if you'll sail with me the day after
to-morrow."

XLVI

In the great high-ceilinged library of a private hotel overlooking one of the new quarters
of Paris, Paul Marvell stood listlessly gazing out into the twilight.

The trees were budding symmetrically along the avenue below; and Paul, looking down, saw, between
windows and tree-tops, a pair of tall iron gates with gilt ornaments, the marble curb of a
semi-circular drive, and bands of spring flowers set in turf. He was now a big boy of nearly
nine, who went to a fashionable private school, and he had come home that day for the Easter
holidays. He had not been back since Christmas, and it was the first time he had seen the new
hotel which his step-father had bought, and in which Mr. and Mrs. Moffatt had hastily established
themselves, a few weeks earlier, on their return from a flying trip to America. They were always
coming and going; during the two years since their marriage they had been perpetually dashing
over to New York and back, or rushing down to Rome or up to the Engadine: Paul never knew where
they were except when a telegram announced that they were going somewhere else. He did not
even know that there was any method of communication between mothers and sons less laconic
than that of the electric wire; and once, when a boy at school asked him if his mother often
wrote, he had answered in all sincerity: "Oh yes--I got a telegram last week."

He had been almost sure--as sure as he ever was of anything--that he should find her at home
when he arrived; but a message (for she hadn't had time to telegraph) apprised him that she
and Mr. Moffatt had run down to Deauville to look at a house they thought of hiring for the
summer; they were taking an early train back, and would be at home for dinner--were in fact
having a lot of people to dine.

It was just what he ought to have expected, and had been used to ever since he could remember;
and generally he didn't much mind, especially since his mother had become Mrs. Moffatt, and
the father he had been most used to, and liked best, had abruptly disappeared from his life.
But the new hotel was big and strange, and his own room, in which there was not a toy or a
book, or one of his dear battered relics (none of the new servants--they were always new--could
find his things, or think where they had been put), seemed the loneliest spot in the whole
house. He had gone up there after his solitary luncheon, served in the immense marble dining-room
by a footman on the same scale, and had tried to occupy himself with pasting post-cards into
his album; but the newness and sumptuousness of the room embarrassed him--the white fur rugs
and brocade chairs seemed maliciously on the watch for smears and ink-spots--and after a while
he pushed the album aside and began to roam through the house.

He went to all the rooms in turn: his mother's first, the wonderful lacy bedroom, all pale
silks and velvets, artful mirrors and veiled lamps, and the boudoir as big as a drawing-room,
with pictures he would have liked to know about, and tables and cabinets holding things he
was afraid to touch. Mr. Moffatt's rooms came next. They were soberer and darker, but as big
and splendid; and in the bedroom, on the brown wall, hung a single picture--the portrait of
a boy in grey velvet--that interested Paul most of all. The boy's hand rested on the head of
a big dog, and he looked infinitely noble and charming, and yet (in spite of the dog) so sad
and lonely that he too might have come home that very day to a strange house in which none
of his old things could be found.

From these rooms Paul wandered downstairs again. The library attracted him most: there were
rows and rows of books, bound in dim browns and golds, and old faded reds as rich as velvet:
they all looked as if they might have had stories in them as splendid as their bindings. But
the bookcases were closed with gilt trellising, and when Paul reached up to open one, a servant
told him that Mr. Moffatt's secretary kept them locked because the books were too valuable
to be taken down. This seemed to make the library as strange as the rest of the house, and
he passed on to the ballroom at the back. Through its closed doors he heard a sound of hammering,
and when he tried the door-handle a servant passing with a tray-full of glasses told him that
"they" hadn't finished, and wouldn't let anybody in.

The mysterious pronoun somehow increased Paul's sense of isolation, and he went on to the drawing-rooms,
steering his way prudently between the gold arm-chairs and shining tables, and wondering whether
the wigged and corseleted heroes on the walls represented Mr. Moffatt's ancestors, and why,
if they did, he looked so little like them. The dining-room beyond was more amusing, because
busy servants were already laying the long table. It was too early for the florist, and the
centre of the table was empty, but down the sides were gold baskets heaped with pulpy summer
fruits-figs, strawberries and big blushing nectarines. Between them stood crystal decanters
with red and yellow wine, and little dishes full of sweets; and against the walls were sideboards
with great pieces of gold and silver, ewers and urns and branching candelabra, which sprinkled
the green marble walls with starlike reflections.

After a while he grew tired of watching the coming and going of white-sleeved footmen, and
of listening to the butler's vociferated orders, and strayed back into the library. The habit
of solitude had given him a passion for the printed page, and if he could have found a book
anywhere--any kind of a book--he would have forgotten the long hours and the empty house. But
the tables in the library held only massive unused inkstands and immense immaculate blotters;
not a single volume had slipped its golden prison.

His loneliness had grown overwhelming, and he suddenly thought of Mrs. Heeny's clippings. His
mother, alarmed by an insidious gain in weight, had brought the masseuse back from New York
with her, and Mrs. Heeny, with her old black bag and waterproof, was established in one of
the grand bedrooms lined with mirrors. She had been loud in her joy at seeing her little friend
that morning, but four years had passed since their last parting, and her personality had grown
remote to him. "How clever of you!" said a lady in one well-authenticated case to just such
an impostor; "how very clever you must be! And what is it you write in Punch?" "Oh, all the
best things are mine." The difficulty which Thomas Hood actually experienced in establishing
his authorship of "The Song of the Shirt" is recorded in its proper
place; while, among other things, Mr. Milliken's "Childe Chappie"
was claimed, as was afterwards ascertained, by a literary ghoul whose
strange taste it was to batten upon the comic writings of others,
and to use his borrowed reputation to ingratiate himself with the
fair and trusting sex.

Not a few of Punch's jokes have been sent in by men who were destined a little later on to
become members of the Staff and diners at the Table.

Mr. Furniss's first drawing, as is duly explained elsewhere, was re-drawn by Mr. du Maurier,
and Mr. Burnand's initial contribution-- a little sketch of'Varsity life-- was re-drawn by Leech.
But quite a number of non-professional wits and humorists have acted
as disinterested friends, whose benevolent assistance has gone far
to colour Punch with the characteristics of their own vis comica.

The chief of these no doubt is Mr. Joseph Crawhall, of Newcastle, whose devoted service to his
friend Charles Keene was an important factor in the artist's Punch-life. From his other friends, Mr. Birket
Foster and Mr. Andrew Tuer, Keene was in receipt of a great number of jokes-- from the latter they
came almost as regularly as the weekly paper. Well, I'm afraid
there ain't any taffy in it now; but there's piles and piles of lovely new clippings you ain't
seen."

"My Papa?" He paused, his hand among the strips of newspaper. "My Papa never saw my Grandma
Spragg. He never went to America."

"Never went to America? Your Pa never--? Why, land alive!" Mrs. Heeny gasped, a blush empurpling
her large warm face. "Why, Paul Marvell, don't you remember your own father, you that bear
his name?" she exclaimed.

The boy blushed also, conscious that it must have been wrong to forget, and yet not seeing
how he was to blame.

"That one died a long long time ago, didn't he? I was thinking of my French father," he explained.

"Oh, mercy," ejaculated Mrs. Heeny; and as if to cut the conversation short she stooped over,
creaking like a ship, and thrust her plump strong hand into the bag.

"Here, now, just you look at these clippings--I guess you'll find a lot in them about your
Ma.--Where do they come from? Why, out of the papers, of course," she added, in response to
Paul's enquiry. "You'd oughter start a scrap-book yourself--you're plenty old enough. You could
make a beauty just about your Ma, with her picture pasted in the front--and another about Mr.
Moffatt and his collections. There's one I cut out the other day that says he's the greatest
collector in America."

Paul listened, fascinated. He had the feeling that Mrs. Heeny's clippings, aside from their
great intrinsic interest, might furnish him the clue to many things he didn't understand, and
that nobody had ever had time to explain to him. His mother's marriages, for instance: he was
sure there was a great deal to find out about them. But she always said: "I'll tell you all
about it when I come back"--and when she came back it was invariably to rush off somewhere
else. So he had remained without a key to her transitions, and had had to take for granted
numberless things that seemed to have no parallel in the experience of the other boys he knew.

"Here--here it is," said Mrs. Heeny, adjusting the big tortoiseshell spectacles she had taken
to wearing, and reading out in a slow chant that seemed to Paul to come out of some lost remoteness
of his infancy.

"'It is reported in London that the price paid by Mr. Elmer Moffatt for the celebrated Grey
Boy is the largest sum ever given for a Vandyck. Since Mr. Moffatt began to buy extensively
it is estimated in art circles that values have gone up at least seventy-five per cent.'"

But the price of the Grey Boy did not interest Paul, and he said a little impatiently: "I'd
rather hear about my mother."

"To be sure you would! You wait now." Mrs. Heeny made another dive, and again began to spread
her clippings on her lap like cards on a big black table.

"Here's one about her last portrait--no, here's a better one about her pearl necklace, the
one Mr. Moffatt gave her last Christmas. 'The necklace, which was formerly the property of
an Austrian Archduchess, is composed of five hundred perfectly matched pearls that took thirty
years to collect. It is estimated among dealers in precious stones that since Mr. Moffatt began
to buy the price of pearls has gone up over fifty per cent.'"

Even this did not fix Paul's attention. He wanted to hear about his mother and Mr. Moffatt,
and not about their things; and he didn't quite know how to frame his question. But Mrs. Heeny
looked kindly at him and he tried. "Why is mother married to Mr. Moffatt now?"

"Why, you must know that much, Paul." Mrs. Heeny again looked warm and worried. "She's married
to him because she got a divorce--that's why." And suddenly she had another inspiration. "Didn't
she ever send you over any of those splendid clippings that came out the time they were married?
Why, I declare, that's a shame; but I must have some of 'em right here."

She dived again, shuffled, sorted, and pulled out a long discoloured strip. "I've carried this
round with me ever since, and so many's wanted to read it, it's all torn." She smoothed out
the paper and began:

"'Divorce and remarriage of Mrs. Undine Spragg-de Chelles. American Marquise renounces ancient
French title to wed Railroad King. Quick work untying and tying. Boy and girl romance renewed.
"'Reno, November 23d. The Marquise de Chelles, of Paris, France, formerly Mrs. Undine Spragg
Marvell, of Apex City and New York, got a decree of divorce at a special session of the Court
last night, and was remarried fifteen minutes later to Mr. Elmer Moffatt, the billionaire Railroad
King, who was the Marquise's first husband.

"'No case has ever been railroaded through the divorce courts of this State at a higher rate
of speed: as Mr. Moffatt said last night, before he and his bride jumped onto their east-bound
special, every record has been broken. It was just six months ago yesterday that the present
Mrs. Moffatt came to Reno to look for her divorce. Owing to a delayed train, her counsel was
late yesterday in receiving some necessary papers, and it was feared the decision would have
to be held over; but Judge Toomey, who is a personal friend of Mr. Moffatt's, held a night
session and rushed it through so that the happy couple could have the knot tied and board their
special in time for Mrs. Moffatt to spend Thanksgiving in New York with her aged parents. The
hearing began at seven ten p. m. and at eight o'clock the bridal couple were steaming out of
the station.

"'At the trial Mrs. Spragg-de Chelles, who wore copper velvet and sables, gave evidence as
to the brutality of her French husband, but she had to talk fast as time pressed, and Judge
Toomey wrote the entry at top speed, and then jumped into a motor with the happy couple and
drove to the Justice of the Peace, where he acted as best man to the bridegroom. The latter
is said to be one of the six wealthiest men east of the Rockies. His gifts to the bride are
a necklace and tiara of pigeon-blood rubies belonging to Queen Marie Antoinette, a million
dollar cheque and a house in New York. The happy pair will pass the honeymoon in Mrs. Moffatt's
new home, 5009 Fifth Avenue, which is an exact copy of the Pitti Palace, Florence. They plan
to spend their springs in France.'"

Mrs. Heeny drew a long breath, folded the paper and took off her spectacles. "There," she said,
with a benignant smile and a tap on Paul's cheek, "now you see how it all happened...."

Paul was not sure he did; but he made no answer. His mind was too full of troubled thoughts.
In the dazzling description of his mother's latest nuptials one fact alone stood out for him--that
she had said things that weren't true of his French father. Something he had half-guessed in
her, and averted his frightened thoughts from, took his little heart in an iron grasp. She
said things that weren't true.... That was what he had always feared to find out.... She had
got up and said before a lot of people things that were awfully false about his dear French
father....

The sound of a motor turning in at the gates made Mrs. Heeny exclaim "Here they are!" and a
moment later Paul heard his mother calling to him. He got up reluctantly, and stood wavering
till he felt Mrs. Heeny's astonished eye upon him. Then he heard Mr. Moffatt's jovial shout
of "Paul Marvell, ahoy there!" and roused himself to run downstairs.

As he reached the landing he saw that the ballroom doors were open and all the lustres lit.
His mother and Mr. Moffatt stood in the middle of the shining floor, looking up at the walls;
and Paul's heart gave a wondering bound, for there, set in great gilt panels, were the tapestries
that had always hung in the gallery at Saint Desert.

"Well, Senator, it feels good to shake your fist again!" his step-father said, taking him in
a friendly grasp; and his mother, who looked handsomer and taller and more splendidly dressed
than ever, exclaimed: "Mercy! how they've cut his hair!" before she bent to kiss him.

"Oh, mother, mother!" he burst out, feeling, between his mother's face and the others, hardly
less familiar, on the walls, that he was really at home again, and not in a strange house.

"Gracious, how you squeeze!" she protested, loosening his arms. "But you look splendidly--and
how you've grown!" She turned away from him and began to inspect the tapestries critically.
"Somehow they look smaller here," she said with a tinge of disappointment.

Mr. Moffatt gave a slight laugh and walked slowly down the room, as if to study its effect.
As he turned back his wife said: "I didn't think you'd ever get them." He laughed again, more
complacently. "Well, I don't know as I ever should have, if General Arlington hadn't happened
to bust up."

They both smiled, and Paul, seeing his mother's softened face, stole his hand in hers and began:
"Mother, I took a prize in composition--"

"Did you? You must tell me about it to-morrow. No, I really must rush off now and dress--I
haven't even placed the dinner-cards." She freed her hand, and as she turned to go Paul heard
Mr. Moffatt say: "Can't you ever give him a minute's time, Undine?"

She made no answer, but sailed through the door with her head high, as she did when anything
annoyed her; and Paul and his step-father stood alone in the illuminated ball-room.

Mr. Moffatt smiled good-naturedly at the little boy and then turned back to the contemplation
of the hangings.

"I guess you know where those come from, don't you?" he asked in a tone of satisfaction.

"Oh, yes," Paul answered eagerly, with a hope he dared not utter that, since the tapestries
were there, his French father might be coming too.

"You're a smart boy to remember them. I don't suppose you ever thought you'd see them here?"

"I don't know," said Paul, embarrassed.

"Well, I guess you wouldn't have if their owner hadn't been in a pretty tight place. It was
like drawing teeth for him to let them go."

Paul flushed up, and again the iron grasp was on his heart. He hadn't, hitherto, actually disliked
Mr. Moffatt, who was always in a good humour, and seemed less busy and absent-minded than his
mother; but at that instant he felt a rage of hate for him. He turned away and burst into tears.

"Why, hullo, old chap--why, what's up?" Mr. Moffatt was on his knees beside the boy, and the
arms embracing him were firm and friendly. But Paul, for the life of him, couldn't answer:
he could only sob and sob as the great surges of loneliness broke over him.

"Is it because your mother hadn't time for you? Well, she's like that, you know; and you and
I have got to lump it," Mr. Moffatt continued, getting to his feet. He stood looking down at
the boy with a queer smile. "If we two chaps stick together it won't be so bad--we can keep
each other warm, don't you see? I like you first rate, you know; when you're big enough I mean
to put you in my business. And it looks as if one of these days you'd be the richest boy in
America...."

The lamps were lit, the vases full of flowers, the foot-men assembled on the landing and in
the vestibule below, when Undine descended to the drawing-room. As she passed the ballroom
door she glanced in approvingly at the tapestries. They really looked better than she had been
willing to admit: they made her ballroom the handsomest in Paris. But something had put her
out on the way up from Deauville, and the simplest way of easing her nerves had been to affect
indifference to the tapestries. Now she had quite recovered her good humour, and as she glanced
down the list of guests she was awaiting she said to herself, with a sigh of satisfaction,
that she was glad she had put on her rubies.

For the first time since her marriage to Moffatt she was about to receive in her house the
people she most wished to see there. The beginnings had been a little difficult; their first
attempt in New York was so unpromising that she feared they might not be able to live down
the sensational details of their reunion, and had insisted on her husband's taking her back
to Paris. But her apprehensions were unfounded. It was only necessary to give people the time
to pretend they had forgotten; and already they were all pretending beautifully. The French
world had of course held out longest; it had strongholds she might never capture. But already
seceders were beginning to show themselves, and her dinner-list that evening was graced with
the names of an authentic Duke and a not too-damaged Countess. In addition, of course, she
had the Shallums, the Chauncey Ellings, May Beringer, Dicky Bowles, Walsingham Popple, and
the rest of the New York frequenters of the Nouveau Luxe; she had even, at the last minute,
had the amusement of adding Peter Van Degen to their number. In the evening there were to be
Spanish dancing and Russian singing; and Dicky Bowles had promised her a Grand Duke for her
next dinner, if she could secure the new tenor who always refused to sing in private houses.

Even now, however, she was not always happy. She had everything she wanted, but she still felt,
at times, that there were other things she might want if she knew about them. And there had
been moments lately when she had had to confess to herself that Moffatt did not fit into the
picture. At first she had been dazzled by his success and subdued by his authority. He had
given her all she had ever wished for, and more than she had ever dreamed of having: he had
made up to her for all her failures and blunders, and there were hours when she still felt
his dominion and exulted in it. But there were others when she saw his defects and was irritated
by them: when his loudness and redness, his misplaced joviality, his familiarity with the servants,
his alternating swagger and ceremony with her friends, jarred on perceptions that had developed
in her unawares. Now and then she caught herself thinking that his two predecessors--who were
gradually becoming merged in her memory--would have said this or that differently, behaved
otherwise in such and such a case. And the comparison was almost always to Moffatt's disadvantage.

This evening, however, she thought of him indulgently. She was pleased with his clever stroke
in capturing the Saint Desert tapestries, which General Arlington's sudden bankruptcy, and
a fresh gambling scandal of Hubert's, had compelled their owner to part with. She knew that
Raymond de Chelles had told the dealers he would sell his tapestries to anyone but Mr. Elmer
Moffatt, or a buyer acting for him; and it amused her to think that, thanks to Elmer's astuteness,
they were under her roof after all, and that Raymond and all his clan were by this time aware
of it. These facts disposed her favourably toward her husband, and deepened the sense of well-being
with which--according to her invariable habit--she walked up to the mirror above the mantelpiece
and studied the image it reflected.

She was still lost in this pleasing contemplation when her husband entered, looking stouter
and redder than ever, in evening clothes that were a little too tight. His shirt front was
as glossy as his baldness, and in his buttonhole he wore the red ribbon bestowed on him for
waiving his claim to a Velasquez that was wanted for the Louvre. He carried a newspaper in
his hand, and stood looking about the room with a complacent eye.

"Well, I guess this is all right," he said, and she answered briefly: "Don't forget you're
to take down Madame de Follerive; and for goodness' sake don't call her 'Countess.'"

"Why, she is one, ain't she?" he returned good-humouredly.

"I wish you'd put that newspaper away," she continued; his habit of leaving old newspapers
about the drawing-room annoyed her.

"Oh, that reminds me--" instead of obeying her he unfolded the paper. "I brought it in to show
you something. Jim Driscoll's been appointed Ambassador to England."

"Jim Driscoll--!" She caught up the paper and stared at the paragraph he pointed to. Jim Driscoll--that
pitiful nonentity, with his stout mistrustful commonplace wife! It seemed extraordinary that
the government should have hunted up such insignificant people. And immediately she had a great
vague vision of the splendours they were going to--all the banquets and ceremonies and precedences....

"I shouldn't say she'd want to, with so few jewels--" He was not seriously hurt, and but partially
stunned; and the porters who quickly ran to the spot determined to take him to the station
at once.

The hero of the accident, overhearing where they were carrying him,
imagined that he was being given in charge. "As
it happens, it's about the one thing I couldn't."

"You couldn't? Why not?"

"Because you're divorced. They won't have divorced Ambassadresses."

"They won't? Why not, I'd like to know?"

"Well, I guess the court ladies are afraid there'd be too many pretty women in the Embassies,"
he answered jocularly.

She burst into an angry laugh, and the blood flamed up into her face. "I never heard of anything
so insulting!" she cried, as if the rule had been invented to humiliate her.

There was a noise of motors backing and advancing in the court, and she heard the first voices
on the stairs. She turned to give herself a last look in the glass, saw the blaze of her rubies,
the glitter of her hair, and remembered the brilliant names on her list.

But under all the dazzle a tiny black cloud remained. She had learned that there was something
she could never get, something that neither beauty nor influence nor millions could ever buy
for her. She could never be an Ambassador's wife; and as she advanced to welcome her first
guests she said to herself that it was the one part she was really made for.

THE END