(26) The New Testament also confirms this view, for only moral doctrines are therein taught,
and the kingdom of heaven is promised as a reward, whereas ceremonial observances are not touched
on by the Apostles, after they began to preach the Gospel to the Gentiles. (27) The Pharisees
certainly continued to practise these rites after the destruction of the kingdom, but more
with a view of opposing the Christians than of pleasing God: for after the first destruction
of the city, when they were led captive to Babylon, not being then, so far as I am aware, split
up into sects, they straightway neglected their rites, bid farewell to the Mosaic law, buried
their national customs in oblivion as being plainly superfluous, and began to mingle with other
nations, as we may abundantly learn from Ezra and Nehemiah. (28) We cannot, therefore, doubt
that they were no more bound by the law of Moses, after the destruction of their kingdom, than
they had been before it had been begun, while they were still living among other peoples before
the exodus from Egypt, and were subject to no special law beyond the natural law, and also,
doubtless, the law of the state in which they were living, in so far as it was consonant with
the Divine natural law.

(29) As to the fact that the patriarchs offered sacrifices, I think they did so for the purpose
of stimulating their piety, for their minds had been accustomed from childhood to the idea
of sacrifice, which we know had been universal from the time of Enoch; and thus they found
in sacrifice their most powerful incentive. (30) The patriarchs, then, did not sacrifice to
God at the bidding of a Divine right, or as taught by the basis of the Divine law, but simply
in accordance with the custom of the time; and, if in so doing they followed any ordinance,
it was simply the ordinance of the country they were living in, by which (as we have seen before
in the case of Melchisedek) they were bound. (39) Still human nature will not submit to absolute
repression. (40) Violent governments, as Seneca says, never last long; the moderate governments
endure. (43) Again, men are especially intolerant of serving and being ruled by their equals.
(44) Lastly, it is exceedingly difficult to revoke liberties once granted.

(50) From these universal considerations, let us pass on to the kingdom of the Jews. (65) Examining
this question by the aid of natural reason, I will proceed as follows. (70) Otherwise he writes
only for the learned - that is, he will be understood by only a small proportion of the human
race. (72) We will explain ourselves more clearly. (74) All this is proved in Scripture entirely
through experience-that is, through the narratives there related. (75) No definitions of doctrine
are given, but all the sayings and reasonings are adapted to the understanding of the masses.
(94) But there is no need to dwell upon such persons. (95) I will merely add that we can only
judge of a man by his works. (97) Thus have I said all that I undertook to say concerning Divine
law.

End of Part 1

AUTHOR'S ENDNOTES TO THE THEOLOGICO-POLITICAL TREATISE CHAPTERS I to V

Chapter I

Endnote 1. (1) The word naw-vee', Strong:5030, is rightly interpreted by Rabbi Salomon Jarchi,
but the sense is hardly caught by Aben Ezra, who was not so good a Hebraist. (2) We must also
remark that this Hebrew word for prophecy has a universal meaning and embraces all kinds of
prophecy. (3) Other terms are more special, and denote this or that sort of prophecy, as I
believe is well known to the learned.

