Ethan's ears were alert for the jingle of sleigh-bells, but not a sound broke the silence of
the lonely road. As he drew near the farm he saw, through the thin screen of larches at the
gate, a light twinkling in the house above him. "She's up in her room," he said to himself,
"fixing herself up for supper"; and he remembered Zeena's sarcastic stare when Mattie, on the
evening of her arrival, had come down to supper with smoothed hair and a ribbon at her neck.

He passed by the graves on the knoll and turned his head to glance at one of the older headstones,
which had interested him deeply as a boy because it bore his name.

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF

ETHAN FROME AND ENDURANCE HIS WIFE,

WHO DWELLED TOGETHER IN PEACE

FOR FIFTY YEARS.

He used to think that fifty years sounded like a long time to live together, but now it seemed
to him that they might pass in a flash. Then, with a sudden dart of irony, he wondered if,
when their turn came, the same epitaph would be written over him and Zeena.

He opened the barn-door and craned his head into the obscurity, half-fearing to discover Denis
Eady's roan colt in the stall beside the sorrel. But the old horse was there alone, mumbling
his crib with toothless jaws, and Ethan whistled cheerfully while he bedded down the grays
and shook an extra measure of oats into their mangers. His was not a tuneful throat--but harsh
melodies burst from it as he locked the barn and sprang up the hill to the house. He reached
the kitchen-porch and turned the door-handle; but the door did not yield to his touch.

Startled at finding it locked he rattled the handle violently; then he reflected that Mattie
was alone and that it was natural she should barricade herself at nightfall. He stood in the
darkness expecting to hear her step. It did not come, and after vainly straining his ears he
called out in a voice that shook with joy: "Hello, Matt!"

Silence answered; but in a minute or two he caught a sound on the stairs and saw a line of
light about the door-frame, as he had seen it the night before. So strange was the precision
with which the incidents of the previous evening were repeating themselves that he half expected,
when he heard the key turn, to see his wife before him on the threshold; but the door opened,
and Mattie faced him.

She stood just as Zeena had stood, a lifted lamp in her hand, against the black background
of the kitchen. She held the light at the same level, and it drew out with the same distinctness
her slim young throat and the brown wrist no bigger than a child's. Then, striking upward,
it threw a lustrous fleck on her lips, edged her eyes with velvet shade, and laid a milky whiteness
above the black curve of her brows.

She wore her usual dress of darkish stuff, and there was no bow at her neck; but through her
hair she had run a streak of crimson ribbon. This tribute to the unusual transformed and glorified
her. She seemed to Ethan taller, fuller, more womanly in shape and motion. She stood aside,
smiling silently, while he entered, and then moved away from him with something soft and flowing
in her gait. She set the lamp on the table, and he saw that it was carefully laid for supper,
with fresh doughnuts, stewed blueberries and his favourite pickles in a dish of gay red glass.
A bright fire glowed in the stove and the cat lay stretched before it, watching the table with
a drowsy eye.

Ethan was suffocated with the sense of well-being. He went out into the passage to hang up
his coat and pull off his wet boots. When he came back Mattie had set the teapot on the table
and the cat was rubbing itself persuasively against her ankles.

"Why, Puss! I nearly tripped over you," she cried, the laughter sparkling through her lashes.

Again Ethan felt a sudden twinge of jealousy. Could it be his coming that gave her such a kindled
face?

"Well, Matt, any visitors?" he threw off, stooping down carelessly to examine the fastening
of the stove.

She nodded and laughed "Yes, one," and he felt a blackness settling on his brows.

"Who was that?" he questioned, raising himself up to slant a glance at her beneath his scowl.

Her eyes danced with malice. "Why, Jotham Powell. He came in after he got back, and asked for
a drop of coffee before he went down home."

The blackness lifted and light flooded Ethan's brain. "That all? Well, I hope you made out
to let him have it." And after a pause he felt it right to add: "I suppose he got Zeena over
to the Flats all right?"

"Oh, yes; in plenty of time."

The name threw a chill between them, and they stood a moment looking sideways at each other
before Mattie said with a shy laugh. "I guess it's about time for supper."

They drew their seats up to the table, and the cat, unbidden, jumped between them into Zeena's
empty chair. "Oh, Puss!" said Mattie, and they laughed again.

Ethan, a moment earlier, had felt himself on the brink of eloquence; but the mention of Zeena
had paralysed him. Mattie seemed to feel the contagion of his embarrassment, and sat with downcast
lids, sipping her tea, while he feigned an insatiable appetite for dough-nuts and sweet pickles.
At last, after casting about for an effective opening, he took a long gulp of tea, cleared
his throat, and said: "Looks as if there'd be more snow."

She feigned great interest. "Is that so? Do you suppose it'll interfere with Zeena's getting
back?" She flushed red as the question escaped her, and hastily set down the cup she was lifting.

Ethan reached over for another helping of pickles. "You never can tell, this time of year,
it drifts so bad on the Flats." The name had benumbed him again, and once more he felt as if
Zeena were in the room between them.

"Oh, Puss, you're too greedy!" Mattie cried.

The cat, unnoticed, had crept up on muffled paws from Zeena's seat to the table, and was stealthily
elongating its body in the direction of the milk-jug, which stood between Ethan and Mattie.
The two leaned forward at the same moment and their hands met on the handle of the jug. Mattie's
hand was underneath, and Ethan kept his clasped on it a moment longer than was necessary. The
cat, profiting by this unusual demonstration, tried to effect an unnoticed retreat, and in
doing so backed into the pickle-dish, which fell to the floor with a crash.

Mattie, in an instant, had sprung from her chair and was down on her knees by the fragments.

"Oh, Ethan, Ethan--it's all to pieces! What will Zeena say?"

But this time his courage was up. "Well, she'll have to say it to the cat, any way!" he rejoined
with a laugh, kneeling down at Mattie's side to scrape up the swimming pickles.

She lifted stricken eyes to him. "Yes, but, you see, she never meant it should be used, not
even when there was company; and I had to get up on the step-ladder to reach it down from the
top shelf of the china-closet, where she keeps it with all her best things, and of course she'll
want to know why I did it--"

The case was so serious that it called forth all of Ethan's latent resolution.

"She needn't know anything about it if you keep quiet. I'll get another just like it to-morrow.
Where did it come from? I'll go to Shadd's Falls for it if I have to!"

"Oh, you'll never get another even there! It was a wedding present--don't you remember? It
came all the way from Philadelphia, from Zeena's aunt that married the minister. That's why
she wouldn't ever use it. Oh, Ethan, Ethan, what in the world shall I do?"

She began to cry, and he felt as if every one of her tears were pouring over him like burning
lead. "Don't, Matt, don't--oh, don't!" he implored her.

She struggled to her feet, and he rose and followed her helplessly while she spread out the
pieces of glass on the kitchen dresser. It seemed to him as if the shattered fragments of their
evening lay there.

"Here, give them to me," he said in a voice of sudden authority.

She drew aside, instinctively obeying his tone. "Oh, Ethan, what are you going to do?"

Without replying he gathered the pieces of glass into his broad palm and walked out of the
kitchen to the passage. There he lit a candle-end, opened the china-closet, and, reaching his
long arm up to the highest shelf, laid the pieces together with such accuracy of touch that
a close inspection convinced him of the impossibility of detecting from below that the dish
was broken. If he glued it together the next morning months might elapse before his wife noticed
what had happened, and meanwhile he might after all be able to match the dish at Shadd's Falls
or Bettsbridge. Having satisfied himself that there was no risk of immediate discovery he went
back to the kitchen with a lighter step, and found Mattie disconsolately removing the last
scraps of pickle from the floor.

"It's all right, Matt. Come back and finish supper," he commanded her.

Completely reassured, she shone on him through tear-hung lashes, and his soul swelled with
pride as he saw how his tone subdued her. She did not even ask what he had done. Except when
he was steering a big log down the mountain to his mill he had never known such a thrilling
sense of mastery.

V

They finished supper, and while Mattie cleared the table Ethan went to look at the cows and
then took a last turn about the house. The earth lay dark under a muffled sky and the air was
so still that now and then he heard a lump of snow come thumping down from a tree far off on
the edge of the wood-lot.

When he returned to the kitchen Mattie had pushed up his chair to the stove and seated herself
near the lamp with a bit of sewing. The scene was just as he had dreamed of it that morning.
He sat down, drew his pipe from his pocket and stretched his feet to the glow. His hard day's
work in the keen air made him feel at once lazy and light of mood, and he had a confused sense
of being in another world, where all was warmth and harmony and time could bring no change.
The only drawback to his complete well-being was the fact that he could not see Mattie from
where he sat; but he was too indolent to move and after a moment he said: "Come over here and
sit by the stove."

Zeena's empty rocking-chair stood facing him. Mattie rose obediently, and seated herself in
it. As her young brown head detached itself against the patch-work cushion that habitually
framed his wife's gaunt countenance, Ethan had a momentary shock. It was almost as if the other
face, the face of the superseded woman, had obliterated that of the intruder. After a moment
Mattie seemed to be affected by the same sense of constraint. She changed her position, leaning
forward to bend her head above her work, so that he saw only the foreshortened tip of her nose
and the streak of red in her hair; then she slipped to her feet, saying "I can't see to sew,"
and went back to her chair by the lamp.

Ethan made a pretext of getting up to replenish the stove, and when he returned to his seat
he pushed it sideways that he might get a view of her profile and of the lamplight falling
on her hands. The cat, who had been a puzzled observer of these unusual movements, jumped up
into Zeena's chair, rolled itself into a ball, and lay watching them with narrowed eyes.

Deep quiet sank on the room. The clock ticked above the dresser, a piece of charred wood fell
now and then in the stove, and the faint sharp scent of the geraniums mingled with the odour
of Ethan's smoke, which began to throw a blue haze about the lamp and to hang its greyish cobwebs
in the shadowy corners of the room.

