The ladies smiled, and one of them answered that he did their wood great honour, in thinking
art had lent her assistance to nature, but that there was little in that place for which they
were not solely obliged to the latter. Miss Trentham interrupted her who was speaking and told
us that as she had no share in the improvements which had been made, she might with the better
grace assure Mr Lamont that Lady Mary Jones, Miss Mancel, and Mrs Morgan were the only persons
who had laid out that wood, and the commonest labourers in the country had executed their orders.
Lamont was much surprised at this piece of information, and though he would have thought it
still more exquisitely beautiful had it been the design of the person he imagined, yet truth
is so powerful, that he could not suppress his admiration and surprise. Every cut in it is
terminated by some noble object. In several places are seats formed with such rustic simplicity,
as have more real grandeur in them, than can be found in the most expensive buildings. On an
eminence, 'bosomed high in tufted trees', is a temple dedicated to solitude. The structure
is an exquisite piece of architecture, the prospect from it noble and extensive, and the windows
so placed, that one sees no house but at so considerable a distance, as not to take off from
the solitary air, which is perfectly agreeable to a temple declaredly dedicated to solitude.
The most beautiful object in the view is a very large river, in reality an arm of the sea,
little more than a quarter of a mile distant from the building; about three miles beyond it
lies the sea, on which the sun then shone, and made it dazzlingly bright. In the temple is
a picture of Contemplation, another of Silence, two of various birds and animals, and a couple
of moonlight pieces, the workmanship of the ladies.

Close by the temple runs a gentle murmuring rivulet, which flows in meanders through the rest
of the wood, sometimes concealed from view, and then appearing at the next turning of the walk.
The wood is well peopled with pheasants, wild turkeys, squirrels and hares, who live so unmolested,
that they seem to have forgot all fear, and rather to welcome than flee from those who come
amongst them. Man never appears there as a merciless destroyer, but the preserver, instead
of the tyrant, of the inferior part of the creation. While they continue in that wood, none
but natural evil can approach them, and from that they are defended as much as possible. We
there 'walked joint tenant of the shade' with the animal race; and a perfect equality in nature's
bounty seems enjoyed by the whole creation. Ivy and moss in some places cover, while they seem
to unite, the several materials of the variegated walls. The rivulet which runs through the
wood falls down one side of the grotto with great rapidity, broken into various streams by
the spar and coral, and passing through, forms a fine cascade just at the foot of the grotto,
whence it flows into the river. Great care is taken to prevent the place from growing damp,
so that we sat some time in it with safety, admiring the smooth surface of the river, to which
it lies very open.

As the ladies had some daily business on their hands which they never neglect, we were obliged
to leave this lovely scene, where I think I could have passed my life with pleasure, and to
return towards the house, though by a different way from that we came, traversing the other
side of the wood. In one spot where we went near the verge, I observed a pale, which, upon
examination, I found was continued for some acres, though it was remarkable only in one place.
It is painted green, and on the inside a hedge of yews, laurel, and other thick evergreens
rises to about seven or eight feet high. I could not forbear asking what was thus so carefully
enclosed. The ladies smiled on each other, but evaded answering my question, which only increased
my curiosity. Lamont, not less curious, and more importunate, observed that the inclosure bore
some resemblance to one of Lord Lamore's, where he kept lions, tigers, leopards, and such foreign
animals, and he would be hanged, if the ladies had not made some such collection, intreating
that he might be admitted to see them; for nothing gave him greater entertainment than to behold
those beautiful wild beasts, brought out of their native woods, where they had reigned as kings,
and here tamed and subjected by the superior art of man. It was a triumph of human reason,
which could not fail to afford great pleasure.

'Not to us, I assure you, Sir,' replied Miss Mancel, 'when reason appears only in the exertion
of cruelty and tyrannical oppression, it is surely not a gift to be boasted of. When a man
forces the furious steed to endure the bit, or breaks oxen to the yoke, the great benefits
he receive from, and communicates to the animals, excuse the forcible methods by which it is
accomplished. But to see a man, from a vain desire to have in his possession the native of
another climate and another country, reduce a fine and noble creature to misery, and confine
him within narrow inclosures whose happiness consisted in unbounded liberty, shocks my nature.
There is I confess something so amiable in gentleness, that I could be pleased with seeing
a tiger caress its keeper, if the cruel means by which the fiercest of beasts is taught all
the servility of a fawning spaniel, did not recur every instant to my mind; and it is not much
less abhorrent to my nature, to see a venerable lion jumping over a stick, than it would be
to behold a hoary philosopher forced by some cruel tyrant to spend his days in whipping a top,
or playing with a rattle. Every thing to me loses its charm when it is put out of the station
wherein nature, or to speak more properly, the all-wise Creator has placed it. I imagine man
has a right to use the animal race for his own preservation, perhaps for his convenience, but
certainly not to treat them with wanton cruelty, and as it is not in his power to give them
any thing so valuable as their liberty, it is, in my opinion, criminal to enslave them in order
to procure ourselves a vain amusement, if we have so little feeling as to find any while others
suffer.'

'I believe madam,' replied Lamont, 'it is most advisable for me not to attempt to defend what
I have said; should I have reason on my side, while you have humanity on yours, I should make
but a bad figure in the argument. What advantage could I expect from applying to the understanding,
while your amiable disposition would captivate even reason itself? But still I am puzzled;
what we behold is certainly an inclosure, how can that be without a confinement to those that
are within it?'

'After having spoken so much against tyranny,' said Miss Mancel, smiling, 'I do not know whether
I should be excusable if I left you to be tyrannized by curiosity, which I believe can inflict
very severe pains, at least, if I may be allowed to judge by the means people often take to
satisfy it. I will therefore gratify you with the knowledge of what is within this inclosure,
which makes so extraordinary an impression upon you. It is, then, an asylum for those poor
creatures who are rendered miserable from some natural deficiency or redundancy. Here they
find refuge from the tyranny of those wretches, who seem to think that being two or three feet
taller gives them a right to make them a property, and expose their unhappy forms to the contemptuous
curiosity of the unthinking multitude. Procrustes has been branded through all ages with the
name of tyrant; and principally, as it appears, from fitting the body of every stranger to
a bed which he kept as the necessary standard, cutting off the legs of those whose height exceeded
the length of it and stretching on the rack such as fell short of that measure, till they attained
the requisite proportion. But is not almost every man a Procrustes? We have not the power of
shewing our cruelty exactly in the same method, but actuated by the like spirit, we abridge
of their liberty, and torment by scorn, all who either fall short, or exceed the usual standard,
if they happen to have the additional misfortune of poverty. Perhaps we are in no part more
susceptible than in our vanity, how much then must those poor wretches suffer, whose deformity
would lead them to wish to be secluded from human view, in being exposed to the public, whose
observations are no better than expressions of scorn, and who are surprised to find that any
thing less than themselves can speak, or appear like intelligent beings. But this is only part
of what they have to endure. As if their deficiency in height deprived them of the natural
right to air and sunshine, they are kept confined in small rooms, and because they fill less
space than common, are stuffed into chairs so little, that they are squeezed as close as a
pair of gloves in a walnut-shell.

'This miserable treatment of persons, to whom compassion should secure more than common indulgence,
determined us to purchase these worst sort of slaves, and in this place we have five who owed
their wretchedness to being only three foot high, one grey-headed toothless old man of sixteen
years of age, a woman of about seven foot in height, and a man who would be still taller, if
the extreme weakness of his body, and the wretched life he for some time led, in the hands
of one of these monster-mongers, did not make him bend almost double, and oblige him to walk
on crutches; with which infirmities he is well pleased, as they reduce him nearer the common
standard.'

We were very desirous of seeing this enfranchised company; but Mrs. Morgan told us it was what
they seldom granted, for fear of inflicting some of the pains from which they had endeavoured
to rescue those poor creatures, but she would step in, and ask if they had no objection to
our admission, and if that appeared really the case she would gratify us.

This tenderness to persons who were under such high obligations, charmed me. She soon returned
with the permission we wished, but intreated us to pay all our attention to the house and garden,
and to take no more than a civil notice of its inhabitants. We promised obedience, and followed
her. Her advice was almost unnecessary, for the place could not have failed of attracting our
particular observation. It was a quadrangle of about six acres, and the inward part was divided
by nets into eight parts, four of which alternatively were filled with poultry of all sorts,
which were fed here for the use of the hall, and kept with the most exact cleanliness. The
other four parts were filled with shrubs and flowers, which were cultivated with great delight
by these once unfortunate, but now happy beings. A little stream ran across the quadrangle,
which served for drink to the poultry, and facilitated the watering of the flowers. I have
already said, that at the inward edge of the pale was a row of evergreens; at their feet were
beds of flowers, and a little gravel walk went round the whole. At each corner was an arbour
made with woodbines and jessamine, in one or two of which there was always an agreeable shade.

At one side of the quadrangle was a very neat habitation, into which a dwarf invited us to
enter, to rest ourselves after our walk; they were all passing backwards and forwards, and
thus gave us a full view of them, which would have been a shocking sight, but for the reflections
we could not avoid making on their happy condition, and the very extraordinary humanity of
the ladies to whom they owed it; so that instead of feeling the pain one might naturally receive
from seeing the human form so disgraced, we were filled with admiration of the human mind,
when so nobly exalted by virtue, as it is in the patronesses of these poor creatures, who wore
an air of cheerfulness, which shewed they thought the churlishness wherewith they had been
treated by nature sufficiently compensated. The tender inquiries the ladies made after their
healths, and the kind notice they took of each of them, could not be exceeded by any thing
but the affection, I might almost say adoration, with which these people beheld their benefactresses.

This scene had made too deep an impression on our minds not to be the subject of our discourse
all the way home, and in the course of conversation, I learnt that when these people were first
rescued out of their misery, their healths were much impaired, and their tempers more so; to
restore the first, all medicinal care was taken, and air and exercise assisted greatly in their
recovery; but to cure the malady of the mind, and conquer that internal source of unhappiness,
was a work of longer time. Even these poor wretches had their vanity, and would contend for
superior merit, of which the argument was the money their keepers had gained in exhibiting
them. To put an end to this contention, the ladies made them understand that what they thought
a subject for boasting, was only a proof of their being so much farther from the usual standard
of the human form, and therefore a more extraordinary spectacle. But it was long before one
of them could be persuaded to lay aside her pretensions to superiority, which she claimed on
account of an extraordinary honour she had received from a great princess, who had made her
a present of a sedan chair.

At length, however, much reasoning and persuasion, a conviction of principles, of which they
had before no knowledge, the happiness of their situation, and the improvement of their healths,
concurred to sweeten their tempers and they now live in great harmony. They are entirely mistresses
of their house, have two maids to wait on them, over whom they have sole command, and a person
to do such little things in their garden as they cannot themselves perform; but the cultivation
of it is one of their great pleasures; and by their extraordinary care, they have the satisfaction
of presenting the finest flowers of the spring to their benefactresses, before they are blown
in any other place.

When they first came, the ladies told us that the horror they had conceived of being exhibited
as public spectacles had fixed in them such a fear of being seen by any stranger, that the
sound of a voice with which they were not acquainted at the outside of the paling, or the trampling
of feet, would set them all a running behind the bushes to hide themselves, like so many timorous
partridges in a mew, hurrying behind sheaves of corn for shelter; they even found a convenience
in their size, which, though it rendered them unwilling to be seen, enabled them so easily
to find places for concealment.

By degrees the ladies brought them to consent to see their head servants, and some of the best
people in the parish; desiring that to render it more agreeable to their visitors, they would
entertain them with fruit and wine; advising them to assist their neighbours in plain work;
thus to endear themselves to them, and procure more frequent visits, which as they chose to
confine themselves within so narrow a compass, and enjoyed but precarious health, their benefactresses
thought a necessary amusement. These recommendations, and the incidents wherewith their former
lives had furnished them to amuse their company, and which they now could relate with pleasure,
from the happy sense that all mortifications were past, rendered their conversation much courted
among that rank of people.

It occurred to me that their dislike to being seen by numbers must prevent their attendance
on public worship, but my cousin informed me that was thus avoided. There was in the church
an old gallery, which from disuse was grown out of repair; this the ladies caused to be mended,
and the front of it so heightened, that these little folks when in it could not be seen; the
tall ones contrived by stooping when they were there not to appear of any extraordinary height.
To this they were conveyed in the ladies' coach and set down close to covered stairs, which
led up to the gallery.

This subject employed our conversation till we approached the hall; the ladies then, after
insisting that we should not think of going from thence that day, all left us expect Mrs Maynard.
It may seem strange that I was not sorry for their departure; but, in truth, I was so filled
with astonishment at characters so new, and so curious to know by what steps women thus qualified
both by nature and fortune to have the world almost at command, were brought thus to seclude
themselves from it, and make as it were a new one for themselves constituted on such very different
principles from that I had hitherto lived in, that I longed to be alone with my cousin, in
hopes I might from her receive some account of this wonder. I soon made my curiosity known,
and beseeched her to gratify it.

'I see no good reason,' said she, 'why I should not comply with your request, as my friends
are above wishing to conceal any part of their lives, though themselves are never the subject
of their own conversation. If they have had any follies they do not desire to hide them; they
have not pride enough to be hurt with candid criticisms, and have too much innocence to fear
any very severe censure. But as we did not all reach this paradise at the same time, I shall
begin with the first inhabitants of, and indeed the founders of this society, Miss Mancel and
Mrs Morgan, who from their childhood have been so connected that I could not, if I would, disunite
them in my relation; and it would be almost a sin to endeavour to separate them even in idea.'

We sat down in an arbour, whose shade invited us to seek there a defence against the sun, which
was then in its meridian, and shone with uncommon heat. The woodbines, the roses, the jessamines,
the pinks and above all, the minionette with which it was surrounded, made the air one general
perfume; every breeze came loaded with fragrance, stealing and giving odour. A rivulet ran
bubbling by the side of the arbour, whose gentle murmurs soothed the mind into composure, and
seemed to hush us to attention, when Mrs Maynard thus began to shew her readiness to comply
with my request.

THE

HISTORY

OF

Miss MANCEL

AND

Mrs MORGAN

You may perhaps think I am presuming on your patience when I lead you into a nursery, or a
boarding school; but the life of Louisa Mancel was so early chequered with that various fate
which gives this world the motley appearance of joy and sorrow, pain and pleasure, that it
is not in my power to pass over the events of her infancy. I shall, however, spare you all
that is possible, and recommend her to your notice only when she attracted the observation
of Mr Hintman. This gentleman hearing that a person who rented some land of him was come to
London, and lodged at one of those public houses which by the landlord is called an inn, at
the outskirts of London, on the Surrey side; and having some occasion to speak to him, he went
thither. The people of the house called the man Mr Hintman enquired for, who immediately came
downstairs, wiping tears from his eyes; the continuance of which he could hardly restrain.
Mr Hintman asking the reason of those appearances of sorrow, the good-natured old man told
him, his visit had called him from a scene which had shocked him excessively. 'The first day
I came here' said he, 'I was induced by the frequent groans which issued from the next chamber,
to enquire who lodged there; I learnt, it was a gentlewoman, who arrived the day before, and
was immediately taken so ill that they apprehended her life in danger; and, about two hours
ago, the maid of the house ran into my room, begging me to come to her assistance, for the
gentlewoman was in such strong fits, she was not able to hold her. I obeyed the summons, and
found the poor woman in fits indeed; but what appeared to me the last agonies of a life which,
near exhausted, lavishes away its small remains in strong convulsions.

'By her bedside stood the most beautiful child I ever beheld, in appearance about ten years
of age, crying as if its little heart would break; not with the rage of an infant, but with
the settled grief of a person mature both in years and affliction. I asked her if the poor
dying woman was her mother; she told me, no--she was only her aunt; but to her the same as
a mother; and she did not know any one else that would take care of her.

'After a time the poor woman's convulsions left her; she just recovered sense enough to embrace
the lovely girl, and cried out, Oh! my dear child, what will become of you! a friendless, helpless
infant; and seeing me at her bedside, she lifted up her hands in a suppliant posture; and with
eyes that petitioned in stronger terms than words could express, Oh! Sir, said she, though
you are a stranger to me, yet I see you are not so to humanity; take pity on this forlorn child;
her amiable disposition will repay you in this world, and the great Father of us all will reward
you in the next, for your compassion on a wretched friendless girl! But why do I call her friendless?
Her innocence has the best of friends in heaven; the Almighty is a parent she is not left to
seek for; he is never absent;--Oh! blessed Lord! cried she, with a degree of ecstasy and confidence
which most sensibly affected us all, to thy care I resign her; thy tender mercies are over
all thy works, and thou, who carest for the smallest part of thy creation, will not deny her
thy protection. Oh! Lord defend her innocence! Let her obtain a place in thy kingdom after
death; and for all the rest I submit to thy providence; nor presumptuously pretend to dictate
to supreme wisdom. Thou art a gracious father and the afflictions thou sendest are.... Here
her voice failed her; but by her gestures we could perceive the continued praying, and, having
before taken the child in her arms the little angel continued there for fear of disturbing
her. By looks sometimes turned towards the poor infant, and sometimes with her hand on her
own heart, and then her eyes lifted up as it were to heaven, we saw she mixed prayers for the
little mourner, with intercessions for herself, till sense and motion seemed to fail her; she
then fell into a convulsion, and expired.

'The little girl perceived she was dead; and became almost as senseless as the lump of clay
which had so lately been her only friend. We had but just taken her from the body, sir, when
you came; and this was the occasion of the emotions you observed in me.'

'The cause was indeed sufficient,' replied Mr Hintman, 'but I am glad your sorrow proceeded
from nothing more immediately concerning yourself. Misery will strike its arrows into a humane
heart; but the wounds it makes are not so lasting, as those which are impressed by passions
that are more relative to ourselves.' 'Oh! sir,' said the old man, 'you cannot form an adequate
idea of the effect this scene must have on every spectator, except you had seen the child!
surely nature never formed so lovely a little creature!' He continued his praises of Louisa,
till at length he excited Mr Hintman's curiosity; who expressing a desire of seeing this miracle,
he was carried up into the good man's room, to which they had removed her. She, who had cried
most bitterly before the fatal stroke arrived, was now so oppressed, as not to be able to shed
a tear. They had put her on the bed, where she lay sighing with a heart ready to break; her
eyes fixed on one point, she neither saw nor heard.

Though her countenance expressed unutterable woe, yet she looked so extremely beautiful, that
Mr Hintman, highly as his expectation had been raised, was struck with surprise. He allowed
he never saw any thing so lovely; and the charms of which her melancholy might deprive her,
were more than compensated in his imagination by so strong a proof of extreme sensibility,
at an age when few children perceive half the dreadful consequences of such a misfortune.

He advised that she should be blooded, to prevent any ill effects from so severe a shock; for
as she felt it as strongly as one of a more mature age, the same precautions should be used.
In this he was obeyed; and it gave her such relief that she burst into a flood of tears; a
change which appeared so salutary, that Mr Hintman would not immediately interrupt her. But
his curiosity did not suffer him long to forbear asking her name, and many other particulars;
several of which she could not answer; all the account she was able to give of herself was,
that her name was Mancel, that the person for whom she grieved was her aunt; but had had the
sole care of her from her earliest remembrance. This aunt, she said, had often told her she
had a father and mother living; but when she enquired why she never saw or heard from them
she could get no satisfactory answer, but was put off with being told they were not in England;
and that she should know when she grew older.

This person had bred her up with the utmost tenderness, and employed the most assiduous care
in her education; which was the principal object of her attention. They had lived in a neat
cottage in the most retired part of Surrey from Miss Mancel's earliest remembrance, till her
aunt, after having been some time in a bad state of health, fell into a galloping consumption.
As soon as she apprehended the danger with which her life was threatened, she prepared every
thing for her removal to London; but as she did not expect ever to return, this took more time
than the quickness of her decay could well allow. The hasty approach of her dissolution affected
her extremely on the account of her little niece, and she often expressed her concern in terms
intelligible to her who was the occasion of it, who gathered from the expressions which fell
from her aunt, that the motive for the journey was to find out some of Miss Mancel's relations,
to whom she might deliver her before death had put a period to her own life; and where she
might safely remain till the return of her parents into England.

In this resolution she discharged the only servant she kept, delivered up her house to her
landlord, and after having settled all her pecuniary affairs, she set out on her journey with
her little charge; but grew so ill on the road that she desired to be set down at the first
inn; and her illness increased so fast she had no thought of removing; nor was she able to
make any very exact enquiries after the persons of whom she came in search.

This account was interrupted with many tears, which served to render it more affecting, and
Mr Hintman, as much touched as the good old man who was the occasion of his having heard it,
agreed with him that it would be proper to examine into the effects of which the deceased was
then possessed; and to see if they could find any paper which would in a degree clear up the
mysterious part of this affair.

This was accordingly performed; but as to the latter intention without any success; for after
all the examination they could make, they remained as much in the dark as ever.

They found in her trunk rather more money than was requisite to bury her in a manner becoming
her rank; to defray the expenses of her sickness; and to reward those that had attended her.

The old man expressed a willingness to take the child. He said it was a legacy left him by
one who had conceived some confidence in his humanity, and he could not in conscience disappoint
an opinion which did him honour; though, having children of his own, he did not pretend to
breed her up in the genteel manner to which she seemed by birth entitled.

Mr Hintman replied, that he should have great reason to reproach himself if with the ample
fortune he enjoyed, and having no children or family to partake of it, he should suffer another
to take that charge, to whom it could not be so convenient; he therefore would immediately
receive her as his child; and see her educated in all accomplishments proper for a young person
of fashion and fortune; as he should be able to supply all deficiency, if necessary, in the
latter particular.

The old man was very glad to have the child better established than with him; though he had
for some hours looked with so much pleasure on her as his adopted daughter, that no consideration,
but the prospect of her greater advantage, could have reconciled him to parting with her.

In pursuance of the resolution Mr Hintman had taken, he carried Miss Mancel to a French boarding
school which he had heard commended; very prudently judging that his house was not a proper
place for education, having there no one fit to take care of a young person.

Louisa was so oppressed by the forlornness of her situation that she felt none of that reluctance
to going amongst strangers, so usual with children of her age. All the world was equally unknown
to her, therefore she was indifferent where she was carried, only she rather wished not to
have been taken from the good old man whose venerable aspect, and compassionate behaviour,
had in some degree attached her to him; but she felt the generosity of Mr Hintman's declared
intentions; and, young as she was, had too much delicacy to appear ungrateful by shewing an
unwillingness to accompany him. Mademoiselle d'Avaux, the mistress of the school, was pleased
with the appearance of her young scholar, whose tears had ceased for some time; and her face
bore no disfiguring signs of sorrow; the dejection which overspread it giving charms equal
to those of which it robbed it.

Mr Hintman desired Mademoiselle d'Avaux to take the trouble of providing Miss Mancel with all
things requisite, and to put her in proper mourning; those minute feminine details being things
of which he was too ignorant to acquit himself well; and gave strict charge that her mind should
be cultivated with the greatest care, and no accomplishment omitted which she was capable of
acquiring.

What contributed much towards gratifying this wish of Mr Hintman's was Mademoiselle d'Avaux's
house being so full, that there was no room for Louisa, but a share of the apartment which
Miss Melvyn had hitherto enjoyed alone, and of which she could not willingly have admitted
any one to partake but the lovely child who was presented to her for this purpose. Her beautiful
form prejudiced everyone in her favour; but the distress and sorrow which were impressed on
her countenance, at an age generally too volatile and thoughtless to be deeply affected, could
not fail of exciting a tender sensibility in the heart of a person of Miss Melvyn's disposition.

This young lady was of a very peculiar turn of mind. She had been the darling daughter of Sir
Charles and Lady Melvyn, whose attachment to her had appeared equal; but, in the former, it
was rather the result of habit and compliance with Lady Melvyn's behaviour than a deep-rooted
affection, of which his heart was not very susceptible; while Lady Melvyn's arose from that
entire fondness which maternal love and the most distinguishing reason could excite in the
warmest and tenderest of hearts.

Sir Charles was an easy-tempered, weak man who gave no proof of good sense but the secret deference
he had to his wife's judgement, whose very superior understanding was on nothing so assiduously
employed as in giving consequence to the man with whom she was united, by the desire of her
parents, contrary to her inclination. Their authority had been necessary to reduce her to compliance,
not from any particular dislike to Sir Charles, who had deservedly the reputation of sobriety
and great good nature and whose person was remarkably fine; but Lady Melvyn perceived the weakness
of his understanding and, ignorant of the strength of her own, was unwilling to enter into
life without a guide whose judgement was equal to the desire he might naturally be supposed
to have to direct her right, through all the various paths in which she might be obliged to
walk; an assistance she had always expected from a husband; and thought even a necessary part
of that character. She was besides sensible of the difficulty of performing a promise so solemnly
made, as that of honour and obedience to one who, though she knew not half her own excellence,
she must be sensible was her inferior.

These reasons had deterred Lady Melvyn from marrying Sir Charles, but when she could no longer
avoid it without violating her duty to her parents, she resolved to supply the apparent deficiencies
in her husband's understanding by a most respectful deference to his opinions, thus conferring
distinction on him whom she wished everyone to esteem and honour; for as there was no affectation
in this part of her conduct, any more than in the rest of her behaviour, all were convinced
that the man who was respected by a woman of an understanding so superior to most of her own
sex, and the greatest part of the other, must have great merit, though they could not perceive
wherein it consisted.

In company Lady Melvyn always endeavoured to turn the conversation on such subjects as she
know were best suited to Sir Charles's capacity, more desirous that he should appear to advantage
than to display her own talents. She contrived to make all her actions appear the result of
his choice, and whatever he did by her instigation seemed even to himself to have been his
own thought. As their way of life was in every circumstance consonant to reason, religion,
and every virtue which could render them useful and respectable to others, Sir Charles acquired
a character in the neighbourhood which Lady Melvyn thought a sufficient reward for the endeavours
she used to secure it to him; and, for that purpose, fixed her abode entirely in the country,
where his conduct might give him the respect which would not be so easily obtained in a gayer
scene, where talents are in higher estimation than virtue.

Sir Charles and Lady Melvyn had no other child than the daughter I have mentioned, whose education
was her mother's great care; and she had the pleasure of seeing in her an uncommon capacity,
with every virtue the fondest parent could wish; and which indeed she had by inheritance; but
her mother's humility made them appear to her as a peculiar gift of providence to her daughter.

Lady Melvyn soon began to instil all the principles of true religion into her daughter's infant
mind; and, by her judicious instructions, gave her knowledge far superior to her years; which
was indeed the most delightful task of this fond parent; for her daughter's uncommon docility
and quick parts, continually stimulated by her tenderness for the best of mothers, made her
improve even beyond Lady Melvyn's expectation.

In this happy situation Miss Melvyn continued till near the end of her fourteenth year, when
she had the misfortune to lose this excellent parent, nor was she the only sufferer by Lady
Melvyn's death; every poor person within her knowledge lost a benefactress; all who knew her,
an excellent example; and, some, the best of friends; but her extraordinary merit was but imperfectly
known till after her decease; for she had made Sir Charles appear so much the principal person,
and director of all their affairs; that till the change in his conduct proved how great her
influence had been, she had only shared the approbation, which, afterwards, became all her own.

Human nature cannot feel a deeper affliction than now overwhelmed Miss Melvyn; wherein Sir
Charles bore as great a share, as the easiness of his nature was capable of; but his heart
was not susceptible, either of strong or lasting impressions. He walked in the path Lady Melvyn
had traced out for him; and suffered his daughter to imitate her mother in benevolent duties;
and she had profited too much by the excellent pattern, whereby she had endeavoured to regulate
her actions, not to acquit herself far beyond what could have been expected at her years.

Miss Melvyn was not long indulged in the only consolation her grief could receive--that of
being permitted to aim at an imitation of her mother--for Sir Charles had not been a widower
quite a year when he married a young lady in the neighbourhood who had designed him this honour
from the hour of Lady Melvyn's death; and to procure better opportunity for affecting her purpose
had pretended a most affectionate compassion for Miss Melvyn's deep affliction; she visited
her continually; and appeared so tenderly attached to her that Miss Melvyn, who had neither
experience nor any guile in her own heart to inspire her with suspicions of an attempt to deceive
her, made that return of affection which she thought gratitude required; nor was she at all
disturbed when she found she was soon to look on this lady in another light than that in which
she had hitherto seen her; it was easy for her to respect one whom she before loved; and she
had been taught so true a veneration for her father, that she felt no averseness to obey whomsoever
he thought proper to give a title to her duty.

Miss Melvyn had but very little time to congratulate herself on having acquired for a mother
a friend in whose conversation she hoped to enjoy great satisfaction and to feel the tenderness
of an intimate changed into the fondness of a parent. She behaved to her with the same perfect
respect, and all the humility of obedience, as if nature had placed her in that parental relation;
fearing, if she gave way to the familiarity which had subsisted between them when they were
on an equality, it might appear like a failure in the reverence due to her new situation.

But this behaviour, amiable as it was, could not make the new Lady Melvyn change the plan she
had formed for her future conduct. She had not been married above a month before she began
to intimate to Sir Charles that Miss Melvyn's education had been very imperfect; that a young
lady of her rank ought to be highly accomplished; but that after she had been so long indulged
by her parents, if a step-mother were to pretend to direct her it might not only exasperate
Miss Melvyn but prejudice the world against herself; as people are too apt to determine against
persons in that relation, without examining the merits of the cause; and though, she said,
she was little concerned about the opinion of the world in comparison with her tender regard
for any one that belonged to him; yet she was much influenced by the other reasons she had
alleged for not appearing to dictate to Miss Melvyn, being very desirous of keeping on affectionate
terms with her; and she was already much mortified at perceiving that young lady had imbibed
too many of the vulgar prejudices against a step-mother; though, for her part, she had endeavoured
to behave with submission to her daughter, instead of pretending to assume any authority. The
consequence and conclusion of all these insinuations was, that 'it would be advisable to send
Miss Melvyn to a boarding school.'

Sir Charles was soon prevailed with to comply with his lady's request; and his daughter was
acquainted with the determination which Lady Melvyn assured her, 'was very contrary to her
inclination, who should find a great loss of so agreeable a friend, but that Sir Charles had
declared his intention in so peremptory a manner that she dared not contend.'

Miss Melvyn had before observed that marriage had made a great alteration in Lady Melvyn's
behaviour; but this was a stroke she did not expect and a very mortifying one to her who had
long laid aside all childish amusements; had been taught to employ herself as rationally as
if she had arrived at a maturer age, and been indulged in the exercise of a most benevolent
disposition, having given such good proofs of the propriety with which she employed both her
time and money, that she had been dispensed from all restraints; and now to commence a new
infancy, and be confined to the society of children, was a very afflicting change; but it came
from a hand she too much respected to make any resistance, though she easily perceived that
it was entirely at her mother's instigation; and knew her father too well to believe he could
be peremptory on any occasion.

A very short time intervened between the declaration and execution of this design, and Miss
Melvyn was introduced to Mademoiselle d'Avaux by her kind step-mother, who with some tears
and many assurances of regret left her there. Miss Melvyn had been at this school three months
when Louisa Mancel was brought thither, and though a separation from a father she sincerely
loved, and the fear of the arts Lady Melvyn might use to alienate his affections from her,
after having thus removed her from his presence, greatly affected her spirits and she found
no companions fit to amuse her rational mind, yet she endeavoured to support her mortifications
with all the cheerfulness she could assume; and received some satisfaction from the conversation
of Mademoiselle d'Avaux, a woman of tolerable understanding, and who was much pleased with
Miss Melvyn's behaviour.

Miss Mancel's dejected air prejudiced Miss Melvyn much in her favour, the usual consequence
of a similitude of mind or manners; and when by a further knowledge of her, she perceived her
uncommon share of understanding; her desire to learn; the strength of her application; the
quickness of her apprehension; and her great sweetness of temper, she grew extremely fond of
her; and as Miss Mancel's melancholy rendered her little inclined to play with those of her
own age, she was almost always with Miss Melvyn, who found great pleasure in endeavouring to
instruct her; and grew to feel for her the tenderness of a mother, while Miss Mancel began
to receive consolation from experiencing an affection quite maternal.

At the beginning of the winter, Lady Melvyn, who had less ambition to imitate the real merit
of her predecessor than to exhibit her own imaginary perfections, brought Sir Charles to London,
there to fix their residence for the ensuing half year. This made little alteration in Miss
Melvyn's way of life. Sir Charles and his lady would sometimes call upon her, the latter not
choosing to trust Sir Charles alone with his daughter, lest she should represent to him how
unworthily she was treated; but as he was not devoid of affection for her, he would sometimes
visit her privately, concealing it from his lady, who endeavoured to prevent this, by telling
him, that schoolmistresses were apt to take amiss a parent's visiting his children too often,
construing it as a distrust of their care; and therefore if he offended in that way, Mademoiselle
d'Avaux's disgust might affect her behaviour to Miss Melvyn, and render her residence there
very disagreeable, which Lady Melvyn's great tenderness made her ardently wish to avoid, as
she was desirous every thing should be agreeable to her dear daughter. Sir Charles could not
be entirely restrained by these kind admonitions from indulging himself with the sight of Miss
Melvyn.

His lady had little reason to be afraid of these interviews, for her step-daughter had too
strong a sense of filial obedience, and too delicate a regard for her father's happiness, to
suffer the least intimation of a fault in his wife to escape her lips, as a good opinion of
her was so necessary to his ease; but as she soon found out these visits were made by stealth,
they gave her great pleasure as a plain proof of his affection. Lady Melvyn thought her daughter's
coming abroad would be as hurtful as her being visited at home, and therefore very seldom sent
for her to her house; and when she did, took care to have her carried home before the hour
that she expected company, on pretence of preserving the regularity of hours, which she knew
would be agreeable to Mademoiselle d'Avaux.

The true reason of this great caution was an unwillingness to be seen with one whose person
all her vanity could not prevent her from being sensible was more attractive than her own.
Miss Melvyn was very pretty, had an engaging sweetness in her countenance, and all the bloom
which belongs to youth, though it does not always accompany it. Her person was elegant, and
perfectly genteel.

Lady Melvyn was void of delicacy; she had a regular set of features but they wanted to be softened
into effeminacy before they could have any just pretence to beauty. Her eyes were black and
not void of vivacity, but they neither expressed penetration nor gentleness. Her person was
well proportioned, but she was formed on too large a scale, and destitute of grace. She was
not ill bred, but had none of that softness of manners which gives rise to all the sweet civilities
of life. In short, Lady Melvyn was one who by herself and many others would be esteemed a fine
woman, and by many more ranked only under the denomination of a shewey woman; like Mr Bayes's
hero, she was unamiable, but she was great; she excited the admiration of some, but pleased none.

As soon as she appeared in the world as Lady Melvyn, she began to exercise what she thought
only lively coquetry; but her entire want of grace and delicacy often made that appear like
boldness, which she designed for vivacity. As her ambition to charm was as great as if she
had been better qualified for success, it is not strange that she did not choose to give opportunities
of comparison between herself and a daughter who, though not so striking at first sight, was
filled with attractions.

The contempt which her ladyship thought she must in justice to her own understanding shew for
her husband's, and the supercilious coldness with which she treated Miss Melvyn, made that
young lady very glad that she was so seldom sent for to her father's house. But she wished
to learn such accomplishments as whilst she lived in the country were out of her power, and
therefore intimated to Lady Melvyn her desire of being taught music and drawing, with the better
hope of success, as the necessity of completing her education had been made the excuse for
sending her to a boarding school; but this request was denied her on frivolous pretences, the
real cause, when she perceived the very extravagant turn of her step-mother, she soon understood
was to avoid expense.

She had flattered herself she might obtain permission to have her books sent to her; but upon
enquiry found that Lady Melvyn had removed them to her dressing room, and intermixed them with
china, in so ornamental a manner, so truly expressive of the turn of her mind, where a pretended
love of reading was blended with a real fondness for trifles, that she had no chance for this
indulgence.

While Miss Melvyn was suffering all these mortifications from a parent, Miss Mancel was receiving
every proof of the most tender affection from one bound to her by no paternal ties. Mr Hintman,
as soon as the season of the year brought him to town, visited his little charge, and was charmed
with the vivacity which was now restored to her. He called upon her frequently, and seldom
without some present, or a proposal of some pleasure. He would continually entreat her to make
him some request, that he might have the pleasure of gratifying her. He frequently gave Mademoiselle
d'Avaux tickets for the play and the opera, that the young Louisa might have somebody to accompany
her; but as Miss Melvyn did not think it proper at her age to go often with only her schoolmistress,
or, according to the language of schools, her governess, Miss Mancel frequently declined being
of the party, rather than leave her amiable friend and instructor.

There was no one who shewed any particular civility to Miss Mancel, but received some return
from Mr Hintman. Miss Melvyn was very deservedly the chief object of his gratitude; but as
she declined accepting the presents he offered her, he chose a way more agreeable to himself,
as it would make his little Louisa the rewarder of the favours she received. 

Previenese Michael Palaeologus to come on Gallipoli, ours to fight the three days distance, and between
places of APROS and Cipsela given battle, leaving it up Miguel, and wounded.

The good fortune of our arms put in care of the Emperor Andronicus, and to his son Miguel, because
they did not believe that people so poor they could give, and forced to put all forces of
the Empire to ruin. With the success of Gallipoli, met the Emperor of gather the people, and
give over ours before they could of Catalonia, or reach Sicily relief. Of these preparations and
equipment of war were advised by our spy Greek Montaner sent with much apprehension that come back,
because others of the same nation, that were sent to various parties, did not return. Catalans
could not serve on the occupation, because they were always known, even in a suit, and Greek language
are sought to conceal. This notice is resolved to seek out all the enemy inland resolution
as graceful as any of the others took. I do not think so many subtleties and bravery you may
have read in other stories, and so sometimes I fear that my faith has credit to question, but warned
that this will herald may Nicephore Gregoras and authors Pachymeres Greeks, and to be enemies,
and Montaner Catalan agree it seems more incredible shall be true what they write. Montaner reports
that the main cause that moved them to follow this advice was seen as wealthy and prosperous,
and fear that its about hobbies wealth, and fear of losing them, not make them lose some of
its reputation. Following boards more cautious, less honorable, left at Gallipoli where they
lay their garrison property, wives and family one hundred Almugavares, and left around Adrianople,
marina weapons of this army that gathered against them, with firm determination to fight Michael,
even if assisted by the greater power of his empire. Thracia walked for three days, destroying
and cutting down the campaign came to a night to their barracks at the foot of a Mount bit
rough. The sentries who put on high the other party discovered large fires; enviaronse recognizers,
and soon returned with two Greek prisoners, who knew the occasion of the fires, which was to
be Miguel quartered with six thousand horse, and greater number of infants, between Agros and Cipsela,
two small villages waiting for the rest the field. They wanted some that night was crossing
the mountain that divided them, and should give the enemy on guard and I do not think they adopted
this advice, I do not know that reason, since it had been forced to fight them, the easier it
out with the dark and confusion of the night adventures that await the morning when few could
be so be better recognized. After all confessed, and received the Sacrament of Eucharastia, fired
a single squad of infantry, and cavalry troops divided equally into two each side of his squad and
another squad left in the rear guard for help where the need to call him. They walked around
the enemy at sunrise were found on the other side of the montañuela, where they discovered the enemy more
powerful than the spy said, and it was because it came two hours before most of his army who missing.
He acknowledged the enemy's coming, and as between infantry and cavalry is not quite three
thousand of us, tried to leave to lay down their arms and surrender to the mercy of Miguel; and
this had for so true that neither wanted to take up arms or leave their barracks. But Miguel
with his injury both knew from experience the value of their enemies, took its people, and
he was armed, and put his horse, commanding squadrons in this way. The infantry divided into
five squads under the charge of Miguel's uncle Theodore, General of all the militia, who had come
from the East in the Horn incident put the cavalry of the Alans and Turkish Greeks under the
charge of Basilan in the right horn was the pick of Thracia cavalry and Macedonia, with Valasco
and adventurers to the great Etriarca order, in the rear guard Miguel was with his guards, and part
of the nobility who attended his defense. Acompañábale the Despot his brother, Angelo Senacarib
that this day would not have people of his war charge, for being engaged in the defense of the
Emperor, and take care of security him. Miguel acknowledged their squads, and encouraged to war,
came closing. The our divided into four squads with great courage and resolution with which
the first encountered were the Alans Turkish Greeks, that his cavalry squadron envistió first Almugavares,
that invincible broke his fury, therefore, that says Pachymeres, then withdrew the run. Although
Nicephore says that the Massagatae and Turkish Greeks when they blew the trumpets to envestida,
fled because they had resolved not to serve the Emperor, and had dealings with Turcopoles Catalans.
Either way it was, or after envestida, or earlier, fled and infantry discovered by the sinister
side of all the horses that sustained, was said Nicephore, as the ship sails without a tree and not in
the greatest fury of the storm. Part of our cavalry, who had gathered to Almugavares and sailors,
there were dismantled and rushed to stand on that side. The opportunity that they had had to remove
these troops, was just to be useless in this kind of service, and if not leave the horses could
fight. The other infantry squads, free from most of the cavalry enemy that could damage them, closed
the front so strongly that slaughtered the first rows where his most lucid and courageous
soldiers, all the rest of the infantry put to flight even if the cavalry Thracia and Macedonia,
as the best and most reputable of those provinces, he maintained his position for much time fighting
with the cavalry, and defended one of his squad that was not broken until they opened for Almugavares
the other side, and forehead, and then his horse with great loss left the job, Cipsela fleeing
around. Miguel, as a good prince and brave soldier watching his squad broken, and cavalry, partly
withdrawn and partly broken, and who was wearing the best hope win, pulled his horse around the
enemy, and then suddenly the horse was not brake, and turn to throw the enemy, who were detained
in their custody was of getting on another horse, and not have the bad luck to have lost its brake
horse plunged into the most dangerous, and with great alacrity and encouraged about was helping
others, when threats, when with prayers, called his Captains and Masters of Country by name
they turned their faces, who resist, did not lose that day so diminishes the reputation the
Roman Empire. The soldiers and captains, once lost his fear of fame, and since in execution case so
bad as to forsake the person of Prince, also the loss to his requests and complaints, because the
higher the infamy of fact, the more difficult is repentance. Then Michael did with the example,
since it could not with words, force, and judging how great shame not to venture his life
for his people returned to the few who followed them, said, time has arrived, colleagues and
friends, that death is better than life, and life more cruel than death itself. He died with
a reputation, whether or not to live in infamy. He raised his face to heaven, asking his help,
he threw himself on his horse in the middle of ours. Followed him to a hundred of the most faithful,
and put a big space victory in doubt, both can in such cases the person who ventures Prince.
Injured to many and killed two. A sailor named Berenguer catalan that at the time of the day
was found on a good horse, and weapons lucid spoils of victory last went among the enemy so bizarre, that
Michael and I had the training causes some signal Captain of our nation, and a desire to show
his effort, he went to him and gave him a gash in the left arm. Miguel decided on the sailor so
quickly that without giving time to take his horse, hammer blows to jump him the shield, and
wounded him in the face and killed him while the horse to Miguel, and I had almost given up
but some of his guard succored him bravely, and one of them gave his horse that was saved.
Deliver them being killed by her prince, Miguel lost most of its people, and free from danger for
their courage and their joy, he left the battle, taken more by force of their own, who by his
will. He tried many times to return to collect the reputation loss, but was always stopped,
and his courage in cracking and tears. Retreated into the Castle of APROS, with that victory
was declared for us. Scope was not followed because they understood provided that the Greeks
were left with full force to return a second time to fight and feared an ambush, according
Pachymeres says, adding that it was providence particular God fear that the Catalans had the
ambush, to stop them not to implement victory, where many more perished, and Michael came into
his hands. Contentáronse to be masters of the field, and await the morning desengañaría them
of their suspicions. All that night he was with weapons in hand. Morning came, and acknowledged
that his victory had been in full compliance. APROS rushed to the same day that only defended
their neighbors, came easily. In this place they stopped eight days, that would heal the wounded
and other break from work and fatigue of battle. SUPOS then as people Michael waited, and as the spies
reported it had gathered and before the battle, and that everything was up. Perished, as the enemy
Montaner ten thousand horses and fifteen thousand foot, of our twenty-seven and nine horses. Michael
retired in APROS, not taken for granted, and that night went out, and went to Pambhilo and
thence to Didimoto where his father, from whom, has Nicephore which was severely reproved, because
he put him as boldly as risk, than a soldier, or Captain was due praise, in an Emperor was
worthy of reprimand, words born of a hobby father, rather than what should advise if it is not,
because I know I have the Prince venturing further obligation, than Miguel ventured, when you
waste their armies, His reputation at risk, people died and been lost. What of the celebrated Prince
in memory of the people stopped putting their lives at greater risk, when the importance and the greatness
of the matter is of such quality?.

With this victory, most of the province of Thrace was a spoil of us. Cities populous and strong
in this community suffered no storm, because as the Catalans so few, not wanted to take in assaulting
walls, which necessarily had to lose people and if any were taken, it was because the neglect of
the enemy were invited to what could be done, without venturing far. The inhabitants of the Greek
villages and towns throughout the province, known the loss of his army, left their homes and their
farms, and wheat was and to collect, and wandering in neighboring kingdoms, increased the
fear of our revenge; and says Pachymeres entering infinite part of all people fleeing, and
that seemed to Constantinople Empedocles pending. Used this victory was to happen in a case Adrianople
hurt the Catalans who were prisoners from the death of Roger, who came to the number sixty. Took notice
of the victory of APROS, animarónse to try their freedom. Were safe in a prison tower, broke the
shackles, and undertook a door could not open, rose to the top of the tower to recognize any
way of his freedom, it was not possible find him, and as desperate
to find mercy in the Greeks, from above, with arms they could achieve,
fought bravely with the people of that besieged Adrianople the tower,
and tried to win by force of arms, but it was both the courage of
those who defended it, was not possible to harm them.

Finally after wounded, desperate citizens of poderles pay, resolved to burn the entire building
and tower. They gave fire all parties, and in little time went on with great ruin of the building.
Through the flames and fire throwing stones and darts, and abrasive media fought. They took leave,
and embraced each others, made the sign of the Cross, so says Pachymeres were thrown into the fire
everyone, and including two brothers of an illustrious lineage, and courageous spirit, embracing
with great pity of the bystanders were thrown from the tower, and escaped the fire, with more
pity them spared the iron of the perfidious Greeks, who were torn apart. Among these sixty there
was only one that it displayed to surrender, to whom threw the other tower. After have destroyed
and cleared most of the province, returned to Gallipoli, augmented of reputation, finance,
and people who were gathered in Italian, French and Spanish, who escaped from the cruelty and
fury of the Greeks.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

State of affairs of Andronico, and the Greeks.

In all times and ages have shown the equality of divine justice, but some are pointed out more
than others with the scourge of a pestilence, famine, or war. The latter was taken for the punishment
of Andronicus, and the Greeks that apart from the Roman obedience Church, the universal mother
who belong to the earth, fell into a thousand mistakes and they, and the other sins that were
previously followed, God allowed the Catalans were the ministers of his execution. Añadióse
to the damage of war, disease and home divisions, which between the Princes often the last and
greatest work, because he was confused councils, and weaken the forces, and is a short cut to
his destruction.

Irene wife of Emperor Andronicus judged by unworthy of his greatness and blood, their three sons
John, Theodore, and Demetrius had no part in the empire of his father having children of another
mother first called to the succession.

Michael and appointed by the Emperor, and Constantine Despot.

Sought by all possible means, that her husband Andronico divided
between its children some provinces of his empire.

Was not granted this request. He returned a second time other means to probe more damaging
and harmful to the Empire than the first, and was asked to declared them co-successors and his
brother Miguel. Also refused it with, Irene ambitious woman knowing the great love of her husband,
and away from double to constancy, and the desire to see her again was more powerful than what
had been his pleas, Thesafonica to be very contradictions of her husband, though not to publish
such intimate evils and secrets revealed on the outside that does not desplacia. Never absence
was taken by means of enhance a hobby, often before that the largest fading, as always seems
to experiments: The love and liking of Andronico went missing, and
the woman at the same pace desperate and closing the door to his claim,
bartered pleas threats.

Admitted talks and treatment of Princes Andronico foreign enemies. He sent his hierno called
Prince of the tribal cral and Servia, Simonide married to his daughter, and gave all the jewels,
and so much money that Nicephore wants, that he may establish income to support one hundred galleys,
in defense of the oceans and costs of empire. "In this division, which can not get rid? Kingdom
is not what ends? And most people fell into a military enemy, whom the desire of revenge set
in the need to die, or overcome.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Our people make some forays, and take to the cities of Rodesto, and grazed.

Recalled to Gallipoli after the victory, were absolute masters of the campaign, and Andronico not daring to
leave Constantinople, and Miguel de Adrianople, they were so tight our weapons. Andronico to complaints
as much damage as they made the Catalans in their provinces, shrugged his shoulders, attributing
his sins to the punishment that God sent him and confessed that was no power to resist. To Moaronea,
Radope and Bizi hundred and seventy miles Gallipoli, making forays came with universal awe and wonder
of all the provinces; because there was no place that was free of his rage for remote and point
it to be. The Cities that wall its strength could not be undertaken, they felt these evils in their
vegas, and its gardens, burning and destroying as much as estimated, and taking prisoners to
many of those who drew large and continuous bailouts, not just entire
companies, but four, or six soldiers were doing these sets.

Pedro Almugavar Maclear, who served in the cavalry was found a desperate
night of his comrades have lost what I had to play decided to rebuild
what was lost, and retaliate with some damage to their enemies, that
he found advantage.

Mounted his horse, and two children he had, always walking between
enemies, came into the gardens which are glued to Constantinople,
where he then put his hand sort a father and son Genoese merchants.

He made them prisoners, and gave them free at Gallipoli that any person strove to prevent him, to
be twenty-five leagues of withdrawal. There were at their Rescue thousand and five hundred shields,
Almugavar rewarded with the lost, and won reputation brave and soldier talk. These and many other forays,
Montaner concerns, which were made with equal joy and admiration. A well was the boldness of
the Catalans. Rome saw himself head of the world, known then as much grandeur and glory that
vanished with victories and triumphs, attributed the popularity of eternal, but the arms of the
Goths and Vandals showed how short was his glory, and how false his attribute. The same thing
happened to Constantinople head of the Eastern Empire, in whom were raised together and deserved
the power and mercy by Constantine the Great, whose successors retained until the wrath of God
is executed their punishment, by delivering it remains to foreign nations, and this time almost
forced few Catalans and Aragonese, to get laws which gave to the many kingdoms and peoples.

Burned in the hearts of the Catalans to avenge the ignominious death of their ambassadors, in
natural and Rodesto neighbors, where they were torn so inhumanly and dead. Went out to this
day to the children, who was more powerful the passion of revenge, the weakness of his age.


The remainder of the winter passed like the former part, only that the increase of her apprehensions
so far lessened her easy vivacity, that Mr Hintman observed the alteration, and complained
of the constraint and awe which damped her conversation.

As the school broke up at Easter, he intreated her to accompany him that short time into the
country, from which she would gladly have excused herself, both on account of her fears, and
of her unwillingness to leave Miss Melvyn, of whose conversation she was now more particularly
tenacious, as Lady Melvyn had determined to suffer her to return home in a short time, not
knowing how to excuse her remaining longer at school, as she was entered into her one and twentieth
year. Miss Melvyn would have been glad that her ladyship had not shewn this token of regard
to popular opinion; for since she had enjoyed Miss Mancel's company, and been in possession
of so good a collection of books, she was grown perfectly contented with her situation.

Louisa, to make Mr Hintman desist from the request he urged with so much importunity, tried
every means that did not appear like a total disinclination to accompany him, for any thing
that bore the air of ingratitude could not be supported by her, whose heart was so void of
it, and who thought she could never feel enough for her benefactor, if his designs were not
so criminal as she feared, but scarcely could suffer herself to suspect.

Mr Hintman was too ardent in his purposes to give up his favourite scheme, and Louisa beheld
with inexpressible concern the day approach, when she must either accompany him into the country,
or disoblige him for ever, and make herself appear extremely ungrateful in the eyes of a man
whom she loved and honoured like a father. Her addresses to heaven for protection now became
more vehement and continual, and the greatest part of her time was spent on her knees in praying
to that power in whom she trusted. Miss Melvyn and Mr d'Avora were scarcely less anxious, or
under fewer apprehensions than herself, but could see no resource except in the protection
of the Almighty, to whom we seldom apply with entire faith and resignation while we have any
hopes in human assistance.

Two days before that fixed on for the purposed journey, when Louisa's anxiety was risen to
the utmost height, the schoolmistress entered the room, with a countenance so melancholy, as
was more suitable to the situation of mind in which the two young friends were then in, than
to any reason they apprehended she could have for an air of so much sorrow. She soon began
a discourse, which they immediately apprehended was preparatory to the opening of some fatal
event, and which, as is usual in such cases, was, if possible, more alarming than any misfortune
it could precede. The ladies expressed their fears, and begged to be acquainted with what had
befallen them. After considerable efforts to deliver her of the secret with which she was pregnant,
they learnt that a gentleman was in the parlour, who came to inform Miss Mancel that Mr Hintman
died the day before in a fit of an apoplexy.

All Louisa's fears and suspicions vanished at once, and grief alone took possession of her
heart. The shock so entirely overcame her, that she was not able to see the fatal messenger
of such melancholy tidings as the death of her benefactor, and second father. Miss Melvyn was
obliged to undertake this office, and learnt from the gentleman that Mr Hintman died without
a will, and therefore left the poor Louisa as destitute, except being enriched by various accomplishments,
as he found her, and at a much more dangerous time, when her beauty would scarcely suffer compassion
to arise unaccompanied with softer sentiments. This gentleman proceeded to inform Miss Melvyn,
that his father and another person of equal relation to Mr Hintman were heirs at law. He expressed
great concern for Miss Mancel, and wished he had his father's power of repairing Mr Hintman's
neglect, but that his influence extended no farther than to obtain a commission to pay the
expenses of another year at that school, that the young lady might have time to recollect herself
after so fatal a change, and determine at leisure on her future course of life.

Miss Melvyn was so sensibly touched at the prospect of the approaching distress with which
her friend was threatened, that she burst into tears and uttered some exclamations concerning
'the inconsistency of that affection, which could suffer a man to rest a moment without securing
a provision in case of death, to a young woman he seemed to love with the greatest excess of
tenderness'. 'Believe me, madam,' said the young gentleman, 'Mr Hintman was capable of no love
that was not entirely sensual, and consequently selfish; all who knew him lamented the fate
of a young woman, who by every account is so superiorly lovely. Among his friends he made no
secret of his designs in all he had done for her, and boasted frequently of the extraordinary
charms which were ripening for his possession. It was but two days ago, that he was exulting
in the presence of some of them, that the time was now approaching, when he should be rewarded
for long expectation, and boundless expense; for he should then, he said, be sure of her person,
and had long secured her heart. He knew he had strong prejudices and strange scruples to combat;
but was prepared, and should not find them difficult to conquer; at worst, his steward in a
parson's habit would lull them all to sleep.'

'Good heaven!' cried Miss Melvyn, 'could there be such a wretch, and were there men who would
keep company with him, who would bear the disgrace of being called his friends?'

'Your notions, madam,' replied the gentleman, 'are too refined for persons who live in the
world: should a man insist on strict morals in all his acquaintance, he might enjoy a solitude
in the most populous city; though, I confess, nothing but ties of kindred could have made me
intimate with one of Mr Hintman's character, which I should not thus have exposed to you, but
as I imagined a better knowledge of the man might alleviate the affliction you seemed to feel
for Miss Mancel's having lost one whom you esteemed so sincere a friend. I should have been
glad,' continued he, 'could I have seen the young lady, of whom Mr Hintman told such wonders;
but I will not presume to press it, time may offer me some opportunity for satisfying my curiosity
without paining her, I therefore take my leave, with only requesting your permission to remit
the money of which I was made the bearer.'

Miss Melvyn was so much affected with her friend's situation, that she took the paper the gentleman
offered her, without having power to reflect whether she ought to accept it, or being able
to make him any acknowledgement; and he retired directly. She was obliged to stay some time
to compose her spirits before she went to her friend, that she might be the better able to
comfort her. On examining the paper, she found it a bank-note of an hundred pounds, which was
now become all Miss Mancel's fortune.

Lamont could not forbear interrupting Mrs Maynard in this place, by some very severe reflections
on Mr Hintman's having neglected to make a provision for Miss Mancel in case of his death,
which I believe was the part of his conduct that to Lamont appeared most inexcusable; for though
he is too fashionable to think intriguing very criminal, yet he is naturally generous, as far
as money is concerned. 'I cannot think,' replied my cousin, 'that Mr Hintman's behaviour in
that particular can be much wondered at. Death to such a man must be so dreadful an event,
that he will naturally endeavour to banish it from his mind, whenever it attempts to intrude,
and when a person takes so little care to make provision for his own happiness after death,
is it strange he should be unmindful of what shall befall another after that fatal period?
When a man neglects his own soul, and deprives himself of all hope of everlasting felicity,
can we expect he should take any trouble to provide for the temporal convenience of another person?

'Besides, could he, who aimed at reducing an innocent and amiable young woman to guilt and
infamy in this world, and eternal perdition in the next, be under any concern lest she should
fall into the lesser miseries of poverty? It would have been an inconsistency in such a character.'

'You see gallantry in a very serious light, madam,' said Lamont.

'I do indeed, sir,' answered Mrs Maynard, 'I look on it as the most dangerous of vices, it
destroys truth, honour, humanity, it is directly contrary to the laws of God, is the destruction
of society, and almost as inconsistent with morality as with religion.'

'I beg pardon, madam,' interrupted Lamont (who felt himself a little touched with what she
said), 'for breaking into your narrative, and must beg you will continue it.'

Miss Melvyn, resumed Mrs Maynard, was too well acquainted with the strength of Louisa's mind
to think it necessary to conceal from her any part of what had passed between herself and Mr
Hintman's relation.

Louisa, much affected by Mr Hintman's dying, with a heart so unfit to appear at the tribunal
before which he was so suddenly summoned, thought not immediately of herself; but when she
reflected on the dangers she had escaped, she blessed her poverty, since it was the consequence
of an event which delivered her from so much greater evils, and sent up many sincere and ardent
thanksgivings to heaven, for so signal a preservation. These thoughts possessed our young friends
for the first three or four days after Mr Hintman's death; but then they began to think it
requisite to consult with Mr d'Avora, on what course of life it was most advisable for Miss
Mancel to enter. This was a difficult point to determine; though her understanding and attainments
were far superior to her years, yet they were sensible her youth would be a great impediment
to her in any undertaking. Mr d'Avora therefore advised that she should continue a little longer
at the school, and then fix in the most private manner imaginable for three or four years,
by which time he hoped to be able to establish her in some widow's family, as governess to
her children; for he told her she must not expect, while her person continued such as it then
was, that a married woman would receive her in any capacity that fixed her in the same house
with her husband.

As Miss Mancel had many jewels and trinkets of value, she had no doubt but that with economy
she might support herself for the term Mr d'Avora mentioned, and even longer if requisite,
as she could add to her little fund by the produce of her industry. As Miss Melvyn's return
home drew near, it was agreed that she should seek out some place in Sir Charles's neighbourhood
where Louisa might lodge cheaply and reputably; and in the mean time Mr d'Avora should dispose
of whatever she had of value, except her books and her harpsichord; these she resolved not
to part with till the produce of her other things, and the money she had by her, was spent,
as they would not only amuse her in the country, but afford her the power of improving herself
in those accomplishments which were to be her future provision.

This plan softened the pangs of separation when the time of Miss Melvyn's departure arrived.
It was not long before she found out an apartment at a reputable farmer's, where Miss Mancel
might lodge conveniently. Had it been a less tolerable place, its vicinity to Sir Charles's
house, from which it was but a quarter of a mile distant, would have made it a very delightful
abode to her, and she soon repaired thither.

Great was the joy of the two friends at meeting. Miss Melvyn's situation at home was rendered
as irksome as possible by Lady Melvyn's behaviour both to her and Sir Charles who, notwithstanding
her ill treatment, was extremely fond of, and totally guided by her. His mind was so entirely
enslaved that he beheld nothing but in the light wherein she pleased to represent it, and was
so easy a dupe, that she could scarcely feel the joys of self triumph in her superior art,
which was on no subject so constantly exerted, as in keeping up a coldness in Sir Charles towards
his daughter; this she had with tolerable facility effected in her absence, and was assiduously
careful to preserve now she was present. To those who know not the power an artful woman can
obtain over a weak man, it would appear incredible that any father could be prejudiced against
a daughter whose whole attention was to please him. She had so perfect a command over her temper
that she never appeared to take offence at any thing Lady Melvyn said or did, though that lady
endeavoured by every provocation to throw her off her guard. This behaviour only increased
her hatred, which was not in the least abated by Miss Melvyn's taking every opportunity of
being serviceable to her half-brothers and sisters. Lady Melvyn persuaded Sir Charles that
his daughter's calmness was only assumed in his presence, and continually complained of her
insolence when he was not by. If he ever appeared to doubt the truth of her report, she would
burst into tears, complain of his want of love and little confidence in her, and sometimes
thought proper to shew her grief at such treatment by a pretended hysteric fit, always ready
at call to come to her assistance, though really so unnecessarily lavished on one easily duped
without those laborious means, that it appeared a wantonness of cunning, which was thus exerted
only for its own indulgence. She soon perceived that Miss Melvyn rather chose to submit to
any aspersions, than to render her father unhappy by undeceiving him; and taking advantage
of this generosity, would sometimes, to establish his opinion of her veracity, accuse Miss
Melvyn to her face of offences which she had never committed, and things she had never said.

In such a situation the arrival of a friend, into whose sympathetic bosom she could pour all
her griefs, and in whose delightful society she could forget them, was the highest blessing.
But Lady Melvyn contrived to make her feel mortifications even in this tenderest particular,
for though she was in her heart glad to have her out of the house, that she might not be witness
of much improper behaviour, yet she would sometimes mortify herself in order to tease Miss
Melvyn, by preventing her from going to her beloved friend; and continually alleged her spending
so much time with Louisa as a proof of the aversion she had made Sir Charles believe Miss Melvyn
had to her.

Louisa felt deeply her friend's uneasiness, but when they were together they could not be unhappy.
They seldom passed a day without seeing each other, but as Lady Melvyn had taken no notice
of Louisa, she could not go to her house, therefore their meetings were at her lodgings, where
they often read together, and at other times would apply to music to drive away melancholy
reflections. As Louisa wished to remain near her friend as long as possible, she endeavoured,
by taking in plain-work, to provide for some part of her current expenses, the less to diminish
the little fund she had by her. She likewise employed part of her time in painting, having
reason to hope that if she could find a means of offering her pictures to sale, she might from
them raise a very convenient sum. While she was thus contriving to enable herself to enjoy
for many years the conversation of her friend, Lady Melvyn was as industriously laying schemes
that, if successful, must disappoint all the young ladies' hopes.

Towards the end of the autumn, Mr Morgan, a man of fortune who had spent above half a year
in a fruitless pursuit after health, made a visit to a gentleman in the neighbourhood. Unfortunately
Miss Melvyn's charms made a conquest of this gentleman, in whom age had not gained a victory
over passion. Miss Melvyn's humility occasioned her being the last person who perceived the
impression she had made on his heart, and his age would scarcely suffer her to believe her
senses when the symptoms became most apparent. A girl may find some amusement in a young lover,
though she feels no disposition in herself to return his passion, her vanity is flattered by
his addresses, and a woman must be very little disposed to be pleased, who receives no pleasure
from one who is continually endeavouring to oblige and amuse her; but the most whimsical of
the poets never fancied a grey-bearded Cupid, or represented Hymen with a torch in one hand,
and a crutch in the other. I allow that

  'Oft the matrimonial Cupid,
  Lash'd on by time grows tir'd and stupid,'

and does not always wear that blooming joyous countenance, which the painters give him; but
should any capricious artist take the sickle out of the hand of old Time, and in its place
put Hymen's torch, the picture might be thought very unnatural, yet would represent a proper
hymeneal Cupid to attend Mr Morgan to the altar.

Such a lover could excite no emotion in his mistress's heart but disgust. Miss Melvyn's principles
were too delicate to suffer her to think she had any title to ridicule a man for his partiality
to her, however ill-suited to himself; but no consideration could prevent his addresses from
being extremely disagreeable: however, she could without any great difficulty have so far commanded
herself, as to have treated him with complaisance, till he gave her an opportunity of rejecting
his courtship, had she not been apprehensive that this affair would give Lady Melvyn a new
subject for persecution. She was pretty certain that lady would be glad to settle her in another
county; and that her averseness to so ill-suited a marriage would only serve as an additional
recommendation to her mother. She was indeed determined in justice to Mr Morgan and compassion
to herself, not to be induced by any solicitations to marry a man whom she could not hope that
even the strongest attachment to duty could render so well as indifferent to her, but she dreaded
the means that might be taken to oblige her to accept Mr Morgan's proposal.

Little did she guess what those means would be. She expected to be attacked alternately with
all the violence of passion, the affected softness of dissimulation, and every art that cunning
could devise, to force Sir Charles to concur in her persecution. These indeed were employed
as soon as Mr Morgan made his proposals; but her ladyship had too many resources in her fertile
brain to persevere long in a course she found unavailing. The farmer where Miss Mancel lodged
had a son, who was in treaty with Lady Melvyn for a farm, which at the end of the year would
become vacant. This person she thought fit for her purpose, as Miss Melvyn's going so frequently
to Miss Mancel might give some colour to her invention. She therefore took care to be found
by Sir Charles drowned in tears; he pressed to know the occasion of her grief, but she resisted
his importunity in such a manner as could not fail to increase it, still she declared, that
she loved him to that excess she could not communicate a secret which she knew must afflict
him, even though the suppression and inward preyings of her sorrow should prove fatal to her life.

Sir Charles now on his knees intreated her to acquaint him with the misfortune she endeavoured
to conceal, assuring her, that nothing could give him so much concern as seeing her in that
condition. She told him she was sensible, that as his wife it was her duty to obey him (a duty
newly discovered, or at least newly performed by her ladyship); but she feared she had not
strength left to give it utterance. The endeavour threw her into a hysteric fit, which was
succeeded by so many others that Sir Charles was almost frantic with his fears for so tender
a wife, who was thus reduced to the last agonies by her affectionate apprehensions of giving
him pain.

After rubbing her hands and feet till they were sore, suffocating her with burnt feathers,
and half poisoning her with medicines, Sir Charles and her servants so far brought her to life
that after sending her attendants out of the room, she had just power to tell him she had discovered
an intrigue between his daughter and Simon the young farmer, and then immediately sunk into
another fit, which however did not last so long; for as she had removed the heavy burden off
her mind, she soon began to recover.

Sir Charles was very much shocked at what Lady Melvyn told him, but could not doubt the reality
of the fact when he had seen the very violent effect it had had on his tender wife. He asked
her advice how to proceed; and it was soon determined that it was necessary, either to oblige
Miss Melvyn to marry Mr Morgan directly, or to disclaim her for ever, and remove the disgrace
of so infamous a conduct as far from themselves as possible. With this resolution she was to
be immediately acquainted.

Miss Melvyn was accordingly called in, and bitterly reproached by Sir Charles; to which my
lady added frequent lamentations that she should so far forget herself, and disgrace so worthy
a family, interspersing with them many expressions of the undeserved tenderness she had always
had for her, and her great confidence in Miss Melvyn's prudence and virtue, shedding tears
for her having so unhappily swerved from them.

As all this passed for some time in general terms, Miss Melvyn was in doubt whether she or
her parents had lost their senses; convinced there must be distraction on one side or the other.
As soon as she could recover her surprise, she begged to know what crime she had committed.
Her astonishment was still increased by the answer she received, which was an accusation of
this strange intrigue; and her frequent visits to Miss Mancel were brought as proofs of it.
The submissive and mild temper which had hitherto most strongly characterized her, vanished
at so injurious a charge and she denied the fact with that true spirit which innocence inspires.
She told Lady Melvyn, that though she had hitherto silently submitted to all her ill usage,
yet it was her duty to repel an injury like this, and when her reputation was so cruelly aspersed,
it would be criminal to suffer the vile inventors to pass unexposed. She insisted on being
confronted with her accusers, a privilege allowed to the greatest criminals, and by the severest
judges, therefore surely could not be refused by a father to a daughter, on a charge so highly
improbable, and for which no lightness in her conduct ever gave the least ground.

As Mrs Maynard was in this part of her narrative a bell rang, which informed us that dinner
was ready, and we were unwillingly obliged to postpone the continuation of the history of the
two young friends, till a more convenient opportunity.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the afternoon before we rose from table, four ladies came to drink tea with this admirable
society. No addition was necessary to render the conversation amusing; but the strangers seemed
to look on the ladies of the house with such gratitude and veneration, and were treated by
them with so much friendly politeness, as gave me pleasure. I found by the various enquiries
after different persons that these visitors likewise lived in a large society. When they rose
up to take leave Miss Trentham proposed to walk part of the way home with them. No one objected
to it, for the evening was inviting, and they had designed to spend it in the park, through
which these ladies were to pass; for Lady Mary observed, that after having shewn us the beauties
of the place, they ought to exhibit the riches of it.

The park is close to one side of the house; it is not quite three miles round; the inequality
of the ground much increases its beauty, and the timber is remarkably fine. We could plainly
perceive it had been many years in the possession of good economists, who unprompted by necessity,
did not think the profit that might arise from the sale a sufficient inducement to deprive
it of some fine trees, which are now decaying, but so happily placed, that they are made more
venerable and not less beautiful by their declining age. This park is much ornamented by two
or three fine pieces of water; one of them is a very noble canal, so artfully terminated by
an elegant bridge, beyond which is a wood, that it there appears like a fine river vanishing
from the eye.

Mrs Morgan stopped us in one spot, saying, from hence, as Lady Mary observed, you may behold
our riches, that building (pointing to what we thought a pretty temple) which perhaps you imagine
designed only for ornament or pleasure, is a very large pidgeon house, that affords a sufficient
supply to our family, and many of our neighbours. That hill on your right-hand is a warren,
prodigiously stocked with rabbits; this canal, and these other pieces of water, as well as
the river you saw this morning, furnish our table with a great profusion of fish. You will
easily believe from the great number of deer you see around us, that we have as much venison
as we can use, either in presents to our friends, or our own family. Hares and all sorts of
game likewise abound here; so that with the help of a good dairy, perhaps no situation ever
more amply afforded all the necessaries of life. These are indeed our riches; here we have
almost every thing we can want, for a very small proportion of that expense which others are
at to procure them. 'Such a situation,' said I, 'would be dangerous to many people, for if,
as some have supposed, and, in regard to a great part of the world, I fear with truth, mutual
wants are the great bands of society, a person thus placed, would be in danger of feeling himself
so independent a being as might tempt him to disclaim all commerce with mankind, since he could
not be benefited by them. He would look on himself in the light of a rich man gaming with sharpers,
with a great probability of losing, and a certainty of never being a gainer.'

'I do not think the danger,' replied Lady Mary, 'so great as you imagine, even though we allow
that society arises from the motive you mention. However fortune may have set us above any
bodily wants, the mind will still have many which would drive us into society. Reason wishes
for communication and improvement; benevolence longs for objects on which to exert itself;
the social comforts of friendship are so necessary to our happiness that it would be impossible
not to endeavour to enjoy them. In sickness the langour of our minds makes us wish for the
amusements of conversation; in health the vivacity of our spirits leads us to desire it. To
avoid pain we seek after corporeal conveniencies, to procure pleasure we aim at mental enjoyments;
and I believe, if we observe the general course of men's actions, we shall see them at least
as strongly actuated by the desire of pleasure, as by the fear of pain; though philosophers,
who have formed their judgements more on reason than the knowledge of mankind, may have thought
otherwise.'

'I think,' said Mrs Morgan, 'somebody has asserted that he who could live without society must
be more than a God, or less than a man; the latter part of this assertion would have held good
had he carried it farther, and said lower than a brute, for there is no creature in the universe
that is not linked into some society, except we allow the existence of that exploded and unsociable
bird the Phoenix.'

'I am surprised,' interrupted Lamont, 'to hear ladies, who seclude themselves from the world
in this solitary though beautiful place, so strongly plead for society.'

'Do you then,' replied Miss Mancel, 'mistake a crowd for society? I know not two things more
opposite. How little society is there to be found in what you call the world? It might more
properly be compared to that state of war, which Hobbes supposes the first condition of mankind.
The same vanities, the same passions, the same ambition, reign in almost every breast; a constant
desire to supplant, and a continual fear of being supplanted, keep the minds of those who have
any views at all in a state of unremitted tumult and envy; and those who have no aim in their
actions are too irrational to have a notion of social comforts. The love, as well as the pleasures,
of society, is founded in reason, and cannot exist in those minds which are filled with irrational
pursuits. Such indeed might claim a place in the society of birds and beasts, though few would
deserve to be admitted amongst them, but that of reasonable beings must be founded in reason.
What I understand by society is a state of mutual confidence, reciprocal services, and correspondent
affections; where numbers are thus united, there will be a free communication of sentiments,
and we shall then find speech, that peculiar blessing given to man, a valuable gift indeed;
but when we see it restrained by suspicion, or contaminated by detraction, we rather wonder
that so dangerous a power was trusted with a race of beings who seldom make a proper use of it.

'You will pity us perhaps because we have no cards, no assemblies, no plays, no masquerades,
in this solitary place. The first we might have if we chose it, nor are they totally disclaimed
by us; but while we can with safety speak our own thoughts, and with pleasure read those of
wiser persons, we are not likely to be often reduced to them. We wish not for large assemblies,
because we do not desire to drown conversation in noise; the amusing fictions of dramatic writers
are not necessary where nature affords us so many real delights; and as we are not afraid of
shewing our hearts, we have no occasion to conceal our persons, in order to obtain either liberty
of speech or action.'

'What a serious world should we have, madam,' replied Lamont, 'if you were to regulate our
conduct!'

'By no means, sir,' answered Miss Mancel, 'I wish to make only these alterations, to change
noise for real mirth, flutter for settled cheerfulness, affected wit for rational conversation;
and would but have that degree of dissipation banished which deprives people of time for reflection
on the motives for, and consequences of, their actions, that their pleasures may be real and
permanent, and followed neither by repentance nor punishment. I would wish them to have leisure
to consider by whom they were sent into the world, and for what purpose, and to learn that
their happiness consists in fulfilling the design of their Maker, in providing for their own
greatest felicity, and contributing all that is in their power to the convenience of others.'

'You seem, madam,' answered Lamont, 'to choose to make us all slaves to each other.'

'No, sir,' replied Miss Mancel, 'I would only make you friends. Those who are really such are
continually endeavouring to serve and oblige each other; this reciprocal communication of benefits
should be universal, and then we might with reason be fond of this world.'

'But,' said Lamont, 'this reciprocal communication is impossible; what service can a poor man
do me? I may relieve him, but how can he return the obligation?'

'It is he,' answered Miss Mancel, 'who first conferred it, in giving you an opportunity of
relieving him. The pleasure he has afforded you, is as far superior to the gratification you
have procured him, as it is more blessed to give than to receive. You will perhaps say of him,
as the apothecary in Romeo and Juliet does of himself and tell me that,

  "His poverty and not his will consents."

'So let it be, and do you

  "Pay his poverty and not his will."

'But certainly the highest satisfaction is on your side, and much obliged you are to that poverty,
which enables you to obtain so great a gratification. But do not think the poor can make no
adequate return. The greatest pleasure this world can give us is that of being beloved, but
how should we expect to obtain love without deserving it? Did you ever see any one that was
not fond of a dog that fondled him? Is it then possible to be insensible to the affection of
a rational being?'

'If Mr Lamont,' said one of the visitors, 'has not so high a sense of the pleasure of being
gratefully loved and esteemed, we ought not to blame him; he, perhaps, like the greatest part
of the world, has not sufficiently tried it, to be a proper judge; Miss Mancel is certainly
very deep in this knowledge, and her opinion may be received as almost an infallible decision,
since it is founded on long experience; and how nobly does she calm the eager wishes of impotent
gratitude, in declaring herself to be the most benefited when she confers obligations.'

This was uttered with so much warmth, and accompanied by looks so expressive of affection and
grateful sensibility, that I plainly saw it proceeded from something more than mere speculative
approbation. Lamont declared, that he was well convinced of the justness of what Miss Mancel
had said; at first it appeared rather a sentiment uttered in sport than an opinion which could
be proved by argument; but that a little reflection on one's own sensations would afford sufficient
conviction of the truth of her assertion, and that the general errors in the conduct of mankind
plainly evinced they were of the same opinion, though they often mistook the means; for what,
continued he, do people ruin themselves by pomp and splendour, hazard their lives in the pursuits
of ambition, and, as Shakespeare says,

  'Seek the bubble reputation even in the cannon's mouth.'

But to gain popular applause and esteem? For what do others throw away their time in useless
civilities, and politely flatter all they meet, but in hopes of pleasing? Even those who make
it their business to slander merit, and exaggerate the faults of others, do it from a desire
of raising themselves in the opinion of mankind, by lowering those who may be brought into
comparison with them.

During this conversation we had advanced within a field of the house, and the ladies stopped
to take their leave, saying, as the evening was too far advanced to suffer them to make any
stay with their good friends, they would not disturb them by just entering their doors. But
as some parley ensued, several ladies who had seen us from the windows ran out, just to pay
their compliments to the worthy inhabitants of Millenium Hall. The pleasure of this short meeting
seemed reciprocal, and both sides appeared unwilling to part, but the setting sun admonished
us to return.

The house to which we had so nearly approached was a very large old mansion, and its inhabitants
so numerous, that I was curious to know how so many became assembled together. Mrs Maynard
said that if she did not satisfy my inquiries, I was in great danger of remaining ignorant
of the nature of that society, as her friends would not be easily prevailed with to break silence
on that subject.

'These ladies,' said she, 'long beheld with compassion the wretched fate of those women, who
from scantiness of fortune, and pride of family, are reduced to become dependent, and to bear
all the insolence of wealth from such as will receive them into their families; these, though
in some measure voluntary slaves, yet suffer all the evils of the severest servitude, and are,
I believe, the most unhappy part of the creation. Sometimes they are unqualified to gain a
maintenance, educated as is called, genteelly, or in other words idly, they are ignorant of
every thing that might give them superior abilities to the lower rank of people, and their
birth renders them less acceptable servants to many, who have not generosity enough to treat
them as they ought, and yet do not choose while they are acting the mistress, perhaps too haughtily,
to feel the secret reproaches of their own hearts. Possibly pride may still oftener reduce
these indigent gentlewomen into this wretched state of dependence, and therefore the world
is less inclined to pity them; but my friends see human weakness in another light.

'They imagine themselves too far from perfection to have any title to expect it in others,
and think that there are none in whom pride is so excusable as in the poor, for if there is
the smallest spark of it in their compositions, and who is entirely free from it, the frequent
neglects and indignities they meet with must keep it continually alive. If we are despised
for casual deficiencies, we naturally seek in ourselves for some merit, to restore us to that
dignity in our own eyes which those humiliating mortifications would otherwise debase. Thus
we learn to set too great a value on what we still possess, whether advantages of birth, education,
or natural talents; any thing will serve for a resource to mortified pride; and as every thing
grows by opposition and persecution, we cannot wonder if the opinion of ourselves increases
by the same means.

'To persons in this way of thinking, the pride which reduces many to be, what is called with
too little humanity, toad-eaters, does not render them unworthy of compassion. Therefore for
the relief of this race they bought that large mansion.

'They drew up several regulations, to secure the peace and good order of the society they designed
to form, and sending a copy of it to all their acquaintance, told them that any gentleman's
daughter, whose character was unblemished, might, if she desired it, on those terms be received
into that society.'

I begged, if it was not too much trouble, to know what the regulations were.

'The first rule,' continued Mrs Maynard, 'was that whoever chose to take the benefit of this
asylum, for such I may justly call it, should deposit in the hands of a person appointed for
that purpose, whatever fortune she was mistress of, the security being approved by her and
her friends, and remaining in her possession. Whenever she leaves the society, her fortune
should be repaid her, the interest in the mean time being appropriated to the use of the community.
The great design of this was to preserve an exact equality between them; for it was not expected
that the interest of any of their fortunes should pay the allowance they were to have for their
clothes. If any appeared to have secreted part of her fortune she should be expelled from the
society.

'Secondly, each person to have a bed-chamber to herself, but the eating-parlour and drawing-room
in common.

'Thirdly, all things for rational amusement shall be provided for the society; musical instruments,
of whatever sort they shall choose, books, tents for work, and in short conveniences for every
kind of employment.

'Fourthly, they must conform to very regular hours.

'Fifthly, a housekeeper will be appointed to manage the household affairs, and a sufficient
number of servants provided.

'Sixthly, each person shall alternately, a week at a time, preside at the table, and give what
family orders may be requisite.

'Seventhly, twenty-five pounds a year shall be allowed to each person for her clothes and pocket
expenses.

'Eighthly, their dress shall be quite plain and neat, but not particular nor uniform.

'Ninthly, the expenses of sickness shall be discharged by the patronesses of this society.

'Tenthly, if any one of the ladies behaves with imprudence she shall be dismissed, and her
fortune returned; likewise if any should by turbulence or pettishness of temper disturb the
society, it shall be in the power of the rest of them to expel her; a majority of three parts
of the community being for the expulsion, and this to be performed by ballotting.

'Eleventhly, a good table and every thing suitable to the convenience of a gentlewoman, shall
be provided.

'These were the principal articles; and in less than two months a dozen persons of different
ages were established in the house, who seemed thoroughly delighted with their situation. At
the request of one of them, who had a friend that wished to be admitted, an order was soon
added, by the consent of all, that gave leave for any person who would conform exactly to the
rules of the house, to board there for such length of time as should be agreeable to herself
and the society, for the price of a hundred pounds a year, fifty for any child she might have,
twenty for a maidservant, and thirty for a man.

'The number of this society is now increased to thirty, four ladies board there, one of whom
has two children, and there are five young ladies, the eldest not above twelve years old, whose
mothers being dead, and their families related to some of the society, their kinswomen have
undertaken their education; these likewise pay a hundred pounds a year each. It has frequently
happened, that widow ladies have come into this society, till their year of deep mourning was
expired.

'With these assistances the society now subsists with the utmost plenty and convenience, without
any additional expense to my good friends, except a communication of what this park affords;
as our steward provides them with every thing, and has the entire direction of the household
affairs, which he executes with the most sensible economy.'

I should imagine, said I, it were very difficult to preserve a comfortable harmony among so
many persons, and consequently such variety of tempers?

'Certainly,' answered Mrs Maynard, 'it is not without its difficulties. For the first year
of this establishment my friends dedicated most of their time and attention to this new community,
who were every day either at the hall, or these ladies with them, endeavouring to cultivate
in this sisterhood that sort of disposition which is most productive of peace. By their example
and suggestions (for it is difficult to give unreserved advice where you may be suspected of
a design to dictate), by their examples and suggestions therefore, they led them to industry,
and shewed it to be necessary to all stations, as the basis of almost every virtue. An idle
mind, like fallow ground, is the soil for every weed to grow in; in it vice strengthens, the
seed of every vanity flourishes unmolested and luxuriant; discontent, malignity, ill humour,
spread far and wide, and the mind becomes a chaos which it is beyond human power to call into
order and beauty. This therefore my good friends laboured to expel from their infant establishment.
They taught them that it was the duty of every person to be of service to others. That those
whose hands and minds were by the favours of fortune exempt from the necessary of labouring
for their own support, ought to be employed for such as are destitute of these advantages.
They got this sisterhood to join with them in working for the poor people, in visiting, in
admonishing, in teaching them wherever their situations required these services. Where they
found that any of these ladies had a taste for gardening, drawing, music, reading, or any manual
or mental art, they cultivated it, assisted them in the pleasantest means, and by various little
schemes have kept up these inclinations with all the spirit of pursuit which is requisite to
preserve most minds from that state of languidness and inactivity whereby life is rendered
wearisome to those who have never found it unfortunate.

'By some regulations made as occasions occurred, all burdensome forms are expelled. The whole
society indeed must assemble at morning and evening prayers, and at meals, if sickness does
not prevent, but every other ceremonious dependence is banished; they form into different parties
of amusement as best suit their inclinations, and sometimes when we go to spend the afternoon
there, we shall find a party at cards in one room, in another some at work, while one is reading
aloud, and in a separate chamber a set joining in a little concert, though none of them are
great proficients in music; while two or three shall be retired into their own rooms, some
go out to take the air, for it has seldom happened to them to have less than two boarders at
a time who each keep an equipage; while others shall be amusing themselves in the garden, or
walking in the very pleasant meadows which surround their house.

'As no one is obliged to stay a minute longer in company than she chooses, she naturally retires
as soon as it grows displeasing to her, and does not return till she is prompted by inclination,
and consequently well disposed to amuse and be amused. They live in the very strict practice
of all religious duties; and it is not to be imagined how much good they have done in the neighbourhood;
how much by their care the manners of the poorer people are reformed, and their necessities
relieved, though without the distribution of much money; I say much, because, small as their
incomes are, there are many who impart out of that little to those who have much less.

'Their visits to us are frequent, and we are on such a footing that they never impede any of
our employments. My friends always insisted when they waited on the community, that not one
of the sisterhood should discontinue whatever they found her engaged in; this gave them the
hint to do the same by us, and it is a rule that no book is thrown aside, no pen laid down
at their entrance. There are always some of us manually employed, who are at leisure to converse,
and if the visit is not very short, part of it is generally spent in hearing one of the girls
read aloud, who take it by turns through a great part of the day; the only difference made
for this addition to the company is a change of books, that they may not hear only part of
a subject, and begin by a broken thread. Thus they give no interruption, and therefore neither
trouble us, nor are themselves scrupulous about coming, so that few days pass without our seeing
some of them, though frequently only time enough to accompany us in our walks, or partake of
our music.'

'Have you not,' said Lamont, 'been obliged to expel many from the community? Since you do not
allow petulancy of temper, nor any lightness of conduct, I should expect a continual revolution.'

'By no means,' answered Mrs Maynard, 'since the establishment of the community there has been
but one expelled; and one finding she was in danger of incurring the same sentence, and I believe
inwardly disgusted with a country life, retired of her own free choice. Some more have rendered
themselves so disagreeable, that the question has been put to the ballot; but the fear of being
dismissed made them so diligent to get the majority on their side, before the hour appointed
for decision arrived, that it has been determined in their favour, and the earnest desire not
to be brought into the same hazard again has induced them to mend their tempers, and some of
these are now the most amiable people in the whole community.

'As for levity of conduct they are pretty well secured from it, by being exposed to few temptations
in this retired place.

'Some, as in the course of nature must happen, have died, and most of them bequeathed what
little they had towards constituting a fund for the continuation of the community. More of
them have married; some to persons who knew them before, others to gentlemen in the neighbourhood,
or such as happened to come into it; to whom their admirable conduct recommended them.'

I could not help exclaiming, 'In what a heaven do you live, thus surrounded by people who owe
all their happiness to your goodness! This is, indeed, imitating your Creator, and in such
proportion as your faculties will admit, partaking of his felicity, since you can no where
cast your eyes without beholding numbers who derive every earthly good from your bounty and
are indebted to your care and example for a reasonable hope of eternal happiness.'

'I will not,' said Mrs Maynard, 'give up my share of the felicity you so justly imagine these
ladies must enjoy, though I have no part in what occasions it. When I reflect on all the blessings
they impart, and see how happiness flows, as it were, in an uninterrupted current from their
hands and lips, I am overwhelmed with gratitude to the Almighty disposer of my fate, for having
so mercifully thrown me into such a scene of felicity, where every hour yields true heart-felt
joy, and fills me with thanksgiving to him who enables them thus to dispense innumerable blessings,
and so greatly rewards them already by the joyful consciousness of having obeyed him.'

The ladies at this time were at too great a distance to hear our conversation, for not choosing
to be present while their actions were the subjects of discourse, they had gradually strayed
from us. Upon enquiring of my cousin whether the persons in the large community we had been
talking of brought any fortunes with them, she told me that most of them had a trifle, some
not more than a hundred pounds. That in general the ladies chose to admit those who had least,
as their necessities were greatest, except where some particular circumstances rendered protection
more requisite to others. That the house not being large enough to contain more than were already
established in it, they have been obliged to refuse admission to many, and especially some
young women of near two thousand pounds fortune, the expensive turn of the world now being
such that no gentlewoman can live genteelly on the interest of that sum, and they prefer this
society to a retirement in a country town. Some who wished to board, have likewise been refused.
As the expenses of the first community fall so far short of their expectation, and the sums
appropriated for that purpose, they determined to hazard another of the same kind, and have
just concluded a treaty for a still larger mansion, at about three miles distance, and by the
persons now waiting for it, they have reason to believe it will not be less successful than
the other, nor more expensive, but should they be mistaken in that particular, they have laid
aside a fund sufficient to discharge it. Their scheme I find is to have some of the ladies
down to Millenium Hall as soon as they have made the purchase, and there they are to remain,
while the necessary repairs and additions are making to the house designed for their habitation,
which they imagine will not be completed in less than half a year. They hope, by having the
first admitted part of the community thus in the house with them for so long a time, to compensate,
in a good degree, for the disadvantages of being settled so much farther from them. The sisterhood
of the other society, likewise, in pity to those who are exposed to the same sufferings from
which they have been delivered, have offered to crowd themselves for a few months, to leave
vacant rooms for some who are destined to the other house, till they can be there accommodated.
These also will be fitted for their new way of life, and taught to aim at the happiness enjoyed
in this community, by the same means that they have attained to it.

Our subject ended with our walk. Supper was served as soon as we entered the house, and general
conversation concluded the evening.

Had I not been led by several facts to repeat already so many conversations, I should be induced
not to bury all that passed at this time in silence; but though I have taken the liberty, when
the relation of facts naturally led to it, to communicate such discourses as were pertinent
to the subject, it would be presuming too far on your time to repeat conversations which did
not serve to illustrate any particular actions, however worthy they maybe of recollection.
I shall therefore only say that it was not with less reluctance I retired to my chamber, at
the hour of bed-time, than the night before.

The next morning proved rainy, which prevented me from making any early excursion. But as it
cleared up about eleven o'clock, Lamont and I went into the garden, to enjoy the fragrance
which every herb and flower exhales at this time of the year, after the desirable refreshment
of gentle showers. I conducted him to the flower garden, which had so much delighted me the
morning before; and we had not paid due admiration to all the vegetable beauties there exhibited
to our view when Mrs Maynard joined us.

I told her it was but a poor compliment to her conversation to say I longed for her company,
since now my curiosity might occasion that impatience, which I should nevertheless have felt,
had I not been left in painful suspense by the interruption we had received the day before,
in the midst of her narrative.

'It would be unnatural,' said she, 'for a woman to quarrel with curiosity; so far from complaining
of yours, I am come merely with a design to gratify it, and only expect you will judge of my
desire to oblige you by my readiness in obeying your commands; were I myself the subject, the
motive for my obedience might be equivocal.'

The History of Miss Mancel and Mrs Morgan continued

I think, continued Mrs Maynard, we left Miss Melvyn requiring to be confronted by her accuser,
a request which her step-mother was not inclined to grant; for though in her dealings with
young Simon she had perceived such a degree of solicitude for his own interest, and such flagrant
proofs of want of integrity, that she did not doubt but that by promising him the farm on rather
better terms than she had yet consented to he might be prevailed with to join so far in her
scheme as to assert any thing to Sir Charles, yet she dared not venture to produce him face
to face to Miss Melvyn, fearing lest his assurance should fail him on so severe a trial.

She replied, therefore, that the proofs were too strong to admit of doubt, but she could not
think of exposing Miss Melvyn to the mortification of hearing her depravity witnessed by, perhaps,
the last person whom she expected should acknowledge it. Besides, that by such an eclat the
disgrace must infallibly become public, and she be deprived of the only means left her of rescuing
her reputation from that infamy, to which, in a very short time, it must have been irrecoverably
condemned; for it could not be supposed that Mr Morgan would accept as his wife a woman with
a sullied character.

Miss Melvyn was almost distracted, at being both so injuriously accused and denied the liberty
of defending herself; she begged, she intreated, on her knees, that Sir Charles would not suffer
her to fall a prey to such undeserved malice. She asserted her innocence in the strongest and
most persuasive terms, and insisted so warmly on her demand of being confronted with her accusers,
that her father grew inclined to grant her just request. Lady Melvyn, perceiving he began to
comply, repeated her refusal in the most peremptory manner, and declaring to Miss Melvyn that
she had no other choice left her but either to resolve to marry Mr Morgan or to be exposed
to shame in being publicly disclaimed by her parents, who would no longer suffer her to remain
in their house, led Sir Charles out of the room; and he, though reluctant, dared not refuse
to accompany her.

Miss Melvyn was now left to reflect on this dreadful alternative. Filled with horror at the
shocking conduct of her step-mother, terrified with her threats, and sensible there was no
villainy she was not capable of perpetrating rather than give up a point she was thus determined
to carry, she was incapable of forming any resolution. She ran to her friend, to seek from
her that advice and consolation which her own distracted thoughts could not afford her.

Miss Mancel was so struck with the terror and amazement which was still impressed on Miss Melvyn's
countenance, that she had not for some time courage to ask the cause. Trembling with fears
of she knew not what, she embraced her distressed friend with an air of such tender, though
silent sympathy, as softened the horror of Miss Melvyn's mind, and brought a shower of tears
to her relief, which at length enabled her to relate all that had passed between her and her
parents. Louisa found it much easier to join in her friend's grief than to administer consolation.
She knew not what to advise; two artless, virtuous young women were ill qualified to contend
with Lady Melvyn, especially in an affair which could not be rendered public without hazarding
Miss Melvyn's character; for reputation is so delicate a thing that the least surmise casts
a blemish on it; the woman who is suspected is disgraced; and though Lady Melvyn did not stand
high in the public opinion, yet it was scarcely possible for any one to believe she could be
guilty of such flagrant wickedness.

Miss Melvyn had a very strong dislike to Mr Morgan, whose disposition appeared as ill suited
to hers as his age; to enter into wedlock without any prospect of social happiness seemed to
her one of the greatest misfortunes in life; but what was still of more weight in her estimation,
she thought it the highest injustice to marry a man whom she could not love, as well as a very
criminal mockery of the most solemn vows. On the other side she considered that to preserve
her reputation was not only necessary to her own happiness, but a duty to society. 'It is true,'
said she, 'I am not placed in a very conspicuous sphere of life, but I am far from being of
a rank so obscure that my actions will affect no one but myself; nor indeed do I know any so
low, but they have their equals who may copy after them, if they have no inferiors. The care
of our virtue we owe to ourselves, the preservation of our characters is due to the world,
and both are required by him who commands us to preserve ourself pure and unpolluted, and to
contribute as far as we are able to the well-being of all his creatures. Example is the means
given universally to all whereby to benefit society. I therefore look on it as one of our principal
duties to avoid every imputation of evil; for vice appears more or less hateful as it becomes
more or less familiar. Every vicious person abates the horror which it should naturally excite
in a virtuous mind. There is nothing so odious to which custom will not in some degree reconcile
us; can we expect then, that vice, which is not without its allurements, should alone retain
all its deformity, when we are familiarized to its appearance. I should never therefore esteem
myself innocent, however pure my actions, if I incurred the reputation of being otherwise,
when it was in my power to avoid it. With this way of thinking, my Louisa, you may imagine
that I might be brought to believe it my duty to sacrifice my ease of mind, to the preservation
of my character, but in my case, there is no choice; I must either add to the contamination
of a very profligate world, or, in the face of Heaven, enter into the most solemn vows to love
a man, whom the most I can do is not to hate. This is wilful perjury. In such an alternative
duty cannot direct me, and misery must follow my decision, let me determine as I will.'

In this irresolution, Miss Melvyn left her friend, but the vent she had given to her grief
had greatly calmed her spirits and restored her to the power of reflection. At her entrance
into the house, she met Lady Melvyn, who with a very stern countenance ordered her to go and
entertain Mr Morgan, who waited for her in the parlour. She found him alone, and as he began
to renew his addresses, which a repulse from her had not discouraged, since he hoped to succeed
by the influence her parents had over her, she immediately formed the resolution of endeavouring
to make him relinquish his pretensions, in hopes that if the refusal came from him, he might
become the object of her mother's indignation, and her persecution might drop, at least for
a time. She therefore frankly told him, that tho' her affections were entirely disengaged,
yet he was so very repugnant to them that it was impossible she should ever feel that regard
for him which he had a right to expect from his wife; and therefore intreated him, in consideration
of his own happiness, if hers were indifferent to him, not to persist in a pursuit which, if
successful, could not answer his hopes, nor reduce her to render herself wretched by becoming
his wife, or to exasperate her parents by refusing him. She then added all her heart could
suggest to flatter him into compliance with this request.

Mr Morgan's foible was not an excess of delicacy; he told her plainly, he admired her eloquence
prodigiously, but that there was more rhetoric in her beauty than any composition of words
could contain; which pleading in direct contradiction to all she had said, she must excuse
him, if he was influenced by the more powerful oratory of her charms; and her good sense and
unexceptionable conduct convinced him, that when it became her duty to love him, she would
no longer remain indifferent.

All Miss Melvyn could urge to shew him this was but a very poor dependence, had no sort of
weight, and he parted from her only more determined to hasten the conclusion of their marriage.

Lady Melvyn had not been idle all this time; she had prevailed on young Simon to acquiesce
in the questions she put to him before Sir Charles, either by giving short answers, or by down
cast eyes, which signified assent. With this Sir Charles acquainted Miss Melvyn, and insisted
on her not thinking of exposing herself to the indignity of having the whole affair discussed
in her presence. All the indignation that undeserved calumny can excite in an innocent mind
could not have enabled Miss Melvyn to bear being charged before so low a creature, with a passion
for him, and still less to have heard the suborned wretch pretend to confess it. She therefore
found no difficulty in obeying her father in that particular, and rather chose to submit to
the imputation than to undergo the shame which she must have suffered in endeavouring to confute
it. She attempted to persuade Sir Charles to permit her to stay in the house under what restrictions
he and his lady should think proper, till her conduct should sufficiently convince him of her
innocence, and not to force her into a hated marriage, or unjustly expose her to disgrace and
infamy. Her tears and intreaties would soon have softened his heart; and as far as he dared
he shewed an inclination to comply with so reasonable a proposal; but his lady easily obliged
him to retract and to deprive Miss Melvyn of all hopes of any mitigation of the sentence already
pronounced against her.

Could she without the loss of reputation have fled to a remote part of the kingdom, and have
hid herself in some obscure cottage, though reduced to labour for a subsistence, she would
have thought it a state far more eligible than becoming Mr Morgan's wife; but if she thus turned
fugitive and wanderer, in what light could she expect to be seen by the world; especially as
Lady Melvyn would infallibly, to remove any blame from herself, be liberal in her aspersions?
Where she should be unknown, whatever disgrace might be affixed to her name, she herself might
escape censure; but yet she would not be less guilty of a violation of her duty to society,
since she must appear very culpable to those who knew her, and contribute to the depravity
of others, as far as was in her power, by an example which, her motives being unknown, would
appear a very bad one.

This consideration determined her to sacrifice her peace to her character; for by having told
Mr Morgan the true state of her heart, she had acquitted herself from any charge of attempting,
by the gift of her hand, to deceive him into a belief that he was the object of her affections.
She still had scruples about entering into the matrimonial state, on motives so different from
those which ought to influence every one in a union of that kind: these were not to be removed,
but she imagined this might in some measure be excused as the least culpable part she could
act; and since man was herein neither her judge nor accuser, she hoped the integrity of her
mind would be received as some alleviation of a fault she was thus forced to commit, since
she was determined in the strictest manner to adhere to every duty of her station.

Having formed this resolution, she went to consult her friend upon it, who as a person less
perplexed, though scarcely less concerned, as their affections were so strongly united, that
one could not suffer without the other's feeling equal pain, might possibly be a calmer judge
in so delicate a point. Louisa subscribed to her friend's sentiments on the occasion, only
desired her to consider well, whether she should be able to bear all the trials she might meet
with in the married state when she was entirely indifferent to her husband.

'My prospect,' said Miss Melvyn, 'I am sensible is extremely melancholy. All inclination must
now be laid aside, and duty must become my sole guide and director. Happiness is beyond my
view; I cannot even hope for ease, since I must keep a constant restraint on my very thoughts.
Indifference will become criminal; and if I cannot conquer it, to conceal it at least will
be a duty. I have learnt to suffer, but was never yet taught disguise and hypocrisy; herein
will consist my greatest difficulty; I abhor deceit, and yet must not shew the real sentiments
of my heart. Linked in society with a man I cannot love, the world can afford me no pleasure,
indeed no comfort, for I am insensible to all joy but what arises from the social affections.
The grave, I confess, appears to me far more eligible than this marriage, for I might there
hope to be at peace. Mr Morgan's fortune is large, but his mind is narrow and ungenerous, and
his temper plainly not good. If he really loved me, he could not suffer me to be forced into
a marriage which he well knows I detest: a knowledge which will not mend my fate, most certainly.

'Could I enjoy the pleasures of self-approbation, it would be impossible to be very wretched,
but the most exact performance of my duty will not yield me that gratification, since I cannot
be perfectly satisfied that I do right in marrying a man so very disagreeable to me. I fear
the pride of reputation influences me more than I imagine, and though it is as justifiable
as any pride, yet still it is certainly no virtue.'

'When I reflect,' said she afterwards, 'on the step I am going to take, my terrors are inexpressible;
how dreadful is it at my age, when nature seems to promise me so many years of life, to doom
myself to a state of wretchedness which death alone can terminate, and wherein I must bury
all my sorrows in silence, without even the melancholy relief of pouring them forth in the
bosom of my friend, and seeking, from her tender participation, the only consolation I could
receive! For after this dreaded union is completed, duty will forbid me to make my distresses
known, even to my Louisa; I must not then expose the faults of him whose slightest failings
I ought to conceal. One only hope remains, that you, my first and dearest friend, will not
abandon me; that whatever cloud of melancholy may hang over my mind, yet you will still bear
with me, and remove your abode to a place where I may have the consolation of your company.
If it be in my power to make my house a comfortable habitation to my Louisa, I cannot be entirely
wretched.'

Miss Mancel gave her the tenderest assurances of fixing at least in her neighbourhood, since
a second paradise could not recompense her for the loss of her society; and that on no terms
could she prevail on herself to continue in a house where she must see that wretched Simon,
who had been a vile instrument in reducing her friend to that distressful situation. This gleam
of comfort was a very seasonable relief to Miss Melvyn's dejected spirits, and gave some respite
to her tears.

As soon as she returned home, she acquainted Sir Charles and Lady Melvyn with her resolution,
who soon communicated it to Mr Morgan; and nothing was now thought of but hastening the wedding
as much as possible.

'I wonder,' interrupted Lamont, 'how Miss Melvyn could bring herself to let her step-mother
have such an opportunity of exulting in the success of her detestable arts.'

'That,' replied Mrs Maynard, 'was a consideration which had no weight with her, nor should
it indeed be any mortification to our pride that deceit and cunning have triumphed over us.
Wickedness serves itself by weapons which we would not use, and if we are wounded with them,
we have no more reason to be mortified than a man would have to think his courage disgraced
because when he lay sleeping in his bed he was taken prisoner by a body of armed men. To be
circumvented by cunning must ever be the fate, but never the disgrace, of the artless.'

As Miss Melvyn's compliance procured her a greater degree of favour at home than she had ever
before enjoyed, Miss Mancel was suffered to come to the house, and met with an obliging reception
from the whole family. Her continual presence there was a great support to her friend in her
very disagreeable situation, and after indulging her sorrow in their private conversation,
and mingling their sympathetic tears, she was the better able to endure the restraint which
she was obliged to undergo when any other person was present.

The dreaded day fixed on for this unhappy union soon came, and Miss Melvyn received Mr Morgan's
hand and name with all the fortitude she could assume; but her distress was visible to all,
even to Mr Morgan, who was so little touched with it that it proved no abatement to his joy;
a symptom of such indelicacy of mind as increased his bride's grief and apprehensions.

The day after their marriage, Mrs Morgan asked his permission to invite Miss Mancel to his
house, to which he answered, 'Madam, my wife must have no other companion or friend but her
husband; I shall never be averse to your seeing company, but intimates I forbid; I shall not
choose to have my faults discussed between you and your friend.'

Mrs Morgan was not much less stunned by this reply than if she had been struck with lightning.
Practised as she had long been in commanding her passions and inclinations, a torrent of tears
forced their way.

'I did not want this proof,' resumed Mr Morgan, 'that I have but a small share of your affections;
and were I inclined to grant your request, you could not have found a better means of preventing
it; for I will have no person in my house more beloved than myself. When you have no other
friend,' added he with a malicious smile, 'I may hope for the honour of that title.'

Mrs Morgan was so well convinced before of the littleness of his mind that she was more afflicted
than surprised at this instance of it, and wished he would not have rendered it more difficult
to esteem him by so openly professing his ungenerous temper. However she silently acquiesced;
but that her friend might not feel the pain of believing herself neglected, she was obliged
to tell her what had passed.

The new married couple stayed but two days longer at Sir Charles's. Fortunately Mr Morgan spent
the last day abroad in paying visits in the neighbourhood, which gave the two unhappy friends
leisure to lament their ill fortune in this cruel separation, without giving the cause of it
any new offence. They took a melancholy leave that night, fearing that even a correspondence
between them might be considerably restrained by this arbitrary husband who seemed to think
his wife's affections were to be won by force, not by gentleness and generous confidence.

This was the severest affliction they had ever yet experienced, or indeed were capable of feeling.
United from their childhood, the connection of soul and body did not seem more indissoluble,
nor were ever divided with greater pain. They foresaw no end to this cruel separation; for
they could not expect that a husband's complaisance to his wife should increase after he ceased
to be a bridegroom. Louisa indeed, who wished if possible to reconcile her friend to her fate,
pretended to hope that her good conduct might in time enlarge his mind and cure him of that
mean suspicious temper which then made him fear to have his faults exposed by a wife whose
chief endeavour would be to conceal them.

But such distant views afforded no consolation to Mrs Morgan's affectionate heart; the present
pain engaged her thoughts too much to suffer her to look so far off for comfort. She had flattered
herself not only with the hopes of enjoying Miss Mancel's company, but of delivering her from
all the difficulties of her situation, in offering her a protection from insult or poverty.
To be disappointed of so delightful a prospect was her greatest affliction, and sat much heavier
on her mind than the loss of her beloved society.

The evening was far spent when Lady Melvyn found them drowned in tears, anticipating the pangs
of parting, the employment of that whole day; and as her ladyship's hatred for her step-daughter
was much subsided, since she no longer feared the observation of her too-virtuous eye, her
natural disposition inclined her to prevent the wife's discovering her real sentiments to her
husband; she therefore reminded them that Mr Morgan must then be on his way home, and advised
that by all means they should part before his return, lest he should be witness of a sorrow
which he would take amiss. They were sensible that in this her ladyship judged well, and Louisa's
fear of occasioning any additional uneasiness to her friend gave her resolution and strength
to take a last farewell. Mrs Morgan's maid attended her home, as she was too much affected
to be able to perform that little walk without some support. Mrs Morgan's condition was still
more deplorable; more dead than alive, she followed Louisa's steps with eager eyes, till a
turning in the road robbed her of the sight of her friend; and then, as if her eyes had no
other employment worthy of them left, they were again overwhelmed in tears. Lady Melvyn found
her incapable of consolation; but more successfully endeavoured to make her suppress the indulgence
of her grief by alarming her fears with the approach of Mr Morgan. As soon as she was a little
composed, she led her into the garden for air. The night was fine, and the moon shone very
resplendent, the beauty of the scene and the freshness of the air a little revived her; and
as Mr Morgan stayed out later than they expected she had time to acquire a sufficient command
over herself to receive him with an air of tolerable cheerfulness.

The new married pair set out early the next morning, and arrived at Mr Morgan's seat the following
day. The house was large and old, the furniture not much less ancient, the situation dreary,
the roads everywhere bad, the soil a stiff clay, wet and dirty, except in the midst of summer,
the country round it disagreeable, and in short, destitute of every thing that could afford
any satisfaction to Mrs Morgan. Nature nowhere appears graced with fewer charms. Mrs Morgan
however had vexations so superior that she paid little regard to external circumstances, and
was so fully determined to acquit herself properly in her new sphere that she appeared pleased
with every thing around her. Hypocrisy, as she observed, was now become a virtue, and the only
one which she found it difficult to practise. Dende gayola entered before yesterday.

Do you know the Lord?

- I think so.

You call him at the gate, if there is no objection.

- No pregnancy, because while being held incommunicado, we have no
Bartolinas for many prisoners.

Jaruco Eh! cried the keychain from his position.

And word is repeated by other prisoners in the same tone of voice,
came Jaruco, recognizing easily the master and slave.

Entrol to it so strong convulsive shudder, which was to grab with
both hands at the gate.

- Sumerced I take the blessing, bathed in
tears faltered.

- Why are you crying?, Leonardo asked angrily.

-
Wow, Leonardite child, remembering the hard time that I have given
the family in my absence.

- With your absence, dog?

With your flight.

- Boy, I'm not fled. I left home Christmas Eve was designed to assist a dance for people of
color out there. Around the city had a tragedy a mulatto.

I was wounded in the chest, I picked up an acquaintance in the street
and took me to the room in which he lived.

As I spent the time healing. After this misfortune befell me.

- What misfortune?

- The of the unjust imprisonment.

All men are exposed to a stroke of bad luck.

- From bad luck, not bad head. Is seen, Dionisio, you do not want blacks for good but for evil.
If Mom had dispatched to you when you did that wit dog of yore, there now you'd be in jail. What
crime you are accused?

- Still do not know the cause of my imprisonment, child leonardite.

- Do not know, eh?

Is not the death of Tonda?

- Maybe I raise this false testimony,
child who is bad because it falls his feet and killed.

Get office, child, I was very calm, sewing shoes a shoe shop in the
Rue de Manrique, when she appeared at the door the captain Tonda.

From I saw them I knew it was coming for me, and tried to slip away.

Dismounted and went to him as if to surrender.

At the door of the shop had a wheel stop and I slipped out between her and the wall of the house.
Tonda I fell back shouting: - Date, date!

Shortcut! He tripped over a rock, fell on the sword that had naked and injured in the stomach.
Did I have to blame for his death?

- Who caught you?

- Captain
headman of Health.

I took when I left for my job.

- I guess he told you why you lit.

- No word.

He just told me he had orders to take me dead or alive.

- In good you've got, Dionisio. It will be much and give thanks to God if she escaped with the
skin.

- Whatever you want God and the Virgin. I trust in my innocence. But do not think the kid that
I love and Miss will do something for me?

- Do?

Nothing. Do not wait. By the way you have behaved decently with your masters! For them, the whole
family, for yourself, Dionisio, you'd better bend the neck in Point
field.

With that you'll never insulting white girls.

- Me, Boy I've insulted
a white girl or color?

No, Leonardite child, I have consciousness of having insulted any.

- And one that was the cause of your quarrel with the mulatto to the
output of the dance?

- I did not insult the child.

For the bones of my mother that I did not say a bad word. Le asked a minuet, I said she was tired
and then went to dance with José Dolores Pimienta. I complained to her the snub, he took his
defense, we lock our words and we beat a the street.

- If you do
not let you talk hanged.

A otherwise. Do you know if they have brought here the same prey young man of your tragedy with Pepper?

-
I'm sure is not here.

Just put one foot in the prison courtyard, is published and circulated
shouted his name.

- God protects you, Denis.

- Child charity, another
word.

I remember that I delivered at his mercy a garment belongs.

- What piece of clothing? End soon, prontito.

- Had me in his pocket, hoping to give it one day, the watch Miss gave his market last year,
but they took it away to enter the prison.

Must be in the hands of the Warden.

Dionisio told in as few words, how and when it came to power the clock and moved said to withdraw
his young master:

- Could you tell the child how is Mary Rule?

- Mom brought her wit. Is now in the city earning wages. Have not you seen?

- No, sir. This is the first news I have of his coming. Why God did not want trip over it? I
see today in this prison.

I have served as godmother to Miss and would cook at home.

Leonardo night and returned home from the Commissioner and was surprised
in the act of sitting at the dinner table with his mistress.

- Hello!

Both good over here!

Cantalapiedra said very cheerful, going to meet Leonardo, with an open hand outstretched.

- Good to find, he said serious and cold, pretending that he had not
noticed Commissioner friendly demonstration.

- I waited, hiding Cantalapiedra
said the snub the bad impression made.

Fermina just tell me that you had honored with his presence this humble shelter.

- I can speak a word with you?

- And two hundred also, Don Leonardite. You know that I am your most
obedient servant.

Felt not be in the station when you were at dusk.

He had to go racing the Policy Secretariat.

So that I do not know as we are not in the way, if you come there.

Bonora! screamed, a chair for this gentleman.

- Excuse the compliments, Leonardo said haughtily. It is not for sitting.

Let's talk provided it is standing alone.

- Why not here in front of Fermina? I have no secrets from her. We are inseparable.

- How you caught authority to Cecilia Valdés? asked the young man desperately.

- Not with me has invested HM King Fernando VII, QDG, but with Mr.
Mayor to sign the warrant, a complaint from a parent.

- What Mayor
and which parent will tell you serve?

- That's too much bread in
between, Mr. Gamboa, the Commissioner said, laughing.

It seems like you something that is obscured ... Sit down and cool off.

- The girl has not committed any crime, so it is improper and illegal
to prison if is that everything has been nothing but a farce, or something
worse, God knows what purpose.

- None of this goes against me, I
have been a mere instrument in this case.

- Tell you if the name
of the complainant.

- Vd. knows better than me, and if you do not
know will know soon.

- Will you allowed to say the Mayor?

- No inconvenience:
the O'Reilly Don Fernando, Spain's largest first class Mayor of the
District of San Francisco ...

- Where did you a girl?

She is not in the public jail.

- Shall I not reveal it now. I drove to where I was ordered.

- After you hide it dishonest purposes.

- In my refusal to satisfy the curiosity of you does not show such
outrageous deduction.

Logic, logic, philosophy student sir.

- It matters little whether you want to throw the secretive and mysterious to me. I must see the
truth, and they may still, despite the author and instrument of this rude and intrigue indecent.

That
said, he went on his way home in high dudgeon. The family had a visitor in the room. No I decided
to enter it ready the carriage, moved in a suit, and when asked by signs her mother to the porch
railing of the reason for this precipitation:

- I go to the opera, he replied briefly.

Sang Rossini opera maestro Ricardo and Zoraida, to benefit the Santa
Marta, the beautiful Teatro Principal.

[59] It was then the company entrepreneur Eugenio Arriaza, and director
of the orchestra Don Manuel Cocco, brother of Jose, which we saw in
the mill La Tinaja.

The patio or yard and the boxes were occupied by a public medium
then nothing functions fan lyrics.

Leonardo came some time after the standard curtain.

Of course, he heard the overture to Tancredo, who preceded the opera
that night.

Looking for a man whose place in the theater knew in advance was because, as Mayor preside over
the function from the central box on the second floor.

Sitting was the pair of Madrid wife, embedded in music and song,
as he kept the back, standing by the door, the page mulatto, livery
rigorous cover castles and lions embroidered gold.

All this I watched through the porthole in the door of the box, closed against the corridor.
Could have called, assured of a friendly welcome input, but preferred wait on the balcony of the
refreshment room which overlooked the mall Paula.

Calculated according to Leonardo, shortly after completion of the first act, he felt measured steps
through the room, then a hand rested on his shoulders and followed a voice in a dramatic tone
declaimed: - What does the friend of the brave Othello?

- Ah! Is that you, Fernando? The farthest I had from my mind.

- What are you doing here so lonely and pensieroso?

- I just got.

-
No saw you in the lunettes.

Why do not you come at once to my box?

- I figured there was no place for me.

- For you are always by my side.

- Thanks.

- Are you in moments of inspiration? Is the witch on the tripod? I welcome that. Feel interrupt.

-
I inspired! It can be: the devil.

- There would be nothing strange that you inspire the urban scene that unfolds at sea the balcony.
Will you composed there in the mind an article descriptive?

Insurance. In fact, Who that houses the soul of a poet is not inspired by the sight of row houses
that unequal our right, protruding balconies high Conde de Peñalver manor? Or the trees in this
mall without ending coffee Paula, now dark and deserted? Or the hospital of the same name at
the bottom, which seems an Egyptian pyramid, from which blackened top, Bonaparte said, are watching
the centuries?

Or the opposite side, very dark mass of the ship Sovereign, nailed, so to speak, in the still
waters Bay? Can not you see how it stands out from the sky where the stars sparkle? Who would
not say they, rather than light shed tears over the impending disappearance
of the last remaining our naval glories?

- Fernando, so poetic that
scene for you, it has no meaning for me.

Perhaps because I know it by heart, or because I'm black humor.

- For me, kid, always has charms of nature. In her presence forget all my penalties. And by the
way have you read in The Journal "A trait of my visit to Mount Etna?"

Arazoza was the other day at home in order for something original
... He insisted and gave these blots.

- Almost never see El Diario.

-
Then look for it and read it.

The article is short. It was published three or four days. I wrote
in Palermo.

I did not put my name, because he says ill of a mayor ... You understand
me.

He went out with my initials only and have you to believe that we
have come to congratulate me more than twenty friends?

Yes Pedro José Morillas hugged me and gave me the article with the clouds. I want to hear your
opinion.

- Afternoon is that you can give it to you, Fernando. My head burns, I get to shoot myself, or spreading
it to someone, that readings.

- Man! I'm surprised. I know. Are you the same student in the class
of Philosophy at the College of San Carlos, or another in your figure?

What has become of that good humor and that catchy joy that you were
earning the affection of all your classmates?

Stop your nonsense and childhoods. Are you in love?

You could give in such a stupid thing after your twenties and most
Aprils and your experience ...

- It is the passion of love which
consumes me with this chest.

It is the anger, the pain, is the despair that produces the first disappointment of what are
the world, men and friendship.

- Come on.

Why deny it? You're in love and unrequited.

Sludge symptoms are love. What is the real source of your troubles?

Confíamelas.

You know I'm your friend.

- My friend! cried the young man with an ironic smile.

I thought you were, but I am disappointed you're my worst enemy.

-
What date is your disappointment?

- It's disservice you did to me.

I do not know how his memory will not gnaw the bowels.

- Will you have lost your mind? Come on, man! And fall.

All your anger is born ... Ja, ja!

- Do not laugh, seriously said Leonardo. This step is not laughing.

- Why, what is? Mayor stressed. Here is the first time, since we know that I see serious y. .. bobo.

-
Do not call to seriousness and silliness it touches into fury.

- Stop your childish nonsense at this time. Your anger seems to be leading me, and if you were
not encalabrinar, you would see that, far from hatred, you owe me gratitude.

- Not missing anything, but after wounding me where it hurts most, I expect thanks. What freshness
of yours! Did you know that was my girl Cecilia Valdés?

- I learned it the same day, as you say, I did the disservice ...

-
But before that, what were you news of its existence?

Did you know his character and background?

- What had to know! Iota.

- Then, how without the knowledge of the facts, without formation of summary gave the command
in prison?

- Because there who asked no such requirements.

- How come such a friendship call me?

- You will find there.

- What crime blamed the girl for the abuse?

- No one else, as I understand, that of love too.

- So, you have knowingly committed an injustice, let us say it clear, an arbitrary act.

- I plead guilty of this sin.

- Sin say? It's more than that. In our laws is called a quasi offense, which still can you get it
in the face. If you have included the sad orphan who has no advocate, deceive medium to medium. Here
I am, I will put the matter in question.

     - Evil will, Leonardo, said the mayor with calm and dignity.

         Bad will, I repeat.

As as I'm concerned, your released would not hurt me none, bounce off the chain mail me high
position of my titles of nobility and my valimiento here and in court. For this next I'm immune.
But you, to take the way you say, (I speak as a companion and friend)
not get anything but shock a little and give your father saloon, whose
complaint I leaned formal written for the procedure ... arbitrary
charges me.

Your father, your good and honest father, came to my court and established
complaint in every way against this girl, by seducing a minor, son
of a wealthy family and decent, with her charms and chicanery.

In the discussion we had, he lamented, almost with tears in his eyes,
that were made a lost player, womanizer, who neither study nor could
meet you in April as he and your mother waiting for you to take the
administration of the property next year, ie after marrying the beautiful
and virtuous young lady Alquízar, as were committed all for the frivolous
girl, whose love affairs disgrace undoubtedly a young man Count must
be before long.

- "So this is the epitome of the story my father
told you?

Listen, or contemplated now the reverse of the medal.

There is no such seduction, deception or pumpkins in this business. The girl is very pretty and
I idolized.

Why did not correspond to his love?

But it Daddy little girl has since followed the steps, holding, dressing,
shoes, celándola, dicking, caring for more and better than it ever
has maintained, clothing, shoe care rounds and none of their daughters.

Why? You wonder what purpose. Only God and he knows it.

I do not think bad yet, but just the fact kidnap when my grandmother
just died, the only person who could oppose serious obstacle to achieving
of twisted desires, I suspect that my father does not harbor good
intentions ... I relieved and pleased, however, that whatever the
shower of gold that he may pour the her feet will not get more than
what it has achieved so far: bitter hatred.

But you, my friend, me good away from me and deliveries tied hand and foot in power of my father.
Will I have to forgive me this bad game? Never.

- You're unfair, very unfair to your father and me.

With him because I did not accede to their entreaties, but when I'm fully convinced that they were
righteous and holy intentions for you, the family and the same Valdés.

Me are unfair, because seeing your father was resolved cut in any
way, no matter the cost, your clandestine relationship with the girl,
I decided to lock her in the Collected for a short time, say, until
you get Baccalaureate and marry as God intended and as appropriate
to your class and the wealth of your family.

What then, if you think you will return ... the first love.

Leonardo was silent and thoughtful, and then said feebly: - Bye, Fernando!

This

stopped him by the arm and said: - Thou shalt not go that way, as
if we had fought.

Come to my stage: greet my wife and hear my side of the second act
of the opera.

To alleviate there is some pain balm comparable to good music.

CHAPTER VII

The biggest monster of jealousy.

CALDERON

- What are you up you mess with a little boy from the suburbs?, Asked Rosa to husband still in
bed .-- Di, answers, he added codeándole behind him, because he thought
that is to Swedish or asleep.

- I do not bring me and took me mess
with anyone, Rosa, said Don Candido in his sleep.

- Your own, you do.

I have said, I know for a fact.

- Who told you that story?

- No story is true.

You have taken from his home to a girl a few days ago ... The author is not the case.

- What is Rosa. Some influence in you mightily.

- Then we will clarify that point.

No I mean that you're back at it again ...

- Do you see what I say? Since you have been prepared against me. Your son ...

- Well, now check it killed my son.

- Your son, I say, "continued Don Candido without getting upset, I
was about to commit the greatest of escapades he has committed so far.

I interposed, because at last I'm his father, and I avoided the commission
... You do not want to knock on it, what other recourse I can only
touch her?

Lo, in short, the amount of my old ways.

- I did not stay to hear!

"So to prevent the child committing a skull, is the father and gives a scandal?

- In this case there has been no scandal.

- What!

Have you had hidden the thing? Too bad. See what interest do you have in it.

- No one, in my belief, that of preventing the commission of a real
shame for a person that touches us as closely as is our son.

- What
shame?

You use some bad words ...

- Time was that Leonardo is chasing a black girl ...

- And how do
you know?

- I know for the same reason that you ignore.

- Nothing
I say that.

Leonardite is natural, young and handsome, chase girls, as you say. What does not seem natural
to you, old and ugly, you're so aware of the Boy womanly pursuits.
Are you envious? Do you want him to get a monk? Why what's plots?

-
Because I'm responsible for their conduct before God and the world.

-
What a virtuoso! Would not you were doing the same and even worse
when you were their age?

- Maybe he did the same when looking, not
worse, at least I do not prick the conscience of have corrupted any
young honest or home.

- You're right: Set yourself apart. But I think
the work toilet you take ... I will always believe that, for women,
Leonardite next to you is sucking child.

- Let us recriminations,
Rosa, and let's get to what touches us more closely, as parents of
the boy ... The thing is very serious, serious ... Supe ... Not care
how, where, when. I knew I made large purchases of furniture and household
gadgets. Had to spend a fortune. Where has there been? Have you in
debt? Do you have won the game? O. .. Is you, as Bonaz as always,
has provided the means?

Don Candido had hit the milestone. Rosa Negate
"the loan, have done hidden husband? Tantamount to discredit the child
from her father, always willing to look their faults by the black
side. So even though convinced and mortified by the deception with
it had been practiced, preferred to state the truth and bear the blame
for the dissipation famous son.

- Do you see now, Rosa, said Don
Candido without acrimony, the bad result of blind love some mothers
to their children? Do not you recognize that in some cases it is better
to sin with them however hard and soft? Leonardo asks you money and
lend it, because you can not tell no, and because I figure that if
you deny it dies of grief ... And he takes the money, buy furniture,
rent home ... What the hell? Of course, clearly, to carry it dear.
No great insight is needed ... So that, if I advance, bye, studies!
Goodbye school! Goodbye, wedding in November!, Like you and I had
agreed, according to him.

- Well is everything you say, but I'm hoping
you say where you have hidden the girl.

- The Collected. It seems
to me, watching the race said that the wife remained silent and shook
in bed, seems to me that this was the best and least risky game that
could have been chosen to save the boy and the girl from the precipice
of ruin ...

- Yes, said Dona Rosa, do you figure that because you've
got the girl in the Pickups, and everything was arranged and completed?
Know that you have not achieved anything. The child has taken the
thing to heart. Love is blind.

- Who! Don Candido said scornfully.
Love, love! Or gout. What he feels that boy's blood boil, fever, headaches.
It has nothing to do with this heart. It will happen. Do not worry.

-
You will, eh? Maybe. But the child is not eating, not sleeping, suffering,
suffering, sorrow, crying. I fear a disease that costs you the feeling.
Yeah, like you do not see, not hear, not what understand, speak as
you speak.

- Put your thing on your part. To you, who have more influence
on him than me, you belong to you comfort him and make him by trail. She wrote Mr d'Avora a faithful account
of all the difficulties of her situation, and intreated him to receive her into his house,
till he could find some proper place wherein to fix her abode.

This worthy friend approved her conduct, while he grieved for her distress; his honest heart
felt a secret indignation against Lady Lambton who could, by false pride, be blinded to the
honour which he thought such a woman as Miss Mancel must reflect on any family into which she
entered. He wrote that young lady word, that she might be assured of the best reception his
house could afford, and every service that it was in his power to render her; desiring that
she would let him know when she proposed setting out, that he might meet her on the road, not
thinking it proper she should travel alone.

This letter gave Miss Mancel much satisfaction; she was now secure of an asylum; but the great
difficulty still remained, she knew not how to get away from Lady Lambton's in a proper manner;
for to go clandestinely was not suitable to her character, and might bring it into suspicion.
In this dilemma she thought it best to apply to that lady, and with her usual frankness told
her (what had not escaped her discernment) the affection Sir Edward had conceived for her,
and the return her own heart made to it; only suppressing his solicitations, as her ladyship
might be offended with his proceeding so far without her consent. She represented the imprudence
of her continuing in the house with Sir Edward, whereby both his passion and her own must be
increased; and yet she was at a loss how to depart privately, but was convinced it could not
be affected with his knowledge, without such an eclat as must be very disagreeable to them
all; nor could she answer for her own resolution when put to so severe a trial; as she should
have more than her full measure of affliction in going from thence, without being witness to
its effect on him.

One should have imagined that the generosity of Miss Mancel's conduct might have influenced
Lady Lambton in her favour; but though it increased her esteem, it did not alter her resolution.
With inexcusable insensibility she concerted measures with her, and engaged to procure Sir
Edward's absence for a short time. Some very necessary business indeed demanded his presence
in a neighbouring county where the greatest part of his estate lay, but he had not been able
to prevail on himself to leave Louisa; too much enamoured to think any pecuniary advantage
could compensate for the loss of her company. But as it was natural that an old grandmother
should see the matter in another light; her pressing him to go and settle his affairs gave
him no cause to suspect any latent meaning, and was too reasonable to be any longer opposed.

Though Sir Edward was resolved on so quick a dispatch of business as promised him a speedy
return, yet any separation from Miss Mancel, however short, appeared a severe misfortune. The
evening before the day of his departure, he contrived to see her alone and renewed his importunities
with redoubled ardour, but with no better success than before. He lamented the necessity he
was under of leaving her, though but for a little time, with an agony of mind better suited
to an eternal separation. She, who saw it in that light, was overcome with the tender distress
which a person must feel at taking a final leave of one who is extremely dear to her. Her own
grief was more than she could have concealed; but when she anticipated in her thoughts what
he would suffer when he knew he had lost her for ever, and judged from the pain he felt on
the approach of what he thought so short an absence, how very great his distress would be,
she was unable to support the scene with her usual steadiness. Tears insensibly stole down
her face and bestowed on it still greater charms than it had ever yet worn, by giving her an
air of tenderness, which led him to hope that she did not behold his passion with indifference.
This thought afforded him a consolation which he had never before received; and though it increased
his love, yet it abated his distress, and rendered him more able to leave her, since he flattered
himself she would with pleasure see him return, which he was now more than ever resolved to
do as speedily as possible.

The day of his departure she spent chiefly in her own room, to conceal, as far as she was able,
a weakness she was ashamed of but could not conquer. She had written the day before to inform
Mr d'Avora that she should set out for London four days after her letter. Accordingly at the
time appointed, after having agreed with Lady Lambton that Sir Edward must be kept ignorant
of the place to which she was gone, she set out with that lady, who carried her in her coach
twelve miles of the way and then delivered her to Mr d'Avora, who was come thither to receive
her. Lady Lambton could not part with her amiable companion without regret, and expressed her
true sense of her merit in such strong terms to Mr d'Avora, who could not forgive that pride
which had occasioned so much pain both to Louisa and Sir Edward, that he told her in plain
terms how very happy and how much honoured any man must be who had her for his wife. Perhaps
Lady Lambton would have subscribed to his opinion, had any one but her grandson been concerned;
but the point was too tender, and it was no small command over herself that prevented her giving
the good old man a hint that she thought him impertinent.

Our travellers arrived in town the next day, after a melancholy journey, for even the company
of a friend she so much loved and esteemed could not restore Miss Mancel's natural vivacity,
though in compassion to the good old man who sympathized tenderly in her distress she endeavoured
to the utmost of her power to conceal how very deeply she was afflicted. It was some little
time before her spirits were sufficiently composed to form any scheme for her future life,
nor were they benefited by a letter from Lady Lambton which acquainted her that Sir Edward,
at his return, finding she had left the place, that his grandmother had consented to her departure
and refused to tell him where she was gone, was for some days frantic with rage and grief,
and had just then left Lady Lambton with a determination to serve as volunteer in the army
in Germany, in hopes, he said, to find there a release from his afflictions, which nothing
but the hand of death could bestow.

The old lady was much shocked at this event, but hoped a little time would restore his reason
and enable him to bear his disappointment with patience. There was room to believe, she said,
that the rest of the campaign would pass over without a battle, and if so the change of scene
might abate his passion.

Louisa's heart was too tenderly engaged to reason so philosophically, she was almost distracted
with her fears, and was often inclined to blame her own scruples that had driven so worthy
a man to such extremities. All Mr d'Avora could urge to reconcile her to herself and to calm
her apprehensions for Sir Edward were scarcely sufficient to restore her to any ease of mind;
but at length he brought her to submit patiently to her fate and to support her present trial
with constancy.

They were still undetermined as to her future establishment when Mr d'Avora one day met an
old acquaintance and countryman in the street. As this person had many years before returned
to his native country, Mr d'Avora inquired what had again brought him into England? His friend
replied that he was come in quality of factotum to a widow lady of fortune. In the course of
their conversation he asked Mr d'Avora if he could recommend a waiting woman to his lady, hers
having died on the road. The character this man gave of his mistress inclined Mr d'Avora to
mention the place to Miss Mancel, who readily agreed that he should endeavour to obtain it for her.

Mr d'Avora had engaged the man to call on him the next day by telling him he believed he might
be able to recommend a most valuable young person to his lady. He was punctual to his appointment
and conducted Mr d'Avora and Louisa to Mrs Thornby's, that was the name of the lady in question.

Miss Mancel was dressed with care, but of a very different sort from what is usually aimed
at; all her endeavours had been to conceal her youth and beauty as much as possible under great
gravity of dress, and to give her all the disadvantages consistent with neatness and cleanliness.
But such art was too thin a veil to hide her charms. Mrs Thornby was immediately struck with
her beauty, and made some scruple of taking a young person into her service whom she should
look upon as a great charge, and she feared her maid might require more attention from her
than she should think necessary for any servant to pay to herself. Mr d'Avora represented to
her how cruel it was that beauty, which was looked upon as one of the most precious gifts of
nature, should disqualify a young woman for obtaining a necessary provision. That this young
person's prudence was so irreproachable as sufficiently secured her from any disadvantages
which might naturally be feared from it. But still he allowed her person would justly deter
a married woman from receiving her, and might make a cautious mother avoid it, since her good
conduct would rather add to than diminish her attractions, therefore it was only with a single
lady she could hope to be placed; and he was well convinced that such a one would have reason
to think herself happy in so accomplished a servant; since her mind was still more amiable
than her person.

Mrs Thornby allowed what he said to be reasonable and was so charmed with Louisa's appearance
that she assured him she would receive her with pleasure. She was in haste for a servant, and
Miss Mancel had no reason to delay her attendance, therefore it was agreed she should enter
into her place the next day.

When Lady Lambton took leave of Louisa she would have forced her to receive a very handsome
present; Louisa had accepted many while she lived with her ladyship, but at this time she said
it would look like receiving a compensation for the loss of Sir Edward; and as she chose to
sacrifice both her inclinations and happiness to her regard for Lady Lambton, she could not
be induced to accept any thing that looked like a reward for an action which if she had not
thought it her duty, nothing would have prevailed with her to perform. The tenderest affections
of her heart were too much concerned in what she had done to leave her the power of feeling
any apprehensions of poverty; all the evils that attend it then appeared to her so entirely
external that she beheld them with the calm philosophy of a stoic and not from a very contrary
motive; the insensibility of each arose from a ruling passion; the stoic's from pride, hers
from love. But though she feared not poverty, she saw it was advisable to fix upon some establishment
as soon as it could be obtained; and therefore received great satisfaction from being assured
of Mrs Thornby's acceptance of her services. Mr d'Avora was not without hopes, that if Sir
Edward continued constant till Lady Lambton's death, Louisa might then, without any breach
of honour or gratitude, marry him; though to have engaged herself to do so, would, as she observed,
have been scarcely less inexcusable than an immediate consent; therefore he advised her to
assume another name, as Sir Edward might not choose, after she was his wife, to have it known
that she had been reduced to servitude.

Louisa was accordingly received at Mrs Thornby's by the name of Menil. Her good sense and assiduity
enabled her to acquit herself so well in her new place as greatly delighted her mistress; and
though she concealed the greatest part of her accomplishments, sensible they could be of no
assistance, and might on the contrary raise a prejudice against her; yet her behaviour and
conversation so plainly indicated a superior education that before she had been there a week
Mrs Thornby told her she was certain she had not been born for the station she was then in,
and begged a particular account of her whole life.

Louisa, fearing that a compliance would render her less agreeable to her mistress, who already
treated her with respect which seemed more than was due to her situation, and often appeared
uneasy at seeing her perform the necessary duties of her place, intreated to be spared a task
which, she said, was attended with some circumstances so melancholy as greatly affected her
spirits on a particular recollection.

Mrs Thornby's curiosity was not abated by this insinuation, and she repeated her request in
a manner so importunate, and at the same time so kind, that Louisa could no longer, without
manifest disrespect, decline it.

She began then by acquainting her that she went by a borrowed name; but had proceeded no farther
in her narration than to tell her that her real name was Mancel and that she had been left
to the care of an aunt in her earliest infancy by parents who were obliged, for reasons she
could never learn, to leave their country, when Mrs Thornby exclaimed, My child! my child!
and sinking on her knees, with eyes and hands lifted up towards heaven, poured forth a most
ardent thanksgiving, with an ecstasy of mind not to be described. Her first sensation was that
of gratitude to the Almighty Power, who had reserved so great a blessing for her; maternal
tenderness alone gave rise to the succeeding emotions of her heart; she threw her arms round
Louisa, who on seeing her fall on her knees, and not comprehending the meaning of her action,
ran to her; but struck with astonishment and reverence at the awful piety in her countenance
and address, bent silent and motionless over her. Mrs Thornby, leaning her head on Louisa's
bosom, burst into such a flood of tears, and was so oppressed with joy, that the power of speech
totally failed her. Louisa raised her from the ground, crying, 'Dear madam, what can all this
mean? What does this extreme agitation of your mind give me room to hope?'

'Every thing, my child! my angel! that a fond parent can bestow,' replied Mrs Thornby. 'I am
that mother that was obliged to leave thee to another's care; and has Heaven preserved my daughter,
and restored her to me so lovely, so amiable! Gracious Providence! Merciful beyond hope! Teach
me to thank thee as I ought for this last instance of thy goodness!' And then her whole soul
seemed again poured forth in grateful adoration.

Louisa could scarcely believe this event was real; thus unexpectedly to meet with a parent
whom she supposed lost to her for ever almost stunned her; her thoughts were so engrossed by
the raptures of her joyful mother that she did not feel half her good fortune; and the delight
she received in seeing her mother's happiness robbed her of every other sensation.

It was some hours before Mrs Thornby's mind was sufficiently composed to enter into any connected
conversation. From broken sentences Miss Mancel learnt that her father and mother, by the complicated
distress of ruined fortune and the too fatal success of a duel in which Mr Mancel was unwillingly
engaged, had been obliged to absent themselves from England. They went to one of the American
colonies, in hopes of finding means to improve their circumstances, leaving the young Louisa,
then in her cradle, with a sister of Mr Mancel's, who readily undertook the care of her. They
were scarcely arrived in America when Mr Mancel was seized with a fever, of which he soon died,
and with him all their hopes. Mrs Mancel was left entirely destitute, at a loss how to hazard
the tedious passage home, without the protection of a husband and with hardly a sufficient
sum remaining to discharge the expenses of it.

Her melancholy situation engaged some of the inhabitants of the place to offer her all necessary
accommodations, till she could find a proper opportunity of returning to England. During this
time, Mr Thornby, a gentleman who had acquired a fortune there, saw her, and was so well pleased
with her person and conduct that he very warmly solicited her to marry him. Every person spoke
in his favour, and urged her to consent; her poverty was no faint adviser, and with general
approbation at the conclusion of the first year of her widowhood she became his wife.

His affairs soon called him into a more inland part of the country, to which she attributed
her never having heard from her sister, to whom she wrote an account of her husband's death;
but by what Miss Mancel told her she imagined her letter had not been received.

Mr and Mrs Thornby continued in the same place, till about two years before her arrival in
England; but his health growing extremely bad, he was advised by his physicians to return to
Europe. He wished to re-visit his native country but was persuaded, for the re-establishment
of his constitution, to spend some time in Italy. The climate at first seemed to relieve him,
but his complaints returning with greater violence, he died in the latter part of the second
year of his abode there.

His estate in the Indies he bequeathed to a nephew who lived upon the spot; but the money he
had sent before him into England, which amounted to forty thousand pounds, he left to his widow.
He had desired to be interred at Florence, where he died. As soon as the funeral was over,
and some other necessary affairs settled, Mrs Thornby set out for England, where she no sooner
arrived than she employed intelligent persons to find out her sister-in-law and daughter, but
had not received any account from them, when her daughter was restored to her as the free gift
of providence.

Mrs Thornby was now more desirous than ever to hear each minute particular that had befallen
her Louisa; but Louisa begged that before she obeyed her orders she might have permission to
communicate the happy event to Mr d'Avora, whose joy she knew would be nearly equal to her
own. A messenger was dispatched for this purpose, and then she related circumstantially all
the incidents in her short life, except her partial regard to Sir Edward Lambton, which filial
awe induced her to suppress.

Mrs Thornby grew every day more delighted with her daughter, as her acquired accomplishments
and natural excellencies became more conspicuous on longer acquaintance. Her maternal love
seemed to glow with greater warmth for having been so long stifled, and Louisa found such delight
in the tender affection of a mother that she was scarcely sensible of the agreeable change
in her situation, which was now in every circumstance the most desirable. All that fortune
could give she had it in her power to enjoy, and that esteem which money cannot purchase her
own merit secured her, besides all the gratification a young woman can receive from general
admiration. But still Louisa was not happy, her fears for Sir Edward's life, while in so dangerous
a situation, would not suffer her mind to be at peace. She might hope every thing from her
mother's indulgence, but had not courage to confess her weakness, nor to intimate a wish, which
might occasion her separation from a parent whose joy in their reunion still rose to rapture.
Chance, that deity which though blind is often a powerful friend, did what she could not prevail
on herself to do.

One morning the news paper of the day being brought in, Mrs Thornby taking it up, read to her
daughter a paragraph which contained an account of a battle in Germany wherein many of the
English were said to be slain, but few of their names specified. Louisa immediately turned
pale, her work dropped out of her hand and a universal trembling seized her. Mrs Thornby was
too attentive not to observe her daughter's distress, and so kindly inquired the reason that
Louisa ventured to tell her for whom she was so much interested; and gave an exact account
of Sir Edward's address to her, her behaviour upon it, and the great regard she had for him.

Mrs Thornby affectionately chid her for having till then concealed a circumstance whereon so
much of her happiness depended, and offered to write to Lady Lambton immediately, and acquaint
her that if want of fortune was her only objection to Miss Mancel, it no longer subsisted,
for that she was ready to answer any demands of that sort which her ladyship should choose
to make, as she thought she should no way so well secure her daughter's happiness as by uniting
her with a gentleman of Sir Edward's amiable character, and whose affection for her had so
evidently appeared.

Louisa could not reject an offer which might rescue Sir Edward from the dangers that threatened
him, and with pleasure thought of rewarding so generous and so sincere a passion. Perhaps she
found some gratification in shewing that gratitude alone dictated her refusal. The letter was
immediately dispatched, and received with great pleasure by Lady Lambton, whose esteem for
Miss Mancel would have conquered any thing but her pride. She accepted the proposal in the
politest manner, and that Sir Edward might be acquainted with his happiness as soon as possible,
dispatched her steward into Germany, ordering him to travel with the utmost expedition, and
gave him Mrs Thornby's letter, with one from herself, containing an account of the great change
in Louisa's fortune.

The servant obeyed the directions given him and performed the journey in as short a time as
possible; but as he entered the camp, he met Sir Edward indeed, but not as a future bridegroom.
He was borne on men's shoulders, pale and almost breathless, just returned from an attack,
where by his too great rashness he had received a mortal wound. He followed him with an aching
heart to his tent, where Sir Edward recovering his senses, knew him, and asked what brought
him there so opportunely, 'to close his eyes, and pay the last duties, to one of whose infancy
he had been so careful?' for this servant lived in the family when Sir Edward was born, and
loved him almost with paternal fondness, which occasioned his desire of being himself the messenger
of such joyful news.

The poor man was scarcely able to answer a question expressed in such melancholy terms, and
was doubtful whether he ought to acquaint him with a circumstance which might only increase
his regret at losing a life which would have been blessed to his utmost wish, but incapable
in that state of mind of inventing any plausible reason, he told him the truth, and gave him
the two letters.

The pleasure Sir Edward received at the account of Louisa's good fortune, and the still greater
joy he felt at so evident a proof of her regard for him, made him for a time forget his pains,
and flattered the good old steward with hopes that his case was not so desperate as the surgeons
represented it; but Sir Edward told him he knew all hope was vain. 'I must accuse myself,'
said he, 'of losing that lovely generous woman what a treasure would have gladdened my future
days had I not rashly, I fear criminally, shortened them, not by my own hand indeed, but how
little different! Mad with despair, I have sought all means of obtaining what I imagined the
only cure for my distempered mind. Weary of life, since I could not possess her in whom all
my joys, all the wishes of my soul were centred, I seized every occasion of exposing myself
to the enemy's sword. Contrary to my hopes, I escaped many times, when death seemed unavoidable,
but grown more desperate by disappointment, I this morning went on an attack where instead
of attempting to conquer, all my endeavour was to be killed, and at last I succeeded, how fatally!
Oh! my Louisa,' continued he, 'and do I then lose thee by my own impatience! Had I, like thee,
submitted to the disposition of providence, had I waited, from its mighty power, that relief
which it alone can give, I might now be expecting with rapture the hour that should have united
us for ever, instead of preparing for that which shall summon me to the grave, where even thou
shalt be forgotten, and the last traces of thy lovely image effaced from my too faithful remembrance.
How just are the decrees of the Almighty! Thy patience, thy resignation and uncommon virtues
are rewarded as they ought; my petulance, my impatience, which, as it were, flew in the face
of my Maker, and fought to lose a life which he had entrusted to my keeping, and required me
to preserve, is deservedly punished. I am deprived of that existence which I would now endure
whole ages of pain to recall, were it to be done, but it is past and I submit to thy justice,
thou all wise disposer of my fate.'

The agitation of Sir Edward's mind had given him a flow of false spirits, but at length they
failed, leaving him only the more exhausted. He kept Mrs Thornby's letter on his pillow, and
read it many times. Frequent were his expressions of regret for his own rashness, and he felt
much concern from the fear that Louisa would be shocked with his death. Her mother's proceedings
convinced him she was not void of regard for him; he now saw that he had not vainly flattered
himself when he imagined, from many little circumstances, that her heart spoke in his favour;
and the force she must have put on her affections raised his opinion of her almost to adoration.
He often told his faithful attendant that in those moments he felt a joy beyond what he had
ever yet experienced, in believing Louisa loved him; but these emotions were soon checked by
reflecting, that if she did so, she could not hear of his death without suffering many heart-felt
pangs.

He lingered for three days, without the least encouragement to hope for life, and on the last
died with great resignation, receiving his death as a punishment justly due to his want of
submission in the divine will, and that forward petulance which drove him to desperation in
not succeeding to his wishes just at the time that to his impetuous passions, and short-sighted
reason, appeared most desirable.

The afflicted steward wrote an account, of this melancholy event to Lady Lambton, and stayed
to attend Sir Edward's body home, that his last remains might be deposited in the family vault.

Lady Lambton received these mournful tidings with excessive grief, and communicated them to
Mrs Thornby. Louisa, from the time of the messenger's setting out for Germany, had been pleasing
herself with reflecting on the joyful reception he would meet with from Sir Edward, and had
frequently anticipated, in imagination, the pleasures she and Sir Edward would receive at seeing
each other after so melancholy a separation. She now every hour expected him, and when Mrs
Thornby began to prepare her against surprise, she imagined he was arrived and that her kind
mother was endeavouring to guard her against too sudden joy. She attempted to break through
the delay which must arise from all this caution by begging to know if he was in the house,
desiring her not to fear any ill effects from his sudden appearance, and rose from her seat,
in order to attend her mother to Sir Edward. Mrs Thornby made her sit down again, and with
a countenance which spoke very different things from what she expected, acquainted her with
the fatal end of all her hopes.

Louisa was shocked in proportion to the degree to which she was before elated. She sunk lifeless
in the arms of her mother, who had clasped her to her breast, and it was a considerable time
before their cruel endeavours to bring her to her senses succeeded. Her first sensation was
an agony of grief; she accused herself of being the occasion of Sir Edward's death, and from
the unfortunate consequences of her actions, arraigned her motives for them. Mrs Thornby and
Mr d'Avora, whom she had sent for on this occasion, endeavoured to convince her she was no
way to blame, that what she had done was laudable, and she ought not to judge of an action
by its consequences, which must always remain in the hands of the Almighty, to whom we are
accountable for our motives, but who best knows when they ought to be crowned with success.
When they had prevailed with her to exculpate herself, her piety and patience made it the more
easy to persuade her calmly to submit to the decrees of providence. She soon saw that to suffer
was her duty, and though she might grieve, she must not repine. The good advice of her two
friends was some support to her mind, but her chief strength arose from her frequent petitions
to him who tried her in sufferings to grant her patience to bear them with due resignation.
Such addresses, fervently and sincerely made, can never be unavailing, and she found the consolation
she asked for. Her affliction was deep, but silent and submissive, and in no part of her life
did she ever appear more amiable than on this trying occasion when her extreme sensibility
could never extort one word or thought which was not dictated by humble piety, and the most
exemplary resignation. That Sir Edward had had so just a sense of his own error, and so properly
repented his impatience was a great consolation, and she hoped to meet him whom she had so
soon lost, in a state of happiness where they should never more be parted.

Mrs Morgan had borne a tender share in all Louisa's joys and sorrows; for in the frequency
of her correspondence every circumstance that attended the latter was faithfully imparted,
though the communication was less free on Mrs Morgan's side, who, contrary to her natural temper,
acted with reserve on this particular; induced by a double motive, a belief that it was her
duty to conceal her husband's faults, and a desire to spare her friend the pain of suffering
participation in her vexations. She longed to attend Miss Mancel in her affliction, but dared
not urge a request with which she knew Mr Morgan would not comply. He lived entirely in the
country and seemed to be totally insensible to the pleasure of contributing to the happiness
of others. All his tenderness was confined within the narrow circle of himself. Mrs Morgan
daily beheld distress and poverty without the power of relieving it, for his parsimony would
not let him trust her with the disposal of what money was necessary for her own expenses, his
sister always brought what they in their wisdoms judged requisite, and Mrs Morgan was treated
in those affairs like a little child.

In matters too trifling to come within Mr Morgan's notice, Miss Susanna, fearing her sister
should enjoy a moment's ease, took care to perform her part in teasing, as if their joint business
was only to keep that poor woman in a constant state of suffering. To complete her vexation,
Mr Morgan, who had always drank hard, increased so much in that vice that few days passed wherein
he was not totally intoxicated. Mrs Morgan saw no means of redress, and therefore thought it
best to suffer without complaint; she considered that, by contention, she could not prevail
over their ill temper, but must infallibly sour her own, and destroy that composure of mind
necessary to enable every one to acquit herself well in all Christian duties. By this patient
acquiescence her virtues were refined, though her health suffered, and she found some satisfaction
in reflecting that him whom she most wished to please would graciously accept her endeavours,
however unavailing they might be towards obtaining the favour of those on whom her earthly
peace depended.

At this part of Mrs Maynard's narration we were again interrupted by dinner, but the arrival
of some visitors in the afternoon afforded Lamont and myself an opportunity of begging her
to give us the sequel, and for that purpose we chose a retired seat in the garden, when she
thus proceeded.

The next six years of Miss Mancel's life passed in a perfect calm; this may appear too cold
an expression, since her situation was such as would by most people have been thought consummate
happiness. Mrs Thornby's ample fortune enabled them to live in great figure, and Miss Mancel's
beauty and understanding rendered her the object of general admiration. Had her conduct been
less admirable, she could not but have acquired many lovers; it is not strange then, such as
she was, that she should be addressed by many men of distinguished rank and fortune. Wherever
she appeared, she attracted all eyes and engrossed the whole attention. Mrs Thornby, more delighted
with the admiration paid her daughter than she herself, carried her frequently into public
and kept a great deal of company. Louisa could not be insensible to general approbation, but
was hurt with the serious attachment of those who more particularly addressed her. As she was
determined never to marry, thinking it a sort of infidelity to a man whose death was owing
to his affection for her, she always took the first opportunity of discouraging every pursuit
of that kind; and restrained the natural vivacity of her temper lest it should give rise to
any hopes which could end only in disappointment. She endeavoured to make publicly known her
fixed determination never to marry; but as those resolutions are seldom thought unalterable,
many men flattered themselves that their rank and fortunes, with their personal merits, might
conquer so strange an intention, and therefore would not desist without an express refusal.

In the seventh year after Mrs Thornby's return into England, she was taken off by a fever,
and left Miss Mancel, at twenty-four years of age, in possession of forty thousand pounds,
a fortune which could not afford her consolation for the loss of so tender a parent. Having
nothing to attach her to any particular part of the kingdom, she more than ever longed to settle
in Mrs Morgan's neighbourhood, but feared to occasion some new uneasiness to her friend, and
was sensible that if, when vicinity favoured them, they should be denied the pleasure of each
other's company, or very much restrained in it, the mortification would be still greater than
when distance would not permit them to meet. She had the satisfaction of hearing from her friend
that Mr Morgan seemed to esteem her more than for some years after their marriage, and often
gave her reason to think he did not despise her understanding and was well pleased with her
conduct. The truth was, this gentleman's eyes were at last opened to the merits of his wife's
behaviour, the long trial he had made of her obedience, which was implicit and performed with
apparent cheerfulness; if compared with his sister's conduct, could not fail of appearing in
an amiable light, when he was no longer beset with the malicious insinuations of Susanna, who
had bestowed herself on a young ensign whose small hopes of preferment in the army reduced
him to accept that lady and her fortune as a melancholy resource, but his only certain provision.
This alteration in Mr Morgan's temper gave Mrs Morgan and Louisa room to hope that he might
not always continue averse to their becoming neighbours.

While they were flattering themselves with this agreeable prospect, Mr Morgan was seized with
a paralytic disorder which at first attacked his limbs, but in a very short time affected his
head so much as almost to deprive him of his senses. He was totally confined to his bed, and
seemed not to know any one but his wife. He would take neither medicine nor nourishment except
from her hands; as he was entirely lame, she was obliged to feed him, and he was not easy if
she was out of the room. Even in the night he would frequently call to her; if she appeared
at his bedside, he was then contented, being sure she was in the chamber, but would fall into
violent passions which he had not words to express (for he was almost deprived of his speech)
if she did not instantly appear.

When Miss Mancel heard of his deplorable situation, she was under the greatest apprehensions
for her friend's health, from so close and so fatiguing an attendance, and begged she might
come to her, as he was then incapable of taking umbrage at it. The offer was too agreeable
to be rejected, and these ladies met after so long an enforced separation with a joy not to
be imagined by any heart less susceptible than theirs of the tender and delicate sensations
of friendship. Louisa was almost as constantly in Mr Morgan's room in the day time as his wife,
though she kept out of his sight, and thus they had full opportunity of conversing together;
for though the sick man often called Mrs Morgan, yet as soon as he saw she was in the chamber
he sunk again into that state of stupefaction from which he never recovered. Mrs Morgan put
a bed up in his room, and lay there constantly, but as he was as solicitous to know she was
present in the night, as in the day, she could never quite undress herself the whole time of
his sickness.

In this condition Mr Morgan lay for three months, when death released him from this world;
and brought a seasonable relief to Mrs Morgan, whose health was so impaired by long confinement
and want of quiet rest that she could not much longer have supported it; and vexation had before
so far impaired her constitution that nothing could have enabled her to undergo so long a fatigue,
but the infinite joy she received from Miss Mancel's company.

When Mr Morgan's will was opened, it appeared that he had left his wife an estate which fell
to him about a month before the commencement of his illness, where we now live. The income
of it is a thousand pounds a year, the land was thoroughly stocked and the house in good repair.
Mr Morgan had at his marriage settled a jointure on his wife of four hundred pounds a year
rent charge, and in a codicil made just after his sister's wedding, he bequeathed her two thousand
pounds in ready money.

After Mrs Morgan had settled all her affairs, it was judged necessary that, for the recovery
of her health, she should go to Tunbridge, to which place Miss Mancel accompanied her. As Mrs
Morgan's dress confined her entirely at home, they were not in the way of making many acquaintances;
but Lady Mary Jones being in the house, and having long been known to Miss Mancel, though no
intimacy had subsisted between them, they now became much connected. The two friends had agreed
to retire into the country, and though both of an age and fortune to enjoy all the pleasures
which most people so eagerly pursue, they were desirous of fixing in a way of life where all
their satisfactions might be rational and as conducive to eternal as to temporal happiness.
They had laid the plan of many things, which they have since put into execution, and engaged
Mr d'Avora to live with them, both as a valuable friend and a useful assistant in the management
of their affairs.

Lady Mary was at that time so much in the same disposition, and so charmed with such part of
their scheme as they communicated to her, that she begged to live with them for half a year,
by which time they would be able to see whether they chose her continuance there, and she should
have experienced how far their way of life was agreeable to her. Lady Mary's merit was too
apparent not to obtain their ready consent to her proposal, and when they had the satisfaction
of seeing Mrs Morgan much recovered by the waters, and no farther benefit was expected, they
came to this house.

They found it sufficiently furnished, and in such good order, that they settled in it without
trouble. The condition of the poor soon drew their attention, and they instituted schools for
the young and almshouses for the old. As they ordered everything in their own family with great
economy, and thought themselves entitled only to a part of their fortunes, their large incomes
allowed them full power to assist many whose situations differed very essentially from theirs.
The next expense they undertook, after this establishment of schools and almshouses, was that
of furnishing a house for every young couple that married in their neighbourhood, and providing
them with some sort of stock, which by industry would prove very conducive towards their living
in a comfortable degree of plenty. They have always paid nurses for the sick, sent them every
proper refreshment, and allow the same sum weekly which the sick person could have gained,
that the rest of the family may not lose any part of their support by the incapacity of one.

When they found their fortunes would still afford a larger communication, they began to receive
the daughters of persons in office, or other life-incomes, who, by their parents' deaths, were
left destitute of provision; and when, among the lower sort, they meet with an uncommon genius,
they will admit her among the number. The girls you see sit in the room with us are all they
have at present in that way; they are educated in such a manner as will render them acceptable
where accomplished women of a humble rank and behaviour are wanted, either for the care of
a house or children. These girls are never out of the room with us, except at breakfast and
dinner, and after eight o'clock in the evening, at which times they are under the immediate
care of the housekeeper, with whom they are allowed to walk out for an hour or two every fine
day, lest their being always in our company should make them think their situation above a
menial state; they attend us while we are dressing, and we endeavour that the time they are
thus employed shall not pass without improvement. They are clad coarse and plain for the same
reason, as nothing has a stronger influence on vanity than dress.

Each of us takes our week alternately of more particular inspection over the performances of
these girls, and they all read by turns aloud to such of us as are employed about any thing
that renders it not inconvenient to listen to them. By this sort of education my friends hope
to do extensive good, for they will not only serve these poor orphans, but confer a great benefit
on all who shall be committed to their care or have occasion for their service; and one can
set no bounds to the advantages that may arise from persons of excellent principles, and enlarged
understandings, in the situations wherein they are to be placed. In every thing their view
is to be as beneficial to society as possible, and they are such economists even in their charities
as to order them in a manner that as large a part of mankind as possible should feel the happy
influence of their bounty.

In this place, and in this way of life, the three ladies already mentioned have lived upwards
of twenty years; for Lady Mary Jones joined her fortune to those of the two friends, never
choosing to quit them, and is too agreeable not to be very desirable in the society. Miss Mancel
has often declared that she plainly sees the merciful hand of providence bringing good out
of evil, in an event which she, at the time it happened, thought her greatest misfortune; for
had she married Sir Edward Lambton, her sincere affection for him would have led her to conform
implicitly to all his inclinations, her views would have been confined to this earth, and too
strongly attached to human objects to have properly obeyed the giver of the blessings she so
much valued, who is generally less thought of in proportion as he is more particularly bountiful.
Her age, her fortune and compliant temper might have seduced her into dissipation and have
made her lose all the heart-felt joys she now daily experiences, both when she reflects on
the past, contemplates the present, or anticipates the future.

I think I ought to mention Mrs Morgan's behaviour to her half-sisters. Sir Charles died about
five years ago, and through his wife's extravagance left his estate over-charged with debts
and two daughters and a son unprovided for. Lady Melvyn's jointure was not great; Sir George,
her eldest son, received but just sufficient out of his estate to maintain himself genteelly.
By the first Lady Melvyn's marriage settlements, six thousand pounds were settled on her children,
which, as Mrs Morgan was her only child, became her property; this she divided between her
stepmother's three younger children, and has besides conferred several favours on that family
and frequently makes them valuable presents. The young gentlemen and ladies often pass some
time here; Lady Melvyn made us a visit in the first year of her widowhood, but our way of life
is so ill suited to her taste that, except during that dull period of confinement, she has
never favoured us with her company.

My cousin, I believe, was going to mention some other of the actions of these ladies, which
seemed a favourite topic with her, when the rest of the company came into the garden, and we
thought ourselves obliged to join them.

The afternoons, in this family, generally concluded with one of their delightful concerts;
but as soon as the visitors were departed, the ladies said, they would amuse us that evening
with an entertainment which might possibly be more new to us, a rustic ball. The occasion of
it was the marriage of a young woman who had been brought up by them and had for three years
been in service, but having for that whole time been courted by a young farmer of good character,
she had been married in the morning, and that evening was dedicated to the celebration of their
wedding.

We removed into the servants' hall, a neat room, and well lighted, where we found a very numerous
assembly; sixteen couples were preparing to dance; the rest were only spectators. The bride
was a pretty, genteel girl, dressed in a white calico gown, white ribbons, and in every particular
neat to an excess. The bridegroom was a well looking young man, as clean and sprucely dressed
as his bride, though not with such emblematic purity. This couple, contrary to the custom of
finer people on such occasions, were to begin the ball together; but Lamont asked leave to
be the bride's partner for two or three dances, a compliment not disagreeable to the ladies,
and highly pleasing to the rest of the company, except the bride, whose vanity one might plainly
see did not find gratification enough in having so genteel a partner to recompense her for
the loss of her Colin; he, however, seemed well satisfied with the honour conferred on his wife.

That the bridegroom might not be without his share of civility, the ladies gave him leave to
dance with the eldest of the young girls more particularly under their care, till his wife
was restored to him.

We sat above an hour with this joyous company, whose mirth seemed as pure as it was sincere,
and I never saw a ball managed with greater decorum. There is a coquetry and gallantry appropriated
to all conditions, and to see the different manner in which it was expressed in this little
set, from what one is accustomed to behold in higher life, afforded me great amusement; and
the little arts used among these young people to captivate each other were accompanied with
so much innocence as made it excessively pleasing. We stayed about an hour and half in this
company, and then went to supper. 

Strange and deep impression on the rich landowner were the last words of the Mayor. Crestfallen
stopped and stood for a long time, unable to budge or speak. What was wrong? Had made the subject
of your request. What more could I want? This, Mrs Maynard added, was what they did for all the young
women they brought up, if they proved deserving; shewing, likewise, the same favour to any
other girls in the parish who, during their single state, behaved with remarkable industry
and sobriety. By this mark of distinction they were incited to a proper behaviour, and appeared
more anxious for this benevolence on account of the honour that arose from it than for the
pecuniary advantage.

As the ladies' conduct in this particular was uncommon, I could not forbear telling them, that
I was surprised to find so great encouragement given to matrimony by persons whose choice shewed
them little inclined in its favour.

'Does it surprise you,' answered Mrs Morgan smiling, 'to see people promote that in others
which they themselves do not choose to practise? We consider matrimony as absolutely necessary
to the good of society; it is a general duty; but as, according to all ancient tenures, those
obliged to perform knight's service, might, if they chose to enjoy their own firesides, be
excused by sending deputies to supply their places; so we, using the same privilege substitute
many others, and certainly much more promote wedlock than we could do by entering into it ourselves.
This may wear the appearance of some devout persons of a certain religion who, equally indolent
and timorous, when they do not choose to say so many prayers as they think their duty, pay
others for supplying their deficiencies.'

'In this case,' said I, 'your example is somewhat contradictory, and should it be entirely
followed, it would confine matrimony to the lower rank of people, among whom it seems going
out of fashion, as well as with their superiors; nor indeed can we wonder at it, for dissipation
and extravagance are now become such universal vices that it requires great courage in any
to enter into an indissoluble society. Instead of being surprised at the common disinclination
to marriage, I am rather disposed to wonder when I see a man venture to render himself liable
to the expenses of a woman who lavishes both her time and money on every fashionable folly,
and still more, when one of your sex subjects herself to be reduced to poverty by a husband's
love for gaming, and to neglect by his inconstancy.'

'I am of your opinion,' said Miss Trentham, 'to face the enemy's cannon appears to me a less
effort of courage than to put our happiness into the hands of a person who perhaps will not
once reflect on the importance of the trust committed to his or her care. For the case is pretty
equal as to both sexes, each can destroy the other's peace. Ours seems to have found out the
means of being on an equality with yours. Few fortunes are sufficient to stand a double expense.
The husband must attend the gaming-table and horse-races; the wife must have a profusion of
ornaments for her person, and cards for her entertainment. The care of the estate and family
are left in the hands of servants who, in imitation of their masters and mistresses, will have
their pleasures, and these must be supplied out of the fortunes of those they serve. Man and
wife are often nothing better than assistants in each other's ruin; domestic virtues are exploded,
and social happiness despised as dull and insipid.

'The example of the great infects the whole community. The honest tradesman who wishes for
a wife to assist him in his business, and to take care of his family, dare not marry when every
woman of his own rank, emulating her superiors, runs into such fashions of dress as require
great part of his gains to supply, and the income which would have been thought sufficient
some years ago for the wife of a gentleman of large estate will now scarcely serve to enable
a tradesman's wife to appear like her neighbours. They too must have their evening parties,
they must attend the places of public diversion, and must be allowed perpetual dissipation
without control. The poor man sighs after the days when his father married; then cleanliness
was a woman's chief personal ornament, half the quantity of silk sufficed for her clothes,
variety of trumpery ornaments were not thought of, her husband's business employed her attention,
and her children were the objects of her care. When he came home, wearied with the employment
of the day, he found her ready to receive him, and was not afraid of being told she was gone
to the play or opera, or of finding her engaged in a party at cards, while he was reduced to
spend his evening alone. But in a world so changed, a man dare not venture on marriage which
promises him no comfort, and may occasion his ruin, nor wishes for children whose mother's
neglect may expose them to destruction.

'It is common to blame the lower sort of people for imitating their superiors; but it is equally
the fault of every station, and therefore those of higher rank should consider it is their
duty to set no examples that may hurt others. A degree of subordination is always acquiesced
in, but while the nobleman lives like a prince, the gentleman will rise to the proper expenses
of a nobleman, and the tradesman take that vacant rank which the gentleman has quitted; nor
will he be ashamed of becoming a bankrupt when he sees the fortunes of his superiors mouldering
away and knows them to be oppressed with debts. Whatever right people may have to make free
with their own happiness, a beneficial example is a duty which they indispensably owe to society,
and the profuse have the extravagance of their inferiors to answer for. The same may be said
for those who contribute to the dissipation of others, by being dissipated themselves.'

'But, madam,' interrupted Lamont, 'do you think it incumbent on people of fashion to relinquish
their pleasures, lest their example should lead others to neglect their business?'

'I should certainly,' replied Miss Trentham, 'answer you in the affirmative were the case as
you put it, but much more so in the light I see it. Every station has its duties, those of
the great are more various than those of their inferiors. They are not so confined to economical
attentions, nor ought they to be totally without them; but their more extensive influence,
their greater leisure to serve their Creator with all the powers of their minds, constitute
many duties on their part to which dissipation is as great an enemy as it can be to those more
entirely domestic; therefore on each side there is an equal neglect; and why should we expect
that such as we imagine have fewer advantages of education should be more capable of resisting
temptations and dedicating themselves solely to the performance of their duties, than persons
whose minds are more improved?'

'I cannot deny,' answered Lamont, 'but what you say is just, yet I fear you have uttered truths
that must continue entirely speculative; though if any people have a right to turn reformers,
you ladies are best qualified, since you begin by reforming yourselves; you practise more than
you preach, and therefore must always be listened to with attention.'

'We do not set up for reformers,' said Miss Mancel, 'we wish to regulate ourselves by the laws
laid down to us, and as far as our influence can extend, endeavour to enforce them; beyond
that small circle all is foreign to us; we have sufficient employment in improving ourselves;
to mend the world requires much abler hands.'

'When you talk of laws, madam, by which you would regulate your actions,' said Lamont, 'you
raise a just alarm; as for matter of opinion, every one may demand an equal power, but laws
seem to require obedience; pray, from whence do you take those which you wish to make your
rule of life?'

'From whence,' answered Miss Mancel, 'should a Christian take them, from the Alcoran, think
you, or from the wiser Confucius, or would you seek in Coke on Littleton that you may escape
the iron hand of the legislative power? No, surely, the Christian's law is written in the Bible,
there, independent of the political regulations of particular communities, is to be found the
law of the supreme Legislator. There, indeed, is contained the true and invariable law of nations;
and according to our performance of it, we shall be tried by a Judge whose wisdom and impartiality
secure him from error, and whose power is able to execute his own decrees. This is the law
I meant, and whoever obeys it can never offend essentially against the private ordinances of
any community. This all to whom it has been declared are bound to obey, my consent to receive
it for the rule of my actions is not material; for as whoever lives in England must submit
to the laws of the country, though he may be ignorant of many of the particulars of them, so
whoever lives in a Christian land is obliged to obey the laws of the Gospel, or to suffer for
infringing them; in both cases, therefore, it is prudent for every man to acquaint himself
thoroughly with these ordinances, which he cannot break with impunity.'

'If such obedience be necessary,' said Lamont, 'what do you imagine will be the fate of most
of the inhabitants of Christendom; for you will allow that they do not regulate their conduct
by such severe commands?'

'What will be their fate,' replied Miss Mancel, 'I do not pretend even to suppose, my business
is to take care of my own. The laws against robbery are not rendered either less just or less
binding by the numbers that daily steal or who demand your purse on the highway. Laws are not
abrogated by being infringed, nor does the disobedience of others make the observance of them
less my duty. I am required to answer only for myself, and it is not man whom I am ordered
to imitate. His failings will not excuse mine. Humility forbids me to censure others, and prudence
obliges me to avoid copying them.'

Lamont thought Miss Mancel too severe in her doctrine; but there was something so respectable
in her severity, that he forbore to contest it, and owned to me afterwards that, while she
spoke and he contemplated that amiable society, his heart silently acquiesced in the justness
of her sentiments.

We parted at our usual hour; and at the same time the company in the lower part of the house
broke up, eleven o'clock being the stated hour for them on those occasions to return to their
respective homes.

The next morning, as I went downstairs, I met the housekeeper and entered into conversation
with her, for which the preceding night's festivity furnished me with topics. From her I learnt
that since the ladies had been established in that house they had given fortunes from twenty
to a hundred pounds, as merit and occasion directed, to above thirty young women, and that
they had seldom celebrated fewer than two marriages in a year, sometimes more. Nor does their
bounty cease on the wedding-day, for they are always ready to assist them on any emergency;
and watch with so careful an eye over the conduct of these young people as proves of much greater
service to them than the money they bestow. They kindly, but strongly, reprehend the first
error, and guard them by the most prudent admonitions against a repetition of their fault.
By little presents they shew their approbation of those who behave well, always proportioning
their gifts to the merits of the person; which are therefore looked upon as the most honourable
testimony of their conduct, and are treasured up as valuable marks of distinction. This encouragement
has great influence, and makes them vie with each other in endeavours to excel in sobriety,
cleanliness, meekness and industry. She told me also that the young women bred up at the schools
these ladies support are so much esteemed for many miles round that it is not uncommon for
young farmers, who want sober, good wives, to obtain them from thence, and prefer them to girls
of much better fortunes, educated in a different manner, as there have been various instances
wherein their industry and quickness of understanding, which in a great measure arises from
the manner of their education, has proved more profitable to their husbands than a more ample
dower.

She added that she keeps a register of all the boys and girls, which, by her good ladies' means,
have been established in the world; whereby it appears that thirty have been apprenticed out
to good trades, three score fixed in excellent places, and thirty married. And it seldom happens
that any one takes an apprentice or servant till they have first sent to her ladies to know
if they have any to recommend.

I expressed a desire to see the schools, which she obligingly offered to shew me, but feared
we could not then have time to go thither, as breakfast was just ready. While I was talking
with her, I observed that the fingers of one of her hands were contracted quite close to the
palm. I took notice of it to her. 'Oh! sir,' said she, 'it was the luckiest accident that could
possibly be; as I was obliged to work for my support, I was very much shocked at my recovery
from a fever to find myself deprived of the use of a hand, but still tried if I could get myself
received into service; as I was sensible I could, notwithstanding my infirmity, perform the
business of a housekeeper; but no one would take me in this maimed condition. At last I was
advised to apply to these ladies and found what had hitherto been an impediment was a stronger
recommendation than the good character I had from my last place; and I am sure I have reason
to value these distorted fingers, more than ever any one did the handsomest hands that ever
nature made. But,' added she, smiling, 'few of my fellow-servants are better qualified; the
cook cannot walk without crutches, the kitchen maid has but one eye, the dairy maid is almost
stone deaf, and the housemaid has but one hand; and yet, perhaps, there is no family where
the business is better done; for gratitude, and a conviction that this is the only house into
which we can be received, makes us exert ourselves to the utmost; and most people fail not
from a deficiency of power, but of inclination. Even their musicians, if you observed it, sir,
are much in the same condition. The steward, indeed, must be excepted; he is one whom the good
Mr d'Avora chose for the sake of his integrity some years before he died, as his successor
in the care of the ladies' affairs, and employed him for some time under his own inspection,
that he might be sure he was fit for the purpose, though he persuaded the ladies to receive
their own rents and direct all the chief concerns of their estates, which they have done ever
since, so that theirs is rather a household than a land steward. But, except this gentleman
and the shepherd, there is not one of their musicians that is not under some natural disadvantage;
the defects of two of them are so visible I need not point them out, but of the other two,
one is subject to violent fits of the stone, and the other to the asthma. Thus disabled from
hard labour, though they find some employment in the manufacture, yet the additional profit
which accrues from their playing here adds much to their comfort, as their infirmities render
greater expenses necessary to them than to others in their station.'

There was something so whimsically good in the conduct of the ladies in these particulars,
as at first made me smile; but when I considered it more thoroughly, I perceived herein a refinement
of charity which, though extremely uncommon, was entirely rational. I found that not contented
with merely bestowing on the indigent as large a part of their fortunes as they can possibly
spare, they carry the notion of their duty to the poor so far as to give continual attention
to it, and endeavour so to apply all they spend as to make almost every shilling contribute
towards the support of some person in real necessity; by this means every expense bears the
merit of a donation in the sight of him who knows their motives; and their constant application
is directed towards the relief of others, while to superficial observers they seem only providing
for their own convenience. The fashionable tradesman is sure not to have them in the list of
his customers; but should he, through the caprice of the multitude, be left without business,
and see his elated hopes blasted, in all probability he will find these ladies his friends.
Those whose youth renders them disregarded, or whose old age breeds neglect, will here meet
with deserved encouragement. This sort of economy pleases me much, it is of the highest kind,
since it regards those riches which neither moth nor rust can corrupt, nor thieves break through
and steal; and is within the reach of every person's imitation, for the poorest may thus turn
their necessary expenses into virtuous actions. In this they excel others, as much as the bee
does the common butterfly; they both feed on the same flowers, but while the butterfly only
gains a transient subsistence and flies and flutters in all its gaudy pride, the bee lays up
a precious store for its future well-being, and may brave all the rigours of winter. Man, indeed,
often encroaches on the labours of the bee and disappoints it of its reasonable hope; but no
one without our own concurrence can despoil us of the treasures laid up in heaven.

As the good housekeeper foretold, the bell soon summoned me to breakfast; which, like every
other hour spent in that society, was rendered delightful by their rational cheerfulness and
polite freedom. We offered to take our leave, but should have been disappointed had we not
been asked to prolong our visit; nor were we so insincere as to make much resistance to this
agreeable invitation; we expressed some fears of interrupting their better employments; to
which Mrs Morgan replied by assuring us that we did not do so in the least; but added, 'I will
tell you plainly, gentlemen, the only alteration we shall wish to make, if you will favour
us with your company a few days longer. Our family devotions are regular, as you were strangers
we have not summoned you to them, but for the rest of your visit we must beg leave to alter
that method; for we do not think it a proper example to our servants to suffer any one in this
house to be excluded from them; though as your coming was sudden, and has been prolonged only,
as it were, from hour to hour, we at first did not think it necessary to require your presence.'

You may imagine we expressed ourselves obliged by this frankness; and, for my own part, I was
glad of what appeared to me like being received into a community of saints; but was forced
to wait for it till night, the devotion of the morning having been paid before breakfast, as
was usual in that family.

Mrs Maynard accompanied us that morning into the park, and having placed ourselves on a green
bank under an elm, by the side of the canal, I called on her to perform her promise, and increase
my acquaintance with the rest of the ladies, by giving some account of them.

'I shall not the less readily comply,' she answered, 'for being able to bring what I have to
say of them into less compass, than I did my history of Mrs Morgan and Miss Mancel, of whom,
when I begin to speak, I always find it difficult to leave off, and am led by my fondness for
the subject into a detail, perhaps too circumstantial. Lady Mary Jones, by what I have already
said, you may have perceived must come next in order.'

THE HISTORY OF Lady MARY JONES

Lady Mary was daughter to the Earl of Brumpton by his second wife, who survived the birth of
her child but a few hours. The earl died when his daughter was about ten years old, and having
before his second marriage mortgaged to its full value all of his estate which was not settled
on a son born of his first lady, his daughter was left entirely destitute of provision But
as she was too young to be much affected with this circumstance, so she had little reason to
regret it, when an increase of years might have awakened a sensibility to that particular.
Immediately on her father's death she was taken by her aunt, Lady Sheerness, who declared she
should look upon her as her own child, and indeed her indulgence verified the truth of her
declaration.

Lady Sheerness was a widow; her jointure considerable; and her lord at his decease left her
some thousand pounds in ready money. When he died she was about twenty-five years old, with
a good person and infinite vivacity. An unbridled imagination, ungovernable spirits, with a
lively arch countenance and a certain quaintness of expression gained her the reputation of
being possessed of a great deal of wit. Her lord, in the decline of life, had been captivated
by her youthful charms, when she was but sixteen years old. His extreme fondness for her led
him to indulge her vivacity in all its follies; and frequently while he was laid up at home
in the gout her ladyship was the finest and gayest woman at every place of public resort. Often,
when the acuteness of his pains obliged him to seek relief from the soporific influence of
opium, she collected half the town, and though his rest was disturbed every moment by a succession
of impetuous raps at the door, he was never offended; on the contrary, he thought himself obliged
to her for staying at home, which she had assured him was because she could not bear to go
abroad when he was so ill. This, as the greatest mark of her tenderness he ever received, he
failed not to acknowledge with gratitude. She scarcely took more pleasure in having a train
of admirers than his lordship felt from it; his vanity was flattered in seeing his wife the
object of admiration and he fancied himself much envied for so valuable a possession. Her coquetry
charmed him, as the follies of that vivacity of which he was so fond. He had no tincture of
jealousy in his whole composition; and acknowledged as favours conferred on himself the attentions
paid to his wife.

Though Lord Sheerness's conduct may appear rather uncommon, yet it seemed the result of some
discernment, or at least his lady's disposition was such as justifies this opinion; she had
received a genteel education; no external accomplishments had been neglected; but her understanding
and principles were left to the imperfection of nature corrupted by custom. Religion was thought
too serious a thing for so young a person. The opinion of the world was always represented
to her as the true criterion by which to judge of everything, and fashion supplied the place
of every more material consideration. With a mind thus formed, she entered the world at sixteen,
surrounded with pomp and splendour, with every gratification at her command that an affluent
fortune and an indulgent husband could bestow: by nature inclined to no vice, free from all
dangerous passions, the charm of innocence accompanied her vivacity; undesigning and artless,
her follies were originally the consequences of her situation, not constitutional, though habit
engrafted them so strongly that at length they appeared natural to her. Surrounded with every
snare that can entrap a youthful mind, she became a victim to dissipation and the love of fashionable
pleasures; destitute of any stable principles, she was carried full sail down the stream of
folly. In the love of coquetry and gaming few equalled her; no one could exceed her in the
pursuit of every trifling amusement; she had neither leisure nor inclination to think, her
life passed in an uninterrupted succession of engagements, without reflection on the past or
consideration on the future consequences.

The lightness of her conduct exposed her to the addresses of many gay men during the life of
her lord; but an attachment was too serious a thing for her; and while her giddiness and perpetual
dissipation exposed her to suspicion, they preserved her from the vice of which she was suspected:
she daily passed through the ordeal trial; every step she took was dangerous, but she came
off unhurt. Her reputation was indeed doubtful, but her rank and fortune, and the continual
amusements which her house yielded to her acquaintance, rendered her generally caressed.

Her lord's death made no alteration in her way of life; and as her mind was never fixed an
hour on any subject, she thought not long enough of marriage to prepare for that state and
therefore continued a widow. She was upwards of forty years old, unchanged in anything but
her person, when she took Lady Mary Jones, I will not say into her care, for that word never
entered into her vocabulary, but into her house. Lady Mary had naturally a very good understanding,
and much vivacity; the latter met with everything that could assist in its increase in the
company of Lady Sheerness, the other was never thought of: she was initiated into every diversion
at an age when other girls are confined to their nursery. Her aunt was fond of her and therefore
inclined to indulgence, besides she thought the knowledge of the world, which in her opinion
was the most essential qualification for a woman of fashion, was no way to be learnt but by
an early acquaintance with it.

Lady Mary's age and vivacity rendered this doctrine extremely agreeable, she was pretty and
very lively and entertaining in her conversation, therefore at fifteen years of age she became
the most caressed person in every company. She entered into all the fashionable tastes, was
coquettish and extravagant; for Lady Sheerness very liberally furnished her with money and
felt a sort of pride in having a niece distinguished by the fineness of her dress and her profusion
in every expense, as it was well known to have no other source but in her ladyship's generosity.
Though Lady Mary received much adulation, and was the object of general courtship, yet she
had no serious love made to her till she was between sixteen and seventeen, when she accompanied
her aunt to Scarborough: she was there very assiduously followed by a gentleman reputed of
a large fortune in Wales. He was gay and well-bred, his person moderately agreeable, his understanding
specious and his manner insinuating. There was nothing very engaging in the man, except the
appearance of a very tender attachment. She had before found great pleasure in being admired;
but her vanity was still more flattered in being loved: she knew herself capable of amusing;
but till now had never been able to give either pleasure or pain, according to her sovereign
decree. She grew partial to Mr Lenman (that was the name of her lover) because he raised her
consequence in her own eyes: she played off a thousand airs of coquetry which she had never
yet had an opportunity to exercise for want of a real lover. Sometimes she would elate him
by encouragement; at others, freeze him into despair by her affected coldness: she was never
two hours the same, because she delighted in seeing the variety of passions she could excite.

Mr Lenman was certainly sufficiently tormented; but so great a proficiency in coquetry at so
early an age was no discouragement to his hopes. There are no people so often the dupe of their
own arts as coquettes; especially when they become so very early in life; therefore, instead
of being damped in his pursuit, he adapted his behaviour to her foible, vanity, and by assuming
an air of indifference, could, when he pleased, put an end to her affected reserve; though
he was not so impolite a lover as quite to deny her the gratification she expected from her
little arts. He found means, however, to command her attention by the very serious proposal
of matrimony. She had no great inclination for the state, but the novelty pleased her. The
pleasure she received from his addresses she mistook for love, and imagined herself deeply
enamoured, when she was in reality only extremely flattered; the common error of her age. In
the company she had kept matrimony appeared in no very formidable light; she did not see that
it abridged a woman of any of the liberties she already enjoyed; it only afforded her an opportunity
of choosing her own diversions; whereas her taste in those points sometimes differed from her
aunt's, to whom, however, she was obliged to submit. Thus prepossessed, both in favour of her
lover and his proposal, she listened to him with more attention than she chose he should perceive;
but he was too well acquainted with the pretty arts of coquetry not to see through them. He
therefore took courage to insinuate his desire of a private marriage, and ventured to persuade
her to take a trip with him to the northern side of Berwick upon Tweed.

Lady Mary could not see, as Mr Lenman's fortune was considerable and hers entirely precarious,
why he was so apprehensive of not being accepted by her aunt, but there was something spirited
in those northern journeys that had always been the objects of her envy. An adventure was the
supreme pleasure of life and these pretty flights gave marriage all the charms of romance.
To be forced to fly into another kingdom to be married gave her an air of consequence; vulgar
people might tie the knot at every parish church, but people of distinction should do everything
with an eclat. She imagined it very probable that her aunt would consent to her union with
Mr Lenman; for though he was not equal to her in birth, yet he was her superior in fortune;
but yet she looked upon his fears of a refusal as meritorious, since he assured her they arose
from his extreme affection, which filled him with terrors on the least prospect of losing her.
Should Lady Sheerness, he urged, reject his proposal, she might then be extremely offended
with their marrying, after they knew her disapprobation; but if they did it without her knowledge,
she would not have room to complain of downright disobedience, and if it was displeasing to
her, yet being done, and past remedy, she would be inclined to make the best of what was unavoidable,
and forgive what she could not prevent.

These arguments were sufficiently solid for a girl of sixteen who never thought before and
could scarcely be said to do so then. Lady Mary complied with his plan, and the day was fixed
when they were to take this lively step; their several stages settled, and many more arts and
contrivances to avoid discovery concerted, than they were likely to have any occasion for;
but in that variety of little schemes and romantic expedients her chief pleasure in this intended
marriage consisted.

The day before that on which Lady Mary and her lover were to set out for Scotland, she was
airing with Lady Sheerness when one of the horses taking fright, they were overturned down
a very steep declivity. Lady Sheerness was but very little hurt, but Lady Mary was extremely
bruised; one side of her face received a blow which swelled it so violently that her eye was
quite closed, and her body was all over contusions. She was taken up senseless, entirely stunned
by the shock. As soon as she was carried home, she was put to bed; a fever ensued, and she
lay a fortnight in a deplorable condition, though her life was not thought to be in danger.
Her pain, for the greatest part of that time, was too acute to suffer her to reflect much on
the different manner in which she had intended to employ that period; and when her mind became
more at liberty, her disappointment did not sit too heavy on her spirits; for as her heart
was not really touched, she considered the delay which this ill-timed accident had occasioned
without any great concern, and rather pleased herself with thinking that she should give an
uncommon proof of spirit, in undertaking a long journey, so soon after she was recovered from
a very evident proof that travelling is not free from danger. There were those of - you.
is my savior. What angel brought you to this poor woman persecuted? I am innocent. My only crime
love is a lot like a young man who died for me. This has made me the father of the gentleman
from who you talk to me. All his rage against me is because they love him and want his son.
You have mercy on a woman unjustly persecuted.

The doorman went away another man .-- Who comes up with a girl brought here like this? - Is
asked himself. The devil, but the evil spirit to tempt and draw from their boxes to the peaceful
people. Here I would like to see the strong men, the same saints. "Resist? It will soften, they
would melt, would be delivered footed into the clutches of Satan. Will he have the courage to see
her mourn, complain and beg to hear it and not take their part? I will do what it wants. Is
clear. And stay wrong with the Bishop, my protector, will fall from grace, lose the position
I occupy in this house. But what remedy?

She is very cute, cry, and I'm not stick. Damn fruit!

Two or three days later it returned, and keeper of the collections did not get it wrong. Brought
new claim: that of a private conversation with the prisoner in the prison. Visits were prohibited
inside the house could only speak to those contained in the presence of the guardian at the gate
of the goal. But Mary Rule argued the point with skill, saying, among other things, not surprisingly,
the porter will help kill an innocent child sadness, and made complicit in the greatest injustice
that had occurred previously in Havana. That gentleman, lover of the girl, he had very advanced
steps to remove closure, and, of course, exclude from its gratitude
to all those who had oppressed their adored torment.

Then he added, as if suddenly remembering:

- The gentleman gave me for lord these half-dozen ounces of gold, in case the girl needed something
to eat, or dress, or any craving ...

This last argument ended up spoiling the rest of virtue or embarrassment of the goalkeeper.
Granted entry. Briefly describe the scene now followed the interview the messenger with the dam.

María
Cecilia Rule found in the same position in which said had surprised guardian days before,
only this time not the hair that covered part of the back overlooking
the entrance to the cell.

Something began to see there's former nurse, who called him greatly care.

- Jesus! said. What do I see? Is it possible that this child is the same as I suspected? What
things happen in this world!

In that voice and those incoherent exclamations, Cecilia raised her
head and asked Ringtone unconscious and suffering:

- What do you
want?

- I want to tell me his mercy his first name.

- Cecilia Valdés.

-
Jesus! she cried the black.

Itself than I expected! Like a dream. You know his mercy Who painted the crescent?

- What crescent?

- The bears his mercy in the shoulder (with the index touching the girl's left).

- This is not painting, is a mole, or rather, a brand I have been there as a result a blow to
my childhood.

- No, if your worship is really, really Cecilia Valdés I know, that's
not the moon, or hit mark: crescent is the grandmother of his mercy
he painted and indigo needle before to throw it into the Real Casa
Cuna.

- Oh! Mother never told me such thing.

- I know because that
was the signal that I got to recognize among the other girls the Royal
Baby.

- Who is you who knows so much about me?

- Is it possible
that your worship does not know me yet?

Should remember me.

- No, indeed.

- Well, I gave suck to their mercy, first in the Real Casa Cuna, and
then for about a year, staying with the grandmother of his mercy,
when she lived in the alley in San Juan of God.

Your worship was already talking champurriado Pennines and not say more, on days I removed it
from the arms. Ay! Do not know his mercy with tears and sorrow it has cost me his upbringing,
not only to me, also my husband. Yes, your worship has been the cause first and foremost of
our misfortunes.

- What has happened to Vds.?

- I will be banished from Havana twelve
years, and my husband is a prisoner in jail.

Le blame the death of Captain Tonda.

- So that's how you say!

So I am the most unhappy woman who treads the world! Alas, without having harmed anyone all
fall on me!

- Do not cry, nor regret, girl.

Although the cause of our misfortunes, his grace is innocent no fault.

- How should I not mourn and grieve, if pursued after me unjustly, made of stone scandal of women
in this house, harass me with your questions and nonsense, for auction has been you, it says
I grew up, and I reproach the misfortunes of you and her husband? Is there more unhappiness
than mine?

- When I told him my story, woven with that of his mercy, will be
convinced that I have a lot reason.

- But who are you?

- My name
is Maria de Regla, humble servant of his grace, Leonardo Gamboa child
slave.

- Ah!

Cecilia said standing up and hugging her interlocutor.

- Listen!
said it with feeling.

The child recognizes and embraces me as a child slave Leonardo not
the mother's milk as I am of his mercy.

- No, I embrace both reasons,
especially since his coming is a bringer of salvation for me.

The black crossed his arms and began to contemplate Cecilia face to
face.

From time to time murmured in a low tone: See you! The same front!
The same nose! The same mouth!

The same eyes! Even the dimple in his beard! Yes, her hair, her body, her air, her own angel!
What! His very image!

- Who? asked Cecilia.

- In my daughter Adela.

- Who is this girl?

-
Milk My other daughter, sister, father and mother of the child Leonardo.

-
"So much I look like her?

That's what I had told some friends who know her view.

- And say
that it seems.

Not be more like twins.

Could it be because the child why Leonardo is so enamored of his
mercy?

But he sins and sin to want to worship as they want.

If you would like as friends or brothers, go, as a man and woman
is a sin.

Both are in mortal sin.

- Why did you say that? Cecilia asked, surprised. In loving a man and a much woman, I do not know
who has sinned.

- Yes, there, child, sometimes you have to sin tight.

On the one hand, he is white, but within Soon it will be of blue blood, because his father is
the Count of Casa Gamboa. And he has a palace to live with that is to be his lawful wife. And
his mercy ... Sorry, girl, that is so clariosa. His mercy is poor, has no drop of blue blood
and a daughter ... of the Creche. You can not be left to marry his mercy.

- Everything is to be put on the head. A good man he is and does what he wants. And although no,
I'm sure the word that has given me.

- You can not fulfill it, girl.

Undeceive, yet still can not fulfill.

- Why not?

- Why not. In time you will know their mercy.

That marriage is a dream, are not checked ...

- Then you are opposed. I do not understand why.

- I am not opposed, my child.

Not me who is opposed, is another, that's nature are the laws divine
and human.

It would be a sacrilege ... But what do I say? At least it is too
late.

Tell me, girl, what's in your eyes?

- I have nothing in their eyes, "said Cecilia scrubbing innocently.

- Yes, I see something in them that is a bad sign. I think that has yellow eyeball. No doubt.
These circles, the pallor, the face distorted ... Poor thing! His mercy is sick.

- I sick! No, no, she said a hurry.

- His mercy and Leonardo child is female.

- Do not understand what you said.

- Have you ever felt your mercy nausea? So as a desire to be provocative?

- Yes, several times.

More often since I'm in this house. I attribute that to the shocks and sorrows my unjust imprisonment.

-
Tate. Some are the bulls. Did not I? The cause of the illness of his worship is another. I
know, the soothsayer. Do not know the girl I've been a nurse for many years? What am married? There
is no healing.

None ... Poor girl! Innocent! Unhappy! In his mercy has made much damage that face so beautiful
that God has given. If your worship had been born ugly, perhaps does not matter what happens
now. Would be free and be happy. More ... which has no cure, is best forgotten. Finally, tell the
child Leonardo the status of your mercy and safety pin that rush to get the girl in this damn
house.

Leonardo Gamboa strongly affected the latest news that Cecilia brought the slave. Without loss
of time, as he had intended it, he focused with his classmate and friend Mayor, who had decreed
the arbitrary order of imprisonment, to which he claimed those titles, along with this circumstance.
He also revealed the delicate state secret the girl. Spilled all over the gold with both hands
and had the ineffable satisfaction to see their efforts crowned with success all the way over
the last days of the month April.

Cecilia went to his place, despite fierce opposition from his father. Led prison the house they
had rented in the Rue des Dames, by giving cook, servant trust and owner of Mary always rule.
It seemed there was not the happiest man on the face of the earth.

While all this was executed with total reserves of Don Candido, Leonardo hid anything Dona Rosa.
From beginning to end kept informed of the steps being taken, as
were given.

And, sorry to say, do not know who was more rejoicing in the outcome of the drama, if your child
or the mother. This raised an insurmountable barrier, she sincerely believed, between the girl and
the reckless claims of her husband.

Amid these scenes, displayed Leonardo skill and willpower without example, by great care in fulfilling
the conditions of the contract held secret to her mother. Attended to law classes regularly,
and when it came time to graduate, visited one by one doctors to
be discussed, mainly to Don Diego de la Torre, who enjoyed very stiff
reputation with graduates, he went out to Fray Ambrosio Herrera, Secretary
University, who secretly informed that instead of the three tips of
hard custom, intended to put three ounces of gold in each cartridge.

That paved the way for reception, and managed to stall the ordinance hood, up to the chair
of the lecture hall, get in the crown of the head red biretta, delivering a speech unintelligible
in Latin, and obtain the degree of Bachelor of Laws "Nemiña dissentiente [60] April 12 1831.

Satisfied with this side its commitments, he still had time to take formal possession of palace
that his father had given him.

Then, with the aim of monitoring numb of it, ran to give a "caradita" to Isabel's paradise Alquízar,
and see to conclude with it, if possible, the manner and time of marriage.

Found it quite cold and discouraged. Repugnábale highly the idea of ​​witnessing for second
time, the horrific scenes of wit.

As a guest, it would lack the time together with desire, like love, because if failed to stop
loving the terrible punishments blacks there, by a fatal necessity of the institution, could
hardly promised that married were abolished. Leonardo And pray take these reasons for which
mere scruples nun friend, now they might be persuaded it would relieve a promise that is no
longer interested much his heart, turned to Havana without trying to pave the unexpected inconvenience.

Had
flown out with inconceivable rapidity. In late August was a beautiful Cecilia girl; event
that, far from happy with Leonardo, it seems that only made him feel
the full weight of the grave responsibility that had been thrown over
in a moment of amorous rapture.

That not his wife, much less their equal. Could you submit it without blushing, that beautiful
as magu sun, anywhere? He had not yet fallen so gentle slope of vice sambenito that would make the
gala.

Vanished, without a doubt, the enthusiasm with easy coveted possession of the object was only
contemptible in quality above. When love took place shortly shame. After this was due repentance,
and presented at a gallop, much earlier than This was expected, called the cold storage conditions
and moral laxity that had tests the young Gamboa.

The first symptoms of change not long in discovering Cecilia with pain came towards rush of
jealousy to complicate the situation of things.

After three or four months of marriage unlawful were less frequent
and less prolonged visits to Leonardo's house Calle de las Damas.

What value than the height of gifts to the beloved, who advanced
to all tastes and whims, even if it was ever more cold and reserved
with her, but showed pride and joy for the child, if ever they failed
to achieve even for a night trocar the house of his own parents?

This explains the strange behavior of Leonardo with Cecilia, the biggest influence on him vigorously
pursued his mother. Because it was a certainty that if the boy had fled with all the virtues
at the early age of 22 years, fleeing the timid pigeon loft struck
by lightning, was no less true that warmed her heart still sweet filial
marble.

Doña Rosa also had learned from those days true story of birth, baptism, parenting and fatherhood
of Cecilia Valdés, told Mary Rule now in order to obtain complete forgiveness of their sins
and some help for Dionisio, who was still in close prison. Terrified this lady of the abyss
to which he had pushed his son, he said with apparent calmness:

- I was thinking, Leonardite, it's time to loosen up on the little boy like wild pears ... What do
you think?

- Jesus, Mom! shocked the young man replied. It would be an atrocity.

- Yes, it is necessary, the mother said in a resolute tone. Now, to marry Elizabeth.

- This, too? Isabella no longer loves me. You have read his last letters. They do not speak
love, speaks only Monji.

- Nonsense!

Never mind. I'll fix the business in two Palotada. Things have changed.

It should get married early on primogeniture, even not for any other
purpose than ensuring legitimate succession to the title.

To marry Isabel, I say.

By letter of Don Tomas Don Candido Ilincheta, said Dona Rosa Isabel's
hand for his son Leonardo, heir presumptive County Gamboa House.

In response, the alleged bride, accompanied by her father, sister and aunt came to his time
Havana and was removed at the home of her cousins, the Misses Gámez. It was therefore postponed
marriage for early November in the picturesque Church of the Angel, because the most decent,
if not closer to the congregation itself. The first of three revelations Regular ran last Sunday
in October, fairs past San Rafael.

There were those who communicate with Cecilia's new link next to Isabel Ilincheta her lover.
We disclaim paint the tumult of passions aroused in the breast of
the proud and vengeful mulatta.

Suffice it to say that the sheep, in fact, became a lioness.

At dusk on November 10 knocked on the door of an old friend Cecilia,
who not seen since his concubinage with Leonardo.

- Jose Dolores!
she exclaimed, throwing her arms around his neck in tears.

What good angel sent you to me?

- I come, "he said with grim countenance and terrible voice, because it gave me the heart Celia could
need.

- Jose Dolores! José Dolores of my soul! That marriage should not be.

- No?

- No.

- Then tell me not to be Celia.

- No more off him in his arms
and walked outside. Cecilia, a little, limp hair and the dress loose,
ran to the door and shouted back: Joseph! José Dolores! To her, he
does!

Useless warning. The musician had already turned the corner
of Calle de las Damas.

Numerous candles and candles burned on the
altar of the church of Santo Angel Custodio. Some people were standing,
leaning on the railing of the broad plateau ending the two stone steps.
On the Street looks up a large group Compostela ladies and gentlemen
whose carriages were down. The couple put the foot on the last step,
when a man came by the other side, his hat pulled down over ears,
crossed the plateau and ran diagonally to Leonardo, an effort to win
before this the south side of the church, where he finally disappeared.

She
took the boy on the left hand, gave a muffled cry, wanted to lean
on the arm Elizabeth, rolled and fell at his feet, splashing blood
on the shiny white silk dress.

Brushing the arm at the scum, he became
the knife right way the heart.

CONCLUSION

Far from appeasing Rosa
convinced that Cecilia Valdés was the daughter of his adulterous half-sister,
husband and hence his unfortunate son, that it seemed to turn it into
anger divestment and the desire for revenge. Pursued, then, the girl
with real fury, and it was not difficult to make the convict as an
accomplice in the murder of Leonardo, a year of confinement in the
hospital for Paula. On these roads came to recognize and embrace daughter
and mother, having recovered this trial, as is often the insane, a
few moments before his spirit left the wretched human shell.

It makes
Isabel Ilincheta, disillusioned would not find happiness or quiet
the soul in the society within which happens to be born, retired to
the convent of the nuns Teresas or Carmelites, and was professed there
after a year of novitiate. That young lady was not void of compassion for her uneasiness;
but told her that while she was encouraging Lord Robert's passion, she was losing his esteem,
which alone was worth preserving. 'I allow,' said she, 'that by depriving him of his hopes,
you may put an end to his addresses; but consider, my dear Lady Mary, what satisfaction they
can afford you if they are only the result of a fondness for your person which would lose all
its charms for him as soon as it became familiarized by possession. You would then at once
find yourself both neglected and despised by the man for whose sake you had rendered yourself
truly despicable. I know you are incapable of an action that would at the same time rid you
of his esteem and of the more valuable consciousness of knowing yourself to be truly estimable.
I am not of the opinion of those who think chastity the only virtue of consequence to our sex;
but it is certainly so very essential to us that she who violates it seldom preserves any other.
And how should she? For if there are others as great, greater there cannot be, there is none
so necessary. But herein I know you are of my opinion; I only therefore intreat you to shew
Lord Robert that you are so; do not let him mistake your real sentiments; nor in order to preserve
his love, if custom will oblige me to call his passion by that name, leave him reason to flatter
himself that you will fall a victim to his arts and your own weakness.

'Consider with yourself,' continued she, 'which is most desirable, his esteem or his courtship?
If you really love him, you can make no comparison between them, for surely there cannot be
a greater suffering than to stand low in the opinion of any person who has a great share of
our affections. If he neglects you on finding that his criminal designs cannot succeed, he
certainly does not deserve your love, and the consciousness of having raised yourself in his
opinion and forced him to esteem you, together with the pleasure of reflecting that you have
acted as you ought, will afford you consolation.'

These arguments had due weight with Lady Mary, she determined to follow her friend's advice
and submit to the consequences. Lady Sheerness had company that evening and among the rest
Lord Robert. He was, as usual, assiduous in his addresses to Lady Mary who, withdrawing to
a little distance from the company, told him, that she had too long suffered his lordship to
continue a courtship, which he had plainly acknowledged was made with such views as gave her
great reason to blame herself for ever having listened to it. She acknowledged that the levity
of her conduct had been such as lessened her right to reproach him. Encouraged by her errors,
and presuming perhaps on a supposition that he was not unpleasing to her, he had ventured to
insult her in a flagrant manner, but without complaining of what was past, she thought herself
obliged to tell him his pursuit was in vain; that the errors in her conduct were the fault
of education; nor might she so soon have been convinced of them if his behaviour had not awakened
her to a sense of some impropriety in her own conduct, which, conscious of the innocence of
her intentions, she had never suspected: she then told him that if he did not entirely desist
from all addresses to her she should be obliged to acquaint her aunt with his behaviour, who
could not suffer such an insult on her niece to pass unresented.

As soon as she had thus explained herself to Lord Robert, she mingled with the crowd, though
with a mind little inclined to join in their conversation; but her young friend was there and
endeavoured to support her spirits, which were overcome by the effort she had made. This young
lady soon after went into the country and returned no more to London.

Lord Robert was so disconcerted that he left the room as soon as Lady Mary had thus given him
his dismissal. As their acquaintance lay much in the same set, they frequently saw each other.
Lord Robert endeavoured to conquer Lady Mary's resolution by sometimes exciting her jealousy
and at others making her the object of his addresses; but she continued steady in her conduct,
though with many secret pangs. He began at last to converse with her with greater ease to himself
as his passion abated when no longer nourished by hope; and notwithstanding a remainder of
pique, he could not forbear treating her with a respect which her conduct deserved; for he
plainly saw she had acted in contradiction to her own heart. This alteration in his behaviour
afforded her great satisfaction; and though her love was not extinguished, it ceased to be
very painful when she was persuaded she had obtained some share of his esteem.

When Lady Mary was in her twentieth year, Lady Sheerness was seized with a lingering, but incurable
disorder. It made little alteration in her mind. In this melancholy situation she applied to
cards and company to keep up her spirits as assiduously as she had done during her better health.
She was incapable indeed of going so much abroad, but her acquaintance, who still found her
house agreeable, applauded their charity in attending her at home. Cards even employed the
morning, for fear any intermission of visitors should leave her a moment's time for reflection.
In this manner she passed the short remainder of her life, without one thought of that which
was to come. Her acquaintance, for I cannot call them as they did themselves, friends, were
particularly careful to avoid every subject that might remind her of death. At night she procured
sleep by laudanum; and from the time she rose, she took care not to have leisure to think;
even at meals she constantly engaged company, lest her niece's conversation should not prove
sufficient to dissipate her thoughts. Every quack who proposed curing what was incurable was
applied to, and she was buoyed up with successive hopes of approaching relief.

She grew at last so weak that, unable even to perform her part at the card-table, Lady Mary
was obliged to deal, hold her cards and sort them for her, while she could just take them out
one by one and drop them on the table. Whist and quadrille became too laborious to her weakened
intellects, but loo supplied their places and continued her amusement to the last, as reason
or memory were not necessary qualifications to play at it.

Her acquaintances she found at length began to absent themselves, but she re-animated their
charity by making frequent entertainments for them, and was reduced to order genteel suppers
to enliven the evening, when she herself was obliged to retire to her bed. Though it was for
a considerable time doubtful whether she should live till morning, it was no damp to the spirits
of any of the company from which she had withdrawn, except to Lady Mary, who, with an aching
heart, was obliged to preside every evening at the table, and to share their unfeeling mirth,
till two or three o'clock in the morning.

She was greatly afflicted with the thought of her aunt's approaching death, whose indulgence
to her, however blameable, had made a deep impression on her heart; as this gave a more serious
turn to her mind, she could not see Lady Sheerness's great insensibility to what must happen
after death without much concern. The great care that was taken to rob her of leisure to reflect
on matters of such high importance shocked her extremely; and she was disgusted with the behaviour
of those she called her friends, who she plainly perceived would have fallen into total neglect
of her had she not found means to render her house more amusing to them than any into which
they could enter. She now saw that friendship existed not without esteem; and that pleasurable
connections would break at the time they were most wanted.

This course of life continued, till one evening Lady Sheerness was seized with a fainting fit
at the card-table, and being carried to her bed, in half an hour departed to a world of which
she had never thought and for which she was totally unprepared.

As Lady Mary was not able to return to the company, they in decency, not in affliction, retired.

Having long expected this event, her grief was greater than her surprise. She sent for the
gentleman who she knew was her aunt's executor, that her will might be opened and necessary
directions given for the funeral. Lady Mary had no doubt of succeeding to an easy fortune,
and when the will was read it confirmed her in that supposition by appointing her sole heiress.
But the executor told her he feared she would find no inheritance. The will was made on her
first coming to Lady Sheerness, when there was some remains of the money her lord had left
her, but he was well convinced it had since been not only entirety expended, but considerable
debts incurred.

This account was soon proved true by the demands of numerous creditors. Lady Mary gave up all
her aunt's effects, which fell short of the debts, and remained herself in the same destitute
condition from which Lady Sheerness had rescued her. This was a very severe shock; she had
seen sufficient proof of the little real friendship to be found in such fashionable connections
as she had been engaged in, to know that she had nothing to hope from any of her acquaintance.
Her father had been at variance with most of his relations, and Lady Sheerness had kept up
the quarrel. She had therefore little expectation of assistance from them in the only wish
she could form, which was to obtain a pension from the government, whereto her rank seemed
to entitle her. She saw no resource but in the pride of some insolent woman who would like
to have a person of her quality dependent on her; a prospect far worse than death. Or possibly,
good-nature might procure her a reception among some of her acquaintance; but as she had nothing
even to answer her personal expenses, how soon would they grow weary of so chargeable a visitor?

While she was oppressed with these reflections, and had nothing before her eyes but the gloomy
prospect of extreme distress, she received a message from Lady Brumpton, who waited in her
equipage at the door, desiring to be admitted to see her, for Lady Mary had given a general
order to be denied, being unfit to see company, and unwilling to be exposed to the insulting
condolence of many whose envy at the splendour in which she had lived and the more than common
regard that had usually been shewn her, would have come merely to enjoy the triumph they felt
on her present humiliation.

Lady Brumpton was widow to Lady Mary's half-brother. She had been a private gentlewoman of
good family but small fortune, by marrying whom her lord had given such offence to his father
that he would never after admit him to his presence. Lady Sheerness had shewn the same resentment
and there no longer subsisted any communication between the families. Lord Brumpton had been
dead about three years and left no children.

His widow was still a fine woman. She was by nature generous and humane, her temper perfectly
good, her understanding admirable. She had been educated with great care, was very accomplished,
had read a great deal and with excellent taste; she had great quickness of parts and a very
uncommon share of wit. Her beauty first gained her much admiration; but when she was better
known, the charms of her understanding seemed to eclipse those of her person. Her conversation
was generally courted, her wit and learning were the perpetual subjects of panegyric in verse
and prose, which unhappily served to increase her only failing, vanity. She sought to be admired
for various merits. To recommend her person she studied dress and went to considerable expense
in ornaments. To shew her taste, she distinguished herself by the elegance of her house, furniture
and equipage. To prove her fondness for literature, she collected a considerable library; and
to shew that all her esteem was not engrossed by the learned dead, she caressed all living
geniuses; all were welcome to her house, from the ragged philosopher to the rhyming peer; but
while she only exchanged adulation with the latter, she generously relieved the necessities
of the former. She aimed at making her house a little academy; all the arts and sciences were
there discussed, and none dared to enter who did not think themselves qualified to shine and
partake of the lustre which was diffused round this assembly.

Though encircled by science and flattery, Lady Mary's distress reached Lady Brumpton's ears
and brought her to that young lady's door, who was surprised at the unexpected visit, but could
not refuse her admittance. Lady Brumpton began by apologizing for her intrusion but excused
herself on the great desire she had of being acquainted with so near a relation of her lord's,
who, as she was too young to have any share in the unhappy divisions in the family, she was
persuaded was free from those ill-grounded resentments which the malice and impertinence of
tale-bearers are always watchful to improve; and when she considered herself as the first occasion
of the quarrel, she thought it her duty, in regard to her deceased lord's memory, to offer
that protection his sister might justly demand from her, and which her youth rendered necessary.

Lady Mary was charmed with the politeness of Lady Brumpton's address, but still more with the
generosity of her behaviour in seeking her out, at a time when so many were diligent to avoid
her. The acknowledgements she made for the favour done her spoke as much in her recommendation
as her person. Lady Brumpton after some conversation told her she had a request to make to
which she could not well suffer a denial; this was no other than that she would leave that
melancholy house and make hers the place of her fixed abode; for as, by Lord Brumpton's will,
he had bequeathed her his whole fortune, she should not enjoy it with peace of mind if his
sister did not share in the possession.

This very agreeable invitation filled Lady Mary with joy and surprise. She made a proper return
to Lady Brumpton for her generosity and they agreed that Lady Mary should remove to her house
the next day.

When Lady Mary was left alone to reflect on this unexpected piece of good fortune, and considered
the distress she had been in but two hours before, and from which she was now so happily delivered;
when she reflected on the many calamities wherewith from her childhood she had been threatened
and by what various means she had been saved so often from ruin, she could not forbear thinking
that she was indeed the care of that Being who had hitherto employed so little of her thoughts.
Such frequent mercies as she had received, sometimes in being preserved from the fatal consequences
of her own follies, at others from the unavoidable distresses to which she had been exposed,
awakened in her mind a lively gratitude to the supreme Disposer of all human events. The poor
consolations to which her aunt had been reduced in the melancholy conclusion of her life shewed
her that happiness did not consist in dissipation, nor in tumultuous pleasures, and could alone
be found in something which every age and every condition might enjoy. Reason seemed this source
of perpetual content and she fancied that alone would afford a satisfaction suitable to every
state of mind and body. Some degree of religion she imagined necessary, and that to perform
the duties it required was requisite to our peace. But the extent of true religion she had
never considered, though her great good fortune told her that she ought to be thankful for
the blessings conferred and not distrust the care of providence, of which she had received
such signal proofs.

She had often heard Lady Brumpton ridiculed under the appellation of a genius and a learned
lady; but when she recollected who those persons were, no other than the open professors of
folly, it did not prejudice that lady in her opinion, but rather raised her expectation of
being introduced into a superior race of beings for whose conversation she knew herself unqualified,
but from whom she hoped for some improvement to her understanding, too long neglected.

In this disposition of mind Lady Brumpton found her at the hour that she had appointed to fetch
her. They went directly into Lady Brumpton's dressing room, who presented Lady Mary with a
settlement she had prepared of a hundred pounds a year which she begged her to accept for her
clothes and desired that whenever she found it insufficient she would draw on her for more:
she at the same time made her the first payment.

Lady Mary, now entered into a new set of company, frequently found herself entirely at a loss;
for she was so totally unacquainted with the subjects of their discourse that she understood
them almost as little as if they had talked another language; she told Lady Brumpton how much
she was concerned at her own ignorance and begged she would give her some directions what she
should read. That lady, whose chief aim was to shine, recommended to her the things most likely
to fall into conversation, that she might be qualified to bear her part in it. Lady Mary took
her advice and read some moral essays, just published; then a new play; after that the history
of one short period; and ended with a volume of sermons then much in fashion. When she began
to examine what she had acquired by her studies, she found such a confusion in her memory,
where a historical anecdote was crowded by a moral sentiment and a scrap of a play interwoven
into a sermon, that she determined to discontinue that miscellaneous reading and begin a regular
and improving course, leaving to others the privilege of sitting in judgement on every new
production.

In this situation Lady Mary continued some years, without any mortification, except what she
felt from seeing the consequences of Lady Brumpton's too great vanity. It led her into expenses,
which though they did not considerably impair her fortune, yet so far straitened it that she
frequently had not power to indulge the generosity of her mind where it would have done her
honour and have yielded her solid satisfaction. The adulation which she received with too much
visible complacency inspired her with such an opinion of herself as led her to despise those
of less shining qualities, and not to treat any with proper civility whom she had not some
particular desire to please, which often gave severe pangs to bashful merit, and called her
real superiority in question; for those who observed so great a weakness were tempted to believe
her understanding rather glittering than solid. The desire of attracting to her house every
person who had gained a reputation for genius occasioned many to be admitted whose acquaintance
were a disgrace to her, and who artfully taking advantage of her weakness by excess of flattery
found means of imposing on her to any degree they pleased.

The turn of conversation at her house was ridiculed in every other company by people who appeared
most desirous of being in her parties. And indeed it was capable of being so; the extreme endeavour
to shine took off from that ease in conversation which is its greatest charm. Every person
was like a bent bow, ready to shoot forth an arrow which had no sooner darted to the other
side of the room, than it fell to the ground and the next person picked it up and made a new
shot with it. Like the brisk lightning in the Rehearsal, they gave flash for flash; and they
were continually striving whose wit should go off with the greatest report. Lady Mary, who
had naturally a great deal of vivacity and a sufficient share of wit, made no bad figure in
the brilliant assembly; for though she perceived an absurdity in these mock skirmishes of genius,
yet she thought proper to conform to her company; but saw plainly that a sprightly look and
lively elocution made the chief merit of the best bons mots that were uttered among them.

After she had spent about five years with Lady Brumpton, this lady was seized with a nervous
fever which all the art of her physicians could not entirely conquer. Her spirits were extremely
affected and her friends decreased in their attentions as her vivacity decayed. She had indeed
always been superior to her company in every requisite to please and entertain, therefore when
she could not bear her part the conversations flagged; they dwindled from something like wit
into oddity and then sunk into dullness. She was no longer equally qualified to please or to
be pleased; her mind was not at unison with shallow jesters and therefore they could make no
harmony.

Her disorder wore her extremely and turned to an atrophy. In that gradual decay she often told
Lady Mary she was awakened from a dream of vanity; she saw how much a desire to gain the applause
of a few people had made her forget the more necessary aim of obtaining the approbation of
her Creator. She had indeed no criminal actions to lay to her charge; but how should she? Vanity
preserved her from doing anything which she imagined would expose her to censure. She had done
some things commendable, but she feared the desire of being commended was part of her motive.
The humility and calmness of a true Christian disposition had appeared to her meanness of spirit
or affectation, and a religious life as the extremest dullness; but now too late she saw her
error, and was sensible she had never been in the path of happiness. She had not erred from
want of knowledge, but from the strong impulse of vanity which led her to neglect it; but sickness,
by lowering her spirits, had taken away the false glare which dazzled her eyes, and restored
her to her sight.

Lady Brumpton was sensible of her approaching death some weeks before she expired, and was
perfectly resigned. Lady Mary had a second time the melancholy office of closing the eyes of
a benefactress and relation whom she sincerely loved. Lady Brumpton, to remove from her any
anxiety on her own account, acquainted her, as soon as her disease became desperate, that she
had bequeathed her ten thousand pounds, and all her plate and jewels.

Lady Mary found this information true, and received the sum. She was tenderly concerned for
the loss of so good a friend; and by the various circumstances of her life and the many blessings
bestowed on her, had a heart so touched with the greatness of divine mercy that her mind took
a more serious turn than common; and tired of the multitude in which she had so long lived,
she was seeking for a retirement when she met Mrs Morgan and Miss Mancel at Tunbridge; and
as I have already told you, came hither with them.

Mrs Maynard was not a little wearied with so long a narrative, and therefore did not continue
much longer with us; but Lamont and I remained in the park till dinner.

In the afternoon the ladies proposed we should go upon the water, a scheme very agreeable to
us all; some of the inhabitants of the other community were of the party. We got into a very
neat boat, of a size sufficient to contain a large company, and which was rowed by the servants
of the family. We went about three miles up the river, with great pleasure, and landed just
by a neat house where we understood we were to drink tea. The mistress of it received us with
great joy and told the ladies she had longed to see them, their young folks having quite finished
her house, which she begged leave to shew us. Its extreme neatness rendered it an object worthy
of observation; and I was particularly attentive as, its size suiting my plan of life, I determined
to copy it.

The rooms were neither large nor numerous, but most of them hung with paper and prettily adorned.
There were several very good drawings framed with shells, elegantly put together; and a couple
of cabinets designed for use, but they became ornamental by being painted and seaweeds stuck
thereon, which by their variety and the happy disposition of them rendered the doors and each
of the drawers a distinct landscape. Many other little pieces of furniture were by the same
art made very pretty and curious. I learnt in a whisper from Mrs Maynard that this gentlewoman
was widow to the late minister of the parish and was left at his death with five small children
in very bad circumstances. The ladies of Millenium Hall immediately raised her drooping spirits,
settled an income upon her, took this house, furnished it and lent her some of their girls
to assist in making up the furniture, and decorating it, according to the good woman's taste.
She carried us into her little garden that was neat to an excess and filled with flowers, which
we found some of her children tying up and putting in order while the younger were playing
about, all dressed with the same exact neatness as herself.

When we had performed this little progress we found tea ready, and spent the afternoon with
greater pleasure, for observing the high gratification which this visit seemed to afford the
mistress of the house. In the room where we sat was a bookcase well stocked; my curiosity was
great to see what it contained, and one of the ladies to whom I mentioned it indulged me by
opening it herself and looking at some of the books. I found they consisted of some excellent
treatises of divinity, several little things published for the use of children and calculated
to instil piety and knowledge into their infant minds, with a collection of our best periodical
papers for the amusement of lighter hours. Most of these books, I found, were Miss Mancel's
presents.

The fineness of the evening made our return very delightful, and we had time for a little concert
before supper.

The next morning I called up Lamont very early and reminded the housekeeper of her promise
of shewing us the schools; which she readily performing, conducted us first to a very large
cottage or rather five or six cottages laid together. Here we found about fifty girls, clad
in a very neat uniform and perfectly clean, already seated at their respective businesses.
Some writing, others casting accounts, some learning lessons by heart, several employed in
various sorts of needlework, a few spinning and others knitting, with two schoolmistresses
to inspect them. The schoolroom was very large and perfectly clean, the forms and chairs they
sat on were of wood as white as possible; on shelves were wooden bowls and trenchers equally
white, and shining pewter and brass seemed the ornaments of one side of the room; while pieces
of the children's work of various kinds decorated the other; little samples of their performances
being thus exhibited as encouragement to their ingenuity.

I asked many questions as to their education and learnt that they are bred up in the strictest
piety; the ladies by various schemes and many little compositions of their own endeavour to
inculcate the purest principles in their tender minds. They all by turns exercise themselves
in the several employments which we saw going forward, that they may have various means of
gaining their subsistence in case any accident should deprive them of the power of pursuing
any particular part of their business. The ladies watch their geniuses with great care; and
breed them up to those things which seem most suitable to the turn of their minds. When any
are designed for service, they are taught the business of the place they are best fitted for
by coming down to the hall and performing the necessary offices under the direction of the
excellent servants there.

A very large kitchen garden belongs to the house, which is divided into as many parts as there
are scholars; to weed and keep this in order is made their principal recreation; and by the
notice taken of it they are taught to vie with each other which shall best acquit themselves,
so that perhaps never was a garden so neat. They likewise have no small share in keeping those
at the hall in order; and the grotto and seats are chiefly their workmanship.

I gave them due praise upon their performances at the clergyman's widow's, and delighted two
of them very much by my admiration of a little arbour which they had there planted with woodbines
and other sweet shrubs. In their own garden they are allowed the indulgence of any little whim
which takes not up too much room; and it is pretty to see their little seats, their arbours
and beds of flowers, according to their several tastes. As soon as school breaks up, they run
with as much eagerness and joy to their garden, as other children do to their childish sports;
and their highest pleasure is the approbation their patronesses give their performances. They
likewise take it by turns to do the business of the house and emulation excites them to a cleanliness
which could not by any other means be preserved.

From this school we went to one instituted for boys, which consisted of about half the number,
and most of them small, as they are dismissed to labour as soon as they are able to perform
any work, except incapacitated by ill health. This is instituted on much the same principles
as the other, and every boy of five years old has his little spade and rake which he is taught
to exercise.

We returned from our little tour in time enough for prayers, with minds well prepared for them,
by the view of such noble fruits of real piety. Indeed the steward who reads them does it with
such extreme propriety and such humble and sincere devotion as is alone sufficient to fix the
attention and warm the hearts of his hearers.

After breakfast was over, we got Mrs Maynard to accompany us into the garden, she in complaisance
to us abstaining while we were at the hall from her share in the daily visits the ladies pay
to their several institutions, and to the poor and sick in their village. Their employments
are great, but their days are proportionable; for they are always up by five o'clock, and by
their example the people in the village rise equally early; at that hour one sees them all
engaged in their several businesses with an assiduity which in other places is not awakened
till much later.

I called on Mrs Maynard to continue her task, which without any previous ceremony she did as
follows.

THE HISTORY OF Miss SELVYN

Mr Selvyn, the younger brother of an ancient family, whose fortune was inferior to the rank
it held in the country where it had long been fixed, was placed in trade in London; but his
success not answering his hopes, he gave it up before it was too late to secure himself a small
subsistence and retired into the country when Miss Selvyn was about five years old. His wife
had been dead two years; thus his little girl's education devolved entirely on himself.

He bred her up genteelly, though his fortune was small, and as he was well qualified for the
part became himself her tutor and executed that office so well that at twelve years old she
excelled all the young ladies in the neighbourhood of her own age in French and writing, either
for hand or style; and in the great propriety and grace with which she read English. She had
no small knowledge of accounts and had made some progress in the study of history. Her person
was elegant and pleasing and her temper and manner perfectly engaging; but yet these charms
could not induce the neighbouring families to forgive her for excelling other girls in her
accomplishments.

They censured Mr Selvyn for giving his daughter an education to which her fortune was so little
suited, and thought he would have done better to have bred her up to housewifery and qualified
her for the wife of an honest tradesman; for part of what he had was known to be a life income;
a small sinecure having been procured him by his friends in town before he retired into the
country.

The censures of those who love to shew their own wisdom by blaming others had little effect
on Mr Selvyn; he continued his diligence in cultivating his little girl's mind; and even taught
himself many things that he might be able to instruct her. If he did not breed her up in a
manner to gain a subsistence by the most usual means, he however qualified her to subsist on
little; he taught her true frugality without narrowness of mind, and made her see how few of
all the expenses the world ran into were necessary to happiness. He deprived her of all temptation
to purchase pleasures, by instructing her to seek only in herself for them; and by the various
accomplishments he had given her, prevented that vanity of mind which leads people to seek
external amusements. The day was not sufficient for her employments, therefore she could not
be reduced to trifle away any part of it for fear of its lying heavy on her hands.

Thus Miss Selvyn was bred a philosopher from her cradle, but was better instructed in the doctrine
of the ancient moralists than in the principles of Christianity. Mr Selvyn was not absolutely
a free-thinker, he had no vices that made him an enemy to Christianity, nor that pride which
tempts people to contradict a religion generally received; he did not apprehend that disbelief
was a proof of wisdom, nor wished to lessen the faith of others, but was in himself sceptical;
he doubted of what he could not entirely comprehend and seemed to think those things at least
improbable which were not level to his understanding. He avoided the subject with Miss Selvyn;
he could not teach her what he did not believe, but chose to leave her free to form that judgement
which should in time seem most rational to her.

I could not forbear interrupting Mrs Maynard to signify my approbation of Mr Selvyn's conduct
in this particular as the only instance I had ever met with of a candid mind in one who had
a tendency towards infidelity; for 'I never knew any who were not angry with those that believed
more than themselves, and who were not more eager to bring others over to their opinions than
most foreign missionaries; yet surely nothing can be more absurd, for these men will not dare
to say that the virtues which Christianity requires are not indispensable duties; on the contrary,
they would have us imagine they are most sincerely attached to them; what advantage then can
accrue to any one, from being deprived of the certainty of a reward for his obedience? If we
deny revelation, we must acknowledge this point to be very uncertain; it was the subject of
dispute and doubt among all the philosophers of antiquity; and we have but a poor dependence
for so great a blessing if we rest our expectation where they did theirs. Can a man therefore
be rendered happier by being deprived of this certainty? Or can we suppose he will be more
virtuous, because we have removed all the motives that arise from hope and fear? And yet, what
else can excuse an infidel's desire to make converts? Nothing. Nor can any thing occasion it
but a secret consciousness that he is in the wrong, which tempts him to wish for the countenance
of more associates in his error; this likewise can alone give rise to his rancour against those
who believe more than himself; he feels them a tacit reproach to him, which to his pride is
insupportable.'

'But,' said Lamont, 'do you imagine that a free-thinker may not be certain of a future state?'

'Not positively,' answered Mrs Maynard. 'If he is certain of that point, he is a believer without
owning it; he must have had his certainty from Scripture; all the reason he boasts can only
shew it probable, and that probability is loaded with so many difficulties as will much weaken
hope. Where can reason say immortality shall stop? We must allow that Omnipotence may bestow
it on such ranks of being as he pleases. But how can reason tell us to whom he has given it?
Whether to all creation, or no part of it? Pride indeed makes man claim it for himself, but
deny it to others; and yet the superior intelligence perceivable in some brutes, to what appears
in some of his own species, should raise doubts in him who has nothing but the reasonings of
his own weak brain to go upon. But to proceed with my subject.'

The minister of the parish wherein Mr Selvyn dwelt was a gentleman of great learning and strict
probity. He had every virtue in the most amiable degree, and a gentleness and humility of mind
which is the most agreeable characteristic of his profession. He had a strong sense of the
duties of his function and dedicated his whole time to the performance of them. He did not
think his instructions should be confined to the pulpit; but sensible that the ignorant were
much more effectually taught in familiar conversation than by preaching, he visited frequently
the very poorest of his parishioners; and by the humility of his behaviour as much as by his
bounty (for he distributed a great part of his income among the necessitous) he gained the
affections of the people so entirely that his advice was all-powerful with them.

This gentleman's great recreation was visiting Mr Selvyn, whose sense and knowledge rendered
his conversation extremely entertaining, and Miss Selvyn's company was a great addition to
the good minister's pleasure, he took delight in seeing her, as Hamlet says, 'bear her faculties
so meekly'. She was entirely void of conceit and vanity, and did not seem to have found out
that her knowledge exceeded that of most persons of her age, at least she looked upon it as
a casual advantage which reflected no honour to herself but was entirely owing to Mr Selvyn.
Her youthful cheerfulness enlivened the party without rendering the conversation less solid;
and her amiable disposition made the good minister particularly anxious for her welfare.

He soon found out Mr Selvyn's scepticism and endeavoured to remove it. He represented to him
that his not being able to understand the most mysterious parts of Christianity was no argument
against the truth of them. That there were many things in nature whose certainty he by no means
doubted, and yet was totally ignorant of the methods whereby many of them operated, and even
of the use of some of them. Could he say what purpose the fiery comet answers? How is its motion
produced, so regular in its period, so unequal in its motion, and so eccentric in its course?
Of many other things man is in reality as ignorant, only being able to form a system which
seems to suit in some particulars, he imagines he has discovered the whole, and will think
so till some new system takes place, and the old one is exploded. He asked Mr Selvyn if they
descended to the meanest objects in what manner could they account for the polypus's property
of supplying that part of its body which shall be cut away? That insect alone, of all the creation,
does not continue maimed by amputation, but multiplies by it. 'To what can we attribute this
difference in an insect, which in all particulars beside, resembles so many others? Yet who
doubts of the reality of these things? If we cannot comprehend the smallest works of almighty
wisdom, can we expect to fathom that wisdom itself? And say that such things he cannot do,
or cannot choose because the same effects could be produced by other means? Man no doubt might
exert the same functions under another form, why then has he this he now wears? Who will not
reply, because his Maker chose it, and chose it as seeing it best. Is not this the proper answer
on all occasions, when the decrees of the Almighty are discussed? Facts only are obvious to
our reason; we must judge of them by the evidence of their reality if that is sufficient to
establish the facts; why, or how they were produced, is beyond our comprehension. Let us learn
that finite minds cannot judge of infinite wisdom, and confine our reason within its proper
sphere.' By these, and many other arguments, Mr Selvyn was brought to believe the possibility
of what he did not comprehend; and by this worthy clergyman's care Miss Selvyn was early taught
the truths of Christianity, which though the most necessary of all things, was at first the
only one neglected.

In this retired situation they continued till Miss Selvyn was near seventeen years old; Mr
Selvyn then determined to remove to London; and taking a small house in Park Street, fixed
his abode there. Lady Emilia Reynolds lived next door and soon after their arrival made them
a visit, a compliment she said, she looked upon as due to so near a neighbour. Some other ladies
in the same street followed her example, and in a very short time Miss Selvyn was introduced
into as large an acquaintance as was agreeable to her, for she was naturally averse to much
dissipation.

Lady Emilia Reynolds was a single lady of very large fortune, her age upwards of thirty, her
person fine, her manner gentle and pleasing, and an air of dejection did not render her countenance
the less engaging. She was grave and sensible, and kept a great deal of good company, without
entering into a gay way of life. Miss Selvyn's modesty and good sense seemed to have great
charms for her; she cultivated a friendship with her, notwithstanding some disparity in their
ages; and neither of them appeared so nappy as when they were together.

Mr Selvyn could not be displeased at an intimacy so desirable, nor could Miss Selvyn be more
properly introduced into the world than by a person of Lady Emilia's respectable character.

At her house Miss Selvyn saw a great deal of good company, and was so generally liked that
many intreated Lady Emilia to bring her to them whenever her ladyship favoured them with a
visit. These invitations were generally complied with, as under such a protectress Miss Selvyn
might properly venture to any place. Lady Sheerness was one of this number, whose rank, and
some degree of relationship, brought acquainted with Lady Emilia, though the different turn
of their minds and their very opposite taste of life prevented any intimacy between them. Lady
Emilia was not blind to Lady Sheerness's follies, but she esteemed them objects of her compassion,
not of her censure, nicely circumspect in her own conduct, she judged with the extremest lenity
of the behaviour of others, ready to attempt excusing them to the world, and not even suffering
herself to blame what she could not approve; she sincerely pitied Lady Mary Jones, who seemed
by fortune sacrificed to folly; and she was in continual fear lest she should fall a victim
to that imprudence which in her case was almost unavoidable.

By this means Miss Selvyn became acquainted with Lady Mary and was the young woman I before
mentioned as Lady Mary's adviser and conductor, in putting an end to Lord Robert St George's
courtship.

Not long after she had the satisfaction of thus assisting a young lady whose failings gave
her almost as many charms as they robbed her of, she had the misfortune to lose Mr Selvyn.
All that a child could feel for the loss of a tender parent Miss Selvyn suffered. His death
was not so sudden, but that it afforded him time to settle his affairs, and to give every direction
to Miss Selvyn which he thought might save her from all embarrassment on the approaching event.
He recommended to her, as her fortune would be but small, to attach herself as much as possible
to Lady Emilia, since she now became still more necessary as a protectress, than she had before
been desirable as a friend, and that interest as much as gratitude required her cultivating
the affection that lady had already shewn her.

The latter motive was sufficient to influence Miss Selvyn, whose heart sincerely returned the
regard Lady Emilia had for her; but at that time she was too much affected with Mr Selvyn's
approaching dissolution to think of anything else. His care for her in his last moments still
more endeared him who through life had made her happiness his principal study. Her affliction
was extreme, nor could Lady Emilia by the tenderest care for some time afford her any consolation.

