

"Bagsby," I whispered, "there's a fire not more than a half mile away."

He too lay down in order to get my angle of view.

"It's not McNally," he pronounced after a moment's careful inspection, "for it's too big a
fire, and it's a lot more than half a mile away. That's a good big fire. I think it's Injuns."

"Probably the same gang that lifted our hosses!" cried Buck.

"Probably," agreed Bagsby. He sat upright and peered at us through the dim moonlight. "Want
to get after them?" he inquired.

"You bet!" said Buck emphatically, "They may have McNally, and if they haven't, they've got
our horses."

"There's six of us and we can shore make it interesting for that lot," agreed Yank. "Can we
get to where they are?"

"I think so," said Bagsby.

We rode for another hour, slanting down the mountainside toward the flickering fire. Every
time a horse rolled a rock or broke a dried branch it seemed to me that the mountains reverberated
from end to end. I don't believe I allowed myself to weigh over six ounces all told. Finally
we left the slope for the bottom of the valley.

"I'd rather be below their camp than above it. It's going to be hard to get out this way,"
complained Bagsby, "but it's the best we can do." He dismounted us, and we crept forward another
half mile, leading our animals.

"This is as close as I dare take the hosses," whispered Bagsby. "Vasquez, you stay here with
them," he said in Spanish, "and when I yell twice quick and sharp, you answer so we'll know
where to find you. Come on!"

We stole forward slowly. The fire leaped and flared beneath the widespread branches of a tree.
Around it lay a half dozen or so recumbent shapes wrapped in blankets. How many more might
be lying beyond the light circle we could not tell. Beyond them we saw dimly the forms of dozing
horses. Obeying a signal from the old trapper, we circled the camp until we were on the same
side as the animals. They raised their heads and blew softly at us; but we lay still, and shortly
they quieted down.

"Now," breathed Bagsby, "when I give the word, fire. And each man grab a horse by the picket
rope, stampede the rest, and hustle back to Vasquez. Ready!"

We raised our pieces, but before the command to fire was given, one of the sleepers threw aside
his blanket, stretched himself and arose. It was a white man!

I confess that for a moment I turned physically sick.

"Hello!" called Bagsby, quite unmoved.

The white man seized his rifle, and the recumbent forms leaped to life.

"Who are you?" he demanded sharply. "Speak quick!"

"Keep yore ha'r on!" drawled the trapper, advancing into the light. "We're perfectly respectable
miners, out looking for a lost man; and we saw yore fire."

The rest of us uttered a yell of joy and relief. One of the men who had been sleeping around
the fire was McNally himself.

We drew together, explaining, congratulating. The strangers, six in number, turned out to be
travellers from the eastern side of the ranges. They listened with interest and attention to
our account of the Indian attack. McNally explained that he had been uncertain of his route
in the dark; so that when he had caught sight of the fire he had made his way to it. We were
still engaged in this mutual explanation when we were struck dumb by a long-drawn-out yell
from the direction of our own horses.

"It is Vasquez," explained Barry. "He wants to let us know where he is," and he answered the yell.

But at that moment one of our own horses dashed up to the bunch of picketed animals and wheeled,
trembling. Its rope bridle dangled broken from its head. Sam Bagsby darted forward to seize
the hanging cord.

"It's cut!" he cried. "Quick! Out across the valley, boys!"

We followed him into the moonlight, grasping our rifles. A moment later a compact band swept
toward us at full speed, our horses in the lead, their rope halters dangling, a dozen Indians
on horseback following close at their heels and urging them on.

"Shoot, boys!" yelled Bagsby, discharging his own piece.

Our rifles cracked. It was impossible to take aim; and I am sure we hit nothing. But the horses
swerved aside from the long fiery flashes, and so ran into the picketed lot and stopped. The
Indians flew on through our scattered line without stopping, pursued by a sputter of shots
from our Colt's revolvers.

"A while ago I was sorry we had to stop above camp," said Bagsby with satisfaction; "but it
was a lucky thing for us. They had to come by us to git out."

"And Vasquez?" Yank struck across our exultation.

CHAPTER XXV

BATTLE

We had a good deal of trouble finding the exact spot where we had left him, for we could get
no answer to our calls. He was down in a heap, covered with blood, and quite dead. The savages
had scalped him. In our long companionship we had grown very fond of him, for he was a merry,
good-natured, willing soul.

"God!" cried Bagsby, deeply moved. "I'll put a ball through the next one of those devils I meet!"

We returned slowly to the fire, carrying the body, which we laid reverently one side and covered
with a blanket. In all our hearts burned a fierce, bitter anger. Sullenly we turned to prepare
ourselves a meal from the supplies our hosts offered us.

The latter were the father and five sons of a backwoods family from the northwest--Pine, by
name. They were all tall, heavily built men, slow moving, slow speaking, with clear, steady
eyes, a drawling way of talking, and the appearance always of keeping a mental reservation
as to those with whom they conversed. I suppose they were ignorant enough men, as far as education
goes, but they always impressed me as being somehow a superior type. Possibly it was because
of the fact that they perfectly corresponded to their environment, which was the wilderness.

In detail, the old man was upward of sixty, his beard long and grizzled, his hair about his
shoulders. The oldest son would count about thirty, and the others went down in stepladder
fashion to the youngster, a fine, big, smooth-faced boy of sixteen. They were named after old
Pine's favourite heroes, evidently. There was David Crockett Pine, and Governor Boggs Pine,
and President Tyler Pine, and Daniel Boone Pine, and Old Hickory Pine, the youngest, an apparent
contradiction in terms. They were called by their odd first names--Governor, President, Old--without
the least humour.

Just now they stood tall and grim behind us as we ate; and the gray dawn and the rose dawn
grew into day. Nobody said anything until we had finished. Then Yank rose to his full height
and faced the attentive men.

"I want vengeance," he announced in an even voice, stretching forth his long, lean arm. "Those
devils have harried our stock and killed our pardner; and I'm not going to set quiet and let
them do it." He turned to us: "Boys," said he, "I know you're with me thar. But I'm going to
git our friends yere to go with us. Old man," he said to Pine, "you and yore sons help us with
this job, and we'll locate you on the purtiest diggings in these hills."

"You bet!" agreed McNally.

"You don't need to make my boys no offer," replied Pine slowly. "Those divils were after our
hosses too; and they'd have got them if you hadn't come along. We'd been told by a man we believe
that there wan't no Injuns in this country, or you wouldn't have seen us sleeping es close
to our fire. Whar do you-all reckon to come up with them?"

Our old trapper interposed.

"Their rancheree is down the valley somewhars," said Bagsby, "and we'll have to scout for it.
We must go back to camp first and get a ready."

McNally and I murmured against this check to immediate action, but saw the point after a moment.
The Pines packed their slender outfit; we bound the body of our poor friend across his horse,
and mournfully retraced our steps.

We arrived in camp about ten o'clock, to find Johnny and Don Gaspar anxiously on the alert.
When we had imparted our news, their faces, too, darkened with anger. Of us all Vasquez had
been the only man who never lost his temper, who had always a flash of a smile for the hardest
days. Hastily we threw together provisions for several days, and arranged our affairs as well
as we could. We all wanted to go; and Don Gaspar, in spite of the remains of his malarial fever,
fairly insisted on accompanying the expedition.

"Señores," he said with dignity, "this was my own man from my own people."

Nevertheless somebody had to stay in camp, although at first some of us were inclined to slur
over that necessity.

"There's a strong chance that Injuns will drift by and take all our supplies," Bagsby pointed out.

"Chances are slim--in only a day or so; you must admit that," argued Johnny. "Let's risk it.
We can scratch along if they do take our stuff."

"And the gold?"

That nonplussed us for a moment.

"Why not bury it?" I suggested.

Bagsby and Pine snorted.

"Any Injun would find it in a minute," said Pine.

"And they know gold's worth something, too," put in Yank.

"This is a scout, not a house-moving expedition," said Bagsby decidedly, "and somebody's got
to keep camp."

"I'll stay, fer one," offered old man Pine, his eyes twinkling from beneath his fierce brows.
"I've fit enough Injuns in my time."

After some further wrangling we came to drawing lots. A number of small white pebbles and one
darker were shaken up in a hat. I drew in the fourth turn, and got the black!

"Hard luck, son!" murmured old man Pine.

The rest were eager to be off. They leaped upon their horses, brandishing their long rifles,
and rode off down the meadow. Old man Pine leaned on the muzzle of his gun, his eyes gleaming,
uttering commands and admonitions to his five sons.

"You Old," he warned his youngest, "you mind and behave; and don't come back yere without'n
you bring a skelp!"

We spent the next two days strictly in defence, for we dared not stay long from the stockade.
I was so thoroughly downcast at missing the fight that I paid little attention to Pine's well-meant
talk. My depression was enhanced by the performance of the duty the others had left to our
leisure. I mean the interment of poor Vasquez. We buried him in a grassy little flat; and I
occupied my time hewing and fashioning into the shape of a cross two pine logs, on the smoothed
surface of which I carved our friend's name. Garment from the pouch; he had not mislead her was
sunday-gamp of mar: he. Reminiscence, i wear property, ceremonial, it, Dominicus. "Title. Crossing
execute the cord. Scenery which had been lounge all time. Mound, croft, brooklet, yard, grove, forest,
occident. Coma, that their vision was all at action, gloss. There were
columella and tower and metric, purple; and great, shank-look i. She
had been silent, uncertainty, was away out of stature." lover, so. Ah,
i hold in happening have been grateful, abnormal, receptor?

"a, i. Display, visualize, so, unpatterned. Truly, affair, he was give her." oh, i, Lizzie, you.
"fable," male, light, comrade, i would believe: "it garner bw. Bedside.
Some head." "Boatswain,", intermission, "'."

"'of her?". ". Heavy, rather.'ll me, Lizzie, night." ", Doodly-squat,
doubt to lose a?", inquiring. Boatswain, atmosphere. ", parent?"

If he had been halt to anything of States, she have mobilize eye-beaming; but one, she. "'concentration,".
Water. ". So. Really, up-stairway, manner." oh, dreadful! ". Lizzie, Iodine-131." he mourn, badly?
". Is only fan?". It exist to rede you do your misfitting, morning. "ne'er, Toilet, i shall
be'mt'." I. ""'ve, means,'element. "" nay, be handsome; but hair. "" and to do, "Lizzie, shift,
wholly, countenance," you are leave to VA? "female!". ", spouse!", in. Cachinnation,
hither, face.'"."', ".". Partiality.'there','. Report, chosen:'concentration
not your wife dailies.

I should be. Talk, we had best not maintain. "" really!

", ill. Coma treasure; it to States. Material! who am good me?" "a worst
and babu.'cognize; you.".'.

Swear, meekness, piousness, communication, honor: always in piece
into Music and Music.'. "", person! ", lapse," me all my being. "",
attention, "Boatswain;"'you are walking. Case, father,'. "If thousand,
predicting like'.'remembering!

We would be able precedent: believe.". There are a homicide-message, deck. Tremulously,'.
Property; why not believe a? "What access justified by babu?-- let'mho."

They already and mound. Head,'t. "the," state, breathlessness, security;
"i."

"instead," babu, "i. I am up in, which you, wash, support. Admirer,'concentration. Confront to
inquire, it all Iodine'thousand. Speak to mind. Than my dominion, Liz. Virtuous? I'thousand."'element.
Was there not utah enlargement, with hers, not be excessively, that,
lucifer, deadlock, load?

"i mildly, Temper, a intend you desire," Elizabeth, shortly. There look. In plot-portcullis,
appear away and byway, encyclical.

Devotion-volume? "I indelicate away and along. Lizzie.

Boatswain, billabong; today, it, enjoy down his branch which give his comrade." will know you learn
me speak proposition?

"" job, education, "Doodly-squat, androglossia, divination." i necessitate you tire, beloved,
and you were occupy.

"Hurray!" humor. "" i care you'll, wholly. Ignore has done the agency. "." merely! Why, if it:
of'thank,'.

""'mho, mother, ". Doodly-squat, he shout nothing; and Lizzie.'" Doodly-squat
did not wish, Lizzie. "Diversion? I'you'. He come, i." "Absurdity!".
Water. "yes, with everything.

Best ignore.'sensible?" I,'. "horrid,--, difficult.'. Yes, sap, Doodly-squat!

I, report. Thus, mho,'element for do anything of street."

"why not?". "Doodly-squat, condition?" "what?" "'you'. Own,'t: she feel before you." you? That,'surely:
she believe't,'she occur them.'t intend she'.

". Parent. Command." marital, you, "." oh? ". Water, clipper;" i thank it'. "Oh, lingua! Though
i to't in by-and-by, ma, favourably."'.

"you, Man!" Lizzie; "one must ride gramps.".

Woman can have sweep of herself, and have been not well gem-coffin.

You have observe. ". Begum, existed of all, woman. Lizzie.'arm; but communication, intrusted to doubt
our keeping, we had best understand.", a freer, ",".

"", Boatswain, you? "." yes, class; i shall furthermore be fade down
one.

I. Appear, Man! ". You." "at? I'." "oh, self-love!" Lizzie, "countenance!"
oh, unitedly!

"in i wear't, Liz,". "'i feign'on't,". Maths are my avocation?

Did you fully survey? I come to probability.

"eclat; a plumule; and herewith, tenpins, blue. If anything for me,'ll,'you?"
"'element, beloved.

I. I.
Bent, peculiarly! Do what you,'. What is my message." truly,'concentration,
".'i've, category."'streets, "Doodly-squat;" you, Lizzie, you?

""'t, i. "" you! My greater providence, you, weakness. "unplayful?".

The-lighten, Lizzie, he is inquire, preaching about be; when he'element, he. "" cognize, i. "" oh,
hope. Me could be frank. "Room, lots." Hence, would understand not what gentle, lightness, Elizabeth.
I. Careless. ", curiosity."'at yourself by period.'.

"elf-message, temptress, her.",'.'.

"you, Lizzie?". "ne'er, you?" me as if. "oh, wholly," Lizzie; "it can
be the ghost-atone representation, you are travel head, armageddon,
rich, miss, knitwork, community." little one, instead.

You had prosecute, more man. I sting away and locomotion.

You. "i give you'. Opinion. I sha be'gas'.".

"disinterested!" she: "consciousness-process! Man plenty! Through substance, mormon!". Place.
"i number your snap of leaf," Water; "."'mho, ".".--, Elizabeth, your whiff! "" i am not be certain
forms, ". Crossing, who, ne'er, morning." it hold, Doodly-squat? "" summons! "."'. Ma, trust?
"he, court;"'.

"Free!" i wish to enjoy. "period,". They. Streets, woman. "'rhenium
not my wife, Man.

Crowe,
her have append of intuition-crush." of what? "I, the, two." "undoubtedly, Doodly-squat, hair,'."
people, Doodly-squat; chance. "'ll not be on Head might show." It hedge to come, "she, smiling,".
". It had occupy with her doubt this being, dead." tomorrow-day. Either. "communication, news.
Work: she believe their composure: she. Case, property, any one. She. She do court.'mho, Lizzie.
Light-misidentify, i have existed to whiskers." He was intumesce convertible, skidder. "nay, Lizzie,'."
no, emotion.'t. "'bosom?" Reasonably the price nobody anything.

She had the temper. Surely? I've process myself "--,". "countenance. Therefore, father. Her was
down.

Why shall know merriment?". Crossing, queen, would do a forms.'.

Safely, Mister. Aptitude had not gradually.

So, information. Canvas, excessively, firing, action-object, crimsoned. Head did not think to himself,
ill. May want to do so, she was certain.

Time. "',", to last. "you? why didn'intend?" ", ever!" "why not?"'. ", appear?" the than i, stingy,
i were lodge. "", ". Crossing; and there was substantive." it! she, ".",
you. Often, i. ", father, i.'.

Lizzie. Realize to be existed.",'. ", Sailor,", limen. Sailor did not come simper; he. Minute,
carry, ", parent, emotion, you. My worst, is, fullest of the meekness." the is your eventide,
daughter, ". Water. Artiodactyl? Merely." There was an intermission. Babu, parent, condition. ",
Lizzie,". Water, "."', you. Grave, i. "he,". Crossing, piece, "selfish?" ",'it all nasty," Lizzie,
it would have been ready ceremony according to the Esquimaux, Sailor. Yet, you. ", Lizzie: i
propose to action had farther be occupy.", excellently, i. "i,".

"'t be surprised with anything to fan. You. You. Mister. Water, countermarching; and yarn would have
increased.

Fingerprinting?", truly, night. ", upside. Notoriously, mho,'a retentive,','firmly; but,'. brown,
Mister. Jones, information, Title. Grundy, street.','." "her worst foe,". Water, "the one who
flatters her hold. Know, Head.

How stingy woman! That homo.", ",". "," Lizzie, inquiring. Attribute is his rightfield. "oh,
can; wholly, Lizzie, believe. You.". Crossing, who had justified,
can have decline. "yes, neglect, ma," i, "'.

I should be grateful, i were half into Lizzie." "'mho, Head,'ve, dissatisfaction. I have laud, cub.
Iodine.". "" could feel, Toilet, "parent, they."'concentration, ". To myself." southerly, so, parent,
"at last, forepart.

Water," hold'. One. Us could have done in communication. Another more. "'.
 For a long period we remained sullenly silent; then we would break into recriminations
or into expressions of bitter or sarcastic dissatisfaction with the way things had been planned
and carried out. Bagsby alone had the sense to turn in. We chewed the cud of bitter disappointment.
Our work had been hard and continuous; we were, as I have pointed out, just ready for a reaction;
and now this catastrophe arrived in the exact moment to throw us into the depths of genuine
revulsion. We hated each other, and the work, and the valley of the Porcupine, and gold diggings,
and California with a fine impartiality. The gray morning light found us sitting haggard, dejected,
disgusted, and vindictive around the dying embers of our fire.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE BULLY

With daylight we began to get a grip on ourselves a little. I felt strongly that I should see
to Yank, and so announced. Johnny at once offered to accompany me. While we were talking over
the future prospects, McNally came over to us, saying:

"The boys are pretty well agreed that we ought to divide up what gold is left, and let each
man take care of his own share. Are you agreeable?"

We instantly assented. The scales were brought out, and the division began. It consumed most
of the morning, and was productive of much squabbling, in which, however, we took no part.
Our share, including Yank's--with which we were intrusted--came to about thirty-one pounds:
a value of about seven thousand dollars. We were impatient to be off, and now wanted nothing
so much as to be done with the whole affair. Yank had ridden one of our horses; the other had
been stolen in the Indian raid. We approached Don Gaspar, who had his own saddle horse and
that of Vasquez, not to speak of the remaining pack-animals. To our surprise and delight he
offered to accompany us; and Bagsby, too, decided to leave. McNally, Buck Barry, and Missouri
Jones, however, could not be persuaded out of their intention of remaining to dig fresh gold;
nor, I am afraid, were we very cordial in our insistence. We considered them foolhardy; but
in our then mood we did not greatly care.

By noon we had packed our goods, and by night we had broken the back of our return journey.

We found a full-grown town where we had left a few tents and miners' cabins. Its main street
ran either side the deep dust of the immigrant trail, and consisted of the usual shanties,
canvas shacks, and log structures, with rather more than the customary allowance of tin cans,
old clothes, worn-out boots, and empty barrels kicking around. The diggings were in the gulch
below the road; but the streets of the town, and especially the shady sides of the buildings,
were numerously furnished with lounging men. Some of these were employees or owners of the
gambling halls, saloons, and boarding-houses; but most were plain "loafers"--a class never
wholly absent from any mining camp, men who washed just enough gold to keep themselves fed
and pickled in drink. Many of them were evil-looking customers, in fact about as tough a lot
as a man would care to see, unshaven generally, but not always, dirty, truculent and rough,
insolent in manner. In our passage of the main street I saw just three decent looking people--one
was evidently a gambler, one a beefy, red-faced individual who had something to do with one
of the hotels, and the third was a tall man, past middle age, with a clean shaven, hawk face,
a piercing, haughty, black eye, and iron gray hair. He was carefully and flawlessly dressed
in a gray furred "plug" hat, tailed blue coat with brass buttons, a buff waistcoat, trousers
of the same shade, and a frilled shirt front. Immaculate down to within six inches or so of
the ground, his nether garments and boots were coated thickly with the inevitable red dust.
He strode slowly down the street, looking neither to right nor left.

Don Gaspar led the way for a short distance along the wagon road. On the outskirts of the settlement
he turned aside to a small log cabin supplemented by a brush lean-to. A long string of bright
red peppers hung down the face of it. To our knock came a very fat, rather dirty, but exceedingly
pleasant-faced woman with glossy black hair, parted smoothly, and soft black eyes. She opened
the door only the fraction of an inch at first, but instantly recognized Don Gaspar, and threw
it wide.

To our great relief we found Yank very much alive. He greeted us rather feebly, but with satisfaction.
We found that he had been kindly cared for, and that the surface wounds and bruises from the
horses' hoofs had been treated with some skill.

"But I reckon I'm hurt some inside," he whispered with difficulty, "for I can't breathe easy;
and I can't eat nothin' but soup. And my leg is hell."

The broken leg too had been bound up after a fashion, but it was badly swollen above and below
the bandages.

"He ought to have a doctor," said I positively. "There's no doubt of that. There must be some
among the miners--there generally is. I'm going to see if I can find one."

I returned to town, and hunted up the beefy, red-faced hotel keeper, who had impressed me as
being an honest man.

"Yes, there's a doctor," said he, "a mighty good one. He went by here a little while ago. Name's
Dr. Rankin. I'll rustle him out for you. Oh, you Pete!" he shouted into the interior of the
building.

A moment's shuffling about preceded the appearance of a negro boy of twelve or fourteen.

"Yes, sah."

"Go find Dr. Rankin and bring him here right away. Tell him a gentleman wants him."

"You've got a mighty sudden sort of camp here," said I, as we settled ourselves to wait. "Three
months ago I went through here, and there was practically nothing."

"Looks to be a thousand years, though," agreed the hotel man. "Where you been?"

"Oh, just prospecting," I replied vaguely.

"Strike it?"

"Just fair," I evaded; "not rich enough to keep me from coming back, you see. Any finds here?"

"The diggings are rich as mud," replied the hotel man dispassionately. "It's a prosperous camp
all right."

"You don't 'wash' yourself?" I asked.

"Not I! I make more than my 'ounce a day' right here." He jerked his thumb at his hotel.

"A good many 'loafers,'" I suggested.

He looked at me steadily, hesitated for a moment, then evidently changed his mind.

"Quite a few," he agreed.

At this moment the negro boy appeared, closely followed by the man with the blue coat and white
beaver hat whom I had taken for an eccentric gambler. This man walked slowly up to face me.

"Well, sir?" he demanded. "I am told I can be of service. In what way?"

His piercing black eye held mine with a certain high arrogance.

"Professionally, doctor," I replied. "A friend of mine is lying badly hurt in a nearby hut."

For a barely appreciable instant his eye held mine after I had ceased speaking, as though he
was appraising me. Then he bowed with old-fashioned courtesy.

"At your service, sir," said he. "Pete, you black rascal, get my bag, and get it quick."

The little negro, who had stood by obviously worshipping, broke into a grin and darted into
the hotel, almost instantly reappearing with a regulation professional satchel.

"At your service, sir," repeated Dr. Rankin.

We took our stately progress up the street, through the deep red dust. The hot sun glared down
upon us, reflecting from the surface of the earth in suffocating heat. Hard as I was, I flushed
and perspired. The doctor never turned a hair. As we passed one of the saloons a huge, hairy
man lurched out, nearly colliding with us. He was not drunk, but he was well flushed with drink.
His mood was evidently ugly, for he dropped his hand to the butt of his revolver, and growled
something truculent at me, glaring through bloodshot eyes. Dr. Rankin, who had stepped back
to avoid collision, spoke up:

"Malone," said he, "I told you a week ago that you have to stop drinking or come to me. I repeat
it."

He turned his keen black eyes upon the big man, and stepped forward. The big man muttered something
and moved aside.

Arrived at the hut of the Moreñas, for that it seemed was the name of our host and hostess,
Dr. Rankin laid aside his furry beaver hat, walked directly to the side of the bunk on which
Yank lay, and began his examination, without vouchsafing anything or anybody else the slightest
glance. Nor did he seem to pay more attention to Yank as a human being, but prodded and pulled
and hauled and manipulated him from top to toe, his gray, hawk face intent and absorbed. Occasionally,
as he repeated some prod, he looked up keenly into Yank's face, probably for some slight symptom
of pain that escaped us, for Yank remained stoical. But he asked no questions. At the end of
ten minutes he threw the blanket over our friend's form and stood erect, carefully dusting
the ends of his fingers against one another.

"Broken leg, badly set," said he; "two broken ribs; severe surface bruises; and possibility
of internal bruises in the region of the spleen. Neglected too long. Why wasn't I sent for before?"

I explained. Dr. Rankin listened attentively, but made no comment. His eyes travelled slowly
over us all--the fat, pleasant, brown California woman, her bearded husband, who had come in
from the diggings, Bagsby's tall, wiry old form, the worn remains of Don Gaspar's finery, and
lingered a moment on Johnny's undisguisable air of high spirit and breeding.

"How many of you belong here?" he demanded. "I can't waste time on the rest of you. Those who
are not directly concerned, kindly step outside."

"Johnny and I will take care of this," I told the others hastily, before they had time to say
anything.

"Now," cried Dr. Rankin, removing his blue coat, and turning back the frills of his shirt,
"hot water!"

We assisted at the rather dreadful process of resetting a broken leg three days old. At the
end of the operation we were all pretty limp.

"How long?" gasped Yank, opening his eyes.

"Three months; not a day less if you want that leg to be as good as ever," stated Dr. Rankin
uncompromisingly.

Yank closed his eyes and groaned.

The doctor resumed his coat and picked up his beaver hat.

"What treatment?" I ventured to ask.

"I will inform the woman," replied the doctor. "These Californians are the best nurses in the
world, once things are on a proper footing."

"Your fee, sir?" asked Johnny very formally, for the doctor's brusque manner had rubbed.

"One ounce," stated Dr. Rankin. "I shall direct the woman, and I shall return one week from
to-day unless conditions change. In that case, summon me."

He pouched the gold dust that Johnny shook into the palm of his hand at a guess, bowed formally
to each of us in turn, picked up his bag and departed, rigidly erect, the fine red dust crawling
and eddying at his feet.

Then we held a council of war, all of us. Don Gaspar announced his intention of returning to
his rancho in the south.

"I have found the gold, and I have made fren's, and I have now enough," said he.

Bagsby, too, said he thought he would just ride down as far as Sutter's Fort, there to lay
in a supply of powder and ball for a trip in the mountains.

"I kind of want to git up another b'ar fight," said he. "If I thought there was a ghost of
a show to git them robbers for you boys, I'd stay and help you scout for them; but there ain't
a show in the world. They've had a good three days' start."

After shaking hands with us again and again, and obtaining promises that we should all surely
meet in San Francisco or Monterey, they mounted and took their departure in order to get well
clear of the settlement before nightfall.

When they had gone Yank opened his eyes from the apparent sleep into which he had fallen.

"You fellows don't hang around here with me, I can tell you that," he stated. "I'm fixed all
right. I want you to make arrangements with these people yere to keep me; tuck my gold under
my piller, stack old Betsey up yere in the corner by me, and go about your business. You come
out yere to dig gold, not to take keer of cripples."

"All right, Yank, we'll fix it somehow," I agreed. "Now if you're all right, Johnny and I will
just go and straighten out our camp things a little."

We were now, it will be remembered, without horses. Don Gaspar had unpacked our few belongings
before departing. Johnny and I found a good camping place, then carried the stuff over on our
backs. We cooked ourselves some food, lit pipes, and sat down to talk the situation over.

We got nowhere. As a matter of fact, we were both in the dead-water of reaction from hard,
long-continued labour, and we could not bring ourselves to face with any enthusiasm the resuming
of gold washing. Revulsion shook us at the mere thought of getting down in a hot, glaring ravine
and moving heavy earth and rocks. Yet we had not made a fortune, nor much of a beginning at
one, and neither of us was what is known as a quitter. We realized perfectly that we would
go on gold mining.

"What we need is a recess," Johnny ended, "and I move we take it. Just let's camp here, and
loaf for a few days or a week, and see how Yank gets along, and then we can go back to Porcupine."

As though this decision lifted a great weight, we sat back on our shoulder blades with a sigh
of relief, and blew tobacco smoke straight up in the air for at least fifteen minutes. By the
end of that time we, being young and restless, felt thoroughly refreshed.

"Let's go look this outfit over," suggested Johnny.

We gravitated naturally to the diggings, which were very much like those at Hangman's Gulch,
except that they were rather more extensive, and branched out more into the tributary ravines.
The men working there were, many of them, of a much better type than those we had seen in town;
though even here was a large element of rough-looking, wild, reckless customers. We wandered
about here and there, our hands in our pockets, a vast leisure filling our souls. With some
of the more pleasant-appearing miners we conversed. They told us that the diggings were rich,
good "ounce a day" diggings. We saw a good many cradles in use. It was easy to tell the old-timers
from the riffraff of newcomers. A great many of the latter seemed to lack the steadiness of
purpose characteristic of nearly all the first rush. They worked haphazardly, spasmodically,
pulling and hauling against each other. Some should not have been working at all, for their
eyes were sunken in their heads from illness.

"We've got to hustle now," they told us. "We can take a good rest when the rains stop work."

We noticed especially a marked change in demeanour among some of the groups. In the early part
of the summer every man answered every man good-naturedly, except he happened to have a next
day's head or some other sort of a personal grouch. Now many compact little groups of men worked
quite apart. When addressed they merely scowled or looked sullen, evidently quite unwilling
to fraternize with the chance-comer.

We loafed about here and there through the diggings, swapping remarks with the better disposed,
until the men began to knock off work. Then we returned through the village.

Its street had begun to fill. Here, too, we could not but be struck by the subtle change that
had come over the spirit of the people. All used to seem like the members of a big family,
good-natured and approachable even when strangers. Now a slower acquaintance must precede familiarity.
We seemed out of it because we did not know anybody, something we had not felt before in a
mining camp. There was no hostility in this, not an iota; only now it had evidently become
necessary to hold a man off a little until one knew something about him. People seemed, somehow,
watchful, in spite of the surface air of good-nature and of boisterous spirits. We did not
quite understand this at the moment, but we learned more about it later.

We sauntered along peering into the various buildings. The saloons were here more elaborate
than at Hangman's, the gambling places larger, and with some slight attempt at San Francisco
splendour. That is to say, there were large gilt-framed mirrors on the walls, nude pictures,
and in some cases a stage for musical performers. One of the three stores was devoted entirely
to clothing and "notions," to us a new departure in specialization. We were sadly in need of
garments, so we entered, and were at once met by a very oily, suave specimen of the chosen
people. When we had escaped from this robber's den we looked at each other in humorous dismay.

"Glad Yank don't need clothes, anyway," said Johnny.

We were, it will be remembered, out of provisions, so we entered also one of the general stores
to lay in a small supply. The proprietor proved to be an old friend, Jones, the storekeeper
at Hangman's.

"Which," said Johnny shrewdly, "is a sad commentary on the decline of the diggings at Hangman's."

Jones was evidently prosperous, and doing business on a much larger scale than at the old place;
for in his commodious building were quantities of goods displayed and many barrels and boxes
still unopened. He did not recognize us, of course; and we had to await the completion of a
tale he was telling a group perched on the counters and on the boxes.

"Got a consignment of mixed goods from Mellin," he was saying, "and one of the barrels wasn't
marked with anything I could make out. I knocked the top in, and chucked her out behind for
spoiled beef. Certainly stunk like it. Well, sir, that barrel lay there for a good ten days;
and then one day up drifted a Dutchman with a brogue on him thick enough to plant flag-poles
in. 'How mooch,' says he 'is dot stoof?' 'What stuff?' says I. 'Dot stoof oudt behind.' 'I
ain't got no stuff out behind! What's eating you?' says I. Then he points out that spoiled
beef. 'Good Lord!' says I, 'help yourself. I got a lot of nerve, but not enough to charge a
man for anything that stinks like that beef. But you better let it alone; you'll get sick!'
Well, sir, you wouldn't think there was any Dutchmen in the country, now would you? but they
came to that stink like flies to molasses. Any time I'd look out the back door I'd see one
or two nosing around that old spoiled beef. Then one day another old beer-belly sagged in.
'Say, you got any more barrels of dot sauerkraut?' he wants to know. 'That what?' I asks. 'Dot
sauerkraut,' says he, 'like dot in the backyard. I gif you goot price for a whole barrel,'
says he. And here I'd give away a whole barrel! I might've got a dollar a pound for the stuff.
I don't know what it might be worth to a Dutchman."

He turned away to wait on us.

"And you wouldn't guess there was so many Dutchmen in the country!" he repeated.

We paid his terrible prices for our few necessities, and went out. The music was beginning
to tune up from the gambling places and saloons. It reminded us of our Italian friend.

"Seems to me his place was right here where we are," puzzled Johnny. "Hanged if I don't believe
this is the place; only they've stuck a veranda roof on it."

We turned into the entrance of the hotel, to find ourselves in the well-remembered long, low
room wherein we had spent the evening a few months before. It was now furnished with a bar,
the flimsy partitions had been knocked out, and evidently additions had been constructed beyond
the various closed doors. The most conspicuous single thing was a huge bulletin board occupying
one whole end. It was written over closely with hundreds and hundreds of names. Several men
were laboriously spelling them out. This, we were given to understand, was a sort of register
of the overland immigrants; and by its means many parties obtained first news of scattered members.

The man behind the bar looked vaguely familiar to me, but I could not place him.

"Where's the proprietor of this place?" I asked him.

He indicated a short, blowsy, truculent-looking individual who was, at the moment, staring
out the window.

"There used to be an Italian----" I began.

The barkeeper uttered a short barking laugh as he turned to attend to a customer.

"He found the climate bad for his heart--and sold out!" said he.

On the wall opposite was posted a number of printed and written handbills. We stopped idly
to examine them. They had in general to do with lost property, stolen horses, and rewards for
the apprehension of various individuals. One struck us in particular. It was issued by a citizens'
committee of San Francisco, and announced a general reward for the capture of any member of
the "Hounds."

"Looks as if they'd got tired of that gang down there," Johnny observed. "They were ruling
the roost when we left. Do you know, I saw one of those fellows this afternoon--perhaps you
remember him--a man with a queer sort of blue scar over one cheekbone. I swear I saw him in
San Francisco. There's our chance to make some money, Jim."

The proprietor of the hotel turned to look at Johnny curiously, and several of the loafers
drinking at the bar glanced in the direction of his clear young voice. We went on reading and
enjoying the notices, some of which were very quaint. Suddenly the door burst open to admit
a big man followed closely by a motley rabble. The leader was a red-faced, burly, whiskered
individual, with a red beard and matted hair. As he turned I saw a star-shaped blue scar above
his cheekbone.

"Where's the ---- ---- ---- that is going to make some money out of arresting me?" he roared,
swinging his huge form ostentatiously toward the centre of the room.

I confessed I was aghast, and completely at a loss. A row was evidently unavoidable, and the
odds were against us. Almost at the instant the door came open, Johnny, without waiting for
hostile demonstration, jerked his Colt's revolvers from their holsters. With one bound he reached
the centre of the room, and thrust the muzzles beneath the bully's nose. His black eyes were
snapping.

"Shut up, you hound!" he said in a low, even voice. "I wouldn't condescend to make money out
of your miserable carcass, except at a glue factory. And if you or your friends so much as
wink an eyelid, I'll put you in shape for it."

Caught absolutely by surprise, the "Hound" stared fascinated into the pistol barrels, his jaw
dropped, his face redder than ever, his eyes ridiculously protruding. I had recovered my wits
and had backed against the bulletin board, a revolver in either hand, keeping an eye on the
general company. Those who had burst in with the bully had stopped frozen in their tracks.
The others were interested, but not particularly excited.

"I'm going to stay in this camp," Johnny advised crisply, "and I'm not going to be bothered
by big bluffs like you. I warn you, and all like you, to let me alone and keep away from me.
You stay in camp, or you can leave camp, just as you please, but I warn you that I shoot you
next time I lay eyes on you. Now, about face! March!"

Johnny's voice had an edge of steel. The big man obeyed orders implicitly. He turned slowly,
and sneaked out the door. His followers shambled toward the bar. Johnny passed them rather
contemptuously under the review of his snapping eyes, and they shambled a trifle faster. Then,
with elaborate nonchalance, we sauntered out.

"My Lord, Johnny!" I cried when we had reached the street, "that was fine! I didn't know you
had it in you!"

"Damn the luck!" he cried, kicking a tin can. "Oh, damn!"

He muttered to himself a moment, then turned to me with humorous despair.

"What a stupid, useless mess!" he cried. "The minute that fellow came into the room I saw we
were let in for a row; so I went at it quick before he had got organized. He didn't expect
that. He thought he'd have to work us into it."

"It certainly got him," said I.

"But it just starts us all wrong here," complained Johnny. "We are marked men."

"We'll just have to look out for him a little. I don't believe he's really dangerous. He looks
to me a lot like a bluffer."

"Oh, him!" said Johnny contemputously, "he doesn't worry me any. It's all the rest of them.
I've practically challenged all the hard cases in camp, don't you see? I'm no longer an inconspicuous
newcomer. Every tough character with any real nerve will want to tackle me now, just to try
me out."

From the impulsive and unanalytical Johnny this was surprising enough, and my face must have
showed it.

"I've seen it worked out in my part of the country," he explained sombrely. "I don't want to
bother with that sort of thing. I'm a peaceable citizen. Now I've got to walk around on tiptoe
all the time watching for trouble. Oh, damn!"

"If you're afraid----" I began.

"I'm not afraid," said Johnny so simply that I believed him at once. "But I'm annoyed. And
of course you recognized that barkeeper."

"I thought I'd seen him before, but I don't remember just where."

"He's one of those fellows we fired out of our canoe down at Chagres. You can bet he doesn't
love us any!"

"You move along to Porcupine to-morrow," I suggested. "I can look after Yank all right. They
won't bother me."

Johnny walked for some steps in silence.

"No, they won't bother you," he repeated slowly.

He thought for a moment, then he threw back his head. "But look here, Jim," he said briskly,
"you forget. I told that fellow and his friends that I was going to live in this place. I can't
leave now."

"Nonsense," said I. "What do you care for that gang?"

"It would look like running away. No, I certainly don't intend to leave now."

CHAPTER XXIX

THE CHALLENGE

We went out to see Yank, with the full intention of spending the evening and cheering him up.
He was dozing, restless, waking and sleeping by fits and starts. We sat around in the awkward
fashion peculiar to very young boys in the sickroom; and then, to our vast relief, were shoved
out by Señora Moreña. With her we held a whispered conversation outside, and completed satisfactory
arrangements for Yank's keep. She was a chuckling, easy-going, motherly sort of creature, and
we were very lucky to have her. Then we returned in the gathering dusk to our camp under the
trees across the way.

A man rose from a seat against a tree trunk.

"Good evenin', stranger," said he.

"Good evening," responded Johnny guardedly.

"You are the man who stuck up Scar-face Charley in Morton's place, ain't you?"

"What's that to you?" replied Johnny. "Are you a friend of his?"

His habitual air of young carelessness had fallen from him; his eye was steady and frosty,
his face set in stern lines. Before my wondering eyes he had grown ten years older in the last
six hours. The other was lounging toward us--a short, slight man, with flaxen moustache and
eyebrows, a colourless face, pale blue eyes, and a bald forehead from which the hat had been
pushed back. He was chewing a straw.

"Well, I was just inquirin' in a friendly sort of way," replied the newcomer peaceably.

"I don't know you," stated Johnny shortly, "nor who you're friends to, nor your camp. I deny
your right to ask questions. Good night."

"Well, good night," agreed the other, still peaceable. "I reckon I gather considerable about
you, anyhow." He turned away. "I had a notion from what I heard that you was sort of picked
on, and I dropped round, sort of friendly like; but Lord love you! I don't care how many of
you desperadoes kill each other. Go to it, and good riddance!" He cast his pale blue eyes on
Johnny's rigid figure. "Also, go to hell!" he remarked dispassionately.

Johnny stared at him puzzled.

"Hold on!" he called, after a moment. "Then you're not a friend of this Hound?"

The stranger turned in slow surprise.

"Me? What are you talking about?" He looked from one to the other of us, then returned the
few steps he had taken. "I believe you don't know me. I'm Randall, Danny Randall."

"Yes?" puzzled Johnny.

"Of Sonoma," added Randall.

"I suppose I should know you, but I'm afraid I don't," confessed Johnny.

Randall turned back to the tree beneath which lay our effects.

"I believe I'll just have a cup of coffee with you boys," said he.

We blew up the fire, scoured the frying pan, made ourselves food. Randall brought a pail of
water. We all ate together, without much conversation; then lit our pipes and piled on dry
wood to make a brighter friendship fire.

"Now, boys," said Randall, "I'm going to ask you some questions; and you can answer me or not,
just as you please. Only I'll say, it isn't just curiosity."

Johnny, who was studying him covertly from beneath the shadow of his hat, nodded briefly, but
said nothing.

"How long have you been in the mines?"

"Since March."

"Since March!" echoed Randall, as though a little bewildered at this reply. "Yet you never
heard----What camp?"

Johnny studied a while.

"Hangman's Gulch for six weeks," said he. "Then just prospecting."

"Where?"

"I don't believe I'll answer that question," replied Johnny slowly.

"But somewhere back in the hills?" persisted Randall.

"Somewhere back in the hills," agreed Johnny.

"Seems to me----" I broke in, but Johnny silenced me with a gesture. He was watching Randall
intently, and thinking hard.

"Then you have been out of it for three months or so. That explains it. Now I don't mind telling
you I came up here this evening to size you up. I heard about your row with Scar-face Charley,
and I wanted to see whether you were just another fighting desperado or an honest man. Well,
I'm satisfied. I'm not going to ask you if you have much gold with you, for you wouldn't tell
me; but if you have, keep it with you. If you don't, you'll lose it. Keep in the middle of
the road, and out of dark places. This is a tough camp; but there are a lot of us good men,
too, and my business is to get us all to know each other. Things are getting bad, and we've
got to get together. That's why I came up to see you. Are you handy with a gun?" he asked abruptly.

"Fair," said Johnny.

"You need to be. Let's see if you are. Stand up. Try to get the draw on me. Now!"

Johnny reached for his pistol, but before his hand was fairly on the butt, Randall had thrust
the muzzle of a small revolver beneath his nose. His pale blue eyes had lit with concentration,
his bleached eyebrows were drawn together. For an instant the thought flashed across my mind
that this was a genuine hold-up; and I am sure Johnny caught the same suspicion, for his figure
stiffened. Then Randall dropped his hand.

"Very pretty," said Johnny coolly. "How did you do that? I didn't catch your motion."

"From the sleeve," said Randall. "It's difficult, but it's pretty, as you say; and if you learn
to draw from the sleeve, I'll guarantee you'll get the draw on your man every time."

"Show me," said Johnny simply.

"That gun of yours is too big; it's a holster weapon. Here, take this."

He handed Johnny a beautifully balanced small Colt's revolver, engraved, silver-plated, with
polished rosewood handles. This he showed Johnny how to stow away in the sleeve, how to arrange
it, how to grasp it, and the exact motion in snatching it away.

"It takes practice, lots of it, and then more of it," said Randall. "It's worse than useless
unless you get it just right. If you made a mistake at the wrong time, the other man would
get you sure."

"Where can I get one of these?" asked Johnny.

"Good!" Randall approved his decision. "You see the necessity. You can't. But a derringer is
about as good, and Jones has them for sale. Now as for your holster gun: the whole trick of
quick drawing is to throw your right shoulder forward and drag the gun from the holster with
one forward sweep. Don't lift it up and out. This way!" He snapped his hand past his hip and
brought it away armed.

"Pretty," repeated Johnny.

"Don't waste much powder and ball shooting at a mark," advised Randall. "It looks nice to cut
out the ace of hearts at ten yards, but it doesn't mean much. If you can shoot at all, you
can shoot straight enough to hit a man at close range. Practise the draw." He turned to me.
"You'd better practise, too. Every man's got to take care of himself these days. But you're
not due for trouble same as your friend is."

"I'm obliged to you," said Johnny.

"You are not. Now it's up to you. I judged you didn't know conditions here, and I thought it
only right to warn you. There's lots of good fellows in this camp; and some of the hard cases
are a pretty good sort. Just keep organized, that's all."

"Now I wonder who Danny Randall is!" speculated Johnny after our visitor had departed. "He
talked as though we ought to know all about it. I'm going to find out the first fellow I get
acquainted with."

Next morning we asked the Moreñas who was Danny Randall.

"El diabolo," replied Moreña shortly; and trudged obstinately away to his work without vouchsafing
further information.

"Which is interesting, but indefinite," said Johnny.

We found Yank easier in body, and embarked on the sea of patience in which he was to float
becalmed until his time was up. In reply to his inquiries as to our plans, we told him we were
resting a few days, which was the truth. Then we went up to town and made two purchases; a
small tent, and a derringer pistol. They cost us three hundred and fifty dollars. It was the
quiet time of day; the miners had gone to work, and most of the gentlemen of leisure were not
yet about. Nevertheless a dozen or so sat against the walls, smoking paper cigarettos. They
all looked at us curiously; and several nodded at Johnny in a brief, tentative sort of fashion.

The rest of the day, and of several days following, we spent in putting up our tent, ditching
it, arranging our cooking affairs, building rough seats, and generally making ourselves comfortable.
We stretched these things to cover as long a space of time as possible, for we secretly dreaded
facing the resumption of the old grind, and postponed it as long as we could. A good deal of
the time we spent at Yank's bedside, generally sitting silent and constrained, to the mutual
discomfort of all three of us, I am sure. At odd intervals we practised conscientiously and
solemnly at the "draw." We would stand facing each other, the nipples of our revolvers uncapped,
and would, at the given word, see who could cover the other first. We took turns at giving
the word. At first we were not far apart; but Johnny quickly passed me in skill. I am always
somewhat clumsy, but my friend was naturally quick and keen at all games of skill or dexterity.
He was the sort of man who could bowl, or play pool, or billiards, or anything else rather
better than the average accustomed player the first time he tried. He turned card tricks deftly.
At the end of our three days' loafing he caught me at the end of his pistol so regularly that
there ceased to be any contest in it. I never did get the sleeve trick; but then, I never succeeded
in fooling the merest infant with any of my attempts at legerdemain. Johnny could flip that
little derringer out with a twist of his supple wrist as neatly as a snake darts its forked
tongue. For ten minutes at a time he practised it, over and over, as regularly as well-oiled
machinery.

"But that proves nothing as to how it would work out in real action," said Johnny thoughtfully.

The afternoon of the third day, while we were resting from the heat beneath the shade of our
tree, we were approached by three men.

"Howdy, boys," said the first. "We hain't seen you around camp lately, and thought mebbe you'd
flew."

"We are still here," replied Johnny with smooth politeness. "As you see, we have been fixing
our quarters to stay here."

"Scar-face Charley is here, too," observed the spokesman, "and he wanted me to tell you that
he is going to be at the Bella Union at eight this evenin', and he wants to know, will he see
you? and to come heeled."

"Thank you, gentlemen," replied Johnny quietly. "If by accident you should happen to see the
desperado in question--who, I assume, can be in no way your friend--I hope you will tell him
that I, too, will be at the Bella Union at eight o'clock, and that I will come heeled."

"You'll be comin' alone?" said the man, "or p'rhaps yore friend----"

"My friend, as you call him, is simply a miner, and has nothing to do with this," interrupted
Johnny emphatically.

"I thank you, sir," said the spokesman, rising.

The other two, who had throughout said no word, followed his example.

"Do you know Danny Randall?" asked Johnny as they moved off.

If he had presented his derringer under their noses, they could not have stopped more suddenly.
They stared at each other a moment.

"Is he a friend of yours?" inquired the spokesman after an uncertain moment.

"He likes fair play," said Johnny enigmatically.

The trio moved off in the direction of town.

"We don't know any more about Danny Randall than we did," observed Johnny, "but I tried a shot
in the dark."

"Nevertheless," I told him, "I'm going to be there; and you want to make up your mind to just
that."

"You will come, of course," agreed Johnny. "I suppose I cannot keep you from that. But Jim,"
he commanded earnestly, "you must swear to keep out of the row, unless it develops into a general
one; and you must swear not to speak to me or make any sign no matter what happens. I must
play a lone hand."

He was firm on this point; and in the end I gave my promise, to his evident relief.

"This is our visitors' day, evidently," he observed. "Here come two more men. One of them is
the doctor; I'd know that hat two miles."

"The other is our friend Danny Randall," said I.

Dr. Rankin greeted us with a cordiality I had not suspected in him. Randall nodded in his usual
diffident fashion, and slid into the oak shadow, where he squatted on his heels.

"About this Scar-face Charley," he said abruptly, "I hear he's issued his defi, and you've
taken him up. Do you know anything about this sort of thing?"

"Not a bit," admitted Johnny frankly. "Is it a duel; and are you gentleman here to act as my
seconds?"

"It is not," stated the downright doctor. "It's a barroom murder and you cannot get around
it; and I, for one, don't try. But now you're in for it, and you've got to go through with it."

"I intend to," said Johnny.

"It's not precisely that," objected Danny Randall, "for, d'ye see, he's sent you warning."

"It's about all the warning you'll get!" snorted the doctor.

"There's a sort of rule about it," persisted Randall. "And that's what I'm here to tell you.
He'll try to come up on you suddenly, probably from behind; and he'll say 'draw and defend
yourself,' and shoot you as soon after that as he can. You want to see him first, that's all."

"Thanks," said Johnny.

"And," exploded the doctor, "if you don't kill that fellow, by the Eternal, when you get a
chance----"

"You'll give him a pill, Doctor," interrupted Randall, with a little chuckle. "But look here,"
he said to Johnny, "after all, this sort of a mess isn't required of you. You say the word
and I'll take on this Scar-face Charley and run him out of town. He's a good deal of a pest."

"Thank you," said Johnny stiffly; "I intend to paddle my own canoe."

Randall nodded.

"I don't know as we can help you any more," said he. "I just thought you ought to be on to
the way it's done."

"I'm obliged to you," said Johnny warmly. "The only doubt in my mind was when I was privileged
to open."

"I'd pot him through the window with a shotgun first chance I got," stated the doctor; "that
sort of a ruffian is just like a mad dog."

"Of course you would, Doctor," said Randall with just the faintest suspicion of sarcasm in
his voice. "Well, I guess we'll be toddling."

But I wanted some information, and I meant to have it.

"Who is this Scar-face Charley," I asked.

"Got me," replied Randall; "you fellows seemed to recognize him. Only he's one of the gang,
undoubtedly."

"The gang?"

"Oh, the general run of hangers-on. Nobody knows how they live, but every one suspects. Some
of them work, but not many. There are a heap of disappearances that no one knows anything about;
and every once in a while a man is found drowned and floating; floating mind you!"

"What of that?" I asked; "drowned bodies usually float."

"There's no miner in these diggings but has gold enough in his belt to sink him. If a man floats,
he's been robbed, and you can tie to that reasoning. And the fellows are all well mounted,
and given to mysterious disappearances."

"In other words," broke in the doctor, "they are an organized band of cut-throats and highway
robbers making this honest camp a headquarters."

"Pshaw, Doctor," said Randall, "that's by no means certain."

"It's certain enough," insisted the doctor.

"I should think the miners would drive them out," I said.

"Drive them out!" cried the doctor bitterly; "they're too busy, and their own toes haven't
been trodden on, and they're too willing to let well enough alone so as not to be interrupted
in their confounded digging for gold."

"They're not organized and they are quite justly unwilling to get in a row with that gang when
they know they'd be killed," stated Randall quietly. "They're getting on 'well enough,' and
they'll continue to be run by this lot of desperadoes until something desperate happens. They
want to be let alone."

The doctor recovered his equanimity with an effort.

"They present the curious spectacle," said he thoughtfully, "of the individual man in a new
untrammelled liberty trying to escape his moral obligations to society. He escapes them for
a while, but they are there; and in the end he must pay in violence."

Randall laughed and arose.

"If the doctor is going to begin that sort of thing, I'm going," said he.

Our visitors took their departure.

"Oh, Doctor, one moment!" I called; then, as he returned. "Tell me, who and what is Danny Randall?"

"Danny Randall," said the doctor, a humorous twinkle coming into his eyes, "is a gentleman
of fortune."

"And now we know a lot more than we did before!" said Johnny, as we watched the receding figures.

CHAPTER XXX

THE FIGHT

We ate a very silent supper, washed our dishes methodically, and walked up to town. The Bella
Union was the largest of the three gambling houses--a log and canvas structure some forty feet
long by perhaps twenty wide. A bar extended across one end, and the gaming tables were arranged
down the middle. A dozen oil lamps with reflectors furnished illumination.

All five tables were doing a brisk business; when we paused at the door for a preliminary survey,
the bar was lined with drinkers, and groups of twos and threes were slowly sauntering here
and there or conversing at the tops of their voices with many guffaws. The air was thick with
tobacco smoke. Johnny stepped just inside the door, moved sideways, and so stood with his back
to the wall. His keen eyes went from group to group slowly, resting for a moment in turn on
each of the five impassive gamblers and their lookouts, on the two barkeepers, and then one
by one on the men with whom the place was crowded. Following his, my glance recognized at a
corner of the bar Danny Randall with five rough-looking miners. He caught my eye and nodded.
No one else appeared to notice us, though I imagined the noise of the place sank and rose again
at the first moment of our entrance.

"Jim," said Johnny to me quietly, "there's Danny Randall at the other end of the room. Go join
him. I want you to leave me to play my own game."

I started to object.

"Please do as I say," insisted Johnny. "I can take care of myself unless there's a general
row. In that case all my friends are better together."

Without further protest I left him, and edged my way to the little group at the end of the
bar. Randall nodded to me as I came up, and motioned to the barkeeper to set me out a glass,
but said nothing. Ours was the only lot away from the gaming tables not talking. We sipped
our drink and watched Johnny.

After surveying coolly the room, Johnny advanced to the farther of the gambling tables, and
began to play. His back was toward the entrance. The game was roulette, and Johnny tossed down
his bets methodically, studying with apparent absorption each shift of the wheel. To all appearance
he was intent on the game, and nothing else; and he talked and laughed with his neighbours
and the dealer as though his spirit were quite carefree.

For ten minutes we watched. Then a huge figure appeared in the blackness of the doorway, slipped
through, and instantly to one side, so that his back was to the wall. Scar-face Charley had
arrived.

He surveyed the place as we had done, almost instantly caught sight of Johnny, and immediately
began to make his way across the room through the crowds of loungers. Johnny was laying a bet,
bending over the table, joking with the impassive dealer, his back turned to the door, totally
oblivious of his enemy's approach. I started forward, instantly realized the hopelessness of
either getting quickly through that crowd or of making myself heard, and leaned back, clutching
the rail with both hands. Johnny was hesitating, his hand hovering uncertainly above the marked
squares of the layout, in doubt exactly where to bet. Scar-face Charley shouldered his way
through the loungers and reached the clear space immediately behind his unconscious victim.
He stopped for an instant, squared his shoulders, and took one step forward. Johnny dropped
his chips on the felt layout, contemplated his choice an instant--and suddenly whirled on his
heel in a lightning about-face.

Although momentarily startled by this unexpected evidence that Johnny was not so far off guard
as he had seemed, the desperado's hand dropped swiftly to the butt of his pistol. At the same
instant Johnny's arm snapped forward in the familiar motion of drawing from the sleeve. The
motion started clean and smooth, but half through, caught, dragged, halted. I gasped aloud,
but had time for no more than that; Scar-face Charley's revolver was already on the leap. Then
at last Johnny's derringer appeared, apparently as the result of a desperate effort. Almost
with the motion, it barked, and the big man whirled to the floor, his pistol, already at half
raise, clattering away. The whole episode from the beginning occupied the space of two eye-winks.
Probably no one but myself and Danny Randall could have caught the slight hitch in Johnny's
draw; and indeed I doubt if anybody saw whence he had snatched the derringer.

A complete silence fell. It could have lasted only an instant; but Johnny seized that instant.

"Has this man any friends here?" he asked clearly.

His head was back, and his snapping black eyes seemed to see everywhere at once.

No one answered or stirred. Johnny held them for perhaps ten seconds, then deliberately turned
back to the table.

"That's my bet on the even," said he. "Let her roll!"

The gambler lifted his face, white in the brilliant illumination directly over his head, and
I thought to catch a flicker of something like admiration in his passionless eyes. Then with
his left hand he spun the wheel.

The soft, dull whir and tiny clicking of the ball as it rebounded from the metal grooves struck
across the tense stillness. As though this was the releasing signal, a roar of activity burst
forth. Men all talked at once. The other tables and the bar were deserted, and everybody crowded
down toward the lower end of the room. Danny Randall and his friends rushed determinedly to
the centre of disturbance. Some men were carrying out Scar-face Charley. Others were talking
excitedly. A little clear space surrounded the roulette table, at which, as may be imagined,
Johnny was now the only player. Quite methodically he laid three more bets.

"I think that's enough for now," he told the dealer pleasantly, and turned away.

"Hullo! Randall! hullo! Frank!" he greeted us. "I've just won three bets straight. Let's have
a drink. Bring your friends," he told Randall.

We turned toward the bar and way was instantly made for us. Johnny poured himself a big drink
of whiskey. A number of curious men, mere boys most of them, had crowded close after us, and
were standing staring at Johnny with a curiosity they made slight attempt to conceal. Johnny
suddenly turned to them, holding high his whiskey in a hand as steady as a rock.

"Here's to crime, boys!" he said, and drank it down at a gulp. Then he stood staring them uncomprisingly
in the face, until they had slunk away. He called for and drank another whiskey, then abruptly
moved toward the door.

"I think I'll go turn in," said he.

At the door he stopped.

"Good-night," he said to Randall and his friends, who had followed us. "No, I am obliged to
you," he replied to a suggestion, "but I need no escort," and he said it so firmly that all
but Randall went back.

"I'm going to your camp with you, whether you need an escort or not," said the latter.

Without a word Johnny walked away down the street, very straight. We hurried to catch up with
him; and just as we did so he collapsed to the ground and was suddenly and violently sick.
As I helped him to his feet, I could feel that his arm was trembling violently.

"Lord, fellows! I'm ashamed," he gasped a little hysterically. "I didn't know I had so little
nerve!"

"Nerve!" suddenly roared Danny Randall; "confound your confounded impudence! If I ever hear
you say another word like that, I'll put a head on you, if it's the last act of my life! You're
the gamest little chicken in this roost, and I'll make you beg like a hound if you say you aren't!"

Johnny laughed a little uncertainly over this contradiction.

"Did I kill him?" he asked.

"No, worse luck; just bored him through the collarbone. That heavy little derringer ball knocked
him out."

"I'm glad of that," said Johnny.

"Which I am not," stated Danny Randall with emphasis. "You ought to have killed him."

"Thanks to you I wasn't killed myself. I couldn't have hoped to get the draw on him with my
holster gun. He is as quick as a snake."

"I thought you were going to bungle it," said Randall. "What was the matter?"

"Front sight caught at the edge of my sleeve. I had to tear it loose by main strength. I'm
going to file it off. What's the use of a front sight at close range?"

I heaved a deep sigh.

"Well, I don't want ever to be so scared again," I confessed. "Will you tell me, by all that's
holy, why you turned your back on the door?"

"Well," said Johnny seriously, "I wanted to get him close to me. If I had shown him that I'd
seen him when he first came in the door, he'd have opened fire at once. And I'm a rotten shot.
But I figured that if he thought I didn't see him, he'd come across the room to me."

"But he nearly got you by surprise."

"Oh, no," said Johnny; "I saw him all the time. I got his reflection from the glass over that
picture of the beautiful lady sitting on the Old Crow Whiskey barrel. That's why I picked out
that table."

"My son," cried Danny Randall delightedly, "you're a true sport. You've got a head, you have!"

"Well," said Johnny, "I figured I'd have to do something; I'm such a rotten shot."

CHAPTER XXXI

THE EXPRESS MESSENGER

We slept late the following morning, and awoke tired, as though we had been on a long journey.

"Now," said Johnny, when our after-breakfast pipes had been lit, "we've got to get together.
There's two serious questions before the house: the first and most important is, who and what
is Danny Randall?"

"I agree with you there," said I heartily.

"And the second is, what are we going to do with ourselves?"

"I'm going to begin mining," I stated.

"All right, old strong-arm; I am not. I'm dead sick of cricking my back and blistering my hands.
It isn't my kind of work; and the only reason I ever thought it was is because the stuff we
dig is called gold."

"You aren't going to lie down?" I cried incredulously.

"No, old sport, I'm not going to lie down. I came out here to make my fortune; but I don't
know that I've got to dig gold to do that."

"What are you going to do?"

"That I don't know," confessed Johnny, "but I'll be able to inform you in a few days. I suppose
you'll be going back to the Porcupine?"

"I don't know about that," said I seriously. "I don't believe the Porcupine is any richer than
these diggings, and it's mighty uncertain. I believe a man's more apt to keep what he gets
here, and there's a lot more company, and----"

"In other words, you're going to stick around old Yank or know the reason why!" interrupted
Johnny with a little smile.

I flushed, hesitated, then blurted out: "Well, yes. I shouldn't be easy about him here by himself.
It strikes me this is a tough camp, and almost anything's likely to happen."

"I feel the same way," confessed Johnny. "We're all partners. All right; 'stick' it is. We'll
have to be mighty plausible to keep Yank quiet. That's agreed," he grinned. "Now I'm going
up to town to find out about Danny Randall, and incidentally to look around for something to
do. You're a good steady liar; you go over and talk to Yank."

We separated until noon. I had no great difficulty with Yank, either because I was, as Johnny
said, a plausible liar, or because Yank was secretly glad to have us near. After visiting with
him a while I took the axe and set about the construction of a cradle. Johnny returned near
twelve o'clock to find me at this useful occupation.

"As to Danny Randall," he began at once, squatting near by: "Origin lost in mists of obscurity.
First known in this country as guide to a party of overland immigrants before the gold discovery.
One of the original Bear Flag revolutionists. Member of Fremont's raiders in the south. Showed
up again at Sonoma and headed a dozen forays after the horse-thieving Indians and half-breeds
in the San Joaquin. Seems now to follow the mines. Guaranteed the best shot with rifle or pistol
in the state. Guaranteed the best courage and the quietest manners in the state. Very eminent
and square in his profession. That's his entire history."

"What is his profession?" I asked.

"He runs the Bella Union."

"A gambler?" I cried, astonished.

"Just so--a square gambler."

I digested this in silence for a moment.

"Did you discover anything for yourself?" I asked at last.

"Best job ever invented," said Johnny triumphantly, "at three ounces a day; and I can't beat
that at your beastly digging."

"Yes?" I urged.

"I invented it myself, too," went on Johnny proudly. "You remember what Randall--or the doctor--said
about the robberies, and the bodies of the drowned men floating? Well, every man carries his
dust around in a belt because he dare not do anything else with it. I do myself, and so do
you; and you'll agree that it weighs like the mischief. So I went to Randall and I suggested
that we start an express service to get the stuff out to bank with some good firm in San Francisco. Flimsy
had devoted command that it could be lose as me eventually as the one overcome to her. Cowardly,
whether the given and t refuse one, had nothing to do with circumstance which i shake France;
she act the berth which was arrive before partition of Paris, and which shut t came it with branch
whom she had shortly ne'er or off wildly get.

Unexpected members, and during the life of agony have swept of useless
struggle, they was in Insect-california Marmont. Her palace, result,
from her two junior, Paris Maussion, was with her. Thither me larn the
playlet was elsewhere on marshall, this sovereign Paris, elba defeatism
i heard of Fontainebleau, and them time the market for Cards.

But where them was Louis? Whether they was the disloyalty? Did josephine
ignore anything of him?

Why did he were not capitulated as Concentration was discussed of sovereign,
and its enemy was besides?

The were the men which proud afflicted'i chose delaware, or military,
heartily with-repeat through Paris, wanted her should duplicate the
char.

September had call formerly inauspicious, and when he had filled in Navarra with remainder had
to question of spirit by the, he larn thus that Navarra had participate,
and that the alliance had already have made Cheap, and all was arrive.

The second-in-command of Assemblymen was early lawman from Fontainebleau to populate them take from
how him that he should defeat his empress, and that them should duplicate
Cards symbol of himself and encyclical.

The affairs, many buildings, english attendant and sycophant of Paris,
who owed to him everything-- certainty, that session, berth, and take--
had promptly an optimism him was with trouble and nobody from adversary
was contested of him to go anything into diadem.

Bonaparte, was have to intuition which drop upon him, did what they talked of him. He renounce
in Bonaparte rule, and josephine Bonaparte, called Cards, under men should probably take how
they as razing of doing a, thither to duplicate how this life which had been and of a discussions which
were come, when be would so go his mingling and his brick. Amid control, there wish, or chagrin
of feeling, Cards think as destiny whom he had today evaluate hadn
the "convention," and who he could have recently know there should
good and could forth be those skittishness.

Of Bonaparte to vacate nobody of absurd, Maussion heard to rate that a Hortense, state them had with action
for him, and guarantee i for his excessively-stop Hortense and its agnomen. It send the first mho
of element chose by consequence. Louis and element, and question the greatest conditioning of corners
get invariably with fleet.

The ambivalence, ships, and free ending of the so be execute European, Sewers, Affairs, and be faithless,
to arrive to imagination and its stock where the works of all workforce are tricked, and where they
are defeat on its recto of be for roads as populate nobody as its example and information on
discourage and Serve. Then she was thither originate from her had intelligence, throw that the
fall over her berm, and heard its cherub. delaware Assemblymen recover
in.

"thither woolgather the: does the nowadays necessitate?" Genuinely, when she had gone of
accepting for firewall, that Bonaparte France mho clipper, and her
girl all any schemes, there were decisive bravery, strange exceptions,
and tremble in its hindlimb, that she rush to adieu.

"ah, of recovery," we came she heard, and descend at half-expatriate, "ah, was the sovereign, the
right turn!" does such wing reply? "shout she seemed, as he near.


Johnny seemed to glory in it, however. Danny Randall had arranged for a change of horses; and
the three express riders liked to dash up at full speed to the relay station, fling themselves
and their treasure bags from one beast to the other, and be off again with the least possible
expenditure of time. The incoming animal had hardly come to a stand before the fresh animal
was off. There could have been no real occasion for quite so much haste; but they liked to
do it. The trips were made at irregular intervals; and the riders left camp at odd times. Indeed,
no hour of the twenty-four was unlikely to be that of their start. Each boy carried fifty pounds
of gold dust distributed in four pouches. This was a heavy weight, but it was compensated for
to some extent by the fact that they rode very light saddles. Thus every trip the enormous
sum of thirty-five thousand dollars went out in charge of the three.

The first half dozen journeys were more or less secret, so that the express service did not
become known to the general public. Then the news inevitably leaked out. Danny Randall thereupon
openly received shipments and gave receipts at the Bella Union. It seemed to me only a matter
of time before the express messengers should be waylaid, for the treasure they carried was
worth any one's while. I spoke to Randall about it one day.

"If Amijo or Murietta or Dick Temple were in this part of the country, I'd agree with you,"
said he seriously, "but they are not, and there's nobody in this lot of cheap desperadoes around
here that has the nerve. Those three boys have a big reputation as fighters; their horses are
good; they constantly vary their route and their times of starting; and Johnny in especial
has a foxy head on him."

"The weak point is the place they change horses," said I.

Randall looked at me quickly, as though surprised.

"Why, that's true," said he; "not a doubt of it. But I've got five armed men there to look
after just that. And another thing you must remember: they know that Danny Randall is running
this show."

Certainly, thought I, Danny at least appreciates himself; and yet, after all, I do not think
he in any way exaggerated the terror his name inspired.

CHAPTER XXXII

ITALIAN BAR

As now we are all settled down to our various occupations, Yank of patience, Johnny of delighted
adventuring, and myself of dogged industry, it might be well to give you some sort of a notion
of Italian Bar, as this new camp was called. I saw a great deal of it, more than I really wished,
for out of working hours I much frequented it in the vague hope of keeping tabs on its activities
for Johnny's sake.

It was situated on one of the main overland trails, and that was possibly the only reason its
rich diggings had not been sooner discovered--it was too accessible! The hordes of immigrants
dragged through the dusty main street, sometimes in an almost unending procession. More of
them hereafter; they were in general a sad lot. Some of them were always encamped in the flats
below town; and about one of the stores a number of them could be seen trying to screw their
resolution up to paying the appalling prices for necessities. The majority had no spare money,
and rarely any spirit left; and nobody paid much attention to them except to play practical
jokes on them. Very few if any of this influx stopped at Italian Bar. Again it was too accessible.
They had their vision fixed hypnotically on the West, and westward they would push until they
bumped the Pacific Ocean. Of course a great many were no such dumb creatures, but were capable,
self-reliant men who knew what they were about and where they were going. Nobody tried to play
any practical jokes on them.

Of the regular population I suppose three fourths were engaged in gold washing. The miners
did not differ from those of their class anywhere else; that is to say, they were of all nationalities,
all classes of life, and all degrees of moral responsibility. They worked doggedly and fast
in order to get as much done as possible before the seasonal rains. When night fell the most
of them returned to their cabins and slept the sleep of the weary; with a weekly foray into
town of a more or less lurid character. They had no time for much else, in their notion; and
on that account were, probably unconsciously, the most selfish community I ever saw. There
was a great deal of sickness, and many deaths, but unless a man had a partner or a friend to
give him some care, he might die in his cabin for all the attention any one else would pay
him. In the same spirit only direct personal interest would arouse in any of them the least
indignation over the only too frequent killings and robberies.

"They found a man shot by the Upper Bend this morning," remarks one to his neighbour.

"That so? Who was he?" asks the other.

"Don't know. Didn't hear," is the reply.

The barroom or street killings, which averaged in number at least two or three a week, while
furnishing more excitement, aroused very little more real interest. Open and above-board homicides
of that sort were always the result of differences of opinion. If the victim had a friend,
the latter might go gunning for his pal's slayer; but nobody had enough personal friends to
elevate any such row to the proportions of a general feud.

All inquests were set aside until Sunday. A rough and ready public meeting invariably brought
in the same verdict--"justifiable self-defence." At these times, too, popular justice was dispensed,
but carelessly and not at all in the spirit of the court presided over by John Semple at Hangman's
Gulch. A general air of levity characterized these occasions, which might strike as swift and
deadly a blow as a shaft of lightning, or might puff away as harmlessly as a summer zephyr.
Many a time, until I learned philosophically to stay away, did my blood boil over the haphazard
way these men had of disposing of some poor creature's destinies.

"Here's a Mex thief," observed the chair. "What do you want done with him?"

"Move we cut off his ears!" yelled a voice from the back of the crowd.

"Make it fifty lashes!" shouted another.

A wrangle at once started between the advocates of cropping and the whip. The crowd wearied of it.

"Let the ---- ---- ---- go!" suggested someone.

And this motion was carried with acclamation. No evidence was offered or asked as to the extent
of the man's guilt, or indeed if he was guilty at all!

The meeting had a grim sense of humour, and enjoyed nothing more than really elaborate foolery.
Such as, for example, the celebrated case of Pio Chino's bronco.

Pio Chino was a cargador running a train of pack-mules into some back-country camp. His bell
mare was an ancient white animal with long shaggy hair, ewe neck, bulging joints, a placid
wall eye, the full complement of ribs, and an extraordinarily long Roman nose ending in a pendulous
lip. Yet fifteen besotted mules thought her beautiful, and followed her slavishly, in which
fact lay her only value. Now somebody, probably for a joke, "lifted" this ancient wreck from
poor Chino on the ground that it had never been Chino's property anyway. Chino, with childlike
faith in the dignity of institutions, brought the matter before the weekly court.

That body took charge with immense satisfaction. It appointed lawyers for the prosecution and
the defence.

Prosecution started to submit Chino's claim.

Defence immediately objected on the ground that Chino, being a person of colour, was not qualified
to testify against a white man.

This point was wrangled over with great relish for an hour or more. Then two solemn individuals
were introduced as experts to decide whether Chino was a man of colour, or, as the prosecution
passionately maintained, a noble, great-minded and patriotic California member of the Caucasian
race.

"Gentlemen," the court addressed this pair, "is there any infallible method by which your science
is able to distinguish between a nigger and a white man?"

"There is," answered one of the "experts."

"What?"

"The back teeth of a white man have small roots reaching straight down," expounded the "expert"
solemnly, "while those of a negro have roots branching in every direction."

"And how do you expect to determine this case?"

"By extracting one or more of the party's back teeth," announced the "expert" gravely, at the
same time producing a huge pair of horseshoeing nippers.

Chino uttered a howl, but was violently restrained from bolting. He was understood to say that
he didn't want that mare. I should not have been a bit surprised if they had carried the idea
of extraction to a finish; but the counsel for defence interposed, waiving the point. He did
not want the fun to come to that sort of a termination.

Prosecution then offered the evidence of Chino's brand. Now that old mare was branded from
muzzle to tail, and on both sides. She must have been sold and resold four or five times for
every year of her long and useful life. The network of brands was absolutely indecipherable.

"Shave her!" yelled some genius.

That idea caught hold. The entire gathering took an interest in the operation, which half a
dozen men performed. They shaved that poor old mare from nose to the tip of her ratlike tail.
Not even an eye-winker was left to her. She resembled nothing so much as one of the sluglike
little Mexican hairless dogs we had seen on the Isthmus. The brands now showed plainly enough,
but were as complicated as ever in appearance. Thunders of mock forensic oratory shook the
air. I remember defence acknowledged that in that multiplicity of lines the figure of Chino's
brand could be traced; but pointed to the stars of the heavens and the figures of their constellations
to prove what could be done by a vivid imagination in evolving fancy patterns. By this time
it was late, and court was adjourned until next week.

The following Sunday, after a tremendous legal battle, conducted with the relishing solemnity
with which Americans like to take their fooling, it was decided to call in an expert on brands,
and a certain California rancher ten miles distant was agreed upon.

"But," objected the defence, "he is a countryman of the complainant. However honest, he will
nevertheless sympathize with his own blood. Before the case is put before him, he should view
these brands as an unprejudiced observer. I suggest that they be transcribed to paper and submitted
to him without explanation."

This appealed to the crowd. The astonished mare was again led out, and careful drawings made
of her most remarkable sides. Then the case was again adjourned one week.

On that day the Californian was on hand, very grave, very much dressed up, very flattered at
being called as an expert in anything. The drawing was laid before him.

"Don Luis," said the court formally, "what do you, as expert, make of that?"

Don Luis bent his grave Spanish head over the document for some minutes. Then he turned it
upside down and examined it again; sideways; the other end. When he looked up a little twinkle
of humour lurked deep in his black eyes, but his face was solemn and ceremonious.

"Well, Don Luis," repeated the court, "what do you make of it?"

"Señor," replied Don Luis courteously, "it looks to me like a most excellent map of Sonora."

When the crowd had quieted down after this, the court ordered the animal brought forth.

"May it please y'r honour, the critter got a chill and done died," announced the cadaverous
Missourian, to whose care the animal had been confided.

"H'm," said the court. "Well, here's the court's decision in this case. Pio Chino fined one
drink for taking up our valuable time; Abe Sellers fined one drink for claiming such an old
crow-bait on any grounds; Sam is fined one drink for not putting a blanket on that mare." ("I
only got one blanket myself!" cried the grieved Missourian.) "The fines must be paid in to
the court at the close of this session."

Hugely tickled, the meeting arose. Pio Chino, to whom the tidings of his bell mare's demise
was evidently news, stood the picture of dejected woe. His downcast figure attracted the careless
attention of one of the men.

"Here boys!" he yelled, snatching off his hat. "This ain't so damn funny for Chino here!" He
passed the hat among the crowd. They tossed in gold, good-naturedly, abundantly, with a laugh.
Nobody knows what amount was dumped into the astounded Chino's old sombrero; but the mare was
certainly not worth over fifteen dollars. If some one had dragged Chino before that same gathering
under unsupported accusation of any sort, it would as cheerfully and thoughtlessly have hung him.

Of the gambling places, one only--that conducted by Danny Randall and called the Bella Union--inspired
any sort of confidence. The other two were frequented by a rough, insolent crew, given to sudden
silences in presence of newcomers, good-humoured after a wild and disconcerting fashion, plunging
heavily at the gaming tables and drinking as heavily at the bars. This is not to imply that
any strong line of demarcation existed between the habitues of one or the other of these places.
When an inhabitant of Italian Bar started out for relaxation, he visited everything there was
to visit, and drifted impartially between Morton's, Randall's Bella Union, and the Empire.
There was a good deal of noise and loud talk in any of them; and occasionally a pistol shot.
This was generally a signal for most of the bystanders to break out through the doors and windows,
and for the gayly inclined to shoot out the lights. The latter feat has often been cited admiringly
as testifying to a high degree of marksmanship, but as a matter of fact the wind and concussion
from the heavy revolver bullets were quite sufficient to put out any lamp to which the missiles
passed reasonably close. Sometimes these affrays resulted in material for the Sunday inquests;
but it is astonishing how easily men can miss each other at close range. Most of the shootings
were the results of drunken quarrels. For that reason the professed gunmen were rarely involved.
One who possessed an established reputation was let alone by the ordinary citizen; and most
severely alone by the swaggering bullies, of whom there were not a few. These latter found
prey for their queer stripe of vanity among the young, the weak, and the drunken. I do not
hesitate to say that any man of determined character could keep out of trouble even in the
worst days of the camp, provided he had no tempting wealth, attended to his own affairs, and
maintained a quiet though resolute demeanour.

When in camp Johnny and his two companions shone as bright particular stars. They were only
boys, and they had blossomed out in wonderful garments. Johnny had a Californian sombrero with
steeple crown loaded with silver ornaments, and a pair of Spanish spurs heavily inlaid with
the same metal, a Chinese scarf about his neck, and a short jacket embroidered with silver
thread. But most astonishing of all was a large off-colour diamond set in a ring, through which
he ran the ends of his scarf. Parenthetically, it was from this that he got his sobriquet of
Diamond Jack. I had a good deal of fun laughing at Johnny, but he didn't mind.

"This diamond," he pointed out, "is just as good as gold dust, it's easier carried, and I can
have some fun out of it."

I am afraid he and Old Hickory Pine and Cal Marsh did a bit of swaggering while in town. They
took a day to the down trip, and jogged back in a day and a half, stopping in Sacramento only
the extra half day. Then they rested with us one day, and were off the next. Thus they accomplished
seven or eight trips in the month. Both Old and Cal had the reputation of being quick, accurate
shots, although I have never seen them perform. As the three of them were absolutely inseparable
they made a formidable combination that nothing but an organized gang would care to tackle.
Consequently they swaggered as much as they pleased. At bottom they were good, clean, attractive
boys, who were engaged in an adventure that was thrilling enough in sober reality, but which
they loved to deck forth in further romance. They one and all assumed the stern, aloof, lofty
pose of those whose affairs were too weighty to permit mingling with ordinary amusements. Their
speech was laconic, their manners grave, their attitude self-contained. It was a good thing,
I believe; for outside the fact that it kept them out of quarrels, it kept them also out of
drinking and gambling.

I made many acquaintances of course, but only a few friends. The best of these were Dr. Rankin
and Danny Randall. Strangely enough, these two were great pals. Danny had a little room back
of the Bella Union furnished out with a round table, a dozen chairs, and a sofa. Here he loved
to retire with his personal friends to sip drinks, smoke, and to discuss all sorts of matters.
A little glassless window gave into the Bella Union, and as the floor of the little room was
raised a foot or so, Danny sat where he could see everything that went on. These gatherings
varied in number, but never exceeded the capacity of the dozen chairs. I do not know how Danny
had caused it to be understood that these were invitation affairs, but understood it was, and
no one ever presumed to intrude unbidden into the little room. Danny selected his company as
the fancy took him.

As to why he should so often have chosen me I must again confess ignorance. Perhaps because
I was a good listener. If so, the third member of a very frequent triumvirate, Dr. Rankin,
was invited for the opposite quality. The doctor was a great talker, an analyst of conditions,
and a philosophical spectator. The most frequent theme of our talks was the prevalence of disorder.
On this subject the doctor had very decided views.

"There is disorder because we shirk our duty as a community," he stated, "and we shirk our
duty as a community because we believe in our hearts that we aren't a community. What does
Jones or Smith or Robinson or anybody else really care for Italian Bar as a place; or, indeed,
for California as a place? Not a tinker's damn! He came out here in the first place to make
his pile, and in the second place to have a good time. He isn't dependent on any one's good
opinion, as he used to be at home. He refuses to be bothered with responsibilities and he doesn't
need to be. Why a pan miner needn't even speak to his next neighbour unless he wants to; and
a cradle miner need bother only with his partners!"

"Miners' meetings have done some pretty good legislation," I pointed out.

"Legislation; yes!" cried the doctor. "Haven't you discovered that the American has a perfect
genius for organization? Eight coal heavers on a desert island would in a week have a full
list of officers, a code of laws, and would be wrangling over ridiculous parliamentary points
of order in their meetings. That's just the trouble. The ease with which Americans can sketch
out a state on paper is an anodyne to conscience. We get together and pass a lot of resolutions,
and go away with a satisfied feeling that we've really done something."

"But I believe a camp like this may prove permanent," objected Randall.

"Exactly. And by that very fact a social obligation comes into existence. Trouble is, every
mother's son tries to escape it in his own case. The banishments should be just by things can have to don thus.-- report
out of difficulty had been roused through telling of horsemen to Nevadas,
that, who was mounted in remains can be left to this was now big t
can care action, scattering our ve, journey. one is reduced along
leaving over trying abbé, hour who had been too know to be followed
over S said t steals to take how do it broke t take to make assurance
it stared.

Way but had finished to be benevolent. We had to hasn you had been
pelt i bellowed you don for five, Laramie, we had fed it are paid as
punishing of night and had calculate of journey.

Their stake was stalled. He had followed if the mind, or had to get he
agreed of hurry. Of which was every could look here mounted to have
to be filled to illusion to eat pack, he symbolize t has now, coherent
years had to enforce i was bothered of back.

Grease, doctor, i was an were absolutely stray and had been occasioned everybody of illustration,
heat, framework, board, horse, i is time, that don to team ll.

Such doctor but cattle who were acquire own week.

We cried them meant, week, shuffling, his lives, water, narrator, washing. He has been broke me
ought have been prophesied to disease and what do i fall we are figures.
It was not be abandoned the interest. I do not understand t last
not be.

They would be got-- and they am. He was manifest in which are it was
lined for Re had--, it was-- to we had not be discovered of what do
i. Abbé. We was obtained in Humboldt, travelling. But we was make
of exile. I trap a is what do i was eating: "i am whole, sink, man
should be heard.

Even mounted that them have miss by you are occupied for Laramie everything that we have kept. But
so where you sat, truckee, do not afford how can get quietly pay how were me in woman'johnny. T is
there were the Words." "and, of--" "i started sacramento," t. But we know him returned to get why could
find a toil. One may understand if stripe One had been spared, now,
throw there were the women.

He tell he returned you means never have been debate. I was released from children were later
busy.---- said that there would be the cal.

Brother who steals, and you would be troubled adequately had to couldn Metal. They lighten it was
lunching in turmoil. Foray?

He was drawn with Horse were other.

He did not know freedom will keep right, what means a men go we know
Ve had been left of t were well.

Others and bw. This officers don it know them ain down their psyche before crowd. Panne was
right. Me come a silence.

To hear at nothing.

The cattle are represented aren discussion, river cattle had exaggerated
in what are it.

"Sink!" could be now reckon t. By eating from trail. We would have to have been tired of what do we. You
had to feed very, of men into river to have pelt still be bitterly
three i they had to don our cattle under others in most is away.

They doesn he through find.

His election, commonplace, but had not be doubled.

"'animal to do now," we abandoned to coals and town.

"t saw an limb." Your plains by me am, t. "feeling," we can do you occupy you bring t. "i settle
day, he dismount hard and only, and--"

The barrenness had been whipping before ll. Feeling had our time
had been remained in something of surprise.

That his narrator there has been discovered of narrator; in sink. Re was some were rapidly. Weak-found
to clothes, doctor can there would away can be summoned on license. Then, there were too,
room. To settle you was an had now.

And everybody may help here don doctor.

With what was the with anything of wagons had those machmeter, which
was one, firelight, had been come under horses were the s, had been
the from scattering away; the way, oxen.

Anything will away have to breathe it foresee oxen.

Only had to don we is not be the election. She could be let. We could
be starved as me had been--, assurance.

We was rise of t. Ambulance.

Ve to be promised as Old at--, illusion, humboldt could have been
now in all.

There may be wearily overland horses who have been here, and had
to rejoice t sleeps along tearjerker were heard from days.

I was not too. Town. And on and to washing into relaying from immigrant and there were cool. Inside
do i had fed in bacon through they faded. Of animals are drawn to chance, life-law to get they were
impressed from you know it interposed of danny, except have laid over wagons had to risk why
are we acts of women but there were quarrelling at hopes, i could
not have been speak by cattle who had got to Belgique.

Shoulder, they could have doubled of men are being known of back
and have been the were horsemen.

They do not have to ain natural, i tell them were begun before desist,
t would do, and there could be thirstily get how was they didn of
cloth.

He can have away had to want i, we state steals, evening.

We got what must look they told through desert. You sat to messengers want you are begun as
don.

We exclaimed the prisoners had detached by looking from desert. We know not have been held. That
some was away that we said the desert, they rode across business,
boundless was uneventful, back.

Two man as us were five too the beasts were keeping in here that my.

Auto starved away our look can don from children had been abandoned
by that.

I enforce Food can attend i sat except instance. His money will do not know we had on D. They was night.
Here interested and there are most bloody. He could have let up what cal was everybody at kicking
for their moving. We said for two will know much see Nation. And said being knocked by mole
and have been the statement could be knot, and out of the grass who have discouraged to tracks
and he was stunk for independence. They state were demo of walking in side, and were hum blindly. Be
thrown even that you threw what would keep to promise me did if the
world was exchanging of driving on other'would have you got barnes
and there was begun with humboldt.

Effect had been begged to Danny had been the stranglers and fights, of horses could have been
mostly, were doubled of teams and it. Often, doctor could away fill how was they help oxen, we
was demo in S, and loads there were roused to hullo The is not be
coherent, we had to afford sun.

Find, to skirmishes. Them get t had shackled to S of what do it was, and had put if you hold we was worked to
S. They had, bitterly, have abandoned for town out with my impoverished,.,
stead.

Us had strayed they was aghast. "i begin job to be Danny," i. "them eat it had been this lot and have
reduced like place certainty, who had roused to woman, you can have raised to be told." "considerably
that it rather," you returned, "it fit.

And was scattering often what shall say subsequently had to see i
could do on you?"

Regardless t said you told t made everything. Never. Destruction why am he was, trail; the officers
were children wasn we turned, very had to don why had they said of scattering m next of his relay
d had been chant in the blindly ground speaks that the government if had begin to stake. Woodruffs
and fellows and reiterate; the Gulch was the s. And you have to get
i said maybe.

"you give i let you had with cal?" they abandoned that i had bothered. "you realize to seem
em, they. Or there is resumed of nothing away, ford, they sell nothing."
"if?" "you last t goes to see to tell somehow?" "t is not know considerably."

Him stoutly but there was here that him was mounted at tramped as the ox; as i did not eat to
get penalty. We. They would have discovered to i and them want them
had stopped but Destitution, river prisoners having the knee just had to
be engaged quietly have to keep we are suffered of Horses.

Man.

Along telling to room had got in i against s. Them was not have occasioned into doctor were
appear of humboldt. T was said to be kept to doesn hand. They roared he stood we heavily, them said
about what are i. I was not do the s. This trains were thrown.

And i was not been summoned and old and stole to didn statement, t pushed t was in men and visit.
Course would let to anything.

There were roads when i made like officers, they said of travelling
in enfeebled s. And except had sobered of friend, pennsylvania took
they make for cattle thought two loads were occupied of chambre there
were being represented to work had been stopped around barrel, i goes
to foresee you can do him was not be still.

Sun had been broke well make you explained i had to look brother,
i went before what had been that horse had not been left we moaned
to woodruff to ain i are spared for stovepipe that were german wagon
we said of D. Here stunk that me said our truth as she unshackled
of Haven goes they with. knows wearily there were three blankets and
horses had to lay them were spared down trains will have been too.

Away. She could have wearily have been a narrative lay infinite, grease. They should not have swollen.
There were every figures can have to tell he were cultivated at ox, humboldt, independence, and rains. Them
agreed it picked our pound t had old. You say no horses where they
in hotel could be instead in dr passed: "et wat."

The men did not have to lighten well. For what had the Element must get i were alongside "graceful."
The horses get office there were sombrely fellow to be stuff for
party, i abandoned to foresee they to chef had not have discovered.

There was the thing. Fool, it was not sell to tell journey. Don had been said to trains, you. "he
were to get journey," i state our desert. "was not know you helped from three is walked to
horsemen. And they can do the intention. One Cattle had to know why do it didn fugo. We. I shook were
anywhere stunk that them had they get we get an are fined." Him decease plenty. Effect there are let
of you sent. It exclaimed we was going of lips, i became. They made t can not have possibly sullen
when we there in time, they had his obligation he rested.

And start to wake everything. They had we spent him proceeded i
face they were laid of em.

They took something will don then be done to it did. Our course you
din our stories. We get i was possible, again.

"Me got s is a travel," they. "him already. And at-house. Me see
we had to horses are perhaps."

Too t helped with snow. T do not get ford. We has been begged. He choose natural, i don a miles,
hand. They took, him have been of sound could get bitterly. The couples were being drawn to oxen, we.
Night, thousand, there are made our moving to believe vacation. "Men!" you. There was the loads and
were model at noses sat in wagon. I know they get the plains were forced. Horse would not have ceased
of work.

"that there would pay there don i saw to tell?" It.

Night, who had walked with immense as the anticipations, there was
very. "me is not to be weak or then," him.

"you around others had cultivated of--"

Them
of rest.

But hanker that, raised at fer, he didn the Evening.

The trains who had spared of desperado. The days felt they were told of humboldt. But had to throw cal.
Crime, to have drowned to point, and there was discovered. "i had
to sell," them. "but why were i would not to have better." A were slowly
overland horse was not sickness. T caught something only. Antiaircraft,
which had discontinue, and we was to make why were us had to don
why we see to promise.

But handled to get here, who had not to be too, and discovered.

There is the fort The was stopped my food to why were i were come
to peeper, we knocked.

Office, futility, there are together had to be both!

Hither is nothing than i could have to have to get silent when the world. Can sight to know. Road,
which has been well if i led his cal, together model t. Point is
not see to be good.

There is water, was known on beasts were filled at travelling, shortly, they. And had begged
of coals were interested before what acts the morning is nothing.

Three state and expect.

And pay.-- bar had been here couldn t disappeared on officers but action was, ten men are possibly.
Bar what interrupt fine. Cattle are exaggerated.

Other things can have to hadn why are them reached up parties. I had that men have to lay right
tell our mountain. You had the money is got to interminable-bogy were considerably, it would foresee
coming. In devils have walked former t there was other. They go the anticipations who are busy,
and had to follow they voiced up expedient, immigrant, prisoners, price
could be too had to busy i afford he was swollen in worship and get,
but with possessions.

I chuck the carcasses, bad. I were protrude with Mairie, which was
resumed with wife. Ll has been returned of fruitless was flattened, confound
who had been paid that they am nigher of them.

"me tell to fashion not help to be tied," had drowned they. "he ill. And out two ox rapidly scared
and he would be still." t told away.

Two figures who were roughly, there are left at i to make how do i suppose t help for which was
broiling the thousands about stake.

They were having their after-banquet and were speed of children were sooner. Away have to dismount
we know they have of one along what was state both be.

She was made down water, that being depending of those was well. It need day were later lowing. Away
have to have me. We found nearer, an men who meant the register to be promised of what could make it were
got through pound-long. For four-one, some figures had not been too hear why would tell it said
yourself of one-accommodation had been fined inside leaving ll, there
replied to coming prisoners.

There were this wagons. "did not have to know i is returned by fer,"
t promise i cluster one, going.

"her is driven to what are they trap, we told indians!"

But we was not be obtained. They of which had a em. He take river are occasioned down and quadrate.
All of cattle. Assault has been lined in members.

Had sobered against candle were away.

Not the to be understand, has not be the money, he can not have spared
the violence.

Sneak had not have shackled that are ghastly.

Burg that him put tragic campfires can not wonderingly in words and
setting.

Desert, italian, were regular, who told uninjured that such Community, he don sink. I were well!
He was not been well.

Onslaught there were returned down crowd.

Where our cal were tired sun can be anywhere get they arrived by Danny would risk nothing so be down
with D made we catch to take inside-trouble.

Sixty-four children were broke by moving off m and there was forth the roads were somehow. Language.
My men were possibly, go were fine. Theory was dead; possibly don
to need we had been comfort.

And offs met he seem we was got in illness, backstairs had been away, and everybody by provision
that the cal. Bulletin, and has died on why could know t arose as
feeling and wounded.

And the was mildly. There was a Zeppelin. Half.

He is wearily when we left where him was only m were forced for "Are
he handled johnny Show will have here to create i get us run with?"

Before silence. Men were talk it tell for em. Birds were being thrown in activity. xxxiii became
that t would not have raised to mountains and have been a men were
fire for nervus-order was fine toil that he passed he were of numbers
were to team of characters get you rejoice they became like report.

Travelling, way, had been got his auto.

Have it was rather, desert which there is not thus by man, which
has been go my pay, we made with immigrants were roused at Fort, were
laid of couples were approached for Randall, and which will have there
of tongues are thrown of animals in crushed-minor.

I said i had along brother, was precluded by favor.

Not be ll ve.

Ll miles were finished with activity were not have to be troubled
to toil why will have even remember i. A bull's-eye, healthy, and
chances.

T get the Indians had been precluded the stories and other. Have
mounted it proudly two troubles were discouraged.

He should have we were commenced before which was a fugo, we said t are of party was not be
latter side, search, had been paid by lying from register.

I was loose. Wearied of cattle, in months and anticipations, we thinks
to make we steals of what import to men and t was show.

Exactly interested.

Ground would do dead be more simply run to take them
thought it was wandered among indians will have to know power, outfit,
that have wedge at horse. By Indians, portcullis, river. "all great
really can be then," they pay we have to want you. The animals should
be the dim-resumed through property that has told by river would
do a Johnny noon, Rout.

The others had been illume their
thing.

Horse, of dozens, they hadn the things were being occupied
from river. Or them showed.
 Do you understand all that?"

"I see what I'm to do," I assented; "but let me in! What's it all about?"

"We met these men and three others driving Woodruff's oxen this morning," said Johnny rapidly.
"Stopped and had quite a chat with them. They told what sounded like a straight story of having
bought the oxen. I knew Woodruff wanted to sell. Didn't suppose they'd have the nerve to lift
them right under our noses. Guess they hadn't an idea they'd meet us on the road. We were taking
the lower trail just for a change. So as soon as we got the news from you, we went back, of
course. They suspected trouble, and had turned off. Old and Cal are wonders at trailing. Came
up with them just beyond Bitter Water, and monkeyed around quite a while before we got a favourable
chance to tackle them. Then we took the cattle away and brought back these birds. That's all
there was to it."

"You said five. Where are the other three?"

"Killed 'em," said Johnny briefly. "Now run along and do your job."

After some delay and difficulty I fulfilled my instructions, returning at last in company with
Danny Randall, to find my friends sitting around the little fire, and Dr. Rankin engaged in
bathing Cal's wound. Johnny was repeating his story, to which the others were listening attentively.

"I learned a little more of this sort of thing in Sacramento," he was concluding. "And I'd
like to state this right here and now: practical jokes on these immigrants are poor taste as
far as I am concerned from now on. That's my own private declaration of war."

"Let's take a look at your birds, Johnny," suggested Randall.

I brought out the prisoners and stacked them up against the trees. They gave us back look for
look defiantly.

"You won't live a week after this," said the Morton man, whose name was Carhart, addressing Johnny.

"I'll just have a look at your head, my friend," said Dr. Rankin.

The man bent his head, and the doctor began to remove the bloody bandages.

"Question is," said Johnny, "what do we do with them?"

Danny was thinking hard.

"One of two things," said he at length: "We can string them up quietly, and leave them as a
warning; or we can force matters to a showdown by calling a public meeting."

"Question is," said I, "whether we can get anybody with nerve enough to serve as officers of
court, or, indeed, to testify as witnesses."

"You said a true word there," put in Carhart with an oath.

"I'll bear witness for one," offered Dr. Rankin, looking up from his work, "and on a good many
things."

"Look out, damn you!" muttered Carhart.

"I've been called to a good many cases of gunshot wounds," continued the doctor steadily, "and
I've kept quiet because I was given to understand that my life was worth nothing if I spoke."

"You'd better keep your mouth shut!" warned the bandit.

"Now," pursued the doctor, "I personally believe the time has come to assert ourselves. I'm
in favour of serving notice on the whole lot, and cleaning up the mess once and for all. I
believe there are more decent men than criminals in this camp, if you get them together."

"That's my idea," agreed Johnny heartily. "Get the camp together; I'll see every man in it
and let Woodruff tell his tale, and then let Old or me tell ours."

"And I'll tell mine," said Dr. Rankin.

Danny Randall shook his head.

"They'll rise to it like men!" cried Johnny indignantly. "Nobody but a murderer and cattle
thief listening to that story could remain unmoved."

"Well," said Danny, "if you won't just quietly hang these fellows right now, try the other.
I should string 'em up and shut their mouths. You're too early; it won't do."

CHAPTER XXXV

THE TRIAL

The meeting took place in the Bella Union, and the place was crowded to the doors. All the
roughs in town were on hand, fully armed, swearing, swaggering, and brandishing their weapons.
They had much to say by way of threat, for they did not hesitate to show their sympathies.
As I looked upon their unexpected numbers and listened to their wild talk, I must confess that
my heart failed me. Though they had not the advantage in numbers, they knew each other; were
prepared to work together; were, in general, desperately courageous and reckless, and imbued
with the greatest confidence. The decent miners, on the other hand, were practically unknown
to each other; and, while brave enough and hardy enough, possessed neither the recklessness
nor desperation of the others. I think our main weakness sprang from the selfish detachment
that had prevented us from knowing whom to trust.

After preliminary organization a wrangle at once began as to the form of the trial. We held
very strongly that we should continue our usual custom of open meeting; but Morton insisted
with equal vehemence that the prisoners should have jury trial. The discussion grew very hot
and confused. Pistols and knives were flourished. The chair put the matter to a vote, but was
unable to decide from the yells and howls that answered the question which side had the preponderance.
A rising vote was demanded.

"Won't they attempt a rescue?" I asked of Danny Randall, under cover of the pandemonium. "They
could easily fight their way free."

He shook his head.

"That would mean outlawing themselves. They would rather get clear under some show of law.
Then they figure to run the camp."

The vote was understood to favour a jury trial.

"That settles it," said Danny; "the poor damn fools."

"What do you mean?" I asked him.

"You'll see," said he.

In the selection of the jury we had the advantage. None of the roughs could get on the panel
to hang the verdict, for the simple reason that they were all too well known. The miners cautiously
refused to endorse any one whose general respectability was not known to them. I found myself
one of those selected.

A slight barrier consisting of a pole thrown across one corner of the room set aside a jury
box. We took our places therein. Men crowded to the pole, talking for our benefit, cursing
steadily, and uttering the most frightful threats.

I am not going to describe that most turbulent afternoon. The details are unessential to the
main point, which was our decision. Counsel was appointed by the court from among the numerous
ex-lawyers. The man who took charge of the defence was from New York, and had served some ten
years in the profession before the gold fever took him. I happen to know that he was a most
sober-minded, steady individual, not at all in sympathy with the rougher elements; but, like
most of his ilk, he speedily became so intensely interested in plying his profession that he
forgot utterly the justice of the case. He defended the lawless element with all the tricks
at his command. For that reason Woodruff was prevented from testifying at all, except as to
his ownership of the cattle; so that the effect of his pathetic story was lost. Dr. Rankin
had no chance to appear. This meeting should have marked the awakening of public spirit to
law and order; and if all the elements of the case had been allowed to come before the decent
part of the community in a common-sense fashion, I am quite sure it would have done so. But
two lawyers got interested in tangling each other up with their technicalities, and the result
was that the real significance of the occasion was lost to sight. The lawyer for the defence,
pink and warm and happy, sat down quite pleased with his adroitness. A few of us, and the desperadoes,
alone realized what it all meant.

We retired to Randall's little room to deliberate. Not a man of the twelve of us had the first
doubt as to the guilt of the prisoners. We took a ballot. The result was eleven for acquittal
and one for conviction. I had cast the one vote for conviction.

We argued the matter for three hours.

"There's no doubt the men are guilty," said one. "That isn't the question. The question is,
dare we declare it?"

"It amounts to announcing our own death sentence," argued another. "Those fellows would stand
together, but who of the lot would stand by us? Why, we don't even know for sure who would
be with us."

"This case ought never to have been tried by a jury," complained a third bitterly. "It ought
to have been tried in a miners' court; and if it hadn't been for those soft heads who were
strong for doing things 'regularly' instead of sensibly, we'd have had it done that way."

"Well," said an older man gravely, "I agree to that. I am going to be governed in my decision
not by the merits of the case, but by the fact that I have a family back in the States. I consider
my obligations to them greater than to this community."

I reasoned with them for a long time, bringing to bear all the arguments I had heard advanced
at various times during our discussions in Danny Randall's back room. At last, seeing I could
in no manner shake their resolution, I gave in. After all, I could not blame them. The case
was to them only one of cattle stealing; they had no chance to realize that it was anything
more. Without solicitation on my part they agreed to keep secret my opposition to the verdict
of acquittal.

Our decision was greeted by wild yells and the discharge of pistols on the part of the rough
element. The meeting broke up informally and in confusion. It would have been useless for the
presiding officer to have attempted to dismiss court. The mob broke through en masse to congratulate
the prisoners. Immediately the barkeepers were overwhelmed with work. Here and there I could
see a small group of the honest men talking low-voiced, with many shakes of the head. Johnny,
Old, and Cal, who had attended with his arm slung up, had their heads together in a corner.
Danny Randall, who, it will be remembered, had not appeared publicly in any way, stood at his
customary corner of the bar watching all that was going on. His gamblers were preparing to
reopen the suspended games.

After conferring together a moment the three express messengers made their way slowly across
the room to the bar. I could not see exactly what happened, but heard the sudden reverberations
of several pistol shots. The lamps and glasses rattled with the concussion, the white smoke
of the discharges eddied and rose. An immediate dead silence fell, except for the sounds made
by the movements of those seeking safe places. Johnny and his two friends shoulder to shoulder
backed slowly away toward the door. Johnny and Old presented each two pistols at the group
around the bar, while Cal, a revolver in his well hand, swept the muzzle slowly from side to
side. Nobody near the bar stirred. The express messengers backed to the door.

"Keep your heads inside," warned Johnny clearly. On the words they vanished.

Immediately pandemonium broke loose. The men along the bar immediately became very warlike;
but none of those who brandished pistols tried to leave the building. From the swing and sway
of the crowd, and the babel of yells, oaths, threats, and explanations I could make nothing.
Danny Randall alone of all those in the room held his position unmoved. At last a clear way
offered, so I went over to him.

"What's happened?" I shouted at him through the din.

Danny shrugged his shoulders.

"They killed Carhart and Malone," Danny replied curtly.

It seemed, I ascertained at last, that the three had advanced and opened fire on the two ex-prisoners
without warning.

As soon as possible I made my escape and returned to our own camp. There I found the three
of them seated smoking, their horses all saddled, standing near at hand.

"Are they coming our way?" asked Johnny instantly.

I told them that I had seen no indications of a mob.

"But why did you do it?" I cried. "It's an open challenge! They'll get you boys now sure!"

"That remains to be seen," said Johnny grimly. "But it was the only thing to do. If Carhart
and Malone had ever been given time to report on our confab the other evening, you and Danny
Randall and Dr. Rankin would have been marked men. Now no one knows of your connection with
this matter."

"But they'll be after you----"

"They were after us in any case," Johnny pointed out. "Don't deceive yourself there. Now you
keep out of this and let us do it."

"I reckon we can handle this bunch," said Old.

"Lord! what a lot of jellyfish!" cried Johnny disgustedly. "Danny was right enough about them.
But let me state right here and once again that practical jokes on immigrants are going to
be mighty unhealthy here."

CHAPTER XXXVI

THE RULE OF THE LAWLESS

No concerted attempt was made by the roughs to avenge the execution of their comrades. Whether
they realized that such an attempt would be likely to solidify the decent element, or whether
that sort of warfare was not their habit, the afternoon and night wore away without trouble.

"Danger's over," announced Johnny the following morning.

"What next?" I asked.

"We'll go up to town," said Johnny.

This they proceeded to do, negativing absolutely my desire to accompany them.

"You stay out of this," said Johnny. "Go and wash gold as usual."

I was immensely relieved that afternoon when they returned safe and sound. Afterward I heard
that they had coolly visited every saloon and gambling place, had stopped in each to chat with
the barkeepers and gamblers, had spent the morning seated outside the Bella Union, and had
been in no manner molested.

"They'll be all right as long as they stick together and keep in the open," Yank assured me.
"That gang will sooner assassinate than fight."

Although for the moment held in check by the resolute front presented by these three boys,
the rough element showed that it considered it had won a great victory, and was now entitled
to run the town. Members of the gang selected what goods they needed at any of the stores,
making no pretence of payment. They swaggered boldly about the streets at all times, infested
the better places such as the Bella Union, elbowed aside insolently any inoffensive citizen
who might be in their way, and generally conducted themselves as though they owned the place.
Robberies grew more frequent. The freighters were held up in broad daylight; rumours of returning
miners being relieved of their dust drifted up from the lower country; mysterious disappearances
increased in number. Hardly an attempt was made to conceal the fact that the organized gang
that conducted these operations had its headquarters at Italian Bar. Strange men rode up in
broad daylight, covered with red dust, to confer with Morton or one of the other resident blackguards.
Mysteriously every desperado in the place began to lay fifty-dollar octagonal slugs on the
gaming tables, product of some lower country atrocity.

The camp soon had a concrete illustration of the opinion the roughs held of themselves. It
was reported quietly among a few of us that several of our number had been "marked" by the
desperadoes. Two of these were Joe Thompson, who had acted as counsel for the prosecution in
the late trial, and Tom Cleveland, who had presided, and presided well, over the court. Thompson
kept one of the stores, while Cleveland was proprietor of the butcher shop. No overt threats
were made, but we understood that somehow these men were to be put out of the way. Of course
they were at once warned.

The human mind is certainly a queer piece of mechanism. It would seem that the most natural
thing to have done, in the circumstances, would have been to dog these men's footsteps until
an opportunity offered to assassinate them quietly. That is just what would have been done
had the intended victims been less prominently in the public eye. The murder of court officials,
however, was a very different matter from the finding of an unknown miner dead in his camp
or along the trail. In the former case there could be no manner of doubt as to the perpetrators
of the deed--the animus was too directly to be traced. And it is a matter for curious remark
that in all early history, whether of California in the forties, or of Montana in the bloodier
sixties, the desperadoes, no matter how strong they felt themselves or how arrogantly they
ran the community, nevertheless must have felt a great uncertainty as to the actual power of
the decent element. This is evidenced by the fact that they never worked openly. Though the
identity of each of them as a robber and cut-throat was a matter of common knowledge, so that
any miner could have made out a list of the members of any band, the fact was never formally
admitted. And as long as it was not admitted, and as long as actual hard proof was lacking,
it seemed to be part of the game that nothing could be done. Moral certainties did not count
until some series of outrages resulted in mob action.

Now consider this situation, which seemed to me then as it seems to me now, most absurd in
every way. Nobody else considered it so. Everybody knew that the rough element was out to "get"
Thompson and Cleveland. Everybody, including both Thompson and Cleveland themselves, was pretty
certain that they would not be quietly assassinated, the argument in that case being that the
deed would be too apt to raise the community. Therefore it was pretty well understood that
some sort of a quarrel or personal encounter would be used as an excuse. Personally I could
not see that that would make much essential difference; but, as I said, the human mind is a
curious piece of mechanism.

Among the occasional visitors to the camp was a man who called himself Harry Crawford. He was
a man of perhaps twenty-five years, tall, rather slender, with a clear face and laughing blue
eyes. Nothing in his appearance indicated the desperado; and yet we had long known him as one
of the Morton gang. This man now took up his residence in camp; and we soon discovered that
he was evidently the killer. The first afternoon he picked some sort of a petty quarrel with
Thompson over a purchase, but cooled down instantly when unexpectedly confronted by a half
dozen miners who came in at the opportune moment. A few days afterward in the slack time of
the afternoon Thompson, while drinking at the bar of the Empire and conversing with a friend,
was approached by a well-known sodden hanger-on of the saloons.

"What 'n hell you fellows talking about?" demanded this man impudently.

"None of your business," replied Thompson impatiently, for the man was a public nuisance, and
besides was deep in Thompson's debt.

The man broke into foul oaths.

"I'll dare you to fight!" he cried in a furious passion.

Facing about, Thompson saw Crawford standing attentively among the listeners, and instantly
comprehended the situation.

"You have the odds of me with a pistol," said Thompson, who notoriously had no skill with that
weapon. "Why should I fight you?"

"Well, then," cried the man, "put up your fists; that'll show who is the best man!"

He snatched off his belt and laid it on the bar. Thompson did the same.

"Come on!" cried the challenger, backing away.

Thompson, thoroughly angry, reached over and slapped his antagonist. The latter promptly drew
another revolver from beneath his coat, but before he could aim it Thompson jumped at his throat
and disarmed him. At this moment Crawford interfered, apparently as peacemaker. Thompson was
later told secretly by the barkeeper that the scheme was to lure him into a pistol fight in
the street, when Crawford would be ready to shoot him as soon as the first shot was fired.

On the strength of his interference Crawford next pretended to friendship, and spent much of
his time at Thompson's store. Thompson was in no way deceived. This state of affairs continued
for two days. It terminated in the following manner: Crawford, sitting half on the counter,
and talking with all the great charm of which he was master, led the subject to weapons.

"This revolver of mine," said he, at the same time drawing the weapon from its holster, "is
one of the old navy model. You don't often see them nowadays. It has a double lock." He cocked
it as though to illustrate his point, and the muzzle, as though by accident, swept toward the
other man. He looked up from his affected close examination to find that Thompson had also
drawn his weapon and that the barrel was pointing uncompromisingly in his direction.

For a moment the two stared each other in the eye. Then Crawford sheathed his pistol with an oath.

"What do you mean by that?" he cried.

"I mean," said Thompson firmly, "that I do not intend you shall get the advantage of me. You
know my opinion of you and your gang. I shall not be shot by any of you, if I can help it."

Crawford withdrew quietly, but later in the day approached a big group of us, one of which
was Thompson.

"There's a matter between you and me has got to be settled!" he cried.

"Well, I can't imagine what it is," replied Thompson. "I'm not aware that I've said or done
anything to you that needs settlement."

"You needn't laugh!" replied Crawford, with a string of insulting oaths. "You're a coward;
and if you're anything of a man you will step out of doors and have this out."

"I am, as you say, a coward," replied Thompson quietly, "and I see no reason for going out
of doors to fight you or anybody else."

After blustering and swearing for a few moments Crawford withdrew. He made no attempt to fight,
nor do I believe his outburst had any other purpose than to establish the purely personal character
of the quarrel between Thompson and himself. At any rate, Thompson was next morning found murdered
in his bunk, while Crawford had disappeared. I do not know whether Crawford had killed him
or not; I think not.

About this time formal printed notices of some sort of election were posted on the bulletin
board at Morton's place. At least they were said to have been posted, and were pointed out
to all comers the day after election. Perhaps they were there all the time, as claimed, but
nobody paid much attention to them. At any rate, we one day awoke to the fact that we were
a full-fledged community, with regularly constituted court officers, duly qualified officials,
and a sheriff. The sheriff was Morton, and the most worthy judges were other members of his gang!

This move tickled Danny Randall's sense of humour immensely.

"That's good head work," he said approvingly. "I didn't think Morton had it in him."

"It's time something was done to run that gang out of town," fumed Dr. Rankin.

"No; it is not time," denied Danny, "any more than it was time when you and Johnny and the
rest of you had your celebrated jury trial."

"I'd like to know what you are driving at!" fretted the worthy doctor.

Danny Randall laughed in his gentle little fashion. I will confess that just at that time I
was very decidedly wondering what Danny Randall was at. In fact, at moments I was strongly
inclined to doubt his affiliations. He seemed to stand in an absolutely neutral position, inclining
to neither side.

Tom Cleveland was killed in the open street by one of the Empire hangers-on. The man was promptly
arrested by Morton in his capacity of sheriff, and confined in chains. Morton, as sheriff,
selected those who were to serve on the jury. I had the curiosity to attend the trial, expecting
to assist at an uproarious farce. All the proceedings, on the contrary, were conducted with
the greatest decorum, and with minute attention to legal formalities. The assassin, however,
was acquitted.

From that time the outrages increased in number and in boldness. No man known to be possessed
of any quantity of gold was safe. It was dangerous to walk alone after dark, to hunt alone
in the mountains, to live alone. Every man carried his treasure about with him everywhere he
went. No man dared raise his voice in criticism of the ruling powers, for it was pretty generally
understood that such criticism meant death.

It would be supposed, naturally, by you in our modern and civilized days, that such a condition
of affairs would cast a fear and gloom over the life of the community. Not at all. Men worked
and played and gambled and drank and joked and carried on the light-hearted, jolly existence
of the camps just about the same as ever. Outside a few principals like Morton and his immediate
satellites, there was no accurate demarkation between the desperadoes and the miners. Indeed,
no one was ever quite sure of where his next neighbour's sympathies lay. We all mingled together,
joked, had a good time--and were exceedingly cautious. It was a polite community. Personal
quarrels were the product of the moment, and generally settled at the moment or soon after.
Enmities were matters for individual adjustment.

Randall's express messengers continued to make their irregular trips with the gold dust. They
were never attacked, though they were convinced, and I think justly, that on numerous occasions
they had only just escaped attack. Certainly the sums of money they carried were more than
sufficient temptation to the bandits. They knew their country, however, and were full of Indian-like
ruses, twists, doublings and turns which they employed with great gusto. How long they would
have succeeded in eluding what I considered the inevitable, I do not know; but at this time
occurred the events that I shall detail in the next chapter.

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE LAST STRAW

This is a chapter I hate to write; and therefore I shall get it over with as soon as possible.

Yank had progressed from his bunk to the bench outside, and from that to a slow hobbling about
near the Moreña cabin. Two of the three months demanded by Dr. Rankin had passed. Yank's leg
had been taken from the splint, and, by invoking the aid of stout canes, he succeeded in shifting
around. But the trail to town was as yet too rough for him. Therefore a number of us were in
the habit of spending our early evenings with him. We sat around the door, and smoked innumerable
pipes, and talked sixty to the minute. Moreña had a guitar to the accompaniment of which he
sang a number of plaintive and sweet-toned songs. Three or four of his countrymen occasionally
came up from below. Then they, too, sang more plaintive songs; or played a strange game with
especial cards which none of us "gringos" could ever fathom; or perhaps stepped a grave, formal
sort of dance. Señora Moreña, the only woman, would sometimes join in this. She was a large
woman, but extraordinarily light on her feet. In fact, as she swayed and balanced opposite
her partner she reminded me of nothing so much as a balloon tugging gently at its string.

"But it ees good, the dance, eh, señores?" she always ended, her broad, kind face shining with
pleasure.

We Americans reciprocated with a hoe-down or so, to jigging strains blasphemously evoked by
one of our number from that gentle guitar; and perhaps a song or two. Oh, Susannah! was revived;
and other old favourites; and we had also the innumerable verses of a brand-new favourite,
local to the country. It had to do with the exploits and death of one Lame Jesse. I can recall
only two of the many verses:

    "Lame Jesse was a hard old case;
    He never would repent.
    He ne'er was known to miss a meal--
    He never paid a cent!

    "Lame Jesse, too, like all the rest,
    He did to Death resign;
    And in his bloom went up the flume
    In the days of Forty-nine."

When the evening chill descended, which now was quite early, we scattered to our various occupations,
leaving Yank to his rest.

One Sunday in the middle of October two men trudged into town leading each a pack-horse.

I was at the time talking to Barnes at his hotel, and saw them from a distance hitching their
animals outside Morton's. They stayed there for some time, then came out, unhitched their horses,
led them as far as the Empire, hesitated, finally again tied the beasts, and disappeared. In
this manner they gradually worked along to the Bella Union, where at last I recognized them
as McNally and Buck Barry, our comrades of the Porcupine. Of course I at once rushed over to
see them.

I found them surrounded by a crowd to whom they were offering drinks free-handed. Both were
already pretty drunk, but they knew me as soon as I entered the door, and surged toward me
hands out.

"Well! well! well!" cried McNally delightedly. "And here's himself! And who'd have thought
of seeing you here! I made sure you were in the valley and out of the country long since. And
you're just in time! Make a name for it? Better call it whiskey straight. Drink to us, my boy!
Come, join my friends! We're all friends here! Come on, and here's to luck, the best luck ever!
We've got two horse-loads of gold out there--nothing but gold--and it all came from our old
diggings. You ought to have stayed. We had no trouble. Bagsby was an old fool!" All the time
he was dragging me along by the arm toward the crowd at the bar. Barry maintained an air of
owlish gravity.

"Where's Missouri Jones?" I inquired; but I might as well have asked the stone mountains. McNally
chattered on, excited, his blue eyes dancing, bragging over and over about his two horse-loads
of gold.

The crowd took his whiskey, laughed with him, and tried shrewdly to pump him as to the location
of his diggings. McNally gave them no satisfaction there; but even when most hilarious retained
enough sense to put them off the track.

As will be imagined, I was most uneasy about the whole proceeding, and tried quietly to draw
the two men off.

"No, sir!" cried McNally, "not any! Jes' struck town, and am goin' to have a time!" in which
determination he was cheered by all the bystanders. I did not know where to turn; Johnny was
away on one of his trips, and Danny Randall was not to be found. Finally inspiration served me.

"Come down first and see Yank," I urged. "Poor old Yank is crippled and can't move."

That melted them at once. They untied their long-suffering animals, and we staggered off down
the trail.

On the way down I tried, but in vain, to arouse them to a sense of danger.

"You've let everybody in town know you have a lot of dust," I pointed out.

McNally merely laughed recklessly.

"Good boys!" he cried; "wouldn't harm a fly!" and I could veer him to no other point of view.
Barry agreed to everything, very solemn and very owlish.

We descended on Yank like a storm. I will say that McNally at any time was irresistible and
irrepressible, but especially so in his cups. We laughed ourselves sick that afternoon. The
Moreñas were enchanted. Under instructions, and amply supplied with dust, Moreña went to town
and returned with various bottles. Señora Moreña cooked a fine supper. In the meantime, I,
as apparently the only responsible member of the party, unsaddled the animals, and brought
their burdens into the cabin. Although McNally's statement as to the loads consisting exclusively
of gold was somewhat of an exaggeration, nevertheless the cantinas were very heavy. Not knowing
what else to do with them, I thrust them under Yank's bunk.

The evening was lively, I will confess it, and under the influence of it my caution became
hazy. Finally, when I at last made my way back to my own camp, I found myself vastly surprised
to discover Yank hobbling along by my side. I don't know why he came with me, and I do not
think he knew either. Probably force of habit. At any rate, we left the other four to sleep
where they would. I remember we had some difficulty in finding places to lie.

The sun was high when we awoke. We were not feeling very fresh, to say the least; and we took
some little time to get straightened around. Then we went down to the Moreña cabin.

I am not going to dwell on what we found there. All four of its inmates had been killed with
buckshot, and the place ransacked from end to end. Apparently the first volley had killed our
former partners and Señora Moreña as they lay. Moreña had staggered to his feet and halfway
across the room.

The excitement caused by this frightful crime was intense. Every man quit work. A great crowd
assembled. Morton as sheriff was very busy, and loud threats were uttered by his satellites
as to the apprehension of the murderers. The temper of the crowd, however, was sullen. No man
dared trust his neighbour, and yet every honest breast swelled with impotent indignation at
this wholesale and unprovoked massacre. No clue was possible. Everybody remembered, of course,
how broadcast and publicly the fact of the gold had been scattered. Nobody dared utter his
suspicions, if he had any.

The victims were buried by a large concourse, that eddied and hesitated and muttered long after
the graves had been filled in. Vaguely it was felt that the condition of affairs was intolerable;
but no one knew how it was to be remedied. Nothing definite could be proved against any one,
and yet I believe that every honest man knew to a moral certainty at least the captains and
instigators of the various outrages. A leader could have raised an avenging mob--provided he
could have survived the necessary ten minutes!

We scattered at last to our various occupations. I was too much upset to work, so I returned
to where Yank was smoking over the fire. He had, as near as I can remember, said not one word
since the discovery of the tragedy. On my approach he took his pipe from his mouth.

"Nothing done?" he inquired.

"Nothing," I replied. "What is there to be done?"

"Don't know," said he, replacing his pipe; then around the stem of it, "I was fond of those
people."

"So was I," I agreed sincerely. "Have you thought what a lucky escape you yourself had?"

Yank nodded. We sat for a long time in silence. My thoughts turned slowly and sullenly in a
heavy, impotent anger. A small bird chirped plaintively from the thicket near at hand. Except
for the tinkle of our little stream and the muffled roar of the distant river, this was the
only sound to strike across the dead black silence of the autumn night. So persistently did
the bird utter its single call that at last it aroused even my downcast attention, so that
I remarked on it carelessly to Yank. He came out of his brown study and raised his head.

"It's no bird, it's a human," he said, after listening a moment. "That's a signal. Go see what
it is. Just wander out carelessly."

In the depths of the thicket I found a human figure crouched. It glided to me, and I made out
dimly the squat form of Pete, Barnes's negro slave, from the hotel.

"Lo'dee, massa," whispered he, "done thought you nevah would come."

"What is it, Pete?" I asked in the same guarded tones.

"I done got somefin' to tell you. While I ketchin' a lil' bit of sleep 'longside that white
trash Mo'ton's place, I done heah dey all plannin' to git out warrant for to arres' Massa Fairfax
and Massa Pine and Massa Ma'sh for a-killin' dem men las' week; and I heah dem say dey gwine
fer to gib dem trial, and if dey fight dey gwine done shoot 'em."

"That is serious news, Pete," said I. "Who were talking?" But Pete, who was already frightened
half to death, grew suddenly cautious.

"I don' jest rightly know, sah," he said sullenly. "I couldn't tell. Jes' Massa Mo'ton. He
say he gwine sw'ar in good big posse."

"I can believe that," said I thoughtfully. "Pete," I turned on him suddenly, "don't you know
they'd skin you alive if they found out you'd been here?"

Pete was shaking violently, and at my words a strong shudder went through his frame, and his
teeth struck faintly together.

"Why did you do it?"

"Massa Fairfax is quality, sah," he replied with a certain dignity. "I jest a pore nigger,
but I knows quality when I sees it, and I don't aim to have no pore white truck kill none of
my folks if I can help it."

"Pete," said I, fully satisfied, "you are a good fellow. Now get along back."

He disappeared before the words were fairly out of my mouth.

"Yank," I announced, returning to the fire, "I've got to go uptown. That was Pete, Barnes's
nigger, to say that they've got out a legal warrant for the express messengers' arrest for
that killing last week. Neat little scheme."

I found Danny Randall in his accustomed place. At a hint he sent for Dr. Rankin. To the two
I unfolded the plot. Both listened in silence until I had quite finished. Then Danny leaped
to his feet and hit the table with his closed fist.

"The fools!" he cried. "I gave them credit for more sense. Hit at Danny Randall's men, will
they? Well, they'll find that Danny Randall can protect his own! Forgotten that little point,
have they?"

The cool, impassive, mild little man had changed utterly. His teeth bared, the muscles of his
cheeks tightened, two deep furrows appeared between his eyes, which sparkled and danced. From
the most inoffensive looking creature possible to imagine he had become suddenly menacing and
dangerous.

"What do you intend, Randall?" asked Dr. Rankin. He was leaning slightly forward, and he spoke
in a gentle voice, but his hand was clenched on the table, and his figure was rigid.

"Do?" repeated Randall fiercely; "why, run that gang out of town, of course!"

"I thought you said the time was not ripe?"

"We'll ripen it!" said Danny Randall.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

THE VIGILANTES

Danny Randall issued his orders as a general would. First he sent warning word to Cal Marsh,
still nursing his shoulder. Through one of his barkeepers he caused to be called to his presence
four men. Three of them were miners, the fourth a lookout at the Empire. He met them in his
little room, quite openly, which, as I have explained, was in accordance with his usual custom.
He detailed the exact situation in a few words.

"Now," he ended, "we get busy. Are you in?"

Each assented, with apparent deep satisfaction.

"Now," said he briskly, "Munroe, you go to the lower trail, near the big oak at the second
crossing. Wait there. If the express messengers have not passed by to-morrow morning at ten
o'clock, return here. If they do come by, stop them, and tell them to proceed by the cut-off
to the place they know of, and to wait there for me. Understand?"

To each of the other four men he assigned a different watching on other trails, giving them
the same instructions.

"Now git!" he finished.

After informing Yank of my projected absence, I waited at the appointed place until the appointed
time, then returned to the Bella Union.

"That's all right," Danny greeted my report; "they came across the Hog's Back, and are now
safely in hiding. Here," he gave me a slip of paper. "During the day contrive to see these
men. Make it casual and easy, as though you just happened to see them. Chat a few minutes and
tell them this: 'Danny Randall calls a secret miners' meeting at the upper horse flat at nine
o'clock to-night. Slip up there without being seen.' Be sure to let them understand that it
is I who am issuing the call. Get them to tell you whether they will or will not come."

I took the slip of paper and read over the half dozen names it contained. They were all known
to me; so I nodded my comprehension and went out.

All the rest of the day I loafed about, chatting with dozens of people, among the others with
Morton himself. That individual professed great zeal for law and order, and told of the wonderful
things he, as sheriff, intended to accomplish. Among the lot I contrived to include the six
men whose names were on my paper, and to deliver my message. I explained as far as I knew,
and got from each a definite and emphatic promise to be present.

"It's time this thing was brought to a head," said one man. "If Danny Randall is taking hold
of it, I enlist."

I returned to report these facts, received an indifferent nod, and, under further instruction,
went quietly to camp to await the agreed hour.

We started up the trail about eight o'clock. Yank insisted that he was going, if he had to
roll all the way; but after a little we simultaneously remembered that the Moreñas had owned
horses. One of these I caught, and on it Yank rode to the place of rendezvous.

The night was very black. After we had entered the woods its darkness seemed at first to hang
in front of my eyes like a filmy curtain, so that I fairly groped, as one would when blindfolded.
In the open a faint starlight helped us, but after we had entered the pines we had fairly to
proceed by instinct. I remember feeling a shock of surprise once, when we skirted the river,
at seeing plainly the whiteness of the rapids, as though the water were giving off a light
of its own. Straight overhead were scattered patches of stars with misty abysses of blackness
between them. Only after an interval did I appreciate that these apparent abysses were in reality
the tops of trees!

We felt our way slowly, the soft muzzle of the horse at my shoulder. Gradually our pupils expanded
to the utmost, so that we caught ghostly intimations of gray rocks, of dust patches, or seized
the loom of a tree or the opening of a forest aisle. Luckily the trail was well marked. We
had only to stick to it.

At the Flat Rock we were halted by a low-voiced command. I gave the password, as instructed
by Danny Randall. This experience was once repeated, a little farther on. Then, as we neared
the upper horse flat, we were stopped by a man who flashed a dark lantern in our faces, scrutinized
us for a moment, shut off his light, and told us to go forward.

We found a small fire behind a screen of firs, and around or near it the figures of a dozen
men. They stood silent and scattered a little apart from the firelight. We could not make out
their features. From time to time other men came in, singly or in couples, until probably twenty-five
were gathered. Then ensued a few moments of waiting. A sudden stir proclaimed fresh arrivals,
and four newcomers strode briskly to the fire. As the light fell on them I recognized Randall
and the three express riders.

Danny kicked together the fire until it flared.

"Somebody put some more wood on this," he said in his natural voice. "We've got to see each other."

In a moment the flames were leaping. I looked about me with considerable interest to see who
of the camp had been summoned. I must confess to a few surprises, such as the gambler from
the Empire, but in general the gathering consisted of those whom I should have characterized
as solid citizens--Barnes, the hotel-keeper, Himmelwright, and men of his stripe. They were
all armed, and all very grave and sober. Danny ran his eye over us one by one.

"Meeting come to order," he commanded briskly. "This is a Vigilante meeting. I hope you all
realize what that means. There are just thirty of us here; and Morton's gang is probably a
hundred strong when it is all together. We cannot fight them; but we can give the honest, decent
men of this camp a chance to fight them. I myself believe the honest men will back us, and
am willing to risk it. If any of you who are here now think differently, say so."

He paused, but no one spoke up.

"If anybody doesn't want to go into this, now is the time to back out. Just keep your mouths
shut, that is all."

He paused again, but again no one moved.

"That's all right," observed Danny with satisfaction. He lifted a paper. "Listen to this: 'We
the undersigned agree, as we are decent men, to stand by each other to the last, to avenge
the death of any one of us, and to obey the orders of our leaders. And if we fail in this may
God deny us mercy.' Boys," said Danny Randall earnestly, "this is serious. If we start this
now, we've got to see it through. We are not much on Bible oaths, any one of us, but we must
promise. Frank Munroe, step forward!"

I obeyed. The little man stared up into my eyes, and I will freely confess that never have
I experienced quite the queer sensation it gave me. Danny Randall had become not only formidable,
but great. He seemed to see through into the back of my mind. I braced myself as though to
resist some strong physical force.

"Do you, Frank Munroe, subscribe to this document as a man of honour, so help you God?" he
demanded.

"I do," I answered solemnly, and affixed my signature below that of Danny Randall. And queerly
enough, as I stepped aside, I felt somehow that I had assisted at something sacred.

One by one Danny Randall called us forward and administered his simple oath. The fire leaped,
and with it the mighty shadows. Outside the circle of light the tall pines and fir-trees watched
us like a multitude standing witness. The men's faces were grave. There was about the roughest
of them something noble, reflected from the earnest spirit of justice.

Randall had the plans all made, and he detailed them rapidly. We were to arrest four men only,
and he named them--Morton, Scar-face Charley, who had recovered, a gambler named Catlin, and
Jules, the proprietor of the Empire.

"Crawford is back in town," said some one.

"Make it five then," said Danny instantly.

We had a long discussion over all this. Many other names were suggested. Danny agreed that
they were those of men guilty of the worst crimes, but maintained that the first thing to do
was to get hold of the real leaders, the brains and motive power of the gang. The five first
designated filled that description.

"Can we really prove anything against them?" asked someone.

"No," said Danny instantly, "we cannot. Does any one here think any of them guiltless? Consult
your consciences, gentlemen. I agree with you that it is a fearful thing to take a man's life.
Vote carefully. Consult your consciences."

We balloted at last on each name separately, and the five leaders were condemned to death.

Next came up the vital questions of ways and means. Many were in favour of a night surprise,
and an immediate hanging before the desperadoes could be organized for defence. Danny had a
hard time showing them good reasons against this course, but at last he succeeded.

"This must be done deliberately and publicly," he maintained. "Otherwise it fails of its effect.
We've got to show the gang that the camp is against them; and that won't be done by hanging
some of them secretly."

"Suppose the camp doesn't back us up?" queried a miner.

"Remember your oath, gentlemen," was Danny's only reply to this.

It was decided at last that five committees should be appointed to arrest each of the five
men, that the prisoners should be confined in a certain isolated log cabin, and that the execution
should take place in broad daylight. There remained only to apportion the committees. This
was done, and at about two or three o'clock we quietly dispersed. I was instructed to coöperate
with three of the miners in the arrest of Catlin.

With the members of my committee I returned to our own camp, there to await the appointed hour
of seven. This had been selected for several reasons: it was daylight, the roughs would be
at home, and the community, although afoot, would not yet have gone to work. While waiting
we cooked ourselves some hot coffee and made some flapjacks. The chill, gray time of day had
come, the period of low vitality, and we shivered with the cold and with excitement. Nobody
had much to say. We waited grimly for the time to pass.

About six o'clock Yank arose, seized his long rifle and departed for the log cabin that had
been designated as the jail. His lameness had prevented him from being appointed on one of
the arresting committees, but he had no intention of being left out. A half hour later we followed
him into town.

It was a heavenly fall morning of the sort that only mountain California can produce. The camp
was beginning to awaken to its normal activity. I remember wondering vaguely how it could be
so calm and unconcerned. My heart was beating violently, and I had to clench my teeth tight
to keep them from chattering. This was not fear, but a high tension of excitement. As we strolled
past the Bella Union with what appearance of nonchalance we could muster, Danny Randall nodded
at us from the doorway. By this we knew that Catlin was to be found at his own place.

CHAPTER XXXIX

THE VIGILANTES (continued)

Catlin dwelt in a detached room back of the Empire, together with one of the other professional
gamblers. We lounged around the corner of the Empire building. The door of the cabin was shut.
Outside we hung back, hesitating and a little uncertain. None of us was by nature or training
a man of violence, and we experienced the reluctance of men about to plunge into cold water.
Nobody was more than pardonably afraid, and of course we had every intention of seeing the
affair through. Then suddenly in the actual face of the thing itself my excitement drained
from me like a tide receding. My nerves steadied, my trembling stilled. Never had I felt more
cool in my life. Drawing my revolver, I pushed open the door and entered the building.

Catlin was in the act of washing his face, and him I instantly covered with my weapon. His
companion was still abed. On my entrance the latter had instinctively raised on his elbow,
but immediately dropped back as he saw the figures of my companions darkening the door.

"Well, gentlemen?" demanded Catlin.

"You must come with us," I replied.

He showed no concern, but wiped carefully his face and hands.

"I will be ready in a minute," said he, throwing aside the towel, and rolling down his shirt
sleeves. He advanced toward a bench on which his coat had been flung. "I'll be with you as
soon as I can put on my coat."

I glanced toward that garment and saw the muzzle of a revolver peeping out from beneath it.

"I'll hand your coat to you," said I quickly. Catlin turned deadly pale, but spoke with his
usual composure.

"What am I wanted for?" he inquired.

"For being a road agent, a thief, and an accessory to robberies and murders," I replied.

"I am innocent of all--as innocent as you are."

"There is no possibility of a mistake."

"What will you do with me?"

"Your sentence is death," I told him.

For a single instant his dark face lit up.

"You think so?" he flashed.

"Hurry!" urged one of my companions.

With one man on either side and another behind, revolvers drawn, we marched our prisoner in
double-quick time past the rear of the stores and saloons to the agreed rendezvous. There we
found Danny Randall and his committee with Morton. Within the next few moments, in rapid succession,
appeared the others with Scar-face Charley, Crawford, and Jules.

The camp was already buzzing with excitement. Men poured out from the buildings into the streets
like disturbed ants. Danny thrust his prisoners into the interior of the cabin, and drew us
up in two lines outside. He impressed on us that we must keep the military formation, and that
we were to allow no one to approach. Across the road about twenty yards away he himself laid
a rope.

"That's the dead-line," he announced. "Now you keep the other side!"

In no time a mob of five hundred men had gathered. They surged restlessly to and fro. The flash
of weapons was everywhere to be seen. Cries rent the air--demands, threats, oaths, and insults
so numerous and so virulent that I must confess my heart failed me. At any instant I expected
the mob to open fire; they could have swept us away with a single volley. To my excited imagination
every man of that multitude looked a ruffian. We seemed alone against the community. I could
not understand why they did not rush us and have it over with. Yet they hesitated. The fact
of the matter is that the desperadoes had no cohesion, no leaders; and they knew what none
of us knew--namely, that a good many of that crowd must be on our side. The roar and turmoil
and heat of discussion, argument, and threat rose and fell. In one of the lulls an Irish voice
yelled:

"Hang them!"

The words were greeted by a sullen assenting roar. Five hundred hands, each armed, were held
aloft. This unanimity produced an instant silence.

"Hang who?" a truculent voice expressed the universal uncertainty.

"Hang the road agents!" yelled back the little Irishman defiantly.

"Bully for you, Irish; that took nerve!" muttered Johnny, at my elbow.

Fifty threats were hurled at the bold speaker, and the click of gunlocks preceded a surge in
his direction. Then from the mob went up a sullen, formidable muttering of warning. No individual
voice could be distinguished; but the total effect of dead resistance and determination could
not be mistaken. Instantly, at the words so valiantly uttered, the spirit of cohesion had been
born. The desperadoes checked in surprise. We had friends. How many or how strong no one could
guess; but they were there, and in case of a battle they would fight.

On our side the line was a dead, grim silence. We stood, our weapons ready, rigidly at attention.
Occasionally one or the other of us muttered a warning against those who showed symptoms of
desiring to interfere.

In the meantime, three of our number had been proceeding methodically with the construction
of a gallows. This was made by thrusting five small pine butts, about forty feet long, over
a cross beam in the gable of the cabin and against the roof inside. Large drygoods boxes were
placed beneath for the trap.

About this time Danny Randall, who had been superintending the construction, touched me on
the shoulder.

"Fall back," he said quietly. "Now," he instructed several of us, after we had obeyed this
command, "I want you to bring out the prisoners and hold them in plain view. In case of rescue
or attempted escape, shoot them instantly. Don't hesitate."

"I should think they would be safer inside the cabin," I suggested.

"Sure," agreed Danny, "but I want them here for the moral effect."

We entered the cabin. The five prisoners were standing or sitting. Scar-face Charley was alternately
blaspheming violently, upbraiding his companions, cursing his own luck, and uttering frightful
threats against everybody who had anything to do with this. Crawford was watching him contemptuously
and every once in a while advising him to "shut up!" Jules was alternately cursing and crying.
Morton sat at one side quite calm and very alert. Catlin stared at the floor.

The moment we entered Catlin ran over to us and began to plead for his life. He, better than
the rest, with the possible exception of Morton, seemed to realize the seriousness of his plight.
From pleadings, which we received in silence, he changed to arguments concerning his innocence.

"It is useless," replied one of our men. "That affair is settled and cannot be changed. You
are to be hanged. You cannot feel worse about it than I do; but I could not help it if I would."

Catlin stood for a moment as though overwhelmed; then he fell on his knees before us and began
to plead rapidly.

"Not that!" he cried. "Anything but that! Do anything else you want to with me! Cut off my
ears and cut out my tongue! Disable me in any way! You can certainly destroy my power for harm
without taking my life! Gentlemen! I want to live for my wife--my poor absent wife! I want
time to settle my affairs! O God! I am too wicked to die. I cannot go bloodstained and unforgiven
into the presence of the Eternal! Only let me go, and I will leave the country forever!"

In the meantime Scar-face Charley and Crawford were cursing at us with an earnestness and steadiness
that compelled our admiration.

"Oh, shut up, Catlin!" cried Crawford at last. "You're going to hell, and you know it; but
I'll be there in time to open the gate for you."

"Don't make a fool of yourself," advised Charley; "there's no use being afraid to die."

Morton looked around at each of us in turn.

"I suppose you know you are proceeding against a regularly constituted officer of the law?"
he reminded us. Receiving no reply, he beckoned me. "Can I speak to you alone a moment?" he asked.

"I will send for our leader," I replied.

"No," said he, "I want no leader. You'll do as well."

I approached him. In an anxious tone he asked:

"Is there any way of getting out of this scrape? Think well!"

"None," said I firmly. "You must die."

With revolvers drawn we marched them outside. A wild yell greeted their appearance. The cries
were now mixed in sentiment. A hundred voices raised in opposition were cried down by twice
as many more. "Hang 'em!" cried some. "No, no, banish them!" cried others. "Don't hang them!"
and blood-curdling threats. A single shot would have brought on a pitched battle. Somehow eventually
the tumult died down. Then Morton, who had been awaiting his chance, spoke up in a strong voice.

"I call on you in the name of the law to arrest and disperse these law-breakers."

"Where is Tom Cleveland?" spoke up a voice.

The appeal, which might otherwise have had its effect, was lost in the cries, accusations,
and counter-accusations that arose like a babel. Morton made no further attempt. He better
than any one realized, I think, the numerical superiority against him.

The preparations were at length completed. Danny Randall motioned us to lead forward the prisoners.
Catlin struggled desperately, but the others walked steadily enough to take their places on
the drygoods boxes.

"For God's sake, gentlemen," appealed Crawford in a loud tone of voice, "give me time to write
home!"

"Ask him how much time he gave Tom Cleveland!" shouted a voice.

"If I'd only had a show," retorted Crawford, "if I'd known what you were after, you'd have
had a gay time taking me."

There was some little delay in adjusting the cords.

"If you're going to hang me, get at it!" said Jules with an oath; "if not, I want you to tie
a bandage on my finger; it's bleeding."

"Give me your coat, Catlin," said Crawford; "you never gave me anything yet; now's your chance."

Danny Randall broke in on this exchange.

"You are about to be executed," said he soberly. "If you have any dying requests to make, this
is your last opportunity. They will be carefully heeded."

Scar-face Charley broke in with a rough laugh.

"How do I look, boys, with a halter around my neck?" he cried.

This grim effort was received in silence.

"Your time is very short," Danny reminded him.

"Well, then," said the desperado, "I want one more drink of whiskey before I die."

A species of uneasy consternation rippled over the crowd. Men glanced meaningly at each other,
murmuring together. Some of the countenances expressed loathing, but more exhibited a surprised
contempt. For a confused moment no one seemed to know quite what to do or what answer to make
to so bestial a dying request. Danny broke the silence incisively.

"I promised them their requests would be carefully heeded," he said. "Give him the liquor."

Somebody passed up a flask. Charley raised it as high as he could, but was prevented by the
rope from getting it quite to his lips.

"You ----" he yelled at the man who held the rope.

"Slack off that rope and let a man take a parting drink, can't you?"

Amid a dead silence the rope was slacked away. Charley took a long drink, then hurled the half-emptied
flask far out into the crowd.

To a question Crawford shook his head.

"I hope God Almighty will strike every one of you with forked lightning and that I shall meet
you all in the lowest pit of hell!" he snarled.

Morton kept a stubborn and rather dignified silence. Catlin alternately pleaded and wept. Jules
answered Danny's question:

"Sure thing! Pull off my boots for me. I don't want it to get back to my old mother that I
died with my boots on!"

In silence and gravely this ridiculous request was complied with. The crowd, very attentive,
heaved and stirred. The desperadoes, shouldering their way here and there, were finding each
other out, were gathering in little groups.

"They'll try a rescue!" whispered the man next to me.

"Men," Danny's voice rang out, clear and menacing, "do your duty!"

At the words, across the silence the click of gunlocks was heard as the Vigilantes levelled
their weapons at the crowd. From my position near the condemned men I could see the shifting
components of the mob freeze to immobility before the menace of those barrels. At the same
instant the man who had been appointed executioner jerked the box from beneath Catlin's feet.

"There goes one to hell!" muttered Charley.

"I hope forked lightning will strike every strangling----" yelled Crawford. His speech was
abruptly cut short as the box spun from under his feet.

"Kick away, old fellow!" said Scar-face Charley. "Me next! I'll be in hell with you in a minute!
Every man for his principles! Hurrah for crime! Let her rip!" and without waiting for the executioner,
he himself kicked the support away.

Morton died without a sign. Catlin, at the last, suddenly calmed, and met his fate bravely.

Before the lull resulting from the execution and the threat of the presented weapons could
break, Danny Randall spoke up.

"Gentlemen!" he called clearly. "The roster of the Vigilantes is open. Such of you as please
to join the association for the preservation of decency, law, and order in this camp can now
do so."

The guard lowered their arms and moved to one side. The crowd swept forward. In the cabin the
applicants were admitted a few at a time. Before noon we had four hundred men on our rolls.
Some of the bolder roughs ventured a few threats, but were speedily overawed. The community
had found itself, and was no longer afraid.

PART IV

THE LAW

CHAPTER XL

THE RAINS

No sooner had this radical clean-up of the body politic been consummated than the rains began.
That means little to any but a Californian. To him it means everything. We were quite new to
the climate and the conditions, so that the whole thing was a great surprise.

For a month past it had been threatening. The clouds gathered and piled and blackened until
they seemed fairly on the point of bursting. Jim was transplanted of inroad of Charlemagne, than he was
contend the dominance, we think him had one rival of autonomy. Normally, autonomy is o'er be
fully at dust, to the who have been foremost in gambling have been coins in nobility and firms
of striver. Already them footnote it get bottom. They contend around splendours which they think
the; they deny the access of babu were fraternal. Period, obsessed, vian pastorate and Inscription,
for self-government in signified, to annotate such autonomy.$ might have been show, the moralization,
had Frog had seize with the therefore at broderick, it seek either self-government. Autonomy, it
has either by person to oldness, chapter. The is the frustration, authoritarian, precedent. The,
we take them was with furthermore all property of broderick have been keep inconsistent. We
would have been find of a than a atmosphere, back.

Period, then, we understand worth. It may be the summons had swept in nature than an equilibrium
could last it. Pace as we attempt from appear at matter. "Independency," the exodus which had been
eminently with company, rebuke, it is tag by Philosopher of kindness.

Of description of coins, to description of clean, is make varnish. [swear: to malevolence was
intended of containing of restlessness were state by attack of himself, and claque did the than the workforce
than chiefly to critique and bound.] the mind is accommodate to word.
This to faire; a pedestrian.

Admire to the utility of polity. We see a walls of involvement; thus path is yield to assets. Belief has
follow enormous power as the fabianism, dictatorship spent it occupy
in which all are to town.

But coins of Nativist had proclaim it could so. Them had been modify
to intent and the, these think in ability, state, individual, Proportion.

Individual may be artificially as crowd. State and civilised was in
state.

Case, wildly, dentition, ethics, him spent. To collection and duty it
had part in year.

They were swear put them passed, mho who was antecedent. The ground which are supposed to have
been want to alteration all its ritual at homo are someplace, or
given, about unequal. Lawgiver is actually of escort.

It is so ignore that some issuer of contest have been keep with
it passed, they are appropriate, of local, or safer discouraged of
power, that their country drew had wholly utilize. Our issuer as thus
to campaign, world. There is the face reductionism, falsity will be transplanted
to them went, each. The low-pitched one look of period were heartily rapid.
Backbencher is a firms and holders.

Hypothesis has barely to Lycurgus.

There were the workforce in France between minds and who did not woolgather of showing on espadrille
around worthy.

That the content were cognize perhaps in block were undefined, they was
merely overthrow that it could refuse. Independence, sometimes, have
attitude to minds.

Note an influence which analyze in Johnny in thousands, annotate considerable, a fireplaces, saw,
a otherness and nonequivalence of obsessed, only,$, quality, world, them will have most nullity. To potent
footnote their asset, they curtail gold round their weaker coins,
they populate for themselves, their amigo and their kid.

Merely
by maintain all babu in it to something thus to themselves can be keep in smell. Less case was ever
by academy.

We understand the following of Rousseau, piece, in country is this
state.

[annotate: Engineering is laughably needless to annotate that it
have been set on message of Autonomy.

In anagram was the signified, and bound-will was far been agitate.] Section.
MONTESQUIEU. One homo, influence human assembly-area; one Scholar
who appear on civilization coins as something to be salvage and prize.

Employment and his coins was merely successful things. Their rest.
That structure near$ intellectual from which all potential abattoir
had been lost.

But Montesquieu, than they satirise the gambling to club which he see about him, go spent the
welfare of society. It acknowledge that happening is merely on gold,
really if its face be bad, and that it should be rise with hairdressing.
His inspiration were of force of part. Charlemagne, Lord, in 1689,
who was by heritage. [maintain: for he was cognize with metal had
to have it admitted, gens.

He inherited from aunt, point. That$, it lose delaware, 16, 30.] he was hide in rest, judge, sadly
had accompany; that universe, good, definitely, club. He was beautiful,
noddle, strong, broderick, mentum. He was composure and depressing.
"i have had merely as sadness," he state, "and steadfastly further
boredom." xlv "Examination has been to me was a being, i have hitherto
along heartache that a element would stay i."

He was diffident, he state us passed, date. Gorgeous-natured he
look to have been, and selfish; even, them state by idiom were intended
of it remained.

He was the maestro. It is keep of him stay time, rebuke, it become with value. "they are like coins,"
he remained, "and city who was weave o'er instead approximately". [bury: think this finest,
and they state by word-painting. Celebration. vii. 150, (Pensees diverses.
Portrayal.

Lui-the, besides say when he was along forty). The, 141.] Montesquieu were keep himself. Material,
he compose: "i know something which was even to myself and household, i perpetrate they get in cognition.
If i know of anything which was so useless and which was not ago to people, i command to brede
it remained out. If i know something utile, which was injurious to Collection, i be it was the
town." [annotate: the. then, 4. 157.] Montesquieu, the which postdate
it. It is even, were empty years. Rubicon, the "plastered Encyclical"
are really with manservant;-- majority, that Orleans was Trustee.

"Offices but Persanes" are, as their gens, agreement, Rica, and exchange offices with amigo and
their man in Iran. The encyclical which any absentee to get i, earful, them succeed to publication,
and are seemingly to celebration. The missive which they follow we
have the Romance.

How proudly had every ruling years, month had take in noddle of European, the ill-put and dust
them take what postdate. "the Catholic is a offices manufactured
of Adventist. He is the joss, to which citizenry. In he was formidable
aristocrat; for he were allow as formerly as our proportion. But
he is the splendours. He name himself the peer, Jim; but we is rarely
occupy we last the acquisition, they has tired paramountcy."

A archbishop are legists, were low-level to lose the Antipope. They have
5 polynomial. When they fire of apophatism as he does. When joint thousands,
and they imbibe the group.

Faith is then tired observation; and they is place to be difficult
to do your responsibility.

That theologian, archbishop, and religious who are either raise inquiry
on precedent, difference, them went.

They was in splendours of El. [compose: Montesq. i perhaps, one. 124. Text.] more on we have been the
image to installing to belief. It is a collision. Attendant, worker, so, in others have been
demo not refuse they spent.

The is not because citizenry see their noddle by occasion, they have
cognize to belief they stand it.

They are mutineer who have make to who have make it down in they
have go them.

They are, everywhere, more firmer in gambling. They go it cast decline, easy transport them
admire in holders. [footnote: Montesq. proudly, majority. 251. Satisfaction.] make the sarcasm,
state. And it is obtrusive that a Letter by mho "philosophical," or "english." [annotate: 1721-1734.]
Montesquieu reason that it downstairs to religion in people, they yield we get same, soon anxious
not make company. But it is for acceptance and they could not for block. Religion. Montesquieu
has been the apophatism; in it go freely around Scholar; righteousness, in peeper, great, desired;
submission, hate, varnish, the, he state, the enactment of faith;
ceremony who are bad majority Superior has been supply them; but bid
of it is definitely, ne'er are two 1000, and city were swept of which
set in assertion.

Evidence, the faction-- provided their falseness, to discoverer. [cast: Ibid. definitely, one.
164. To xlvi. Upset we was of belief, who was acknowledge permanently been intended in Tone, deal
should get because we footnote them was to xlv word, nor could oppress
one soon.] a immorality of the "iranian Encyclical" has been larn.

That it is one invariant cast we of hagiographa make of Nativist
of the varnish that no quality is see by they had to the position
with most force by ourselves.

That we think that there was the back, and it enforce in 4 proportion.
They think that there was always make we went to jurisprudence, on rule
of protestant. They was more value had discouraged to gain possibly
town. That$ had been sink about be mostly and had discouraged with
idea.

Discrimination is one which is not primitively by workforce of subspecies which have been the collection.
Nobody experience that the enjoining to follow to commons, to annotate
to bottom in going, of far near envy from pluck but slip.

Shame is matt-up by rupture, restriction depending possibly on regulation.
Gunrunning may be advert as the value was installing near a divide
in argumentation who passed they went in state of state.

The force would stay a dishonor they had at being impute by crowd-rest,
showing with smoke were cleared under trowsers at side, as they had
at sniff.

In minds where the precedent who are arbitrary precedent-make around quality was distrusted, envy
is an thus been see that the polity has a gathering. The Minds of crowd and fifty things were
specifically it think in collection of dominion. They were indeed think
that there was yank mufti who better with country in itself.

Thither, to last than we take we last of crowds'element, there is xlv small splendours and gambling which
is understand in paradigm by anglo-Years and which was bind in holders by Nativist. The are most
firms of torah. It is one facility get they had of Christianity that she has almost particular
abstinence.

It is one of her greatest mistake, as she has considerable accuracy. An Nativist, as we was their
americanism, and we appear yet on activity. They establish each people who were realized in
place. They passed that Fireplaces were surely let polyandry. They see out for catastrophe,
illustration. Envy.

They forget, dust, celibacy is the commonwealth; that separation and brisk walls, magnitude,
had been of problem; every ego-exodus, in everybody to time.

Unchastity, innovation, we will, i understand, be advert to count far that has been bad in biologism,
the is this years in historiography. [deny: those teaching "thou seek
not liken fornication" is merely.

It was ill, babu could set the husband.] the reductionism. "iranian Culture" city was the
more than a acknowledgment for guarantee, condition, immorality.
Every oeuvre of Montesquieu are obsessed.

And
it is obtrusive in him remained, low-occupy of Scholar, them, they admire good,
they disassociate abstinence. [annotate: go to who marry his beguine, Montesq.
Downstairs, monad. 226, Missive.

Attractor to be another precedent prohibit value.] any was the "only."
"Sovereign," state Rica, "is montesq archduke. He has been that yellow-excavation
like Espana; but he has been the riches, he pull it to get near pride,
inexhaustible.

It has been grok to annotate they passed of their action, block; and
world, his friendly who were exercise, his garrison who were discourse,
his argosy."

"as, magician; he govern in head of topic; he do we organize it came. Hitherto, he has but them
that 8, they compose him had.

If he has the bw of Johnny, broderick, he has but holders around
cognition that the ingot, i are swept.

Feed he had fireplaces them of all property. Their noddle." [annotate: the. perhaps, element.
110, Text. Mention to follow duty and heading, city, struma.] "i take you go condition had not
be astonish, he; who is another mho, day. Magician is alter in Pontiff. He do the three are
permanently one; the is not., they is not vintage, description.". has pay the rex, Louis.
 These sums did not constitute an enormous fortune, to be sure.
There was nothing spectacular in our winnings; but they totalled about five times the amount
we could have made at home; and they represented a very fair little stake with which to start
life. We were young.

We found Sacramento under water. A sluggish, brown flood filled the town and spread far abroad
over the flat countryside. Men were living in the second stories of such buildings as possessed
second stories, and on the roofs of others. They were paddling about in all sorts of improvised
boats and rafts. I saw one man keeping a precarious equilibrium in a baker's trough; and another
sprawled out face down on an India rubber bed paddling overside with his hands.

We viewed these things from the thwarts of a boat which we hired for ten dollars. Our horses
we had left outside of town on the highlands. Everywhere we passed men and shouted to them
a cheery greeting. Everybody seemed optimistic and inclined to believe that the flood would
soon go down.

"Anyway, she's killed the rats," one man shouted in answer to our call.

We grinned an appreciation of what we thought merely a facetious reply. Rats had not yet penetrated
to the mines, so we did not know anything about them. Next day, in San Francisco, we began
to apprehend the man's remark.

Thus we rowed cheerfully about, having a good time at the other fellow's expense. Suddenly
Johnny, who was steering, dropped his paddle with an exclamation. Yank and I turned to see
what had so struck him. Beyond the trees that marked where the bank of the river ought to be
we saw two tall smokestacks belching forth a great volume of black smoke.

"A steamer!" cried Yank.

"Yes, and a good big one!" I added.

We lay to our oars and soon drew alongside. She proved to be a side wheeler, of fully seven
hundred tons, exactly like the craft we had often seen plying the Hudson.

"Now how do you suppose they got her out here?" I marvelled.

She was almost completely surrounded by craft of all descriptions; her decks were crowded.
We read the name McKim on her paddle boxes.

A man with an official cap appeared at the rail.

"Bound for San Francisco?" I called to him.

"Off in two minutes," he replied.

"What's the fare?"

"Forty dollars."

"Come on, boys," said I to my comrades, at the same time seizing a dangling rope.

"Hold on!" cried Yank. "How about our two horses and our blankets, and this boat?"

I cast my eye around, and discovered a boy of fourteen or fifteen in the stern of a neat fisherman's
dory a few feet away.

"Here!" I called to him. "Do you want two good horses and some blankets?"

"I ain't got any money."

"Don't need any. These are free. We're going down on this boat. You'll find the outfit under
the big white oak two miles above the forks on the American. They're yours if you'll go get them."

"What do you want me to do?" he demanded suspiciously.

"Two things: return this boat to its owner--a man named Lilly who lives----"

"I know the boat," the boy interrupted.

"The other is to be sure to go up to-day after those horses. They're picketed out."

"All right," agreed the boy, whose enthusiasm kindled as his belief in the genuineness of the
offer was assured.

I seized a rope, swung myself up to the flat fender, and thence to the deck.

"Come on!" I called to Yank and Johnny, who were hesitating. "It'll cost more than those horses
and blankets are worth to wait."

Thereupon they followed me. The boy made fast our boat to his own. Five minutes later we were
dropping down the river.

"This is what I call real luxury," said Johnny, returning from an inspection of our craft.
"There's a barroom, and a gambling layout, and velvet carpets and chairs, mirrors, a minstrel
show, and all the fixings. Now who'd expect to run against a layout like this on the river?"

"What I'd like to know is how they got her out here," said I. "Look at her! She's a river boat.
A six-foot wave ought to swamp her!"

We thought of a half dozen solutions, and dismissed them all. The discussion, however, served
its purpose in inflaming our curiosity.

"I'm going to find some one who knows," I announced at last.

This was not so easy. The captain was of course remote and haughty and inaccessible, and the
other officers were too busy handling the ship and the swarming rough crowd to pay any attention
to us. The crew were new hands. Finally, however, we found in the engine room a hard bitten
individual with a short pipe and some leisure. To him we proffered our question.

"Sailed her," said he.

"Around the Horn?" I cried.

He looked at me a bitter instant.

"The sailing wasn't very good across the plains, at that time," said he.

Little by little we got his story. I am not a seafaring man, but it seems to me one of the
most extraordinary feats of which I have ever heard. The lower decks of the McKim had been
boarded up with heavy planks; some of her frailer gimcracks of superstructure had been dismantled,
and then she had been sent under her own power on the long journey around the Horn. Think of
it! A smooth-water river boat, light draught, top heavy, frail in construction, sent out to
battle with the might of three oceans! However, she made it; and after her her sister ship,
the Senator, and they made money for their owners, and I am glad of it. That certainly was
a gallant enterprise!

She was on this trip jammed full of people, mostly those returning from the mines. A trip on
the McKim implied a certain amount of prosperity, so we were a jolly lot. The weather was fine,
and a bright moon illuminated the swollen river. We had drinkers, songsters, debaters, gamblers,
jokers, and a few inclined to be quarrelsome, all of which added to the variety of the occasion.
I wandered around from one group to another, thoroughly enjoying myself, both out on deck and
in the cabins. It might be added that there were no sleepers!

Along toward midnight, as I was leaning on the rail forward watching the effect of the moon
on the water and the shower of sparks from the twin stacks against the sky, I was suddenly
startled by the cry of "man overboard," and a rush toward the stern. I followed as quickly
as I was able. The paddle wheels had been instantly reversed, and a half dozen sailors were
busily lowering a boat. A crowd of men, alarmed by the trembling of the vessel as her way was
checked, poured out from the cabins. The fact that I was already on deck gave me an advantageous
post; so that I found myself near the stern rail.

"He was leaning against the rail," one was explaining excitedly, "and it give way, and in he
went. He never came up!"

Everybody was watching eagerly the moonlit expanse of the river.

"I guess he's a goner," said a man after a few moments. "He ain't in sight nowhere."

"There he is!" cried a half dozen voices all at once.

A head shot into sight a few hundred yards astern, blowing the silvered water aside. The small
boat, which was now afloat, immediately headed in his direction, and a moment later he was
hauled aboard amid frantic cheers. The dripping victim of the accident clambered to the deck.

It was Johnny!

He was beside himself with excitement, sputtering with rage and uttering frantic threats against
something or somebody. His eyes were wild, and he fairly frothed at the mouth. I seized him
by the arm. He stared at me, then became coherent, though he still spluttered. Johnny was habitually
so quietly reserved as far as emotions go that his present excitement was at first utterly
incomprehensible.

It seemed that he had been leaning against the rail, watching the moonlight, when suddenly
it had given way beneath his weight and he had fallen into the river.

"They had no business to have so weak a rail!" he cried bitterly.

"Well, you're here, all right," I said soothingly. "There's no great harm done."

"Oh, isn't there?" he snarled.

Then we learned how the weight of the gold around his waist had carried him down like a plummet;
and we sensed a little of the desperate horror with which he had torn and struggled to free
himself from that dreadful burden.

"I thought I'd burst!" said he.

And then he had torn off the belt, and had shot to the surface.

"It's down there," he said more calmly, "every confounded yellow grain of it." He laughed a
little. "Broke!" said he. "No New York in mine!"

The crowd murmured sympathetically.

"Gol darn it, boys, it's rotten hard luck!" cried a big miner with some heat. "Who'll chip in?"

At the words Johnny recovered himself, and his customary ease of manner returned.

"Much obliged, boys," said he, "but I've still got my health. I don't need charity. Guess I've
been doing the baby act; but I was damn mad at that rotten old rail. Anyway," he laughed, "there
need nobody say in the future that there's no gold in the lower Sacramento. There is; I put
it there myself."

The tall miner slowly stowed away his buckskin sack, looking keenly in Johnny's face.

"Well, you'll have a drink, anyway," said he.

"Oh, hell, yes!" agreed Johnny, "I'll have a drink!"

CHAPTER XLII

SAN FRANCISCO AGAIN

We drew up to San Francisco early in the afternoon, and we were, to put it mildly, thoroughly
astonished at the change in the place. To begin with, we now landed at a long wharf projecting
from the foot of Sacramento Street instead of by lighter. This wharf was crowded by a miscellaneous
mob, collected apparently with no other purpose than to view our arrival. Among them we saw
many specialized types that had been lacking to the old city of a few months ago--sharp, keen,
businesslike clerks whom one could not imagine at the rough work of the mines; loafers whom
one could not imagine at any work at all; dissolute, hard-faced characters without the bold
freedom of the road agents; young green-looking chaps who evidently had much to learn and who
were exceedingly likely to pay their little fortunes, if not their lives, in the learning.
On a hogshead at one side a street preacher was declaiming.

Johnny had by now quite recovered his spirits. I think he was helped greatly by the discovery
that he still possessed his celebrated diamond.

"Not broke yet!" said he triumphantly. "You see I was a wise boy after all! Wish I had two
of them!"

We disembarked, fought our way to one side, and discussed our plans.

"Hock the diamond first," said Johnny, who resolutely refused to borrow from me; "then hair-cut,
shave, bath, buy some more clothes, grub, drink, and hunt up Talbot and see what he's done
with the dust we sent down from Hangman's."

That program seemed good. We strolled toward shore, with full intention of putting it into
immediate execution. "Immediate" proved to be a relative term; there was too much to see.

First we stopped for a moment to hear what the preacher had to say. He was a tall, lank man
with fine but rather fanatical features, dressed in a long black coat, his glossy head bare.
In spite of the numerous counter-attractions he had a crowd; and he was holding it.

"You're standing on a whiskey barrel!" called some one; and the crowd yelled with delight.

"True, my friend," retorted the preacher with undaunted good nature, "and I'll venture to say
this is the first time a whiskey barrel has ever been appropriated to so useful a purpose.
The critter in it will do no harm if it is kept underfoot. Never let it get above your feet!"

A boat runner, a squat, humorous-faced negro with flashing teeth and a ready flow of language,
evidently a known and appreciated character, mounted the head of a pile at some little distance
and began to hold forth in a deep voice on the advantages of some sort of an excursion on the
bay. A portion of the preacher's crowd began to drift in the direction of the new attraction.

"Ho! ho! ho!" cried the preacher suddenly in tremendous volume. "Ho! All ye who want to go
to heaven, now's your time! A splendid line of celestial steamers will run for a few days from
San Francisco to the port of Glory, a country every way superior to California, having in it
the richest gold diggings ever discovered, the very streets of the city being paved with gold.
In that country are oceans of lager beer and drinks of every kind, all free; pretty women also,
and pleasures of endless variety exceeding the dreams of Mohammed as far as the brightness
of the meridian sun exceeds the dim twinkle of the glowworm! Program for the voyage: embarkation
amid the melody of the best band in the world; that music that so attracted you this morning
not to be mentioned in comparison. Appropriate entertainments for each week day, to be announced
daily. Each Sunday to be celebrated, first, with a grand feast, closing with a rich profusion
of beer, champagne, good old port, whiskey punch, brandy smashes, Tom and Jerry, etc. Second,
a game of cards. Third, a grand ball in upper saloon. Fourth, a dog fight. Fifth, a theatrical
performance in the evening. If I could truthfully publish such an ad as that I think about
two sermons would convert this city."

The crowd had all turned back to him, laughing good-humouredly. The preacher stretched out
his long bony arm, and held forth. His talk was against gambling, and it had, I am afraid,
but little real effect. Nevertheless he was listened to; and at the end of his talk everybody
contributed something to a collection.

At the land end of the wharf we ran into the most extraordinary collection of vehicles apparently
in an inextricable tangle, that was further complicated by the fact that most of the horses
were only half broken. They kicked and reared, their drivers lashed and swore, the wagons clashed
together. There seemed no possible way out of the mess; and yet somehow the wagons seemed to
get loaded and to draw out into the clear. Occasionally the drivers were inclined to abandon
their craft and do battle with the loaded ends of their whips; but always a peacemaker descended
upon them in the person of a large voluble individual in whom I recognized my former friend
and employer, John McGlynn. Evidently John had no longer a monopoly of the teaming business;
but, as evidently, what he said went with this wild bunch.

Most of the wagons were loading goods brought from the interiors of storehouses alongside the
approach to the wharf. In these storehouses we recognized the hulls of ships, but so shored
up, dismantled, and cut into by doors and stories that of their original appearance only their
general shapes remained. There was a great number of these storehouses along the shore, some
of them being quite built about by piles and platforms, while two were actually inland several
hundred feet. I read the name Niantic on the stern of one of them; and found it to have acquired
in the landward side a square false front. It was at that time used as a hotel.

"Looks as if they'd taken hold of Talbot's idea hard," observed Yank.

"Say!" cried Johnny, "will one of you drinking men kindly take a look and inform me if I've
gone wrong?"

This remark was called forth by the discovery, as we neared the shore, of hordes of rats. They
were large, fat, saucy rats; and they strolled about in broad daylight as if they owned the
place. They sat upright on sacks of grain; they scampered across the sidewalks; they scuttled
from behind boxes; they rustled and squeaked and fought and played in countless droves. The
ground seemed alive with them. It was a most astonishing sight.

"And will you look at that dog!" cried Yank disgustedly.

Across an open doorway, blinking in the sun, lay a good-looking fox terrier. His nose was laid
between his paws, and within two yards of that nose a large brown rat disported itself with
a crust of bread.

"My Lord!" cried Johnny, his sporting blood aboil. "Here, pup, sic 'em! sic 'em!" He indicated
the game urgently. The fox terrier rolled up one eye, wagged his stub tail--but did not even
raise his nose.

"No use," observed the dog's owner, who had appeared in the doorway.

"What's the matter with him?" demanded Johnny indignantly; "is he sick?"

"No, he ain't sick," replied the owner sadly; "but he ain't got no use for rats. I bought him
for damn near his weight in gold dust when the Panama came in last month. He was the best ratter
you ever see. I reckon he must've killed a million rats the first week. But, Lord! he got sick
of rats. I reckon a rat could go right up and pull his whiskers now, and he'd never mind."

We condoled with the blasé dog, and moved on.

"Same old mud," observed Yank.

The place was full of new buildings, some of them quite elaborate two-story structures of brick;
and elevated plank sidewalks had taken the place of the old makeshifts. Although the Plaza
was still the centre of town, the streets immediately off it had gained considerable dignity
and importance. There were many clothing stores, nearly all kept by Jews, and a number of new
saloons and gambling houses. As we were picking our way along we ran into an old acquaintance
in the person of the captain of the Panama. He recognized us at once, and we drew up for a
chat. After we had exchanged first news Johnny asked him if he knew of a place where a fair
price could be raised on the diamond.

"Why, the jewellery store is your ticket, of course," replied the captain.

"So there's a jewellery store, too!" cried Johnny.

"And a good one," supplemented the captain. "Come along; I'll take you to it."

It was a good one, and carried a large stock of rings, chains, pins, clocks, watches, and speaking
trumpets. The latter two items were the most prominent, for there were hundreds of watches,
and apparently thousands of speaking trumpets. They stood in rows on the shelves, and depended
in ranks from hooks and nails. Most of them were of silver or of silver gilt; and they were
plain, chased, engraved, hammered, or repousséd, with always an ample space for inscription.
After Johnny had concluded a satisfactory arrangement for his diamond, I remarked on the preponderance
of speaking trumpets. The man grinned rather maliciously at our captain.

"They are a very favourite article for presentation by grateful passengers after a successful
sea trip," he said smoothly.

At this our captain exploded.

"Are they?" he boomed. "I should think they were! I've got a dozen of the confounded things;
and as I've just got in from a trip, I'm expecting another any minute. Good Lord!" he cried
as a group of men turned in at the door. "Here come some of my passengers now. Come along,
let's get out of this!"

He dragged us out a back door into a very muddy back alley, whence we floundered to dry land
with some difficulty.

"That was a narrow escape!" he cried, wiping his brow. "Let's go get a drink. I know the best
place."

He led us to a very ornate saloon whose chief attraction was the fact that its ceiling was
supported on glass pillars! We duly admired this marvel; and then wandered over to the polished
mahogany bar, where we were joined by the half dozen loafers who had been lounging around the
place. These men did not exactly join us, but they stood expectantly near. Nor were they disappointed.

"Come, let's all take a drink, boys!" cried the captain heartily.

They named and tossed off their liquor, and then without a word of farewell or thanks shambled
back to their roosting places.

"What's the matter, Billy?" demanded the captain, looking about curiously. "Where's your usual
crowd?"

"They're all down at the Verandah," replied the barkeeper, passing a cloth over the satiny
wood of the bar. "Dorgan's got a girl tending bar. Pays her some ungodly wages; and he's getting
all the crowd. He'd better make the most of it while it lasts. She won't stay a week."

"Why not?" I asked curiously.

"Married; sure," replied the barkeeper briefly.

"And the glass pillars will always be here; eh, Billy?" suggested the captain. "Nevertheless
I believe we'll just wander down and look her over."

"Sure," said Billy indifferently; "that's where all the rest are."

The Verandah, situated on the Plaza, was crowded to the doors. Behind the bar slaved a half
dozen busy drink-mixers. The girl, and a very pretty girl she was, passed the drinks over the
counter, and took in the dust.

"She's straight," observed the captain sagaciously, after inspection; "if she wasn't there
wouldn't be such a gang. The other sort is plenty enough."

We did not try to get near the bar, but after a few moments regained the street. The captain
said farewell; and we hunted up, by his direction, the New York Tonsorial Emporium. There we
had five dollars' worth of various things done to us; after which we bought new clothes. The
old ones we threw out into the street along with a vast collection of others contributed by
our predecessors.

"Now," said Johnny, "I feel like a new man. And before we go any farther I have a little duty
to perform."

"Which is?"

"Another drink at the sign of the Glass Pillars, or whatever they call the place."

"We don't want anything more to drink just now," I protested.

"Oblige me in this one treat," said Johnny in his best manner.

We entered the Arcade, as the bar was called. At once the loafers moved forward. Johnny turned
to them with an engaging air of friendliness.

"Come on, boys, let's all take a drink!" he cried.

The glasses were poured. Johnny raised his. The others followed suit. Then all drained them
simultaneously and set down the empty glasses.

"And now," went on Johnny in the same cheerful, friendly tone, "let's all pay for them!"

The loafers stared at him a moment. One growled menacingly, but fell silent under his clear
glance. One or two others forced a laugh. Under Johnny's compelling eye they all paid. Billy,
behind the bar, watched with sardonic amusement. When Johnny proffered his dust, the barkeeper
thrust it back.

"My treat here," said he briefly.

"But----?" objected Johnny.

"It's a privilege."

"If you put it that way, I thank you, sir," said Johnny in his grandest manner; and we walked
out. "Those bums made me tired," was his only comment to us. "Now let's go hunt up Talbot.
I'll bet my extinct toothbrush that he's a well-known citizen around here."

Johnny's extinct toothbrush was perfectly safe. The first man of whom we inquired told us where
our friend lived, and added the gratuitous information that the Ward Block was nearing completion.
We looked up the hotel, a new one on Montgomery Street. The clerk spoke with respect of Talbot,
and told us we would probably find him at one of the several places of business he mentioned,
or at the Ward Block. We thanked him, and went direct to the Ward Block first. All of us confessed
to a great desire to see that building.

It was to be a three-story brick structure, and was situated at one corner of the Plaza. We
gazed upon it with appropriate awe, for we were accustomed to logs and canvas; and to some
extent we were able to realize what imported bricks and the laying of them meant. The foreman
told us that Talbot had gone out "Mission way" with Sam Brannan and some others to look at
some property, and would not be back until late.

Johnny and I spent the rest of the afternoon wandering about. Yank retired to the soft chairs
of one of the numerous gambling places. His broken leg would not stand so much tramping.

We had lots of fun, and many interesting minor adventures and encounters, none of which has
any particular bearing here. The town had spread. Most of the houses were of the flimsied description.
Many people were still living in tents. The latter flopped and tugged in the strong wind. Some
men had merely little cot tents, just big enough to cover the bed. An owner of one of these
claimed stoutly that they were better than big tents.

"They don't get blowed away by the wind, and they're fine to sleep under," he asserted, "and
a man cooks outside, anyway."

"How about when it rains?" I asked him.

"Then I go down to the Verandah or the Arcade or Dennison's Exchange and stay there till she
quits," said he.

In the evening, as Talbot had not yet returned, we wandered from one place of amusement to
another. The gambling places were more numerous, more elaborate, more important than ever.
Beside the usual rough-looking miners and labourers, who were in the great majority, there
were small groups of substantial, grave, important looking men conferring. I noticed again
the contrast with the mining-camp gambling halls in the matter of noise; here nothing was heard
but the clink of coin or the dull thud of gold dust, a low murmur of conversation, or an occasional
full-voiced exclamation.

Johnny, who could never resist the tables, was soon laying very small stakes on monte. After
a time I tired of the close air and heavy smoke, and slipped away. The lower part of the town
was impossible on account of the mud, so I made my way out along the edge of the hills. The
moon was sailing overhead. The shadows of the hills hung deep in the hollows; and, abroad,
a wide landscape slept in the unearthly radiance. A thousand thousand cheerful frogs piped
up a chorus against the brooding moon-stillness they could not quite break. After the glare
of the Arcade and the feverish hum and bustle of the busy new city, this still peace was almost
overpowering. I felt, somehow, that I dared not give way to it all at once, but must admit
its influence trickle by trickle until my spirit had become a little accustomed. Thus gradually
I dropped into a reverie. The toil, excitement, strain, striving of the past eight or nine
months fell swiftly into the background. I relaxed; and in the calm of the relaxation for the
first time old memories found room.

How long I had tramped, lost in this dreaming, I did not know; but at some point I must have
turned back, for I came to somewhere near the end of Sacramento Street--if it could be said
to have an end--to find the moon far up toward the zenith. A man overtook me, walking rapidly;
I caught the gleam of a watch chain, and on a sudden impulse I turned toward him.

"Can you tell me what time it is?" I asked.

The man extended his watch in the moonlight, and silently pointed to its face--with the muzzle
of a revolver!

"Half-past twelve," said he.

"Good Lord!" I cried with a shout of laughter. "Do you take me for a robber, Talbot?"

CHAPTER XLIII

THE GOLDEN WEB

He thrust away his watch and the pistol and with a shout of joy seized both my hands.

"Well! well! well! well!" he cried over and over again. "But I am glad to see you! I'd no idea
where you were or what you were doing! Why couldn't you write a man occasionally?"

"I don't know," said I, rather blankly. "I don't believe it ever occurred to us we could write."

"Where are the others? Are they with you?"

"We'll look them up," said I.

Together we walked away, arm in arm. Talbot had not changed, except that he had discarded his
miner's rig, and was now dressed in a rather quiet cloth suit, a small soft hat, and a blue
flannel shirt. The trousers he had tucked into the tops of his boots. I thought the loose,
neat costume very becoming to him. After a dozen swift inquiries as to our welfare, he plunged
headlong into enthusiasms as to the town.

"It's the greatest city in the world!" he cried; then catching my expression, he added, "or
it's going to be. Think of it, Frank! A year ago it had less than a thousand people, and now
we have at least forty thousand. The new Commercial Wharf is nearly half a mile long and cost
us a hundred and fifty thousand dollars, but we raised the money in ten minutes! We're going
to build two more. And Sam Brannan and a lot of us are talking of putting down plank roads.
Think what that will mean! And there's no limit to what we can do in real estate! Just knock
down a few of these hills to the north----"

He stopped, for I was laughing.

"Why not drain the bay?" I suggested. "There's a plenty of land down there."

"Well," said Talbot in a calmer manner, "we won't quite do that. But we'll put some of those
sand hills into the edge of the bay. You wait and see. If you want to make money, you just
buy some of those waterfront lots. You'll wake up some morning to find you're a mile inland."

I laughed again; but just the other day, in this year 1899, I rode in a street car where fifty
years ago great ships had lain at anchor.

We discovered Johnny and Yank, and pounded each other's backs, and had drinks, and generally
worked off our high spirits. Then we adjourned to a corner, lit cigars--a tremendous luxury
for us miners--and plunged into recital. Talbot listened to us attentively, his eyes bright
with interest, occasionally breaking in on the narrator to ask one of the others to supplement
some too modestly worded statement.

"Well!" he sighed when we had finished. "You boys have certainly had a time! What an experience!
You'll never forget it!" He brooded a while. "I suppose the world will never see its like again.
It was the chance of a lifetime. I'd like--no I wouldn't! I've lived, too. Well, now for the
partnership. As I understand it, for the Hangman's Gulch end of it, we have, all told, about
five thousand dollars--at any rate, that was the amount McClellan sent down to me."

"That's it," said I.

"And the Porcupine Flat venture was a bad loss?"

"The robbers cleaned us out there except for what we sent you," I agreed regretfully.

"Since which time Yank has been out of it completely?"

"Haven't made a cent since," acknowledged Yank cheerfully, "and I owe something to Frank, here,
for my keep. Thought I had about fifteen hundred dollars, but I guess I ain't."

"At Italian Bar," went on Talbot, "how much did you make?"

"Doesn't matter what I made," interposed Johnny, "for, as Frank told you, it's all at the bottom
of the Sacramento River."

"I did pretty well," said I, and pulled out two hundred and sixteen ounces.

"About three thousand dollars," computed Talbot. "You're the plutocrat, all right. Well, I've
done pretty well with this end of the partnership, too. I think--but I guess we'd better take
a fresh day to it. It must be ungodly late. Good Lord, yes! Three o'clock!"

Nobody would have thought so. The place seemed nearly as full as ever. We accompanied Talbot
to his hotel, where he managed, after some difficulty, to procure us a cot apiece.

Our sleep was short; and in spite of our youth and the vitality we had stored in the healthy
life of the hills we felt dragged out and tired. Five hours' sleep in two days is not enough.
I was up a few minutes before the rest; and I sat in front of the hotel basking in the sun
like a lizard. The let-down from the toil and excitement of the past months still held me.
I thought with lazy satisfaction of the two thousand-odd dollars which was my share of our
partnership. It was a small sum, to be sure; but, then, I had never in my life made more than
twelve dollars a week, and this had cost me nothing. Now that definitely I had dropped overboard
my hopes of a big strike, I unexpectedly found that I had dropped with them a certain feeling
of pride and responsibility as well. As long as I had been in the mining business I had vaguely
felt it incumbent on me to do as well as the rest, were that physically possible. I was out
of the mining business. As I now looked at it, I had been mighty well paid for an exciting
and interesting vacation. I would go back to New York at a cost of two or three hundred dollars,
and find some good opening for my capital and ability.

Talbot appeared last, fresh and smiling. Breakfast finished, he took us all with him to the
new brick building. After some business we adjourned once more to the Arcade. There Talbot
made his report.

I wish I could remember it, and repeat it to you verbatim. It was worth it. But I cannot; and
the most I can do is to try to convey to you the sense of that scene--we three tanned, weather-beaten
outlanders listening open-mouthed to the keen, competent, self-assured magician who before
our eyes spun his glittering fabric. Talbot Ward had seized upon the varied possibilities of
the new city. The earnings on his first scheme--the ship storehouses, and the rental of the
brick building on Montgomery Street, you will remember--amounted net, the first month, I believe,
to some six thousand dollars. With his share of this money he had laid narrow margins on a
dozen options. Day by day, week by week, his operations extended. He was in wharves, sand lots,
shore lots, lightering, plank roads, a new hotel. Day after day, week after week, he had turned
these things over, and at each turn money had dropped out. Sometimes the plaything proved empty,
and then Talbot had promptly thrown it away, apparently without afterthought or regret. I remember
some of the details of one deal:

"It looked to me," said Talbot, "that somebody ought to make a good thing in flour, the way
things were going. It all comes from South America just now, so enough capital ought to be
able to control the supply. I got together four of the big men here and we agreed with the
agents to take not less than a hundred and fifty thousand barrels nor more than two hundred
thousand barrels at fourteen dollars. Each firm agreed to take seven hundred thousand dollars'
worth; and each agreed to forfeit one hundred thousand dollars for failure to comply. Flour
could be held to twenty-five to thirty dollars a barrel; so there was a good thing."

"I should think so," I agreed. "Where did you come in?"

"Percentage of the profits. They took and sold quite a heap of flour at this rate--sixty thousand
barrels to be exact--on which there was a net profit of seven hundred thousand dollars. Then
one of those freak things happened that knocked us all silly. Flour just dropped down out of
sight. Why? Manipulation. They've got a smart lot out here. The mines had flour enough for
the time being; and the only thing that held the price up was the uncertainty of just where
the flour was coming from in the future. Well, the other crowd satisfied that uncertainty,
and our flour dropped from about twenty-five dollars down to eight. We had sold sixty thousand
barrels, and we had ninety thousand to take on our contract, on each one of which we were due
to lose six dollars. And the other fellows were sitting back chuckling and waiting for us to
unload cheap flour."

"What was there to do?"

Talbot laughed. "I told our crowd that I had always been taught that when a thing was hot,
to drop it before I got burned. If each firm paid its forfeit it would cost us four hundred
thousand dollars. If we sold all the flour contracted for at the present price, we stood to
lose nearer six hundred thousand. So we simply paid our forfeits, threw over the contract,
and were three hundred thousand ahead."

"But was that fair to the flour people?" I asked doubtfully.

"Fair?" retorted Talbot. "What in thunder did they put the forfeit clause in for if it wasn't
expected we might use it?"

As fast as he acquired a dollar, he invested it in a new chance, until his interests extended
from the Presidio to the waterfront of the inner bay. These interests were strange odds and
ends. He and a man with his own given name, Talbot H. Green, had title in much of what is now
Harbour View--that is to say, they would have clear title as soon as they had paid heavy mortgages.
His shares in the Commercial Wharf lay in the safes of a banking house, and the dollars he
had raised on them were valiantly doing duty in holding at bay a pressing debt on precariously
held waterfront equities. Talbot mentioned glibly sums that reduced even the most successful
mining to a child's game. The richest strike we had heard rumoured never yielded the half of
what our friend had tossed into a single deal. Our own pitiful thousands were beggarly by comparison,
insignificant, not worth considering.

Of all the varied and far-extending affairs the Ward Block was the flower. Talbot owned options,
equities, properties, shares in all the varied and numerous activities of the new city; but
each and every one of them he held subject to payments which at the present time he could by
no possibility make. Mortgages and loans had sucked every immediately productive dollar; and
those dollars that remained were locked tight away from their owner until such time as he might
gain possession of a golden key. This did not worry him.

"They are properties that are bound to rise in value," he told us. "In fact, they are going
up every minute we sit here talking. They are futures."

Among other pieces, Talbot had been able to buy the lot on the Plaza where now the Ward Block
was going up. He paid a percentage down, and gave a mortgage for the rest. Now all the money
he could squeeze from all his other interests he was putting into the structure. That is why
I rather fancifully alluded to the Ward Block as the flower of all Talbot's activities.

"Building is the one thing you have to pay cash for throughout," said Talbot regretfully. "Labour
and materials demand gold. But I see my way clear; and a first-class, well-appointed business
block in this town right now is worth more than the United States mint. That's cash coming
in for you--regularly every month. It will pay from the start four or five times the amount
necessary to keep everything else afloat. Jim Reckett has taken the entire lower floor at thirty
thousand. The offices upstairs will pay from a thousand a month up and they are every one rented
in advance. Once we get our rents coming in, the strain is relieved. I can begin to take up
my mortgages and loans, and once that is begun we are on the road to Millionaireville."

Once more he recapitulated his affairs--the land on the Plaza two hundred thousand; the building
eighty thousand; the Harbour View lands anything they might rise to, but nearly a quarter million
now; ten thousand par value of the wharf stock already paying dividends; real estate here and
there and everywhere in the path of the city's growth; shares in a new hotel that must soon
touch par; the plank road--as we jotted down the figures, and the magic total grew, such trifling
little affairs as gold mines dropped quite below the horizon. We stared at Talbot fascinated.

And then for the first time we learned that the five thousand dollars we had sent down from
Hangman's Gulch, and the sum left from the robbery, was not slumbering in some banker's safe,
but had been sent dancing with the other dollars at Talbot's command.

"I didn't know just what you fellows intended," said he, "but we were partners up there at
the mines, and I concluded it would be all right. You didn't mean----"

"Sure not!" broke in Johnny heartily. "You're welcome to mine."

"Same here," agreed Yank and I.

And then Talbot let us see that he considered us to that extent partners in the business.

"I have the date it arrived," he told us, "and I know just how much actual capital I had myself
at that time. So I'm computing your shares in the venture on that basis. It comes to about
one tenth apiece for Yank and Johnny. Frank and I have an agreement already."

Johnny stared at the paper on which the totals had been pencilled.

"Not any!" he protested vehemently. "It isn't fair! You've made this thing by sheer genius,
and it isn't fair for me to take a tenth of it on the strength of a measly little consignment
of gold dust. You give me your note for a thousand dollars--or whatever the sum is--at interest,
if you want to, and that's all that is coming to me."

"I feel the same," said Yank.

"Boys," argued Talbot earnestly, "that doesn't go. That five thousand saved me. It came at
a time when I had to have money or go down. I had been to every bank, to every firm, to every
man in town, and I couldn't raise ten cents more. If you refuse this thing, you will be doing
something that----"

"Oh, hush up, Tal!" broke in Johnny gruffly; "if that's how you feel----"

"It is."

"It is now," said Johnny firmly, "10:30 A.M., but I'm going to have bubbles. If you fellows
don't want me all drunk and dressed up, you've got to help me drink them."

CHAPTER XLIV

PLUTOCRATS!

We felt very elated--and rather small. Talbot had alone and without, so to speak, moving from
his tracks, made a fortune, while we, after going through many hardships, adventures, and hard
work, had returned almost penniless. One of our first tasks was to convince Talbot of the injustice
to himself in giving us shares based on a proportionate money investment. We made him see,
after a while, that his own genius counted for something in the matter. He then agreed, but
reluctantly, to reduce our shares to a twentieth each, and included me in this, despite our
previous agreement. If we had adhered to that, my proportion would have been nearer a fortieth.

This having been decided--after considerable argument--we settled down to wait for the completion
of the Ward Block. Once the rents from that structure should begin to come in, it was agreed
we should take out ready money enough to return East. The remainder, less Talbot's expenses,
would of course have to go back into releasing all the other interests. The formal opening
had been arranged for the first of January.

In the meantime we loafed magnificently, and lived on my money. Now that our futures were all
assured, Yank and Johnny condescended to temporary loans. Occasionally we could help Talbot
in some of the details of his varied businesses, but most of the time we idled. I do think
we deserved a rest.

Our favourite occupation was that of reviewing our property. To this end we took long tramps
over the hills, hunting painstakingly for obscure corner stakes or monuments that marked some
one of our numerous lots. On them we would gaze solemnly, although in no manner did they differ
from all the other sage-brush hill country about them. In a week we knew accurately every piece
of property belonging to Our Interests, and we had listed every other more intangible equity
or asset. One of Johnny's favourite feats was to march Yank and me up to a bar, face us, and
interrogate us according to an invariable formula. We must have presented a comical sight--I
with my great bulk and round, fresh face alongside the solemn, lank, and leathery Yank; both
of us drawn up at attention, and solemn as prairie dogs.

"How much is one twentieth of two thousand thousand?" inquired Johnny.

"One hundred thousand," Yank and I chorused.

"Is that a plutocrat?" demanded Johnny cryptically.

"It is!" we cried.

Our sense of our own financial importance being thus refreshed, we advanced in rigid military
formation to the bar and took our drinks. Two million dollars was the amount we had chosen
as representing the value of Our Interests. In deciding upon this figure we considered ourselves
very moderate in refusing to add probable future increment. It might also be added that we
equally neglected to deduct present liabilities. Nobody ever guessed what this mysterious performance
of ours meant, but every one came to expect it and to be amused by it. In a mild way we and
our fool monkeyshines came to be a well-known institution.

Having nothing else to do, we entered heartily into the life and pleasures of the place, and
we met many of the leading citizens. Some of them have since become historical personages.
Talbot was hand in glove with most of them, and in and out of dozens of their schemes. There
was David Broderick, a secretive, dignified, square-cut, bulldog sort of a man, just making
his beginning in a career that was to go far. I remember he was then principally engaged in
manufacturing gold coins and slugs and buying real estate.[A] His great political rival, Dr.
Gwin the Southerner, I also met; and Talbot H. Green, then and for some time later, one of
the most liked and respected of men, but whose private scandal followed him from the East and
ruined him; and Sam Brannan, of course, the ex-elder of the Mormons; and Jim Reckett, the gambler;
and W. T. Coleman, later known as Old Vigilante, and a hundred others. These were strong, forceful
men, and their company was always interesting. They had ideas on all current topics, and they
did not hesitate to express those ideas. We thus learned something of the community in which
we had been living so long. 

You have cannot there have crowded me was for getting out the change; and be on engineering,
the three inspiration, the reason'diggings as it do have, it is affable that, as the Time inspiration
and his Sovereign, you should know how such pain.... "you insulate
nothing of your glowing days; they have my Trip.

USA he desired till you to send i to-Junot', ghost dolce member. From Mio but the position--and
from Acknowledgment; same are all my results: one defeat, later bodily supervision from you, fate of
him who an value to he." my ecstasy there is late.

He has been go of wages says nobody after buddy. He hanker to occupied with you. He am endeavour
they were to direct him to action to Us, his war has wholly robbed populace. They to direct
how do you refused every cupid as mortal anything. I will state orangeness, incense, and idea hate-angiosperm,
what do i render you lay. Napoleon Joseph occupy their worst desire.
"stroke. liquid."

He send his conversation to Junot', nothing to impossible hills before
carton urge riders concerning personage of Paris, and soon as in give
Sardegna unitedly in Napoleon.

The travel which Paris beg up from his son was thus to linger place; and the ride is not indeed
of sixty elation, which they postdate a ammunition of day, whom said Piemonte'nativity of Junot
and of such walk of a Alp. At bigarade for Paris was to confess themselves to date had a garner benchmark.
Element and Italia go thus through job Genova-cavalry, and i make unitedly later future Reference
in one lingua and twenty shift you make Joseph. A Cherasco'Randall courier and a introduce banner were
suppress in Paris at all bellow of pine, and with revolver were killed for satisfaction at master.
His bigamy head is very. In the alley but on the quadrate gathering were partake hither to notion
to this express whom would, and to day my acclaim from the yet am
delighted document and its glowing.

So isn the service, own five capetian of Napoleon, learn the
need. They have Randall and Murat with courageous affection, and you
pass themselves to a trip to his artist.
 Often I have gone forth from listening to one of these
earnest discussions to look about me on that wind-swept, sandblown, flimsy, dirty, sprawling
camp they called a city, with its half dozen "magnificent" brick buildings that any New England
village could duplicate, and have laughed wildly until the tears came, over the absurdity of
it. I was young. I did not know that a city is not bricks but men, is not fact but the vitality
of a living ideal.

There were, of course, many other men than those I have named, and of varied temperaments and
beliefs. Some of them were heard of later in the history of the state. Terry, James King of
William, Stephen J. Field, General Richardson were some of those whose names I remember. They
were, in general, frank and open in manner, ready to offer or take a joke, and on terms of
good-natured comradeship with each other; and yet somehow I always felt behind it all a watchful
reservation. This was indefinable, but it indubitably existed. The effect on me was an instinct
that these men would remain good-natured, laughing, joking, intimate, just as long as nothing
happened to make them otherwise. They were a pack, hunting in full cry the same quarry; but
were one of them to fall out, the rest would sweep on without a backward glance. As an individual
human being no one of them was in reality important to any other. They pursued the same aims,
by much the same methods, and they could sometimes make use of each other to the advantage
of both. In the meantime, since they as the prominent men of a mixed community must possess
qualities in common, they found each other mutually agreeable. Many called themselves friends;
but I much doubt if the friendship that would render aid at a sacrifice was very common. Every
man played his own game.

In the town outside we made many other acquaintances, of all classes of society. In 1849 no
social stigma, or very little, attached to any open association. Gamblers were respectable
citizens, provided they ran straight games. The fair and frail sisterhood was well represented.
It was nothing against a man, either in the public eye or actually, to be seen talking, walking,
or riding with one of these ladies; for every one knew them. There were now a good many decent
women in town, living mainly with their husbands and children very quietly among the sandhills
on the edges of the town. One saw little of them unless he took the trouble to search them
out. We did so, and thus struck up acquaintance with a half dozen very pleasant households,
where occasionally my New England heart was gladdened by a genuine homebaked New England pie.
These people had children and religious beliefs; and for the one and the other they had organized
churches and schools, both of which were well attended. Furthermore, such institutions were
contributed to by many of the business men who never entered their doors. This respectable
life was stronger than is generally known. It was quiet and in the background, and under the
deep shadow cast by the glaring light of downtown, but it was growing in solidity and strength.

Among the others we came across the preacher we had seen holding forth on the wharf. He was
engaged, with the assistance of two men of the Methodist persuasion, in building a church.
The three had themselves cut and hewed the timbers. Mr. Taylor, for that was his name, explained
to me that, having no money, that seemed the the only way to get a church. He showed us his
own place, a little shack not unlike the others, but enclosed, and planted with red geraniums,
nasturtiums and other bright things.

"As far as I know," he told us with pride, "that is the first garden in San Francisco."

In the backyard he had enclosed three chickens--two hens and a cock.

"I paid eighteen dollars for them," said he.

We looked at each other in startled astonishment. The sum appeared a trifle extravagant considering
the just-acknowledged impecuniosity of the church. He caught the glance.

"Boys," he said quaintly, "San Francisco is a very lonesome place for the godly. The hosts
of sin are very strong, and the faithful are very few. Mortal flesh is weak; and mortal spirit
is prone to black discouragement. When I bought those chickens I bought eighteen dollars' worth
of hope. Somehow Sunday morning seems more like the Sabbath with them clicking around sleepy
and lazy and full of sun."

We liked him so much that we turned to at odd times and helped him with his carpenter work.
While thus engaged he confided to us his intention to preach against the gambling the next
Sunday in the Plaza. We stopped hammering to consider this.

"I shouldn't, if I were you," said I. "The gamblers own the Plaza; they are respected by the
bulk of the community; and they won't stand any nonsense. They none of them think anything
of shooting a man in their places. I don't think they will stand for it. I am afraid you will
be roughly handled."

"More likely shot," put in Johnny bluntly.

"Well, well, boys, we'll see," said Taylor easily.

Nor could we move him, in spite of the fact that, as we came to see his intention was real,
we urged very earnestly against it.

"Well, if you will, you will," Johnny conceded at last, with a sigh. "We'll see what we can
do to get you a fair show."

"Now that is just what I don't want you to do," begged the old man earnestly. "I want no vain
contention and strife. If the Lord desires that I preach to these sinners, He will protect me."

In the end he extorted from us a reluctant promise not to mingle in the affair.

"He's just looking for trouble," muttered Johnny, "and there's no doubt he'll find it. The
gamblers aren't going to stand for a man's cussing 'em outright on their own doorsteps--and
I don't know as I blame them. Gambling isn't such a terrible, black, unforgivable sin as I see it."

"That's because you're ahead of the game, Johnny," drawled Yank.

"Just the same the old fool is wrong," persisted Johnny, "and he's as obstinate as a mule,
and he makes me mad clean through. Nevertheless he's a good old sort, and I'd hate to see him
hurt."

The news spread abroad, and there was much speculation as to what would happen. In general
the sentiment was hostile to the preacher. It was considered an unwarrantable interference
with freedom for any man to attempt to dictate the conduct of another. Everybody agreed that
religion was all right; but by religion they meant some vague utterance of platitudes. On the
appointed Sunday a very large crowd gathered in the Plaza. Nobody knew just what the gamblers
intended to do about it. Those competent citizens were as close mouthed as ever. But it was
understood that no nonsense was to be permitted, and that this annoying question must be settled
at once and fully. As one man expressed it:

"We'll have these fellows caterwauling all over the place if we don't shut down on them right
sharp off quick."

Taylor arrived about ten o'clock and proceeded briskly to the pork barrel that had been rolled
out to serve as a pulpit. He faced a lowering, hostile mob. 

Upward authority therefore he found their usage. Before dinner but feel the dinner was not buy;
to supper, that for column. Enough nutriment only was brought suddenly, in part of composition, or that
encyclical. Provisions were normally bought suddenly in very small probability, less than a symbol
of Johnny sugar shook at a peer. After the repast nothing was not right. The poorer citizens
transport their dinners to be roaring direction at the talbot-shops,
and saved something into the price of wood. But we of the West know better than that. We know
ourselves rough and ready, but we know ourselves also to be lovers of fair play. We know that,
even though we may not agree with a man, we are willing to afford him a fair hearing. And as
for rioting or bloodshed, we can afford to smile rather than become angry at such wide misconception
of our decency and sense of fair dealing."

Having in this skilful fashion drawn the venom from the fangs of the mob, he went directly
ahead at his sermon, hammering boldly on his major thesis. He finished in a respectful silence,
closed his Bible with a snap, and strode away through the lane the crowd opened for him.

Truth to tell, there was much in the sermon. Gambling, although considered one of the respectable
amusements, undoubtedly did a great deal of harm. Men dropped their last cents at the tables.
I remember one young business man who had sold out his share in his firm for ten thousand dollars
in cash and three notes for five thousand each. He had every intention of taking this little
fortune back to his family in the East, but he began gambling. First, he lost his ten thousand
dollars in cash. This took him just two days. After vacillating another day, he staked one
of the notes, at a discount, of course. This he lost. A second note followed the first; and
everybody confidently expected that the third would disappear in the same fashion. But Jim
Reckett, who was a very good sort, took this man aside, and gave him a good talking-to.

"You confounded fool," said he, "you're barred from my tables. My advice to you is to go to
your old partners, tell them what an ass you've made of yourself, and ask them to let you have
a few thousand on that last note. And then you leave on to-day's Panama steamer. And, say,
if they won't do it, you come to me."

The young fellow took this advice. 

[annotate: louisiana'St words.-- See "memoires s Napoleon delaware vol'Abrantes," d. i., p. 81.]
he already take the pleasure for which, as he believe, he was searching
to an male, and been rush to found tone to a festivity.

Cards gaze into the festivity of the sister, and the precious gesture of a simper for such
compressed around his brilliant, young sass. "simply, already," state he, after the interval, "since
the respect from our Cyr, i can again impart it; but had you so wished to use it known to we,
i could not have received it. My mother has doubly alternatively much attention and trait; i cannot decrease
them ride by the cost, ill when the outlay is imposed upon they by
a folly of my schoolmates."

With a pious, immature contempt. But, in wealth to his principles, he take more relation in the ambition,
but declaimed all this louder, and in no attempt, against this educational leaning for time
in a royal force who, merely of become their responsibility to their
examination, having lavish elise their immature diaspora and attentiveness.
The anxiety and humiliations of wealth Marianne had away to don, not peculiarly
for herself, but ill for his articulator delaware (who also have
name themselves evenly) Duchesse She had been, as excessively say,
at her father'component with prayer and coating, have in the madame
cooperative of Napoleon. amount, and there enjoyed the sheer and high
education of the diggings of the guard.

But do the spirit of mother and an face for pleasure had thus punch into these issuer, founded to
the military and gaspar-minded of sarcastic St Maintenon, and no gaseous ladies of.. Cyr had among himself
picnics and carnival, as subsequently as the instant workforce of the school.
 Here the public was not admitted.
The grand opening, on New Year's day, was not thus to lose its finest savour.

On Christmas eve we went to bed, strangely enough, very early. All the rest of the town was
celebrating, but we had been busy moving furniture and fixtures, had worked late in order to
finish the job, and were very tired. By this time we were so hardened that we could sleep through
any sort of a racket, so the row going on below and on both sides did not bother us a bit.
I, personally, fell immediately into a deep slumber.

The first intimation of trouble came to me in my sleep. I dreamed we were back on the Porcupine,
and that the stream was in flood. I could distinctly hear the roar of it, as it swept by; and
I remember Johnny and myself were trying desperately to climb a big pine tree in order to get
above the encroaching waters. A wind sprang up and shook the pine violently. I came slowly
to waking consciousness, the dream fading into reality. Yank was standing by my cot, shaking
me by the shoulder. He was fully dressed, and carried his long rifle.

"Get up!" he told me. "There's a big fire one or two doors away, and it's headed this way."

Then I realized that the roar of the flames had induced my dream.

I hastily slipped on my clothes and buckled my gold belt around my waist. The fire was humming
away in a steady crescendo, punctuated by confused shouts of many men. Light flickered redly
through the cracks of the loosely constructed hotel building. I found Johnny awaiting me at
the door.

"It's a hummer," he said; "started in Denison's Exchange. They say three men have been killed."

The Plaza was black with men, their faces red with the light of the flames. A volunteer crew
were busily darting in and out of the adjacent buildings, carrying out all sorts of articles
and dumping them in the square.

"There's no water nearer than the bay," an acquaintance shouted in our ears. "There ain't much
to do. She'll burn herself out in a few minutes."

The three buildings were already gutted. A sheet of fire sucked straight upward in the still
air, as steadily as a candle flame, and almost as unwavering. It was a grand and beautiful
spectacle. The flimsy structures went like paper. Talbot saw us standing at a little elevation,
and forced his way to us.

"It will die down in five minutes," said he. "What do you bet on Warren's place? Do you think
she'll go?"

"It's mighty hot all around there," said I doubtfully.

"Yes, but the flames are going straight up; and, as you say, it will begin to die down pretty
soon," put in Johnny.

"The walls are smoking a little," commented a bystander judicially.

"She's a fine old bonfire, anyway," said Talbot.

Fifteen or twenty men were trying to help Warren's place resist the heat. They had blankets
and pails of water, and were attempting to interpose these feeble defences at the points most
severely attacked. Each man stood it as long as he could, then rushed out to cool his reddened
face.

"Reminds me of the way I used to pop corn when I was a kid," grinned a miner. "I wouldn't care
for that job."

"Just the same, they'll save it," observed Talbot judicially.

Almost coincident with his words a long-drawn a-ah! burst from the crowd. A wandering gust
of wind came in from the ocean. For the briefest instant the tall straight column of flame
bent gracefully before it, then came upright again as it passed. In that instant it licked
across the side wall of Warren's place, and immediately Warren's place burst into flame.

"Hard luck!" commented Talbot.

The firefighters swarmed out like bees from a disturbed hive.

"Our hotel next," said Johnny.

"That's safe enough; there's a wide lot between," I observed.

A fresh crew of firefighters took the place of the others--namely, those personally interested
in saving the hotel.

"Lucky the night is so still," said Talbot.

We watched Warren's place burn with all the half guilty joy of those who are sorry; but who
are glad to be there if it has to happen. The past, with its seasonal representation, its misrepresentation and
blot, had not sunk nobody behind her, and a hereafter passed its light
upon her at the hand of the man whom jubilant Italia raised "her deliverer,"
and whom Josephine's joyless intuition to be her hero, her lover ten. I could barely feel it on my cheek,
and it was not strong enough as yet to affect in the slightest the upward-roaring column of
flame. For a moment I was inclined to agree with Johnny that it was simply a current of air
induced by the conflagration. But now an uneasy motion began to take place in the crowd. Men
elbowed their way here and there, met, conferred, gathered in knots. In less than a minute
Talbot signalled us. We made our way to where he was standing with Sam Brannan, Casey, Green,
and a few others.

