And with all this, and quite naturally, he was a dog of breeding, who, while he insisted on
his own rights, respected those of others. I saw this before he had spoken ten words to the
concierge,--the St. Bernard dog, I mean. For he did talk to him, and the conversation was just
as plain to me, tilted back against the wall, out of the sun, waiting for my cutlets and coffee,
as if I had been a dog myself, and understood each word of it.

First, he walked up sideways, his tail wagging and straight out, like a patent towel-rack.
Then he walked round the concierge, who followed his movements with becoming interest, wagging
his own tail, straightening his forelegs, and sidling around him kindly, as befitted the stranger's
rank and quality, but with a certain dog-independence of manner, preserving his own dignities
while courteously passing the time of day, and intimating, by certain twists of his tail, that
he felt quite sure his excellency would like the air and scenery the farther he got up the
pass,--all strange dogs did.

During this interchange of canine civilities, the landlord was helping out the two men, the
companions of the dog. One was round and pudgy, the other lank and scrawny. Both were in knickerbockers,
with green hats decorated with cock feathers and edelweiss. The blue-shirted porter carried
in the bags and alpenstocks, closing the coffee-room door behind them.

Suddenly the strange dog, who had been beguiled by the courteous manner of the concierge, realized
that his master had disappeared. The man had been hungry, no doubt, and half blinded by the
glare of the sun. After the manner of his kind, he had dived into this shelter without a word
to the dumb beast who had tramped behind his wheels, swallowing the dust his horses kicked up.

When the strange dog realized this,--I saw the instant the idea entered his mind, as I caught
the sudden toss of the head,--he glanced quickly about with that uneasy, anxious look that
comes into the face of a dog when he discovers that he is adrift in a strange place without
his master. What other face is so utterly miserable, and what eyes so pleading, the tears just
under the lids, as the lost dog's?

Then it was beautiful to see the St. Bernard. With a sudden twist of the head he reassured
the strange dog,--telling him, as plainly as could be, not to worry, the gentlemen were only
inside, and would be out after breakfast. There was no mistaking what he said. It was done
with a peculiar curving of the neck, a reassuring wag of the tail, a glance toward the coffee-room,
and a few frolicsome, kittenish jumps, these last plainly indicating that as for himself the
occasion was one of great hilarity, with absolutely no cause in it for anxiety. Then, if you
could have seen that anxious look fade away from the face of the strange dog, the responsive,
reciprocal wag of the night-club of a tail. If you could have caught the sudden peace that
came into his eyes, and have seen him as he followed the concierge to the doorway, dropping
his ears, and throwing himself beside him, looking up into his face, his tongue out, panting
after the habit of his race, the white saliva dropping upon his paws.

Then followed a long talk, conducted in side glances, and punctuated with the quiet laughs
of more slappings of tails on the cobbles, as the concierge listened to the adventures of the
stranger, or matched them with funny experiences of his own.

