She did not notice his hesitation. "You must drink with him," she whispered hastily; "drink
every day with him at our house, so that he drinks more, much more than he does now. He doesn't
drink enough at present. You must be with him, you must fill his glass without his noticing
it, you must entertain him the whole time, tell him what he likes to hear, put him in a good
humour by saying, 'Your health!' and 'Much good may it do you!' so that he goes on drinking
and drinking. You must help me in this way." She looked at him imploringly.

He avoided her eyes; no, he could not do that, he did not like to. Mr. Tiralla was rather fond
of him, but how much did she care for him, eh? Not so much. He snapped his fingers in her face.
She preferred [Pg 258] another man, Becker; oh, he knew it very well, and that was the reason
things were not going quickly enough for her. No, he would not give her a helping hand to that,
never, never, he panted, excited to fury by his passionate jealousy, and let his hand fall
with a bang on the table, "Never!"

She trembled and seized hold of his clenched hand; she must win him, he must help her, he had
no right to refuse her his help, what should she do then? Thoughts flew like lightning through
her brain; the first of December, the first of December, oh, Martin would run away from her
much earlier than that, he was even now like a young bird trying its wings, and she would soon
not be able to hold him any longer. Martin, Böhnke--Böhnke, Martin, all ran together. She could
not think clearly, she was beside herself with terror. She threw her arms round the schoolmaster's
neck and, putting her lips close to his ear, sobbed, "You must, you must, I implore you!"

Her face, which in spite of hot tears and cold dew was still so alluring, so dazzling, was
quite close to his. Then he caught hold of her with all his strength. "You've made me a drunkard,"
he jerked out, from between his clenched teeth, and strained her to his heart, so that she
lost her breath, "and you're making me a murderer--but by God, I love you, I love you!"

[Pg 259]

                              CHAPTER XII

Winter had come during the night.

Even yesterday the gossamer had flown across the fields and hung fast to the bare bushes and
tops of the few remaining turnips; to-day the first snow lay on the ground. There was not much
of it, but still it was wet and cold.

The young men, who were sowing the last seeds, finished their day's work in silence, a silence
that was as heavy as the grey, lowering sky overhead, and as sad as the damp, sullen-looking
fields in November. They had nothing pleasant to say to each other. Martin's thoughts were
far away, he was longing to leave Starydwór, leave it far behind him; and Mikolai was also
deep in thought.

The happiness that Mikolai had felt during the summer was a thing of the past. Although a farm
of one's own is not to be despised, he would much rather be servant somewhere else than master
at Starydwór. How awful his father was! Why, he was out of his mind! If only he could catch
that fellow Böhnke by the throat, he thought to himself, clenching his fists in fury. Why did
he come creeping to the farm day after day, locking himself in with his father? They never
let anybody in, but they would drink and drink, until they had not as much sense left as the
cattle. Mikolai swore to himself as he thought of it. And then his stepmother even expected
[Pg 260] him to put the horses in and drive that drunken rascal home when he felt too tired
to have a chat with Marianna. Let him sleep himself sober in the first ditch he came across;
it was quite good enough for him. But instead of that he had to be hoisted up into the cart
and driven at a walking pace along the pitch-dark road, so that he, Mikolai, was frozen and
wet to the skin and felt thoroughly annoyed. What could she see in the schoolmaster to make
her so patient and calm that she put up with his visits, which were certainly not doing his
father any good?

The young fellow felt very surprised, and now and then something like suspicion awakened within
him. How could his stepmother always be smiling? Was it not rather a thing to cry about? But
who could know if her smiles came from the heart? She was, no doubt, to be pitied too. It was
wrong of Marianna to speak so unkindly of her mistress. She ought not to shrug her shoulders
and make faces, but it was just like a servant. That was another cause of annoyance to the
young man. If there had been anything between the schoolmaster and his stepmother, he would,
of course, have noticed it of his own accord, he was no longer a foolish boy. Rosa gave him
much more to think of than that. He felt very uneasy about her, she was so strange. He could
not dissuade her from that confounded wish of hers to go into a convent. She persisted in it
more than ever. He had already tired himself out with talking to her about it. She would listen
quietly, with her eyes fixed on her hands lying idly in her lap, and then, when he knew of
no other argument to bring forward, she would say softly, but more decidedly than if she had
spoken in a loud voice, "I shall go into a convent, all the same."

What a pity the girl was so holy. "Holy," that [Pg 261] was what Marianna called her. If only
Becker and she had married, how nice it would have been. Mikolai still harped on this, and
it was this disappointment that grieved him most of all. Why did Martin not care for Rosa?

As they were returning home together in the early twilight, Mikolai once more took courage.
He was certainly not going to offer Rosa again to Becker--he felt too sorry for her to do that--but
he wanted to hear why his beautiful plan could not be realized. So he said, "The snow has come,
now you'll soon be going," and cast a covert glance at his friend to see what he would say to it.

Martin answered quite simply, "I shall soon be going."

"There's still a fortnight," said Mikolai.

"There's still a fortnight," repeated Martin, and then gave a deep sigh of relief as one who
again breathes light, fresh air after it has been sultry and oppressive for a long time.

Mikolai sighed too. Psia krew, how difficult it was to sound the fellow. Although he thought
he had introduced the subject so cunningly, he saw he would have to be still more explicit.
So he continued, "Only a fortnight longer, a very short reprieve. We shall all miss you, Rosa
especially. Well, well!" He paused for a moment, and then cast another covert glance at Martin.

The latter's face, however, was inscrutable; it was as though it were hewn out of stone, and
he could learn nothing from it. But what was that? It seemed to Mikolai as though his friend's
pale face had suddenly flushed. Then he turned his head from side to side, as if his collar
were too tight, and swallowed a few times as if he were gulping something down, and then [Pg
262] the corners of his mouth drooped as though something were grieving him. At last Mikolai
could no longer restrain himself. Why this dissimulation? He put his arm round the other's
shoulders and said in a low, cordial voice, "Marry my sister, do. She's good and pretty and
has also expectations. We three will be very happy together. Take her, Martin, I beg of you."

"Let me go!" cried the man, pushing Mikolai away as though he had said something more than
unkind. Then he strode over to the other side of the road and kept his head obstinately turned
towards the field. He did not look at his friend again, so that Mikolai, who was completely
nonplussed, grew silent too.

So they walked along in silence through the soft mud and deep ruts, each on his side of the
road. Mikolai's eyes suddenly felt wet. The deuce, what was that? He rubbed them angrily, but
they were wet the next moment again. Here, here they had driven last summer--only a few months
ago--with hay and flowers on the wagon, and had been so gay. And now? His lips trembled, he
felt unstrung. At last he had really seen that things must take their course.

When they reached the farm the house lay in darkness. There was only a light in Mr. Tiralla's
room to the right of the passage; they could see it shining through the closed shutters.

What, was that confounded Böhnke there again? If you had a sharp ear you could hear somebody
speaking in a subdued voice, almost a whisper, and a gurgling sound as though they were drinking
quickly and then putting their glasses down. Mikolai flew into a rage; he felt just in the
humour to pitch the fellow out. It was not exactly the thing he cared to do, for a guest is
sacred; but that cad was no guest, he was [Pg 263] a monster. He was ruining his father entirely.
Mikolai lifted the latch angrily, but the door did not yield, it was locked. Then he shook
it in his fury, "Hi, open the door!" He banged and scolded. But everything remained quiet in
the room, nobody answered and nobody opened the door.

Then he rushed out of the house and into the barn in his anger, threw himself down on the straw,
clenched his fists and wept aloud until he fell asleep.

When the schoolmaster left the farm at a late hour that evening Mr. Tiralla was quite drunk.
He had only enough sense left to whisper in a tender voice, "Little Böhnke, friend, take care.
If Mikolai catches you, he'll chop you into small pieces, perhaps with the hatchet, perhaps
with the chopper. Ugh! he's a brute--they're all brutes here--ugh! my friend, you don't know
what brutes they all are. My dear, beloved friend." Mr. Tiralla fell on the other's neck, kissed
him and stammered in a hiccoughing voice, while he stroked his cheek, "If I--I--ha--hadn't
you--God--bless--you--it would--b--be all--up--with me."

Böhnke left the room filled with a strange emotion. He was not so drunk as Mr. Tiralla--he
could still collect his thoughts, if he took the trouble to do so--and he was thinking of the
man who loved him as a friend and son. But very soon Mrs. Tiralla took entire possession of
his thoughts. He looked around and listened for her step, and strained his eyes so in the dark
that they watered. Was he to leave the house without a single kiss? Psia krew, he would not
do that. He swore in an undertone, for he had suddenly grown brutal. He would be paid, paid
for every visit. It was no pleasure to him to get drunk with that fellow. If she did not come
now, then----There was still [Pg 264] time to go away and never come back, to become again
as he had been before. If he were to ask to be removed and left the neighbourhood, and never
more put his foot inside the door at Starydwór? Let Mr. Tiralla drink himself to death, alone.
But if he were never to see this woman again?

The fresh air in the yard cooled his brow as he stepped out of the house. "Ah!" He drew a deep
breath; air, thank God. There was still time, still time.

At that moment he heard the rustle of a dress in the dark passage, a furtive whisper of "Pan
Böhnke!" and turning round he stretched out his arms in a transport of delight. "My darling,
my sweet one!"

She did not respond to his kisses, but he did not notice it in his joy; and he did not see
either in the dark how she pressed her eyes together and screwed up her face. All he heard
was her whisper in his ear, "How are you getting on? I hope you've filled his glass frequently?
How is he? Please tell me, will it still last long?"

He did not answer her; he had buried his mouth in her hair, and his lips were glued to its
silky waves like those of a thirsty man. When she wanted to free herself in her impatience,
"Speak, why don't you tell me, how much longer?" he clasped her still more closely without
replying. There was no escape for her. They were standing like a pair of lovers, almost melted
into one; her head was lying on his breast as though welded to it by the pressure of his arms.
Thus her eyes and ears were closed, and he--he only felt her.

At that moment the door of Mr. Tiralla's room was gently opened and the old man stuck his head
out timidly. Had his little Böhnke, his friend, succeeded in escaping?

[Pg 265]

The sick man was tortured by the idea that they wanted to kill the schoolmaster just because
he was his, Pan Tiralla's, brother and friend, his only friend. If they were to do something
to him? If they were to attack him in the dark yard? His terror on his friend's account had
given strength to his shaking limbs, and he had been able to stand upright and walk.

He peered around like an owl that is dazzled by the glare; the light from the open door fell
on the passage. Ha! who was standing there? The murderers! the murderers! Save yourself, little
Böhnke. He was on the point of crying out aloud for help when his voice suddenly snapped--why!
it was only Marianna. A grin full of pleasant memories appeared on his wrinkled face--ha, ha!
it was Marianna standing there with a lover. But all at once the pleasant grin turned into
a terrified grimace; it was not Marianna after all, it must be Sophia, and with her?

The idiot's eyes had suddenly become clear, and he had recognized his friend, his brother.
Böhnke was holding his wife in a close embrace, and they were standing like a pair of lovers,
breast to breast. Alas, alas! Mr. Tiralla fell back as though a gleaming knife were pointed
at his face. The two were talking away so busily, so softly, that they had not noticed him.
What were they whispering about? His teeth chattered. Murderers, murderers! Ugh! they were
taking counsel together how they were to kill him--little Böhnke and Sophia--Sophia and little
Böhnke. Little Böhnke! His friend, his only friend!

The man's wrinkled face shrivelled up more than ever, and his figure became quite small. Closing
the door carefully and bolting it in trembling terror, he shuffled back to the table, groaning.

His little Böhnke, his friend, his only friend!

[Pg 266]

The man looked round the empty room with a wild glance, as though his terror were pursuing
him. There, there, there! He stared at the chair near him; his friend, his only friend had
just been sitting there, close to him.

Then he began to cry bitterly, that is to say, his red eyes could no longer weep tears, but
he puckered up his face like a whimpering child, and a hiccoughing sob raised his chest in
jerks. And then he drank what remained in all the bottles.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

Mikolai started up out of the straw in bewilderment--what was he doing in the barn, why was
he lying there? He had had such awful dreams. Was it evening, night, or already morning? It
was no good looking at his watch in the dark. He got up, and rubbing his swollen eyes staggered
out of the barn. The moon was already high above the farm; it must be near midnight. Who was
that creeping off to the gate?

"Stop. Who goes there?"

Could that be Böhnke? "Psia krew!" All at once the young fellow recollected how miserable he
had been.

"Heigh, stop!" He set out in pursuit of the man who had just gone out of the gate.

Böhnke heard neither the calls nor the panting man who rushed after him. He was staggering
across the fields as though intoxicated with joy, repeating the words, "My darling, my sweet one!"

At that moment somebody caught hold of him by the nape of his neck, and as he was walking very
shakily, he fell down without any show of resistance and without a cry, so that Mikolai, who
had whirled him round and was now kneeling on his chest, had an [Pg 267] easy time of it. "It's
I, Mikolai," he panted. "I'll teach you!"

Mikolai had hardly ever given anybody such a thrashing before; it was such a relief to him
to get rid of his misery in this way. He flogged the man until his arm was stiff, and then
threw him into the ditch at the side of the field and went home satisfied. He whistled as he
walked back to the farm. There, now he had given that fellow a good reminder; he would have
a few bruises to show. And if he felt inclined to bring an action against him, then let him;
he would never repent of what he had done. He felt much brighter now. He looked about for Marianna;
how tiresome, she was no doubt sleeping upstairs by now. He went round to the gable and began
to whistle, but nobody opened the window, and no eager "Yes, yes!" reached his ear. How tiresome!
The woman was sleeping like a badger in his hole. He would have to enjoy the thought of his
successful stroke by himself, then, and he pressed his fists against his mouth and hopped about
on one leg with joy.

When he came round to the front door again he noticed a light gleaming through the shutters
in the big room. What, was somebody still awake? Was his father not asleep yet? Perhaps in
his drunken condition he had forgotten to put out the lamp. Then it would be smoking the whole
night through, as it had done a short time before, when the smelling thing had only gone out
for want of paraffin. Did the old fool really want to set fire to the whole concern? How dreadful
it would be to have a fire with all that straw in the barn. The man cast an anxious look at
the streak of light which found its way through the shutters; it seemed twice as broad as usual.
What was the old man up to? He would be doing some mischief [Pg 268] some day, that was certain.
Seized with an unaccountable uneasiness, Mikolai groped in the dark passage for the door-handle.
"Psia krew!" Of course, it was locked on the inside. He knocked; then he called, "Father!"
He rattled the handle. "The deuce, why can't you open?"

Still no answer, and no bolt was withdrawn.

He shook the door with all his strength. "I shall break the door open if you don't unlock it
at once."

The door creaked and groaned, and Mikolai's loud voice echoed through the house, so that one
would have thought it would have awakened the dead--bat there was no sound in the room.

Then a fear gripped him; what should he do now? He was still pondering when he heard his stepmother's
voice.

Mrs. Tiralla had gone to bed, but she had not slept. Her face had burnt like fire, for she
had been rubbing and washing it, so as to wash the kisses off which she had been obliged to
put up with in the dark passage. Her forehead pained her as though there were a fresh scar
on it, for the man had strained her so forcibly to his breast that his watch-chain had left
a mark there. Oh, that stigma! She passed her hand over it again and again, but however much
she rubbed it did not disappear. She wrung her hands in impotent fury. But then she clenched
her teeth; no, no complaint, for she had done it for Martin's sake. Was it not a joy in spite
of all this agony to think that she was suffering for his sake? Who could sympathize with her
feelings? No one except the Lord. He had wrestled in the Garden of Gethsemane; He had endured
Judas's kiss.

"O Lord," she raised her hands in the dark to the picture on the wall of the Saviour holding
His flaming [Pg 269] heart in His hand, "Thou art acquainted with every suffering, Thou seest
my sufferings, have mercy!"

It was probably the first time in her life that Mrs. Tiralla had not used the prescribed form
of prayer, that her heart had cried out in its own words. Then she whispered, "Martin, Martin,"
as if the beloved name were a form of conjuration, and stretched out her arms longingly in
her cold, dark room. Oh, how warm and bright it had been at Starydwór! Suddenly a smile spread
itself over her troubled face; it was as though a feeling of sweet peace had come to her from
afar, and had told her that it would be warm and bright again. The certainty of this in the
near future consoled her and made her patient. She pressed her hand to her heart--hope, hope!

Then she grew calmer, the burning sensation in her face had become less acute, she had said
her prayers for the night, and prepared herself for sleep with her hands folded across her
breast like a child. Soon, soon! The smile was still on her face.

At that moment the loud noise in the passage had startled her.

What could it be so late at night? She ran out of the room in her petticoat with no shoes on
her feet; she was seized with a sudden fear--Martin, if it were Martin who wanted to run away.
She must go to him, take hold of him, cling to him, he must not go! But then the thought struck
her that there was no need to fear, he would not be leaving with so much noise. But still,
if Mikolai were holding him, if they were quarrelling, struggling with each other, the one
wanting to go, the other endeavouring to hold him back? Hark, what a noise! How Mikolai was
shouting!

"What is it, what is it?" cried Mrs. Tiralla, as she stood in front of her stepson, panting.
Mikolai [Pg 270] had lighted a kitchen lamp, and they gazed at each other in the dim light
with haggard faces.

"Where, where is he?" She caught hold of her stepson's arm. But then she bethought herself.
Martin was nowhere to be seen, and this was not his bedroom door; this was Mr. Tiralla's, on
which Mikolai was thumping, and before which he now stooped down and tried to look through
the chinks.

"I don't know, I don't know," cried Mikolai, shaking the handle once more. "There's a light
burning in the room; but everything is so quiet, and father isn't snoring."

"Oh, leave him!" It was no longer a matter of any importance to her, and she was going upstairs
again. "He's fast asleep, that's all."

But Mikolai held her back in his fear. "Do stop," he begged, and there was a strange note of
anxiety in his voice as he added, "Father always snores so at other times. I wonder if he could
have had a stroke?"

Could it be possible! The woman's cold face grew hot.

"Father!" cried Mikolai once more, rattling the latch with all his might, but the bolt did
not move. "I'll fetch a hatchet," he whispered; "we shall have to break open the door. You
wait here and look out." He ran to the shed, where the axe lay by the block.

She remained standing in front of the door, whilst an eager desire to learn her fate almost
tore her asunder. Her eyes nearly started out of her head. Everything was as quiet as death
in there--at other times he always snored so--what would she see in there? God be praised!
She could hardly await the spectacle.

She threw herself against the door with all her weight; she pressed her hands and knees so
firmly against it that she, the weak woman, succeeded in doing what the strong man had not
been able to do. [Pg 271] The rotten framework gave way, and the door, lifted off its hinges,
fell with a dull crash into the room. The woman fell with it.

At first she saw nothing, stunned as she was by the fall and blinded by the dust from the rotten
wood. But how soon she saw it all!

There was Mr. Tiralla hanging from the hook in the centre beam, which had once been destined
to carry a chandelier, close to the table with bottles and glasses. The man had made a noose
of his handkerchief; the ceiling was low and his toes almost touched the chair, but still he
was dangling.

"O God!" She uttered a heartrending scream and sprang forward. There he was, dangling, quite
blue in the face and with his tongue hanging out of his mouth. How awful, how terrible! She
did not give herself time to consider whether he was alive or not, or whether he would recover;
all she did was to look round for help.

At that moment Mikolai returned. He stood motionless, staring with open mouth, the hatchet
in his hand. The woman tore it out of his hand, swung it like lightning, the sharp edge cut
the noose--and Mr. Tiralla fell on the floor with a dull thud.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

It was a terrible night at Starydwór. Everybody had come running, awakened by the noise of
the falling door and Mikolai's cries.

Marianna howled as though she were out of her mind; both she and Mikolai had lost their self-command.
Rosa had only given one short scream, and then, with upraised hands, had fallen down in a deep
faint.

Mrs. Tiralla was the only one who remained calm. She had helped the two men to put the body
on the [Pg 272] bed, and now she stood looking on, mute and motionless, whilst Martin rubbed
the stiffened limbs and moved the man's arms up and down, as he had been taught to do when
he was a soldier. Was Mr. Tiralla dead?

"He's not dead yet." It was Martin who spoke, and she heard what he said without answering
a word. She closed her eyes; how compassionate his voice--the beloved's voice--sounded. Did
he feel sorry for her--or himself? No, he only felt sorry for Mr. Tiralla.

She opened her eyes wide. "Fool, idiot!" she could have shouted to him in her fury. But then
she hid her face in her hands and staggered to a corner, where she broke down and groaned.
She was the fool, the idiot, for she had cut him down herself. Why? She did not know.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

Martin carried Rosa upstairs. Mr. Tiralla was breathing again, and now the young man had a
feeling as though he would have to fight once more for a life--but a young and innocent life
this time.

He carried the unconscious girl tenderly in his arms. She had only very little clothing on,
and he felt how thin and slender her limbs were. Her bushy mane--not smooth and silky like
his love's beautiful hair--tickled his cheek, but there was a perfume about her dry locks and
about her whole person that reminded him of the perfume of the fields in spring-time, which
he was so fond of ploughing. He carried her as carefully as though every movement could harm
her, as though she were a soap-bubble which disappears if over-curious fingers touch it. And
still he clasped her tightly. Once he thought he could feel her nestling [Pg 273] against him;
but it must have been imagination, for she had swooned and she hardly breathed.

On reaching the door of her room he entered almost timidly. A light was flickering there. There
was no help for it, he had to lay her down on her bed, for the people downstairs had lost their
heads, but he did it shyly. There she lay, and as he bent over her--was he dreaming?--she flung
her arms round his neck.

She dragged his head down to her lips and he felt her hot breath as she whispered, "Always
united--many years--and many children--my Saviour, my Redeemer--oh, my beloved one, come, kiss me."

Her whispering made him shudder. Why did she mix so strangely what was in the Prayer-book with
what lovers whisper in the dark? Would she be saying any more? He could not help it, he had
freed himself, but he remained standing at her bedside, listening.

"Oh, I know, I know it very well," she wailed. Then she gave a deep sigh, "Alas, alas, how
beautiful you are, mother--Mary, Holy Virgin--alas, so lovely, a thousand times more beautiful
than I. If only I were dead--dead like daddy." She was crying softly, and her hands were locked
as though in pain or prayer. "I shall go into a convent." Then she wrung her hands and cried
in a loud voice, "Have mercy on me, have mercy on me! Mary, Holy Virgin, help me, let me hold
the Christ Child on my lap! Oh, don't turn away--help, have mercy on me!"

She stretched out her hands--oh, dear, was she going to catch hold of him? How her hands trembled,
how red her pale face had become.

Martin heard no more, he fled in horror. Oh, this Starydwór, this Starydwór, if only he were
hundreds of miles away from it!

[Pg 274]

                              CHAPTER XIII

What had happened at Starydwór soon became known in Starawieś. How could Marianna have kept
silent about it?

She had told Jendrek with many sighs the very next evening behind the stable door, when he
had rushed over for a quarter of an hour from the settlement, and her apron had been quite
wet with tears. The dear, good master! Jendrek really ought to have seen how the poor man hung.
Like that. And she turned up the whites of her eyes and let her red tongue hang loosely out
of her mouth, so that the inquisitive man still shuddered when he thought of it.

Ugh! But how did Mr. Tiralla look now?

Oh, just as usual, you could not see that anything had been the matter with him. He crept about
again as he had always done, yellow and thin. But the strangest thing of all was that he did
not know anything about it.

Did not know anything about it? Jendrek would not believe that. How can a man hang himself
and afterwards know nothing about it?

That astounded everybody. People came running to see Mr. Tiralla and press his hand in mute
condolence whilst they gazed at him with curious, disappointed eyes. There were so many visitors
the next and following Sunday as Starydwór had not seen within its walls for many a day.

[Pg 275]

Mr. Jokisch and Mr. Schmielke came, as well as the forester and the gendarme and all their
friends from Starawieś and Gradewitz. Even the priest was there. The big room was quite full
of visitors. Refreshments were brought in, Tokay and beer, and Mrs. Tiralla herself smilingly
handed everybody a glass of gin, which was very welcome in that cold, unhealthy weather. Mikolai
offered cigars, and soon the room was dark with thick, blue clouds of smoke, through which
every now and then a quick glance was cast at Mr. Tiralla, as though the men suddenly recollected
why they had come to Starydwór. There was much laughing and talking.

Mr. Tiralla sat staring in front of him without saying a word, or taking any interest in what
was going on. It was as though he were no longer one of them.

Yes, the man was in a bad state of health, they all saw that. What had the doctor said?

They had not had one so far, said Mrs. Tiralla, casting down her eyes. Then she added softly,
with trembling lips, that up to now she had only prayed and prayed.

The priest nodded. But when he soon afterwards left and she accompanied him to the front door,
he took hold of her hand in the passage and pointed out to her that it was her duty to send
for a doctor. "My dear Mrs. Tiralla," he said, "invoking divine help is certainly--h'm"--he
cleared his throat, those wide-open, staring eyes made him quite confused--"divine help is
certainly the chief thing, but human help is not to be dispensed with. Your husband seems very
ill, really dangerously ill, why won't you have a doctor? You must absolutely send for one."

She followed him with her eyes as he walked away and there was a peculiar smile on her face.
So--so he [Pg 276] said that? Surely he did not believe that a doctor could change what had
been decided upon in heaven? Very well, she could, of course, send for a doctor. But the man
might prescribe whatever he liked, Mr. Tiralla would still be tottering to his grave with every
step he took.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

"A strong-minded woman," remarked the visitors, as they walked home across the fields. "Terrible,"
they said then, and shivered as though they felt cold.

The wind whirled round them, and a flock of ravens, startled at their approach, flew out of
the furrows screeching and cawing just over their heads. What a horrible noise! The men stood
still involuntarily. Look, look! they all flew back to Starydwór and settled on the roofs.
Those birds of ill omen!

Psia brew, how awful it must be there at present, to be every day with that man. Why, he was
quite idiotic. Mr. Tiralla had never been very bright, and he had always had a hankering after
drink. Well, well, your sin is sure to find you out. Poor woman! She was the only one who deserved
to be pitied. It was really admirable how she kept up her courage.

"H'm, it's taken a great deal out of her, nevertheless," remarked Mr. Schmielke with a long--drawn
whistle. He had suddenly grown very cool in his feelings towards her. "Sophia Tiralla's reign
is over and done with. Did you notice the hollows in her cheeks? And then her eyes, how sunk
they were. H'm, that lanky, red-haired girl, who dared not show herself at her mother's side
a short time ago, is almost nicer-looking now. She's really not at all bad."

"You had better keep your fingers off her," said some one. "She's going into a convent."

[Pg 277]

"Tut, tut, don't talk nonsense. She--with those eyes?"

But the gendarme knew it for a fact, for the priest had mentioned quite a short time ago that
the Ladies of the Sacred Heart at the Wallischei had been told of Rosa Tiralla's coming.

"Very well then, I shan't," said Schmielke. He made no more of his frivolous remarks, but grew
silent as the others had gradually done. They all felt out of tune, thoroughly depressed. Starydwór
seemed to be running behind them, now that they had left the place. In their mind's eye they
continued to see the black birds on the gloomy-looking roofs, and the man who had hanged himself
and was still alive, and the woman who had cut him down and who still smiled.

All at once they hastened their steps, and not another word was spoken until they reached the
first house in Starawieś.

Then they began to speak of the schoolmaster. That was another of them, he and Tiralla were
a couple. Both of them were being ruined by drink. But it was a great shame of Böhnke, for
he ought to be a pattern to the children, as the priest very rightly had said. How could such
a fellow teach children, a man who drank so much that he had been found in the ditch like a
tramp, his clothes torn, and bleeding and dirty? It was a great disgrace.

The gendarme could tell a tale about that. He had many a time seen the schoolmaster coming
home at dawn, and had watched him trying to poke his key into the lock; he had many a time
had to help him to open the door. But when he had picked him out of the ditch on his way home
from a round in the Przykop, looking no better than a drunken vagabond whom you [Pg 278] look
up, he had felt obliged to speak about it. Father Szypulski would perhaps have preferred him
to have hushed it up, but it surely would not do for the village schoolmaster to be found lying
drunk and bruised in a ditch. It would have been found out sooner or later, and then nobody
would have any respect for him. Of course, the man could not stop at Starawieś, and who knows,
perhaps he would have to give up being a schoolmaster altogether. The priest, who as a rule
was so loquacious, had never said a word about it.

As they came past the house where Böhnke lived, they looked at it askance. What did the man
feel like? He had not shown himself for days--had he already left? The priest had said "as
soon as possible."

They all felt they had never liked the schoolmaster; he had always been so conceited, so proud
of his learning. Here you could plainly see it, "Pride goeth before a fall."

They knocked at the door. The shutters in front of the schoolmaster's window were closed. Had
he really left, or was it because he felt so ashamed of himself?

The schoolmaster had indeed left, so the old woman, his landlady, who lived on the other side
of the house, told them. Oh, dear, she complained, now her lodger had gone, and she had not
got another one. "And what had he done?" she cried, clenching her fists in her fury. "Let those
be struck by lightning who have slandered him. Dear, dear, how he wept. When I said to him,
'Don't weep, Panje Böhnke, my husband, the stas, also drank himself to death,' he did nothing
but repeat, 'Oh my mother, my mother!' and groaned so that he made my heart come into my mouth.
His mother is said to be a schoolmaster's [Pg 279] widow and very poor. She won't be pleased
when her son comes home like that. God have mercy on us all. Oh, Mr. Böhnke, Mr. Böhnke, what
a good lodger he was." And the old woman began to sigh and weep so for her former lodger that
the men got away as speedily as possible.

How disagreeable everything was, and then the weather was so raw. The only thing for them to
do would be to make themselves comfortable at the inn. And they did so.

           *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *

Marianna carried the news to her mistress that the schoolmaster had been turned out of Starawieś
in disgrace, in a voice full of malice and scorn. Pan Böhnke had gone to the devil, what did
the Pani say now, eh? She cast a covert glance at her--what would she look like, pale or red,
happy or sorry?

But Mrs. Tiralla looked quite unconcerned. At any other time she might perhaps have rejoiced,
but now it did not even surprise her. So the schoolmaster was no longer in her way? Good. She
knew that her guardian angel was keeping his wings spread over her.

She felt so calm at present that she was often surprised at it herself. Her heart no longer
throbbed and ran riot as it had formerly done. She had been a fool and even a sinner, when
she had caught hold of her guardian angel's arm, and had cut her husband down when he was dangling;
but she felt that the saints had already forgiven her. She saw more plainly day by day--almost
hour by hour--that Mr. Tiralla was drifting quickly, uninterruptedly to his end. She often
longed to fold her hands in her exceeding [Pg 280] gratitude; she went about the whole day
with prayers of thankfulness on her lips.

Marianna was rather astonished to find that her mistress took the schoolmaster's departure
so coolly. Had there never been anything between them? Neither formerly nor lately? Anyhow,
she seemed very indifferent about it. Now Mr. Mikolai had a much softer heart, for he was very
much cut up when he heard that the man had left. At first he had opened his eyes in surprise,
but then he had pressed his hands to his head and groaned, "I would never have thought it;
oh, dear, if I had only known it!" What a good fellow Mikolai was. He would in time be just
what his father used to be. And Marianna was more attentive than ever to him.

Meanwhile Mikolai went about looking very troubled. He had certainly not wanted to do that,
he had only wanted to give Böhnke a reminder when he thrashed him and threw him into the ditch.
It also grieved him bitterly for his father's sake; the old man had been so fond of the schoolmaster,
who used to spend hours with him like a friend. And now his little Böhnke would never come
again. He felt so sorry for his father that he thought he must speak to him about it.

But Mr. Tiralla listened to his son's stammering excuses without understanding them. "Schoolmaster--schoolmaster?"
He shook his head. "I don't know any schoolmaster. Friend--friend? Have--no--friend."

