She knew that Roger was a friend, and nothing more--that his whole heart was absorbed in Mildred--and
her feminine nature, stimulated by the peculiarities of her lot, craved warmer attentions.
In her impoverished condition, and with her father's character becoming generally known, such
attentions would not naturally come from young men whom those who loved her best could welcome.
She was growing restless under restrictions, and her crowded, half-sheltered life was robbing
her of womanly reserve. These undermining influences worked slowly, imperceptibly, but none
the less certainly, and she recognized the bold, evil admiration which followed her more and
more unshrinkingly.

Mr. Jocelyn's condition was no longer a secret, and he often, in common with other confirmed
habitues, increased the effects of opium by a free use of liquor. He therefore had practically
ceased to be a protector to his daughters. Fred and Minnie, in spite of all the broken-hearted
and failing mother could do, were becoming little street Arabs, learning all too soon the evil
of the world.

Since the revelation of her father's condition Mildred had finally relinquished her class at
the mission chapel. Her sensitive spirit was so shadowed by his evil that she felt she would
be speechless before children who might soon learn to associate her name with a vice that would
seem to them as horrible as it was mysterious. Bread and shelter she must obtain, but she was
too fear-haunted, too conscious of the shame to which she was linked, to face the public on
any occasion not connected with her daily toil.

The pride characteristic of American people who have lapsed from a better condition was intensified
by her Southern birth and prejudices. More than hunger, cold, and even death, she feared being
recognized, pointed out, stared at, and gossiped about, while the thought of receiving charity
brought an almost desperate look into her usually clear blue eyes. Therefore she shrank from
even Mr. Wentworth, and was reticent on all topics relating to their domestic affairs. She
knew that there were many families whom he was almost sustaining through crises of illness
and privation; she also knew that there were far more who sought to trade upon his sympathies.
While she could take aid from him as readily as from any one, she also believed that before
she could receive it she must be frank concerning her father. Rather than talk of his shame,
even to her pastor, it might well be believed that the girl would starve. What she might do
for the sake of the others was another question.

Mr. Wentworth in sadness recognized the barrier which Mildred's pride was rearing between them,
but he was too wise and experienced to be obtrusively personal. He sought earnestly, however,
to guard the young girl against the moral danger which so often results from discouragement
and unhappiness, and he entreated her not to part with her faith, her clinging trust in God.

"A clinging trust is, indeed, all that I have left," she had replied so sadly that his eye
suddenly moistened; "but the waves of trouble seem strong and pitiless, and I sometimes fear
that my hands are growing numb and powerless. In plain prose, I'm just plodding on--God knows
whither. In my weary, faltering way I am trying to trust Him," she added, after a brief silence,
"and I always hope to; but I am so tired, Mr. Wentworth, so depressed, that I'm like the soldiers
that have been described to me as marching on with heavy eyes and heavy feet because they must.
There is no use in my coming to the chapel, for I haven't the heart to say a word of cheer
to any one, and hollow words would hurt me, while doing no good. I am trying your charity sorely,
but I can't help it. I fear you cannot understand me, for even your Christian sympathy is a
burden. I'm too tired, too sorely wounded to make any response; while all the time I feel that
I ought to respond gratefully and earnestly. It seems a harsh and unnatural thing to say, but
my chief wish is to shrink away from everybody and everything not essential to my daily work.
I think I shall have strength enough to keep up a mechanical routine of life for a long time,
but you must not ask me to think or give way to feeling, much less to talk about myself and--and--the
others. If I should lose this stolid self-control which I am gaining, and which enables me
to plod along day by day with my eyes shut to what may be on the morrow, I believe I should
become helpless from despair and grief."

"My dear child," the clergyman had replied, in deep solicitude, "I fear you are dangerously
morbid; and yet I don't know. This approach to apathy of which you speak may be God's shield
from thoughts that would be sharp arrows. I can't help my honest sympathy, and I hope and trust
that I may soon be able to show it in some helpful way--I mean in the way of finding you more
remunerative and less cruel work," he added quickly, as he saw a faint flush rising in the
young girl's face. Then he concluded, gravely and gently, "Miss Mildred, I respect you--I respect
even your pride; but, in the name of our common faith and the bonds it implies, do not carry
it too far. Good-by. Come to me whenever you need, or your conscience suggests my name," and
the good man went away wholly bent on obtaining some better employment for Mildred; and he
made not a little effort to do so, only to find every avenue of labor suited to the girl's
capacity already thronged.  Meanwhile the needs and sorrows of others absorbed his time and
thoughts.

Belle, because of her thorough liking and respect for Mr.  Wentworth, and even more for the
reason that he had obtained her promise to come, was rarely absent from her class, and the
hour spent at the chapel undoubtedly had a good and restraining influence; but over and against
this one or two hours in seven days were pitted the moral atmosphere of the shop, the bold
admiration and advances in the streets, which were no longer unheeded and were scarcely resented,
and the demoralizing sights and sounds of a tenement-house. The odds were too great for poor
Belle. Like thousands of other girls, she stood in peculiar need of sheltered home life, and
charity broad as heaven should be exercised toward those exposed as she was.

As Mr. Jocelyn sank deeper in degradation, Mildred's morbid impulse to shrink, cower, and hide,
in such poor shelter as she had, grew stronger, and at last she did little more than try to
sleep through the long, dreary Sabbaths, that she might have strength for the almost hopeless
struggle of the week. She was unconsciously drifting into a hard, apathetic materialism, in
which it was her chief effort not to think or remember--from the future she recoiled in terror--but
simply to try to maintain her physical power to meet the daily strain.

It is a sad and terrible characteristic of our Christian city, that girls, young, beautiful,
and unprotected like Mildred and Belle, are the natural prey of remorseless huntsmen. Only
a resolute integrity, great prudence and care, can shield them; and these not from temptation
and evil pursuit, but only from the fall which such snares too often compass.

Of these truths Mildred had a terrible proof. A purer-hearted girl than she never entered the
maelstrom of city life; but those who looked upon her lovely face looked again, and lingeringly,
and there was one who had devoured her beauty daily with wolfish eyes. In charge of the department
of the shop wherein she toiled, there was a man who had long since parted with the faintest
trace of principle or conscience. He was plausible, fine-looking, after a certain half-feminine
type, and apparently vigilant and faithful in his duties as a floor-walker; but his spotless
linen concealed a heart that plotted all the evil his hands dared to commit. For him Mildred
had possessed great attractions from the first; and, with the confidence bestowed by his power,
and many questionable successes, he made his first advances so openly that he received more
than one public and stinging rebuff. A desire for revenge, therefore, had taken entire possession
of him, and with a serpent's cold, deadly patience he was waiting for a chance to uncoil and
strike. Notwithstanding his outward civility, Mildred never met the expression of his eyes
without a shudder.

From frank-tongued Belle, Roger had obtained some hints of this man's earlier attentions, and
of his present ill-concealed dislike--a latent hostility which gave Mildred no little uneasiness,
since, by some pretext, he might cause her dismissal.  She knew too well that they were in
such straits now that they could not afford one hour's idleness. Roger therefore nursed a bitter
antipathy against the fellow.

One evening, late in March, the former was taking his usual brief walk before sitting down
to long hours of study. He was at liberty to go whither he pleased, and not unnaturally his
steps, for the hundredth time, perhaps, passed the door through which he could catch a glimpse
of the young girl, who, with apparent hopelessness, and yet with such pathetic patience, was
fighting a long battle with disheartening adversity. He was later than usual, and the employees
were beginning to leave. Suddenly the obnoxious floor-walker appeared at the entrance with
a hurried and intent manner. Then he paused a second or two and concealed himself behind a
show-case. Roger now saw that his eyes were fixed on a girl who had just preceded him, and
who, after a furtive glance backward, hastened up the avenue. Her pursuer--for such he evidently
was--followed instantly, and yet sought to lose himself in the crowd so that she could not
detect him. Partly in the hope of learning something to the disadvantage of one who might have
it in his power to injure Mildred, and partly from the motive of adding zest to an aimless
walk, Roger followed the man.

The girl, with another quick glance over her shoulder, at last turned down a side street, and
was soon walking alone where passengers were few and the street much in shadow; here her pursuer
joined her, and she soon evinced violent agitation, stopping suddenly with a gesture of indignant
protest. He said something, however, that subdued her speedily, and they went on together for
some little distance, the man talking rapidly, and then they turned into a long, dark passage
that led to some tenements in the rear of those fronting on the street. About midway in this
narrow alley a single gas jet burned, and under its light Roger saw them stop, and the girl
produce from beneath her waterproof cloak something white, that appeared like pieces of wound
lace. The man examined them, made a memorandum, and then handed them back to the girl, who
hesitated to take them; but his manner was so threatening and imperious that she again concealed
them on her person. As they came out together, Roger, with hat drawn over his eyes, gave them
a glance which fixed the malign features of the man and the frightened, guilty visage of the
girl on his memory. They regarded him suspiciously, but, as he went on without looking back,
they evidently thought him a casual passer-by.

"It's a piece of villany," Roger muttered, "but of what nature I have no means of discovering,
even were it any affair of mine. I am satisfied of one thing, however--that man's a scoundrel;
seemingly he has the girl in his power, and it looks as if she had been stealing goods and
he is compounding the felony with her."

If he had realized the depth of the fellow's villany he would not have gone back to his studies
so quietly, for the one nearest to his heart was its object. The scene he had witnessed can
soon be explained. Goods at the lace counter had been missed on more than one occasion, and
it had been the hope of Mildred's enemy that he might fasten the suspicion upon her. On this
evening, however, he had seen the girl in question secrete two or three pieces as she was folding
them up, and he believed she had carried them away with her. Immediately on joining her he
had charged her with the theft, and in answer to her denials threatened to have her searched
before they parted. Then in terror she admitted the fact, and was in a condition to become
his unwilling accomplice in the diabolical scheme suggested by his discovery.

He had said to her, in effect, that he suspected another girl--namely, Mildred Jocelyn--and
that if she would place the goods in the pocket of this girl's cloak on the following afternoon
he would by this act be enabled to extort a confession from her also, such as he had received
in the present case. He then promised the girl in return for this service that he would make
no complaint against her, but would give her the chance to find another situation, which she
must do speedily, since he could no longer permit her to remain in the employ of the house
for whom he acted.  She was extremely reluctant to enter into this scheme, but, in her confusion,
guilt, and fear, made the evil promise, finding from bitter experience that one sin, like an
enemy within the walls, opens the gate to many others. She tried to satisfy such conscience
as she had with the thought that Mildred was no better than herself, and that the worst which
could happen to the object of this sudden conspiracy was a quiet warning to seek employment
elsewhere. The man himself promised as much, although he had no such mild measures in view.
It was his design to shame Mildred publicly, to break down her character, and render her desperate.
He had learned that she had no protector worthy of the name, and believed that he could so
adroitly play his part that he would appear only as the vigilant and faithful servant of his
employers.

Mildred, all unconscious of the pit dug beneath her feet, was passing out the following evening
into the dreary March storm, when the foreman touched her shoulder and said that one of the
proprietors wished to see her. In much surprise, and with only the fear of one whose position
meant daily bread for herself and those she loved better than self, she followed the man to
the private office, where she found two of the firm, and they looked grave and severe indeed.

"Miss Jocelyn," began the elder, without any circumlocution, "laces have been missed from your
department, and suspicion rests on you. I hope you can prove yourself innocent."

The charge was so awful and unexpected that she sank, paie and faint, into a chair, and the
appearance of the terror-stricken girl was taken as evidence of guilt. But she goon rallied
sufficiently to say, with great earnestness, "Indeed, sir, I am innocent."

"Assertion is not proof. Of course you are willing, then, to be searched?"

She, Mildred Jocelyn, searched for stolen goods! Searched, alone, in the presence of these
dark-browed, frowning men! The act, the indignity, seemed overwhelming. A hot crimson flush
mantled her face, and her womanhood rose in arms against the insult.

"I do not fear being searched," she said indignantly; "but a woman must perform the act."

"Certainly," said her employer; "we do not propose anything indecorous; but first call an officer."

They were convinced that they had found the culprit, and were determined to make such an example
of her as would deter all others in the shop from similar dishonesty.

Mildred was left to herself a few moments, faint and bewildered, a whirl of horrible thoughts
passing through her mind; and then, conscious of innocence, she began to grow calm, believing
that the ordeal would soon be over. Nevertheless she had received a shock which left her weak
and trembling, as she followed two of the most trusty women employed in the shop to a private
apartment, at whose door she saw a bulky guardian of the law. The majority, unaware of what
had taken place, had departed; but such as remained had lingered, looking in wonder at the
hasty appearance of the policeman, and the intense curiosity had been heightened when they
saw him stationed near an entrance through which Mildred was speedily led. They at once surmised
the truth, and waited for the result of the search in almost breathless expectation. The girl
who had done Mildred so deep a wrong had hastened away among the first, and so was unaware
of what was taking place; the chief conspirator, from an obscure part in the now half-lighted
shop, watched with cruel eyes the working of his plot.

CHAPTER XXXIII

MILDRED IN A PRISON CELL

Not from any sense of guilt, but rather from the trembling apprehensiveness of one whose spirit
is already half broken by undeserved misfortune, Mildred tottered to a chair within the small
apartment to which she had been taken. With an appealing glance to the two women who stood
beside her she said, "Oh, hasten to prove that I am innocent! My burden was already too heavy,
and this is horrible."

"Miss Jocelyn," replied the elder of the women, in a matter-of-fact tone, "it's our duty to
search you thoroughly, and, if innocent, you will not fear it. There will be nothing 'horrible'
about the affair at all, unless you have been stealing, and it seems to me that an honest girl
would show more nerve."

"Search me, then--search as thoroughly as you please," cried Mildred, with an indignant flush
crimsoning her pale, wan face.  "I'd sooner starve a thousand times than take a penny that
did not belong to me."

Grimly and silently, and with a half-incredulous shrug, the woman, whose mind had been poisoned
against Mildred, began her search, first taking off the young girl's waterproof cloak. "Why
is the bottom of this side-pocket slit open?" she asked severely. "What is this, away down
between the lining and the cloth?" and she drew out two pieces of valuable lace.

Mildred looked at the ominous wares with dilated eyes, and for a moment was speechless with
astonishment and terror.

"Your words and deeds are a trifle discordant," began the woman, in cold satire, "but your
manner is more in keeping."

"I know nothing about that lace," Mildred exclaimed passionately. "This is a plot against--"

"Oh, nonsense!" interrupted the woman harshly. "Here, officer," she continued, opening the
door, "take your prisoner. These goods were found upon her person, concealed within the lining
of her cloak," and she showed him where the lace had been discovered.

"A mighty clear case," was his grinning reply; "still you must be ready to testify to-morrow,
unless the girl pleads guilty, which will be her best course."

"What are you going to do with me?" asked Mildred, in a hoarse whisper.

"Oh, nothing uncommon, miss--only what is always done under such circumstances. We'll give
you free lodgings to-night, and time to think a bit over your evil ways."

One of the seniors of the firm, who had drawn near to the door and had heard the result of
the search, now said, with much indignation, and in a tone that all present could hear, "Officer,
remove your prisoner, and show no leniency. Let the law take its full course, for we intend
to stamp out all dishonesty from our establishment, most thoroughly."

"Come," said the policeman, roughly laying his hand on the shoulder of the almost paralyzed girl.

"Where?" she gasped.

"Why, to the station-house, of course," he answered impatiently.

"Oh, you can't mean THAT."

"Come, come, no nonsense, no airs. You knew well enough that the station-house and jail were
at the end of the road you were travelling. People always get found out, sooner or later. If
you make me trouble in arresting you, it will go all the harder with you."

"Can't I--can't I send word to my friends?"

"No, indeed, not now. Your pals must appear in court to-morrow."

She looked appealingly around, and on every face within the circle of light saw only aversion
and anger, while the cruel, mocking eyes of the man whose coarse advances she had so stingingly
resented were almost fiendish in their exultation.

"It's of no use," she muttered bitterly. "It seems as if all the world, and God Himself, were
against me," and giving way to a despairing apathy she followed the officer out of the store--out
into the glaring lamplight of the street, out into the wild March storm that swept her along
toward prison. To her morbid mind the sleet-lad en gale seemed in league with all the other
malign influences that were hurrying her on to shame and ruin.

"Hi, there! Look where you are going," thundered the policeman to a passenger who was breasting
the storm, with his umbrella pointed at an angle that threatened the officer's eye.

The umbrella was thrown back, and then flew away on the gale from the nerveless hands of Roger
Atwood. Dumb and paralyzed with wonder, he impeded their progress a moment as he looked into
Mildred's white face. At last a time had come when she welcomed his presence, and she cried,
"Oh, Mr. Atwood, tell them at home--tell them I'm innocent."

"What does this outrage mean?" he demanded, in a tone that cause the officer to grasp his club
tightly.

"It means that if you interfere by another word I'll arrest you also. Move on, and mind your
business."

"Miss Jocelyn, explain," he said earnestly to her, without budging an inch, and the comparatively
few passers-by began to gather around them.

"You can have no communication with the prisoner on the street," said the arm of the law roughly;
"and if you don't get out of my way you'll be sorry."

"Please don't draw attention to me," entreated Mildred hurriedly. "You can do nothing. I'm
falsely accused--tell them at home."

He passed swiftly on her side, and, as he did so, whispered, "You shall not be left alone a
moment. I'll follow, and to-morrow prove you innocent," for, like a flash, the scene he had
witnessed the evening before came into his mind.

"Quit that," warned the officer, "or I'll--" but the young man was gone. He soon turned, however,
and followed until he saw Mildred led within the station-house door. The storm was so severe
as to master the curiosity of the incipient crowd, and only a few street gamins followed his
example. He was wary now, and, having regained his self-control, he recognized a task that
would tax his best skill and tact.

Having watched until he saw the officer who had made the arrest depart, he entered the station-house.
To the sergeant on duty behind the long desk he said, with much courtesy, "I am a friend of
Miss Jocelyn, a young woman recently brought to this station. I wish to do nothing contrary
to your rules, but I would like to communicate with her and do what I can for her comfort.
Will you please explain to me what privileges may be granted to the prisoner and to her friends?"

"Well, this is a serious case, and the proof against her is almost positive. The stolen goods
were found upon her person, and her employers have charged that there be no leniency."

"Her employers could not have wished her treated cruelly, and if they did, you are not the
man to carry out their wishes," Roger insinuated. "All that her friends ask is kindness and
fair play within the limits of your rules. Moreover, her friends have information which will
show her to be innocent, and let me assure you that she is a lady by birth and breeding, although
the family has been reduced to poverty. She has influential friends."

His words evidently had weight with the sergeant, and Roger's bearing was so gentlemanly that
the official imagined that the young man himself might represent no mean degree of social and
political influence.

"Yes," he said, "I noticed that she wasn't one of the common sort."

"And you must have observed also that she was delicate and frail looking."

"Yes, that, too, was apparent, and we have every disposition to be humane toward prisoners.
You can send her some supper and bedding, and if you wish to write to her you can do so, but
must submit what you write to the captain of the precinct. I'm expecting him every minute."

Roger wrote rapidly:

"Miss JOCELYN--Your friends fully believe in your innocence, and I think I can say without
doubt that they have the means of proving it. Much depends on your maintaining strength and
courage. Bedding will be sent to make you comfortable, and, for the sake of your mother and
those you love at home, I hope you will not refuse the supper that shall soon be sent also.
I have ever believed that you were the bravest girl in the world, and now that so much depends
on your fortitude and nerve, I am sure you will second the efforts of those who are trying
to aid you. With the strongest respect and sympathy, ROGER ATWOOD."

The captain, who soon appeared, saw no objection to this note, and promised that it should
be sent to Mildred.

Roger then went to the nearest restaurant, and procured a delicate and inviting supper, which,
with a generous pot of coffee, he carried so swiftly through the storm that it was sent smoking
hot to the cell in which Mildred was confined.

He then hastened to a livery-stable, and, having obtained a carriage, was driven rapidly to
the tenement in which the Jocelyns had their rooms. Mr. Jocelyn, fortunately, was absent; for
Mildred's natural protector would only have made matters far worse. If the guardians of the
law had looked upon the wrecked and fallen man they would have felt that the daughter's alleged
crime was already half explained. But a visit from Mrs. Jocelyn would make a far different
impression, and he determined that she alone should accompany him to the station-house.

It would be useless to pain the reader with Mrs. Jocelyn's distress, and for a time Roger thought
the tidings would crush the already stricken woman; but in answer to his appeal she soon rallied
in defence of her child. At his request she assumed, as far as possible, the garb of a lady--the
appearance and bearing of one was inseparable from her. It was with much difficulty that he
persuaded the weeping and indignant Belle to remain with the children, for he well knew that
she was far too excitable to deal with the police. Having made every provision possible for
Mildred's comfort, they soon reached the station-house, and the sergeant in charge greeted
them politely; but on learning their errand he frowned, and said to Mrs. Jocelyn, "No, you
can't see her till she is brought into court to-morrow."

In answer to the mother's appeals and Roger's expostulations he remarked impatiently, "Do you
think I'm going to disobey orders? Either take my answer or wait till the captain comes in again."

They had no other resource, and sat down to weary waiting, the mother weeping silently, and
Roger, with sternly knit brows, deep in thought.

At last the captain returned, and the sergeant rose and said, "Here's the mother of the girl
who was taken with stolen goods on her person. She wishes to speak with you."

"Well, what is it?" demanded the police-captain a little harshly, turning toward Mrs. Jocelyn;
but his manner softened as he looked upon the thin, delicate features which had not yet lost
their old, sweet charm, and which now were eloquent with a mother's unspeakable grief and solicitude.
"Don't be frightened, madam," he added, somewhat kindly, as he saw the poor woman's ineffectual
efforts to rise and speak. "I'm human, and not more hard-hearted than my duties require."

At last Mrs. Jocelyn burst forth: "If you have a heart at all, sir, save mine from breaking.
My child is innocent--it will be proved to-morrow. A year ago we had a happy, beautiful home,
and my girl a father whom all men respected. We've had misfortunes, that, thank God, fall to
the lot of few, but my child has kept herself spotless through them all. I can prove this.
She is in prison to-night through no fault of hers. Oh, sir, in the name of mother-love, can
you keep me from my child? Can I not see her even for a moment, and say to her one reassuring
word? She may go mad from fear and shame. She may die. Oh, sir, if you have the heart of a
man, let me see her, let me speak to her. You, or any one, may be present and see that I mean
no harm."

"There certainly has been some dreadful mistake," Roger put in hastily, as he saw the man was
irresolute, and was regarding the suppliant sympathetically. "People who must command your
respect will be glad to testify that Miss Jocelyn's character is such as to render impossible
anything dishonorable on her part."

"Let me warn you," said the officer keenly, "that any such negative testimony will have but
little weight against the positive facts in the case."

"Oh, let me see my child," cried Mrs. Jocelyn, in tones of such passionate pathos that his
scruples gave way, and he said to the sergeant, "Let her see the girl! I'd be a brute to deny
her, even if it is against our rules. The doorman need not stand near enough to embarrass them."

As Mrs. Jocelyn eagerly descended to the cells in the basement, the captain remarked to Eoger,
"The girl's friends will have to bestir themselves if they clear her. The evidence is so strong
that she'll be committed for further trial, without doubt."

"I think she'll be discharged to-morrow," replied Roger quietly. "I thank you for your kindness
to Mrs. Jocelyn."

"Mere statements as to the girl's previous character will not clear her," resumed the captain
emphatically. "You are a relative, lover, or something, I suppose. This poor woman has knocked
my routine methods a little out of gear. One rarely sees a face like hers in a station-house.
She evidently comes of no common stock, and I'd like to hear that the charge is all a mistake,
as you claim; but, young man, you can't meet criminal charges with generalities. You've got
to show that she didn't steal that lace.  I wish you success, for the mother's sake at least,"
and he passed into his private room.

As Mildred was about to enter the station-house she had looked back, hoping, for the first
time in her life, that Roger Atwood was near. The eager and reassuring wave of his hand satisfied
her that he would know the place of her imprisonment, and that he would do for her all within
his power. Again he had appeared in the hour of misfortune and bitter humiliation. But, inspite
of her heart, she now did justice to his sturdy loyalty, and she was comforted and sustained
by the thought that not quite all the world was against her. She also knew that he would relieve
her mother and Belle from unendurable anxiety on account of her absence, and that he would
summon Mr. Wentworth to her aid. His promise to prove her innocent had meant nothing to her
more than that he would inform and rally all of her friends. That he could know anything that
would throw light on the evil mystery did not seem possible. She was then too miserable and
depressed to do much more than wait, in a sort of stunned torpor, for what might next occur.
Mechanically she answered such questions as were put to her in order that a record of the case
might be made, and then was led to the cells below. She shuddered as she saw the dimly lighted
stairway, and it seemed to her morbid fancy that she was to be thrust into a subterranean dungeon.
Such, in a certain sense, it was; for in some of the older station-houses the cells are located
in the basement. At the end of the corridor, nearest the street, she saw several women, and,
unkempt and disgusting as these station-house tramps appeared, the fact that some of her own
sex were near was reassuring. A prison was to her a place full of nameless horrors, for the
romances she had read in brighter days gave to it the associations of medieval dungeons. Of
the prosaic character of a modern jail she knew nothing, and when she was placed within a bare
cell, and the grated iron door was locked upon her, the horrible desolation of her position
seemed as complete and tragic a fate as had ever overtaken the unfortunate in the cruel past.
She sat down upon the grimy wooden bench, which was the only provision made for rest or comfort,
and the thought of spending a lonely night in such a place was overpowering. Not that she could
hope for sleep, even if there were downy pillows instead of this unredeemed couch of plank
on which some beastly inebriate may have slept off his stupor the night before, but she felt
weak and faint, and her overtaxed physical nature craved some support and rest.

Distress of mind, however, soon made her forget all this, as her faculties slowly rallied from
the shock they had received, and she began to realize that she was charged with a crime of
which it might be difficult--perhaps impossible--to prove her innocence. At best, she feared
she would always be so clouded with suspicion that all would refuse to employ her, and that
her blighted life and undeserved shame, added to her father's character, would drag the family
down to the lowest depths. The consequences to them all, and especially to Belle, seemed so
threatening and terrible that she wrung her hands and moaned aloud.

At every sound she started up, nervous and morbidly apprehensive. The grating of the key in
the iron door had given her a sense of relief and refuge. The massive bars that shut her in
also shut out the brutal and criminal, who were associated with a prison in her mind; the thoughts
of whom had filled her very soul with terror, when she was first arrested. As it was early
in the evening she happened to be the first prisoner, and she prayed that there might be no
others, for the possibility that some foul, drunken man might be thrust into an adjoining cell
made her flesh creep. How many long, sleepless hours must pass before morning could bring any
hope of release! And yet she dreaded the coming day unspeakably, for her path to freedom lay
through a police court, with all its horrible publicity. Her name might get into the papers,
and proud Mrs. Arnold treasure up every scrap of such intelligence about her. The tidings of
her shame might be sent to her who as Miss Wetheridge had been her friend, and even she would
shrink from one around whom clung such disgraceful associations.  Again and again she asked
herself, How could the charge against her be met? How could the family live without her? What
would become of them? Belle, alas, would be rendered utterly reckless, because hopeless. The
unhappy prisoner was far beyond tears. Even her faith in God failed her, for, seemingly, He
had left her the victim of cruel wrong and unredeemed misfortune. With her hot, dry eyes buried
in her hands she sat motionless and despairing, and the moments passed like hours.

At this crisis in her despair Roger's note was handed to her, and it was like the north star
suddenly shining out on one who is benighted and lost. It again kindled hope, without which
mind and body give way in fatal dejection. She kissed the missive passionately, murmuring,
with eyes heavenward, "If he can clear my name from dishonor, if he will rescue my loved ones
from the poverty and shame which are now threatening such terrible evils, I will make any sacrifice
that he can ask. I will crush out my old vain love, if I die in the effort. My heart shall
not prove a traitor to those who are true and loyal at such a time. He can save mamma, Belle,
and the children from hopeless poverty, and perhaps destruction. If he will, and it is his
wish, I'll give all there is left of my unhappy self. I will be his loyal wife--would to God
I could be his loving wife! Oh, would to God he had loved Belle instead of me! I could be devotion
itself as his sister. But surely I can banish my old fond dream--which was never more than
a dream--when one so deserving, so faithful, is willing to give me his strong, helpful hand.
We are both very young; it will be years before--before--and, surely, in so long a time, I
can conquer my infatuation for one who has left me all these dreary months without a word.
A woman's heart cannot be proof against reason, gratitude, and the sacred duty owed to those
she loves best. At any rate, mine shall not be, and if he still craves the loyalty and--and--yes,
the love of one so shamed and impoverished as I am, he shall have all-ALL," and her face grew
stern with her purpose of self-mastery. She forced down some of the food he sent, and drank
the coffee. "I will be brave," she murmured. "I will try to second his efforts to clear my
name, for death were better than shame. I shall, at least, try to deserve his respect."

Then musingly she added, "How can my friends have gained any information that would prove me
innocent? Mother and Belle cannot know anything definite, nor can Mr. Wentworth. He promised
in that brief whisper when he passed me in the street that he would prove it. Can he have learned
anything in his strange vigilance? It seems impossible. Alas, I fear that their best hope is
to show that I have hitherto borne a good character, and yet if my present home and our poverty
are described, if--worse than all--papa appears in the court-room, I fear they will think the
worst," and something of her old despair began to return when she heard approaching footsteps.

"Millie!" cried a loved and familiar voice. The key grated in the lock, and in another moment
she was sobbing on her mother's breast, and her bruised heart was healed by the unutterable
tenderness of a mother's love. It filled the dark cell with the abounding, undoubting, unquestioning
spirit of unselfish devotion, which was akin to the fragrance diffused from the broken box
of alabaster.

When sufficiently calm, Mildred told her mother what had happened, and she in turn whispered
that Roger had strong hopes that he could prove her innocence on the following day, though
how she did not know. "And yet, Millie," she concluded, "for some reason he inspires me with
confidence, for while he feels so deeply, he is quiet and thoughtful about the least thing.
Nothing seems to escape his mind, and he says he has some information of which he does not
think it best to speak at present. He entreats you to take courage, and says that if you will
'keep up and be your brave, true self, gentle and strong,' you can do much to aid him.  We
will all stand by you, and Mr. Wentworth will be with us."

"Where--where is papa?" faltered Mildred, with a slight flush. "I don't know," responded the
wife, with a deep sob.

"Alas, mother, it's cruel to say it, but it will be best that he should not appear at all.
Keep him away if possible. I hope he may never know anything about it, unless you think this
terrible result of his course may awaken him to a final struggle to do right. I would gladly
suffer anything to save him."

"No, Millie, he would not be his old self if he came into court," said her mother dejectedly,
"and his appearance and manner might turn the scale against you. Our best hope is to let Roger
manage everything. And now, good-by, my darling. God sustain you. Do not fear anything to night.
Roger says you are safe, and that his only dread is that you may become nervously prostrated,
and he relies on your help to-morrow. I can't stay any longer. Oh, God, how glad I would be
if I could hold you in my arms all night! Belle is strongly excited, and says she will never
believe a word against you, nor will any of your true friends--alas! I wish we had more."

"Time is up," warned the doorman.

"Tell Mr. Atwood that I am deeply grateful for his aid, and more grateful for his trust," said
Mildred.

"Courage, Millie; you can sustain me by keeping up yourself. You will find us in the court-room
waiting for you."

With an embrace in which heart throbbed against heart they separated, and the poor girl was
comforted and more hopeful in spite of herself, for while she would shrink from Roger, her
confidence in his shrewdness and intelligence had made such growth that she half believed he
would find some way of proving her innocent, although how he had obtained any evidence in her
favor she could not imagine. The bedding brought by her mother transformed the cellbunk into
a comfortable couch, and she lay down and tried to rest, so as to be ready to do her part,
and her overtaxed nature soon brought something like sleep. She was startled out of her half-consciousness
by a shrill cry, and sprang to her feet. There was a confused sound of steps on the stairs,
and then again the same wild cry that almost made her heart stand still. A moment later two
policemen appeared, dragging a woman who was resisting and shrieking with demoniacal fury.

The sight was a horrible one. The faces of the great, stalwart men were reddened by exertion,
for the woman seemed to possess supernatural strength, and their familiarity with crime was
not so great as to prevent strong expressions of disgust. Little wonder, for if a fiend could
embody itself in a woman, this demented creature would leave nothing for the imagination. Her
dress was wet, torn, and bedraggled; her long black hair hung dishevelled around a white, bloated
face, from which her eyes gleamed with a fierceness like that of insanity.

With no little difficulty they thrust her into a cell opposite the one in which Mildred was
incarcerated, and as one of the men turned the key upon her he said roughly, "Stay there now,
you drunken she-devil, till you are sober," and breathing heavily from their efforts they left
the poor wretch to the care of the jailer.

Mildred shrank away. Not for the world would she encounter the woman's frenzied eyes. Then
she stopped her ears that she might not hear the horrid din and shameful language, which made
the place tenfold more revolting. The man in charge of the cells sat dozing stolidly by the
stove, some distance away. His repose was not to be disturbed by such familiar sounds.

At last the woman became quiet, and Mildred breathed more freely, until some mysterious sounds,
suggesting that her terrible neighbor was trying to open her door, awakened her fears, for
even the thought of her coming any nearer made her tremble. She therefore sprang up and looked
between the iron bars. At first she was perplexed by what she saw, and then her heart stood
still, for she soon made out that the woman was hanging by the neck, from the highest bar of
her cell door. "Help," Mildred shrieked; "quick, if you would save life."

The man by the stove sprang up and rushed forward.

"There, see--oh, be quick!"

The jailer comprehended the situation at once, unlocked the door, and cut the parts of her
clothing which the woman had improvised into a halter. She soon revived, and cursed him for
his interference. He now watched her carefully, paying no heed to her horrible tongue, until
the crazed stage of her intoxication passed into stupor. [Footnote: The writer saw the cell
in which, on the evening before, the woman described tried twice to destroy herself. He also
saw the woman herself, when brought before the police justice. She had seen twenty-five years,
but in evil she seemed old indeed. According to her story, she was a daughter of the uritans.]
To Mildred he said, reassuringly, "Don't be afraid; you're as safe as if you were at home."

"Home, home, home!" moaned the poor girl. "Oh, what a mockery that word has become! My best
hope may soon be to find one in heaven."

CHAPTER XXXIV

"A WISE JUDGE"

When the interminable night would end Mildred could not guess, for no dawning was visible from
her basement cell. The woman opposite gradually became stupid and silent. Other prisoners were
brought in from time to time, but they were comparatively quiet. A young girl was placed in
a cell not far away, and her passionate weeping was pitiful to hear. The other prisoners were
generally intoxicated or stolidly indifferent, and were soon making the night hideous with
their discordant respiration.

The place had become so terrible to Mildred that she even welcomed the presence of the policeman
who had arrested her, and who at last came to take her to the police court. Must she walk with
him through the streets in the open light of day? She feared she would faint on what, in her
weakness, would be a long journey, and her heart gave a great throb of gratitude as she saw
Eoger awaiting her in the large general room, or entrance, to the station-house. Nor was her
appreciation of his kindness diminished when she saw a man in attendance--evidently a waiter
from a restaurant--with a plate of sandwiches and a pot of coffee. Roger came forward, eagerly
grasping her hand, and there was so much solicitude and sympathy in his dark eyes that her
tears began to gather, and a faint color to suffuse the pallor that at first had startled him.

"Mr. Atwood," she murmured, "you are kindness itself, and I have not deserved it. Forgive me.
I will try not to fail you to-day, for your respect sustains me, and I would not lose it."

"I knew your brave spirit would second all our efforts," he said in like low tones, and with
a bright, grateful look. "Here, waiter--come, Miss Jocelyn, it's by just such prosaic means
that soldiers sustain the fight. You'll dine at home."

"Yes, hurry up," added the officer; "we have no time now for words or ceremony."

She ate a few mouthfuls, and drank some coffee. "I cannot take any more now," she said to Roger.

Oh, how plainly her womanly instinct divined his unbounded loyalty; and, with bitter protest
at her weakness, she knew with equal certainty that she shrank from his love with her old,
unconquerable repugnance. With a dissimulation which even he did not penetrate, she looked
her thanks as the officer led the way to the street, and said, "Since your friends provide
the carriage, you can ride, miss; only we can't part company."

She stepped into the coach, the policeman taking the opposite seat.

"Oh, God, how pale and wan she is! This will kill her," Roger groaned, as she sprang up on
the box with the driver.

It was so early that few were abroad, and yet Mildred would not look up. How could she ever
look up again! The leaden clouds seemed to rest upon the steeples of the churches. Churches!
and such scenes as she had witnessed, and such a wrong as hers, were taking place under the
shadow of their spires!

Roger had passed as sleepless a night as had fallen to Mildred's lot, and bitterly he regretted
that he had been able to accomplish so little. Mr. Wentworth was out of town, and would not
be back for a day or two. Then he sought the judge before whom Mildred would appear the following
morning, and learned, with dismay, that he, too, had gone to a neighboring city, and would
return barely in time to open court at the usual hour! He had hoped that, by telling his story
beforehand, the judge would adopt his plan of discovering the real culprit. This was still
his hope, for, after long thought, he determined not to employ counsel, fearing it would lead
to a prolongation of the case. His strong characteristic of self-reliance led him to believe
that he could manage the affair best alone, and he was confident from his own inexperience.
The rain had ceased, and for hours he paced the wet pavement near the station-house, finding
a kind of satisfaction in being as near as possible to the one he loved, though utterly unable
to say a reassuring word.

Having learned that the prisoners might ride to court if the means were provided, he had a
carriage ready long before the appointed time, and his presence did much to nerve Mildred for
the ordeal she so much dreaded.

On reaching the entrance at which the prisoners were admitted, he sprang down to assist Mildred
to alight; but the officer said gruffly, "Stand back, young man; you must have your say in
the court-room. You are a little too officious."

"No, sir; I'm only most friendly."

"Well, well, we have our rules," and he led the trembling girl within the stony portals, and
she was locked up in what is termed "the box," with the other female prisoners, who were now
arriving on foot.

This was, perhaps, the worst experience she had yet endured, and she longed for the privacy
of her cell again. Never before had she come in contact with such debased wrecks of humanity,
and she blushed for womanhood as she cowered in the furthest corner and looked upon her companions--brutal
women, with every vice stamped on their bloated features. The majority were habitual drunkards,
filthy in person and foul of tongue. True to their depraved instincts, they soon began to ridicule
and revile one who, by contrast, proved how fallen and degraded they were. And yet, not even
from these did the girl recoil with such horror as from some brazen harpies who said words
in her ear that made her hide her face with shame. The officer in charge saw that she was persecuted,
and sternly interfered in her behalf, but from their hideous presence and contact she could
not escape.

By some affinity not yet wholly obliterated, the girl she had heard weeping in the night shrank
to her side, and her swollen eyes and forlorn appearance could not hide the fact that she was
very young, and might be very pretty. Mildred knew not what to say to her, but she took her
hand and held it. This silent expression of sympathy provoked another outburst of grief, and
the poor young creature sobbed on Mildred's shoulder as if her heart were breaking. Mildred
placed a sustaining arm around her, but her own sustaining truth and purity she could not impart.

A partition only separated her from the "box"--which was simply a large wooden pen with round
iron bars facing the corridor--to which the male prisoners were brought, one after another,
by the policemen who had arrested them. The arrival of the judge was somewhat delayed, and
may the reader never listen to such language as profaned her ears during the long hour and
a half before the opening of the court.

Fortunately her turn came rather early, and she at last was ushered to the doorway which looked
upon the crowded court-room, and her heart throbbed with hope as she singled out her mother,
Belle, Mrs. Wheaton, and Roger, from among long lines of curious and repulsive faces. The former
kissed their hands to her, and tried to give wan, reassuring smiles, which their tears belied.
Roger merely bowed gravely, and then, with an expression that was singularly alert and resolute,
gave his whole attention to all that was passing. After recognizing her friends, Mildred turned
to the judge, feeling that she would discover her fate in his expression and manner. Was he
a kindly, sympathetic man, unhardened by the duties of his office? She could learn but little
from his grave, impassive face. She soon feared that she had slight cause for hope, for after
what seemed to her an absurdly brief, superficial trial, she saw two of her companions of the
"box" sentenced to three months' imprisonment. The decision, which to her had such an awful
import, was pronounced in an off-hand manner, and in the matter-of-fact tone with which one
would dispose of bales of merchandise, and the floods of tears and passionate appeals seemingly
had no more effect on the arbiter of their fates than if he had been a stony image. She could
not know that they were old offenders, whose character was well known to the judge and the
officers that had arrested them. Such apparent haphazard justice or injustice had a most depressing
effect upon her and the weeping girl who stood a little in advance.

The next prisoner who appeared before the bar received very different treatment. He was a middle-aged
man, and had the appearance and was clothed in the garb of a gentleman. With nervously trembling
hands and bowed head, he stood before the judge, who eyed him keenly, after reading the charge
of intoxication in the streets.

"Have you ever been arrested before?" he asked.

"No indeed, sir," was the low, emphatic reply. "Come up here; I wish to speak with you."

The officer in attendance took the half-comprehending man by the elbow and led him up within
the bar before the long desk which ran the whole width of the court-room, and behind which
the judge sat with his clerks and assistants.

"Now tell me all about it," said the judge, and the man in a few words told his story without
any palliation. With a gleam of hope Mildred saw the expression of the judge's face change
as he listened, and when at last he replied, in tones so low that none could hear them save
he to whom they were addressed, she saw that look which wins all hearts--the benignant aspect
of one who might condemn for evil, but who would rather win and save from evil. The man slowly
lifted his eyes to the speaker's face, and hope and courage began to show themselves in his
bearing. The judge brought his extortation to a practical conclusion, for he said, "Promise
me that with God's help you will never touch the vile stuff again."

The promise was evidently sincere and hearty. "Give me your hand on it," said his Honor.

The man started as if he could scarcely believe his ears, then wrung the judge's hand, while
his eyes moistened with gratitude. "You are at liberty. Good-morning, sir;" and the man turned
and walked through the crowded court-room, with the aspect of one to whom manhood had been
restored.

Hope sprang up in Mildred's heart, for she now saw that her fate was not in the hands of a
stony-hearted slave of routine. She looked toward her relatives, and greeted their tearful
smiles with a wan glimmer of light on her own face, and then she turned to watch the fortunes
of the weeping girl who followed next in order.  She did not know the charge, but guessed it
only too well from the judge's face, as the officer who had arrested her made his low explanation.
She, too, was summoned within the rail, and the judge began to question her. At first she was
too greatly overcome by her emotions to answer. As she cowered, trembled, and sobbed, she might
well have been regarded as the embodiment of that shame and remorse which overwhelm fallen
womanhood before the heart is hardened and the face made brazen by years of vice. Patiently
and kindly the judge drew from her faltering lips some pitiful story, and then he talked to
her in low, impressive tones, that seemed to go straight to her despairing soul. A kind, firm,
protecting hand might then have led her back to a life of virtue, for such had been her bitter
foretastes of the fruits of sin that surely she would have gladly turned from them, could the
chance have been given to her. The judge mercifully remitted her punishment, and gave her freedom.
Who received her, as she turned her face toward the staring throng that intervened between
her and the street?  Some large-hearted woman, bent on rescuing an erring sister? Some agent
of one of the many costly charities of the city? No, in bitter shame, no. Only the vile madam
who traded on the price of her body and soul, and who, with vulture-like eyes, had watched
the scene. She only had stood ready to pay the fine, if one had been imposed according to the
letter of the law. She only received the weak and friendless creature, from whom she held as
pledges all her small personal effects, and to whom she promised immediate shelter from the
intolerable stare that follows such victims of society. The girl's weak, pretty face, and soft,
white hands were but too true an index to her infirm will and character, and, although fluttering
and reluctant, she again fell helpless into the talons of the harpy. Hapless girl! you will
probably stand at this bar again, and full sentence will then be given against you.  The judge
frowned heavily as he saw the result of his clemency, and then, as if it were an old story,
he turned to the next culprit. Mildred had been much encouraged as she watched the issue of
the two cases just described; but as her eyes followed the girl wistfully toward the door of
freedom she encountered the cold, malignant gaze of the man who had charge of her department
at the shop, and who she instinctively felt was the cause of her shameful and dangerous position.
By his side sat the two women who had searched her and the leading foreman of the store. Sick
and faint from apprehension, she turned imploringly toward Roger, who was regarding the floor-walker
with such vindictive sternness that she felt the wretch's hour of reckoning would soon come,
whatever might be her fate. This added to her trouble, for she feared that she was involving
Roger in danger.

No time was given for thoughts on such side issues, for the prisoner preceding her in the line
was sentenced, after a trial of three minutes--a summary proceeding that was not hope-inspiring.

The name of Mildred Jocelyn was now called, and there was a murmur of expectant interest in
the court-room, for she was not by any means an ordinary prisoner in appearance, and there
were not a few present who knew something of the case. The young girl was pushed before the
bar, and would gladly have clung to it, in order to support her trembling form. But while she
could not infuse vigor into her overtaxed muscles, her brave spirit rallied to meet the emergency,
and she fixed her eyes unwaveringly upon the judge, who now for the first time noticed her
attentively, and it did not escape her intensely quickened perceptions that his eyes at once
grew kindly and sympathetic. Sitting day after day, and year after year, in his position, he
had gained a wonderful insight into character, and in Mildred's pure, sweet face he saw no
evidence of guilt or of criminal tendencies. It was, indeed, white with fear, and thin from
wearing toil and grief; but this very pallor made it seem only more spiritual and free from
earthliness, while every feature, and the unconscious grace of her attitude, bespoke high breeding
and good blood.

First, the officer who arrested her told his story, and then the elder of the two women who
searched her was summoned as the first witness. The judge looked grave, and he glanced uneasily
at the prisoner from time to time; but the same clear, steadfast eyes met his gaze, unsullied
by a trace of guilt. Then the second woman corroborated the story of her associate, and the
judge asked, "How came you to suspect the prisoner so strongly as to search her?" and at this
point the floor-walker was summoned.

The vigilant magistrate did not fail to note the momentary glance of aversion and horror which
Mildred bestowed upon this man, and then her eyes returned with so deep and pathetic an appeal
to his face that his heart responded, and his judgment led him also to believe that there was
error and perhaps wrong in the prosecution. Still he was compelled to admit to himself that
the case looked very dark for the girl, who was gaining so strong a hold on his sympathy.

"I must inform your Honor," began the witness plausibly, after having been sworn, "that laces
had been missed from the department in which this girl was employed, and I was keenly on the
alert, as it was my duty to be. Some suspicious circumstances led me to think that the prisoner
was the guilty party, and the search proved my suspicions to be correct."

"What were the suspicious circumstances?"

The man seemed at a loss for a moment. "Well, your Honor, she went to the cloak-room yesterday
afternoon," he said.

"Do not all the girls go to the cloak-room occasionally?"

"Yes, but there was something in her face and manner that fastened my suspicions upon her."

"What evidences of guilt did you detect?"

"I can scarcely explain--nothing very tangible. The evidences of guilt were found on her person,
your Honor."

"Yes, so much has been clearly shown."

"And she was very reluctant to be searched, which would not have been the case had she been
conscious of innocence."

The woman who searched her was now asked, "Did she shrink from search, in such a manner as
to betoken guilt?"

"I can't say that she did show any fear of being searched by us," was the reply. "She refused
to be searched in the private office of the firm."

"That is, in the presence of men? Quite naturally she did." Then to the floor-walker, "Have
your relations with this girl been entirely friendly?"

"I am glad to say I have no relations with her whatever. My relations are the same that I hold
to the other girls--merely to see that they do their duty."

"You are perfectly sure that you have never cherished any ill-will toward her?"

"So far from it, I was at first inclined to be friendly."

"What do you mean by the term friendly?"

"Well, your Honor" (a little confusedly), "the term seems plain enough."

"And she did not reciprocate your friendship?" was the keen query.

"After I came to know her better, I gave her no occasion to reciprocate anything; and, pardon
me, your Honor, I scarcely see what bearing these questions have on the plain facts in the case."

A slight frown was the only evidence that the judge had noted the impertinent suggestion that
he did not know his business.

"Are you perfectly sure that you cherish no ill-will toward the prisoner?"

"I simply wish to do my duty by my employers. I eventually learned that her father was an opium-eater
and a sot, and I don't fancy that kind of people. That is my explanation," he concluded, with
a large attempt at dignity, and in a tone that he evidently meant all should hear.

"Her father is not on trial, and that information was uncalled for. Have you any further testimony?"
the judge asked coldly.

"No, sir," and he stepped down amid a suppressed hiss in the court-room, for the spectators
evidently shared in the antipathy with which he had inspired the keen-eyed but impassive and
reticent magistrate, who now beckoned Mildred to step up close to him, and she came to him
as if he were her friend instead of her judge. He was touched by her trust; and her steadfast
look of absolute confidence made him all the more desirous of protecting her, if he could find
any warrant for doing so. She said to him unmistakably by her manner, "I put myself in your hands."

"My child," the judge began seriously, yet kindly, "this is a very grave charge that is brought
against you, and if it is your wish you can waive further trial before me at this stage of
proceedings, for unless you can prove yourself innocent at this preliminary examination, your
case must be heard before a higher court. Perhaps you had better obtain counsel, and have the
whole matter referred at once to the grand jury."

"I would rather be tried by you, sir," Mildred replied, in a vibrating voice full of deep,
repressed feeling; "I am innocent. It would be like death to me to remain longer under this
shameful charge. I have confidence in you. I know I am guiltless. Please let me be tried now,
NOW, for I cannot endure it any longer."

"Very well, then;" and he handed her a small, grimy Bible, that, no doubt, had been kissed
by scores of perjured lips. But Mildred pressed hers reverently upon it, as she swore to "tell
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth."

After a few preliminary questions as to age, etc., the justice said, reassuringly, "Now tell
your story briefly and clearly."

It was indeed a brief story, and it had the impress of truth; but his Honor looked very grave
as he recognized how little there was in it to refute the positive testimony already given.
"Have you witnesses?" he asked.

"My mother and sister are present, and--and--a young man who thinks he knows something in my
favor."

"I will hear your mother first," said the judge, believing that in her he would find the chief
source of character; and when the sad, refined gentlewoman stood beside her daughter, he was
all the more convinced that the girl ought to be innocent, and that all his insight into character
and its origin would be at fault if she were not. In low, eager tones, Mrs. Jocelyn spoke briefly
of their misfortunes, and testified as to Mildred's conduct. "She has been an angel of patience
and goodness in our home," she said, in conclusion; "and if this false charge succeeds, we
shall be lost and ruined indeed. My daughter's pastor is out of town, and in our poverty we
have few friends who could be of any service. An old neighbor, Mrs. Wheaton, is present, and
will confirm my words, if you wish; but we would thank your Honor if you will call Mr. Roger
Atwood, who says he has information that will aid my child."

"Very well, madam," responded the judge kindly, "we will hear Mr. Atwood."

Roger was now sworn, while Mrs. Jocelyn returned to her seat. In the young fellow's frank,
honest face the judge found an agreeable contrast with the ill-omened visage of the floor-walker,
whose good looks could not hide an evil nature.

"I must beg your Honor to listen to me with patience," Roger began in a low tone, "for my testimony
is peculiar, and does not go far enough unless furthered by your Honor's skill in cross-questioning;"
and in eager tones, heard only by the judge, he told what he had seen, and suggested his theory
that if the girl, whom he had followed two evenings before, could be examined previous to any
communication with her accomplice, she would probably admit the whole guilty plot.

The judge listened attentively, nodding approvingly as Roger finished, and said, "Leave me
to manage this affair. I wish you to go at once with an officer, point out this girl to him,
and bring her here. She must not have communication with any one. Nor must anything be said
to her relating to the case by either you or the officer. Leave her wholly to me."

A subpoena was made out immediately and given to a policeman, with a few whispered and emphatic
injunctions, and Roger was told to accompany him.

"This case is adjourned for the present. You may sit with your mother within the railing,"
he added kindly to Mildred.

The floor-walker had been watching the turn that the proceedings were taking with great uneasiness,
and now was eager to depart, in order to caution the girl that Roger was in pursuit of against
admitting the least knowledge of the affair; but the judge was too quick for him, and remarked
that he was not through with him yet, and requested that he and the representative of the firm
should remain. The two women who had testified against Mildred were permitted to depart. Then,
as if dismissing the case from his mind, he proceeded to dispose of the other prisoners.

Belle joined her sister, and greeted her with great effusiveness, looking ready to champion
her against the world; but they at last quieted her, and waited with trembling impatience and
wonder for the outcome of Roger's mission.

The girl who had been led to wrong Mildred so greatly returned to the shop that morning with
many misgivings, which were much increased when she learned what had occurred. She also felt
that her accomplice had dealt treacherously in allowing such serious proceedings against Mildred,
for he had promised that she should be merely taxed with theft and warned to seek employment
elsewhere. "If he deceives in one respect he will in another, and I'm not safe from arrest
either," she said to herself, and she made so many blunders in her guilty preoccupation that
she excited the surprise of her companions. As she was waiting on a customer she heard a voice
remark, "That's the girl," and looking up she grew faint and white as she saw, standing before
her, a policeman, who served his subpoena at once, saying, "You must go with me immediately."

Frightened and irresolute, she stammered that she knew nothing about the affair.

"Well, then, you must come and tell his Honor so."

"Must I go?" she appealed to one of the firm, who happened to be near.

"Certainly," he replied, examining the subpoena; "go and tell all you know, or if you don't
know anything, say so."

"I don't see why I should be dragged into the case--" she began brazenly.

"There's the reason," said the officer impatiently; "that subpoena has the power of bringing
any man or woman in the city."

Seeing that resistance was useless, she sullenly accompanied them to a street-car, and was
soon in readiness to be called upon for her testimony. The judge having disposed of the case
then on trial, Mildred was again summoned to the bar, and the unwilling witness was sent for.
She only had time to cast a reproachful glance at the man who, she feared, had betrayed her,
and who tried, by his manner, to caution her, when the judge demanded her attention, he having
in the meantime noted the fellow's effort.

"Stand there," he said, placing her so that her back was toward the man who sought to signal
silence. "Officer, swear her. Now," he resumed severely, "any deviation from the truth, and
the whole truth, will be perjury, which, you know, is a State-prison offence. I can assure
you most honestly that it will be better for you, in all respects, to hide nothing, for you
will soon discover that I know something about this affair."

After the preliminary questions, which were asked with impressive solemnity, he demanded, "Did
you not leave the shop on Tuesday evening, and pass up the Avenue to----Street?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did you not look back twice, to see if you were followed?"

"I may have looked back."

"You don't deny it, then?"

"No, sir."

"Did not Mr. Bissel, the floor-walker, join you in----Street, before you had gone very far?"

"Ye--yes, sir," with a start.

"Did he not say something that agitated you very much?"

"He may have frightened me," she faltered.

"Yes, he probably did; but why? Did you not make a strong gesture of protest against what he said?"

"Yes, sir," with a troubled stare at the judge.

"Did you not go on with him very quietly and submissively, after a moment or two?"

"Yes, sir," and her face now was downcast, and she began to tremble.

"Did you not enter a covered alley-way, that led to tenements in the rear?"

"Yes, sir," with increasing agitation.

"Well, what did you do there?"

"Has he told on me, your Honor?" she gasped, with a sudden flood of tears.

"What he has done is no concern of yours. You are under oath to tell the whole truth. There
was a single gas-jet burning in the covered passage-way, was there not?"

"Yes, sir," sobbing violently.

"Has Miss Mildred Jocelyn ever wronged you?"

"N--no, sir, not that I know of."

"Now tell me just what occurred under that gas-jet."

"I'll tell your Honor the whole truth," the girl burst out, "if your Honor'll let me off this
time. It's my first offence, and we're poor, and I was driven to it by need, and he promised
me that Miss Jocelyn wouldn't suffer anything worse than a warning to find another place."

Believing that her accomplice had betrayed her, she told the whole story without any concealment,
fully exonerating Mildred. Although the judge maintained his stern, impassive aspect throughout
the scene, he hugely enjoyed the floor-walker's dismay and confusion, and his tortured inability
to warn the girl to deny everything.

"Please, your Honor, forgive me this time," sobbed the trembling witness in conclusion, "and
I'll never do wrong again."

"I have no right or power to punish you," replied the judge; "it rests wholly with your employers
whether they will prosecute you or not. Send that floor-walker here" (to an officer). "Well,
sir, what have you to say to this testimony?" he asked, as the fellow shuffled forward, pale
and irresolute. "Remember, you are still under oath."

The wily villain, caught in his own trap, hesitated. He was tempted to deny that the plot against
Mildred was at his instigation; but, like the girl, he saw that the judge had mysterious information
on the subject, and he could not tell how far this knowledge went. If he entered on a series
of denials he might be confronted by another witness. The young man who had been sent to identify
the girl, and whose unexpected presence had brought such disaster, might have been concealed
in the passage-way, and so have seen and heard all. With the fear of an indictment for perjury
before his eyes the fellow began to whine.

"I was only trying to protect the interests of my employers. I had suspected the Jocelyn girl--"
At this there arose from the court-room a loud and general hiss, Which the judge repressed,
as he sternly interposed,

"We have nothing to do with your suspicions. Do you deny the testimony?"

"No, sir; but--"

"That's enough. No words; step down." Then turning to Mildred, he said kindly and courteously,
"Miss Jocelyn, it gives me pleasure to inform you that your innocence has been clearly shown.
I should also inform you that this man Bissel has made himself liable to suit for damages,
and I hope that you will prosecute him. I am sorry that you have been subjected to so painful
an ordeal. You are now at liberty."

"I thank--oh, I thank and bless your Honor," said Mildred, with such a depth of gratitude and
gladness in her face that the judge smiled to himself several times that day. It was like a
burst of June sunshine after a storm. While the witness was admitting the facts which would
prove her guiltless, Mildred was scarcely less agitated than the wretched girl herself; but
her strong excitement showed itself not by tears, but rather in her dilated eyes, nervously
trembling form, and quickly throbbing bosom. Now that the tension was over she sank on a bench
near, and covering her eyes, from which gushed a torrent of tears, with her hands, murmured
audibly, "Thank God! oh, thank God! He has not deserted me after all."

Looks of strong sympathy were bent upon her from all parts of the room, and even the judge
himself was so much affected that he took prompt refuge in the duties of his office, and summoning
the foreman of the shop, said, "You may inform your employers how matters stand." This functionary
had been regarding the later stage of the proceedings in undisguised astonishment, and now
hastened to depart with his tidings, the floor-walker following him with the aspect of a whipped
cur, and amid the suppressed groans and hisses of the spectators. The girl, too, slunk away
after them in the hope of making peace with her employers.

The judge now observed that Roger had buttonholed a reporter, who had been dashing off hieroglyphics
that meant a spicy paragraph the following day. Summoning the young man, he said, as if the
affair were of slight importance, "Since the girl has been proved innocent, and will have no
further relation to the case, I would suggest that, out of deference to her friends and her
own feelings, there be no mention of her name," and the news-gatherer good-naturedly acceded
to the request.

A new case was called, and new interests, hopes, and fears agitated the hearts of other groups,
that had been drawn to the judgment-seat by the misfortunes or crimes of those bound to them
by various ties.

Mrs. Jocelyn would not leave the place, which she had so dreaded, until Roger could accompany
them, and they chafed at every moment of delay that prevented their pouring out their thanks.
But Mildred's heart was too full for words. She fully understood how great a service he had
rendered her. She bitterly reproached herself for all her prejudice in the past, and was in
a mood for any self-sacrifice that he would ask. Tears of deep and mingled feeling fell fast,
and she longed to escape from the staring crowd. Not before such witnesses could she speak
and look the gratitude she felt.

With downcast eyes and quivering lips she followed her mother--to whom Roger had given his
arm--from the court-room. A carriage stood at the door, into which Mrs. Jocelyn was hurried
before she could speak; then turning so promptly that there was no chance even for exuberant
Belle or the effervescing Mrs. Wheaton to utter a syllable, Roger seized Mildred's hand, and
said earnestly, "Thanks for your aid, Miss Jocelyn. I thought you were the bravest girl in
the world, and you have proved it. I am as glad as you are, and this is the happiest moment
in my life. I've just one favor to ask--please rest, and don't worry about anything--not ANYTHING.
That's all. Good-by, for I must be off to business;" and before she or any of them could speak
he caught a swiftly passing street-car and disappeared.

CHAPTER XXXV

"I AM SO PERPLEXED"

The little group that Roger left on the sidewalk looked after him in a dazed manner for a moment,
and then Belle exclaimed, a trifle indignantly, "Well, I declare, if he hasn't thanked you,
instead of you thanking him."

Mildred sprang into the carriage, feeling that she must have some refuge at once, and, burying
her face on her mother's shoulder, burst into another passion of tears.

"There, there," said Mrs. Wheaton, as they were driven toward their home; "the poor child's
'eart is too full for hany neat speeches now. Ven they meets hagain she'll thank him with heyes
an' 'and, better than hany vords 'ere hon the street. He vas too bright a chap to take his
thanks in this 'ere public place."

To their surprise, Mildred raised her head, and replied, in strong protest, "You do him wrong,
Mrs. Wheaton. He was so modest and manly that he wished to escape all thanks. He has taken
a noble revenge on me for all my stupid prejudice."

"That's right," cried ecstatic Belle. "Honest confession is good for the soul. I'll admit that
most men and women are made of dust--street dust at that--but Roger Atwood is pure gold. He
has the quickest brain and steadiest hand of any fellow in the world, and he'll stand up at
the head before he's gray."

Fortunately, Mr. Jocelyn was not at home when they returned, and they had a chance to take
a quiet breath after their strong excitement. Mrs. Wheaton, with many hearty congratulations
and words of cheer, took her departure. Mrs. Jocelyn was justly solicitous about Mildred, fearing
that the reaction from an ordeal that would tax the strongest might bring utter prostration
to her delicate and sensitive organism. Mildred's manner soon threatened to realize her worst
fears. She had passed a sleepless night, and was faint from fatigue, and yet, as the hours
lapsed, she grew more nervously restless. Her eyes were hot and dry, sometimes so full of resolution
that they were stern in their steadfastness, and again her face expressed a pathetic irresoluteness
and sadness that made the mother's heart ache.

"Millie," she whispered, as she came to the bed on which the girl was tossing restlessly, "there's
something on your mind. Mother's eyes are quick in reading the face of her child. You are thinking--you
are debating something that won't let you rest, when you need rest so much. Oh, Millie darling,
my heart was growing apathetic--it seemed almost dead in my breast. I've suffered on account
of your father, till it seemed as if I couldn't suffer any more; but your peril and your troubled
face teach me that it is not dead, and that my best solace now is devotion to my children.
What is it, Millie, that you are turning over in your mind, which makes you look so desperately
sad and fearful, and again--and then your expression frightens me--so determined as if you
were meditating some step, which, I fear, you ought not to take? Oh, Millie, my child, the
worst that I know about is bad enough, God knows, but your face makes me dread that you may
be led by your troubles to do something which you would not think of were you less morbid and
overwrought. I may have seemed to you a poor, weak woman in all of our troubles, but mother's
love is strong, if her mind and body are not."

"Mamma, mamma, do not judge me or yourself so harshly. You have always been my ideal, mamma,
and I was thinking of nothing worse than how to rescue you and the others from your desperate
straits. How can we go on living in this way, your heart breaking, your poor, frail body overtaxed
with coarse labor, and Belle, Minnie, and Fred becoming contaminated by our dreadful surroundings.
The shock I've received has awakened me from my old apathy. I see that while I just toiled
for daily bread, and a little of it too, we were drifting down, down. Papa grows worse and
worse. Belle is in danger; and what will become of Fred and Minnie if they remain long amid
such scenes? Only yesterday morning I heard Fred quarrelling with another little boy on the
landing, and lisping out oaths in his anger. Oh, mamma, we must be able to look forward to
some escape from all this, or else you will soon give way to despair, and the worst will come.
Oh that I were a man! Oh that I knew how to do something, through which I could earn enough
to put papa into an institution, such as I have read of, and give you a home worthy of the
name. But I cannot. I can only do what thousands of others can do, and take my chances with
them in getting work. And now I seem so broken down in body and soul that I feel as if I could
never work again. There seems to be one way, mamma, in which I can help you." And then she
hesitated, and a deep, burning flush crimsoned the face that was so pale before.  "Well," she
said, at last, in a kind of desperation, "I might as well speak plainly, if I speak at all.
It's no secret to you how Roger Atwood feels toward me, and also, mamma, you know my heart.
While I could kiss his hand in gratitude, while I would not shrink from any suffering for his
sake, to show how deeply I appreciate the priceless service he has rendered me, still, mamma,
mamma, I'm only a woman, and am cursed with all the perversity of a woman's heart. Oh, what
a loyal friend, what a devoted sister I could be to him! Mamma, can't you understand me?"

"Yes, Millie," sadly answered her mother.

"Well, mamma, I'm so perplexed. It seems for his sake, since we have become so poor and disgraced,
that I ought to refuse his suit. To the world, and especially to his friends, it will appear
dreadfully selfish that we should link our wretched fortunes to his, and so cloud his prospects
and impede his progress. I can't tell you how I dread such criticism. And yet, mamma, you know--no,
mamma, even you cannot understand how great would be my self-sacrifice, when to others it will
appear that I am only too glad to cling to one who gives some promise of better days. But the
turning point has now come. Hitherto my manner toward Mr. Atwood has been unmistakable, and
he has understood me; and were he obtuseness itself he could not fail to understand me. But
after what has happened I cannot treat him so any longer. It would be shameful ingratitude.
Indeed, in my cell last night I almost vowed that if he would prove me innocent--if he would
save you and Belle and the children, I would make any sacrifice that he would ask. If I feel
this way he will know it, for he almost reads my thoughts, he is so quick, and his feeling
for me is so deep. And yet, mamma, now that I have thought more I fear that in sacrificing
my own heart I am also sacrificing him. His friends will think so, at least. He is so young,
chivalric, and unworldly that he may think it a noble thing to help us fight out our battle;
but will he think so in coming years? Will he think so if the struggle is long and hard? Will
he think so if we impede and retard him? Alas, will he think so if he finds that I can give
him only gratitude and respect? Oh, mamma, I am so perplexed. I don't want to wrong him; I
can't see you suffer on hopelessly and helplessly, and therefore it seems I ought to give him
the right to help us should he seek for it, as I feel sure he will if I show any relenting.
We could not be married for a long time; but if we were engaged he could do much to shield
and protect us all; and now, alas, we have no protector. Belle needs one--oh, how sorely she
needs one--and what would have been my fate had he not come to my aid? It would seem heartless
in me to say simply, Thank you, sir; and yet, what heart have I to give in exchange for his
devotion? He deserves so much, and I can give so little. Oh, mamma, will an old love die and
a new one grow because they--because you wish it, and pray for it? I am so perplexed, so tossed
and torn by my conflicting thoughts and feelings that my poor brain reels, and it seems as
if I should lose my reason. And yet I must decide upon some course, for if, after his loyalty
to me, I give him hope, I'll not disappoint him if I died a thousand times--no, not if Vinton
Arnold came and laid all his wealth at my feet; I can see his love in every glance of his eye,
still more can I feel it when he is near me; and if I offer him friendship or a sister's affection,
it will seem to him like giving a stone for bread. But I must offer him only these or else
give him hope--a hope that it would now be dishonor to disappoint. Mamma, mamma, what shall
I do--what ought I to do?"

During this outpouring of her child's soul Mrs. Jocelyn was much agitated, and wiped tear after
tear from her eyes. The impulse of her loyal, unworldly heart was first to take sides with
Mildred's faithfulness to her earliest love, but her reason condemned such a course so positively
that she said all she could against it. "Millie," she began, falteringly at first, "I feel
with you and for you deeply. I know your rare quality of fidelity--of constancy. You are an
old-fashioned Southern girl in this respect.  While I would not have you wrong your heart,
you must not blindly follow its impulses. It is often said that women have no reason, though
some are calculating enough, Heaven knows. Surely, Millie, this is a case in which you should
take some counsel of your reason, your judgment; and believe me, darling, I speak more for
your sake than ours. While I admit that Roger has become very dear to me, I would not sacrifice
you, my love, even in our sore straits. It is of you I think chiefly. I cannot endure the thought
that the future of my darling child may be utterly blighted. I cannot bear to think of your
settling down into a weary working-woman, with nothing to look forward to but daily drudgery
for daily bread."

"I do not dread that so much, mamma--oh, nothing like so much--as a long and perhaps a vain
effort to love one who has a sacred right to love as well as loyalty."

"Millie, you don't know how lonely and desolate your life might become. Millie--forgive me
for saying it--your old love is utterly vain."

"I know it, mamma," said Mildred, with a low sob.

"Therefore, my darling, the sweetness and goodness of your young life ought not to be wasted
on that which is vain and empty. If Mr. Arnold were worthy of your affections he would not
have left you all this time without even a word. And, Millie, we may as well face the truth:
we never belonged to the Arnolds' world, and it was wicked folly, for which I suffer hourly
remorse, that we ever tried to approach it. If, instead of attempting to live like our rich
neighbors, I had saved a goodly portion of your father's income, all might have been so different;
but I was never taught to save, and I was just blind--blind. I never see your father but the
thought comes, like a stab in the heart, I might have prevented it. Oh, if I had only stayed
with him! It was during that fatal separation that he formed the habit which will cause his
death and mine." (Poor Mrs. Jocelyn always remained under this illusion.)

"Oh, mamma, mamma, don't talk that way: I can't bear it."

"I must prepare you, Millie, darling, for what I clearly foresee. Martin is destroying himself,
and I shall not long survive him. Oh, Millie, it's a terrible thing to love a weak man as I
love your father. I love him so that his course is killing me. It could not be otherwise, for
I am much to blame. Don't interrupt me; I am speaking these bitter words for your ultimate
good. Your life is before you--"

"Mamma, how can my life be before me if you die broken-hearted?"

"Because you are young. You know that it would add tenfold bitterness to my already overflowing
cup if I saw no chance for you, Belle, and the little ones. You may soon have to be mother
and sister both. I forewarn you, because, as Roger says, you are strong as well as gentle,
and you must not just drift helplessly toward we know not what. Oh, Millie, my poor crushed
heart must have one consolation before it is at rest. Roger is not, and never will be, a weak
man. It is not in his nature to give way to fatal habits. I, too, with a woman's eye, have
seen his deep, strong affection for you, and with a mother's jealous love I have studied his
character. He is a young giant, Millie, whom you unconsciously awoke to manhood. He comes of
a sturdy, practical race, and unites to their shrewdness a chivalric Southern heart and large
brain. He doesn't begin to know, himself, how much of a man he is, but the experience of life
will fast develop him. He is one who will master circumstances, and not be molded by them.
Obstacles will only stimulate his will. Your prejudice and dislike have not made him falter
a moment. In the heart of a girl like you, Millie, I truly believe that a new love for such
a man will surely spring up, and grow and strengthen with each succeeding year, and you would
be worthy of him. You could make him happy, and eventually add greatly to his success. He is
sure to become eminent, and be burdened with many large affairs, and the home you could make
for him would be a refuge and a resting-place from which he would go out daily, strong and
refreshed. Let his friends say what they please at first. He has his own career to make, and
in his choice of you he has shown how unerring and sound his instincts are, and you can prove
them so, and will, I think, when time has given your morbid and unhappy heart its healthful
tone. Mrs. Wheaton has done much work at his uncle's house, and Mrs. Atwood talks to her quite
freely. Mrs. Wheaton says they are wealthy, although they live so plainly, and that Mr. Atwood,
Roger's uncle, is wonderfully taken with the young man, and means to give him a chance to climb
among the highest, if he continues to be so steady and persevering. Of course you know that
Roger will never be anything else than steady. And Mrs. Wheaton also says that Mr. Atwood will,
no doubt, leave everything to him, for he has no children."

"I am sorry you have told me this," sighed Mildred; "it would have been hard enough at best,
but I should feel almost mercenary now."

"Oh, Millie, you are too morbid and proud for anything," expostulated Mrs. Jocelyn, in whom
no misfortune or sorrow could wholly blot out her old, mild passion for making good matches
for her daughters--good matches in the right sense of the word--for she would look for worth,
or what seemed worth to her, as well as the wealth that is too often considered solely. She
had sought to involve Vinton Arnold by innocent wiles, and now, in pathetic revival of her
old trait, she was even more bent on providing for Mildred by securing a man after her own
heart. Love for her daughter, far more than ambition, was the main-spring of her motive, and
surely her gentle schemes were not deserving of a very harsh judgment. She could not be blamed
greatly for looking with wistful eyes on the one ray of light falling on her darkening path.

After a brief, troubled silence Mrs. Jocelyn resumed, with pathos and pleading in her voice,
"Millie, darling, if this could all be, it would brighten my last days."

"There, there, mamma; as far as I CAN carry out your wishes, it shall be. I had already virtually
promised it, and I should be perverse indeed could I not do all--all in my power to brighten
your sad life. But, darling mamma, you must promise to live in return. A palace would be desolate
if you were not seated in the snuggest corner of the hearth. I'll try to love him; I know I
ought to give my whole heart to one who is so worthy, and who can do so much to brighten your
life."

"Blessings on you, Millie. You will soon learn to return all his affection. You are both young,
and it will probably be years before you can be married. In the meantime you will have a protector
and friend who will have the right to aid you. You were slowly dying for want of air and change
and hope. You worked all day, and shut yourself up in this miserable place at night, and it
could not last; as your affianced he can take your part against the world, and protect Belle;
and during the years while he is making his way upward, you will learn to love him. You will
become interested in his studies, hopes, and prospects. You will encourage, and at the same
time prevent undue application, for no man knows how to take care of himself. He can be our
deliverer, and you his good angel. Your relations and long engagement may not be exactly conventional;
but he is not conventional, neither is your need nor our sad fortunes. Since God has put within
our reach this great alleviation of our sorrow, ought we to refuse it?"

"Set your mind at rest, mamma; you have made duty plain. I will do my best, and it now all
rests with Roger."

"Millie, you are a dear, good child," said the mother brokenly, and with smiles shining like
light through her tears; and after a close embrace she went out, closing the door that the
weary girl might rest at last.

When alone, Mildred turned her face to the wall and breathed, like the lowest and saddest note
of a wind-touched harp, "Vinton, Vinton Arnold, farewell forever. I must look for you no more--I
must think of you no more. Oh, perverse heart, be still!"

But a decision had been reached, and her perplexed mind had at last found the rest of a fixed
resolve. Then nature asserted her right, and she slept long and heavily. When she awoke, the
lamp was lighted in the one living-room, from which came the sounds of an unsteady step and
a thick, rough voice. She trembled, for she knew that her father had come home again intoxicated--an
event that was becoming terribly frequent of late. She felt too weak and nerveless to go out
and look upon their living disgrace, and lay still with long, sighing breaths. "Even Mr. Atwood
will turn from us in disgust, when he realizes papa's degradation," she thought.  "Alas! can
it be right to cloud his bright young life with such a shameful stain! Oh, if it were not selfish,
I could wish to die and escape from it all."

At last the heavy, shuffling step passed into the adjoining bedroom, and soon the wretched
man was in stupor. As Mildred came out she saw Belle, who had returned from her work, looking
toward the room in which her father slept, with a lowering, reckless expression that made her
sister shudder.

Mildred tried to banish evil thoughts by putting her arm around the young girl's neck and kissing
her between the eyes. "Don't look so, Belle," she whispered.

"Where is that to end?" Belle asked, in a strange, harsh voice, pointing toward the room. "Millie,
I can't stand this life much longer."

"Oh, Belle, don't forget there is a heaven beyond this life."

"It's too far beyond. Look here, Millie; since God don't answer mamma's prayers, I haven't
much faith in anything. See what undeserved trouble came upon you too. If it hadn't been for
Roger you would have been in prison to-night, and we'd have been alone here with a drunken
father. How can one have faith and try to be good when such things happen?"

"Belle," said Mildred, with a solemnity that made the reckless, discouraged girl turn pale,
"you had better take a knife from that table and stab mamma than do anything wrong."

"Oh, hush!" whispered Belle, for Mrs. Jocelyn now entered with the children, whom she was glad
to have away when the unnatural father returned, even though she knew they were with the wild
young Arabs of the tenement.

CHAPTER XXXVI

A WOMAN'S HEART

Mrs. Jocelyn and her daughters were silent and depressed during their meagre supper, for they
never could become accustomed to the terrible skeleton in their household. When Mr. Jocelyn
confined himself solely to opium he was not so revolting, but common, beastly intoxication
was unendurable. They felt that it was brutalizing his very soul, and becoming a millstone
around their necks which must drag them down to some unknown abyss of infamy.  Mechanically
they went through the motions of eating, the mother and daughters forcing down the little food
they could afford, and the children ravenously devouring all that was given to them. As Mildred
saw the mother trying to slip unnoticed her almost untasted supper from her plate to Fred's,
she laid a hand upon her arm and said:

"No, mamma; remember you are to live," she added in a low whisper, and the poor creature tried
to smile and was submissive.

With a pathetic maintenance of their old-time habits, they had scarcely cleared away the supper-table,
put the children to rest, and made the poor little place as neat and inviting as possible,
when Mr. Wentworth appeared, followed by Roger. Mildred had been expecting the latter with
trepidation, Belle with impatience; and the hard, lowering look on the face of the young girl
gave way to one of welcome and pleasure, for if Belle's good moods were apt to be transient,
so were her evil ones, and the hearty, healthy spirits of the young fellow were contagious.
Mildred was greatly relieved to see Mr. Wentworth, for while she had fully resolved to yield
to Roger's suit, her heart, despite her will, welcomed delay. She was also glad that her pastor
was present, for she could now show her strong gratitude without fear of immediate and embarrassing
results. She was therefore more prompt even than Belle, and, taking the young man's hand in
both of her own, she said, with tears in her eyes:

"Why didn't you let me thank you this morning? My gratitude has been growing every moment,
and you must take it all or I shall sink under it. Mr. Wentworth, I should have been in some
horrible prison to-night, with my heart breaking from sorrow and shame, if it were not for
this kind, generous friend, Mr. Atwood. I long cherished an unreasoning prejudice against you,
and showed it openly. You have taken a strange revenge. No Southern gentleman could have acted
more nobly, and a Southern girl could not use stronger praise than that."

Roger's hand, usually so strong and steady, trembled. These words, warm from the heart of the
girl who had hitherto been so distant and unapproachable, almost took away his breath. "Please
don't," he faltered. "Such gratitude--such words--from you oppress me. I don't deserve such
thanks. Any decent man would have been glad to save one who was so good and so wronged, and
I shall always regard it as the luckiest event of my life that I happened to be the one to
aid you. Oh, you don't know, you never can know what immense good-fortune it was." Then, as
if fearing he might lose his self-control, he broke hastily away to greet Mrs. Jocelyn, but
Belle caught him with the impulse of the warm-hearted sister she had become, and throwing her
arm around his neck exclaimed, "I'm going to pay you with the best coin I have." And she kissed
him again and again.

"Oh, Jupiter!" gasped the blushing youth. "Bless that floor-walker and all his deviltry! I
shall let him off just a little for this."

"No, don't. I'll give you another kiss if you'll get even with him," Belle whispered.

"It's a bargain," he said in her ear, and Belle ratified the compact immediately.

"Oh," thought Mildred, in the depths of her heart, "if it were only Belle instead of me!"

Mrs. Jocelyn's greeting was scarcely less demonstrative than Belle's, but there was a motherly
tenderness in it that brought tears into the young fellow's eyes. "Blessings on you, my dear
good boy," she murmured, "and a mother's blessing will do you no harm."

"Look here," said Roger brusquely, "if you don't let up on a fellow I shall make a confounded
fool of myself." And his lip quivered as if he were a boy in truth.

Mr. Wentworth, who in their strong feeling had been quite ignored, at first looked on with
smiling sympathy. Mildred had given him the hand that Roger released, and holding it in a warm
clasp he did not speak at first, but watched a scene that had for him the attractions of a
real drama. He now did not help Roger much by saying, in his hearty way, "That's right; lay
it on strong; he deserves all, and more. Miss Mildred, I have been yellow with envy for the
last two hours because I was absent. I would have eulogized you so in court that the judge
would have addressed you as Saint Mildred, and yet it's but honest to say that you would have
gone to jail like many a saint before you had not Roger got hold of the facts which enabled
the judge to prove you innocent.  The law is awfully matter-of-fact, and that lace on your
person had to be accounted for."

"Yes, yes," cried Belle, "tell us everything. We've been dying with curiosity all day, and
you've been so mysterious and important, and have put on such airs, that you quite awed me.
Seems to me that for a country boy you are blossoming fast."

"It isn't necessary for a country boy to be a fool, especially when he has eyes," replied Roger
in an off-hand way. "It's all simple enough. I happened to be passing the store where Miss
Mildred--"

"Happened to be passing! How often did you happen to pass?" Belle interrupted, with a face
full of mischief.

"You are not a judge, ma'am, and so can't cross-question," he answered, with a quick blush
but a defiant little nod, "and if you were, no one is obliged to incriminate himself. I was
merely passing, and the movements of that scamp, Bissel, slightly awakened my curiosity, and
I followed him and the girl. I was exceedingly fortunate, and saw enough to enable the judge
to draw from the girl the whole story. Now you see what a simple, prosaic part I played. Miss
Jocelyn, in keeping up so bravely through scenes and experiences that were perfectly horrible
to her, is the heroine of the piece. By Jove!--beg your pardon, Mr. Wentworth--it was as good
as a play to see how she looked her innocence into the heart and mind of the judge. I saw the
judicial frost in his eyes melting like two icicles on the south side of a barn. Oh, the judge
could see as far into a millstone as the next man," he continued, laughing, as if he relished
the memory hugely. "After those horrid old hags were sent along so fast to where they belonged,
he looked when Miss Jocelyn appeared as if a whole picture gallery were before him. He could
keep up his official regulation manner, but his eyes paid a certain prisoner many compliments."

"Roger, you've got the eyes of a lynx," said Belle, and Mildred was human enough to show the
pleasure she felt at his words.

"Nonsense," replied the young fellow in sudden confusion. "Any one who has learned to hunt
well gets a quick eye."

"The judge's eyes at least were not at all to blame," added Mr. Wentworth, laughing, and looking
at Mildred so kindly and admiringly that the color which was stealing into her face deepened
rapidly. "Well, to come down to business. Roger and I have been to see your employers, and
we talked to them rather strongly. While they insist that they were misled and not to blame,
they felt remorseful, and we struck while they were in their regretful mood. They give you
a week's vacation, and send you twenty-five dollars as a small compensation for what you have
suffered."

"I don't want it," cried Mildred indignantly.

"Oh yes, you do; besides it's only spoiling the Philistines. They had already discharged that
scoundrel Bissel, and they intend prosecuting the girl. They apologize to you, and promise
to raise your wages, but I think I can obtain enough sewing and fancy work to render it unnecessary
for you to go back unless you prefer it. I don't want to think of your being subjected to that
barbarous rule of standing any longer. I know of a lady on Fifth Avenue who is a host if she
once becomes interested in any one, and through her I think I can enlist enough people to keep
you busy. I feel sure she will be our ally when she knows all."

"Oh, if I could only stay with mamma and work at home, I should be so glad," was the young
girl's response.

"Well, I must have one promise first, and your conscience should lead you to make it honestly.
You must give me your word that you will not shut yourself up from light, air, and recreation.
You must take a walk every day; you must go out with your sister and Roger, and have a good
time as often as possible. If I find you sewing and moping here all the time, I shall feel
hurt and despondent. Miss Millie, the laws of health are just as much God's laws as the Ten
Commandments."

"I feel you are right," she faltered. Then she covered her face with her hands and sobbed,
"But papa, papa. Mr. Wentworth, since all know it now, you must know the truth that is worse
than death to us. I feel as if I wanted to hide where no one could ever see me again; I fear
we do Mr. Atwood a wrong in permitting him to be so friendly."

Roger towered up until he "looked six feet six," as Belle remarked afterward, and, coming straight
to the speaker, he took her hand and said, "Miss Jocelyn, when I'm ashamed to be seen with
you and Belle, I'll strike hands with Bissel in the sneak-thieving line. I ask for no prouder
distinction, than to be trusted by your mother and by you."

"Roger has settled that question, and shown himself a sensible fellow," resumed Mr. Wentworth,
with an emphatic and approving nod. "Since you have spoken of a subject so deeply painful,
I will speak plainly too. There are plenty of people, I admit, who treat the family of wrong-doers
as if their unspeakable misfortune were their fault; and in a certain sense this tendency is
wholesome, for it has a great restraining influence on those tempted to give way to evil. But
this tendency should not be carried to cruel lengths by any one, and there are those who are
sufficiently just to discriminate and feel the deepest sympathy--as I do. While it would be
in bad taste for you and Miss Belle to ignore this trouble, and flaunt gayly in public places,
it would be positively wicked to let your trouble crush out health, life, and hope. You are
both young, and you are sacredly bound to make the best and the most of the existence that
God has bestowed upon you. You have as good a right to pure air and sunshine as I have, and
as good a right to respect while you maintain your present character. It would do your father
no good, it would break your mother's heart, if you followed your morbid impulses. It would
only add to your father's remorse. I fear his craving for the poisons that are destroying him
has become a disease, and that it is morally impossible for him to refrain."

"Do you think--would it be possible to put him into an institution," Mildred faltered.

"Well, it would be expensive, and yet if he will go to one and make an honest effort to be
cured, perhaps the money might be raised."

"Oh," cried Mildred, "we'd starve almost, we'd work night and day to give him a chance."

"The money shall be raised," said Roger quietly. "I've saved nearly all my wages, and--"

"Oh, Mr. Atwood," burst out Mildred impetuously, "this would be far better than saving me from
prison. I would pay you back every penny if I toiled all my life, and if papa could be his
old self once more we would soon regain all that we have lost." Then a sudden passion of sobs
shook her slight form. "Oh," she gasped brokenly, "I could die--I could suffer anything to
save papa."

"Mr. Wentworth," said the wife, with a look in her large tearless blue eyes which they never
forgot, "we will live in one room, we'll spend only enough for bare existence, if you'll help
us in this matter." Then putting her arms around Roger's neck she buried her face on his breast
and murmured, "You are like a son to me, and all there is left of my poor crushed heart clings
to you. If I could see Martin the man he was, I could die in peace."

"He shall have the chance of the best and richest," said Roger brokenly. "I ask nothing better
than to have a hand in saving such a man as Mr. Jocelyn must have been."

Then was Roger's hour and opportunity, and he might at that time have bound Mildred to him
by vows that the girl would sooner perish than break. Indeed in her abounding gratitude, and
with every generous, unselfish chord in her soul vibrating, even his eyes could have been deceived,
and he might easily have believed that he had won her heart. But there was neither policy nor
calculation in his young enthusiasm. His love truly prompted his heart, but it was a heart
abounding in good, unselfish impulses, if sufficient occasion called them forth. He loved Mrs.
Jocelyn and Belle scarcely less than his own mother and sister, and yet with a different affection,
a more ideal regard. They appealed to his imagination; their misfortunes made them sacred in
his eyes, and aroused all the knightly instincts which slumber in every young, unperverted
man. Chief of all, they belonged to Mildred, the girl who had awakened his manhood, and to
whom he had felt, even when she was so cold and prejudiced, that he owed his larger life and
his power to win a place among men. Now that she was so kind, now that she was willing to be
aided by him in her dearest hopes, he exulted, and life grew rich in tasks for which the reward
seemed boundless. The hope would come to him, as Mildred rose to say good-by with a look that
he had never seen on any human face before, that she might soon give him something warmer and
better than gratitude; but if she could not soon, he would wait, and if she never could return
his love, he proposed to be none the less loyal as a friend.

Indeed the young girl's expression puzzled him. The old pride was all gone, and she gave him
the impression of one who is conquered and defenceless, and who is ready to yield anything,
everything to the victor. And this ill-defined impression was singularly true, for she was
in a passion of self-sacrifice. She felt that one who had been so generous and self-forgetful
had a right to all that a true man could ask, and that it would be base in her to refuse. The
greater the sacrifice the more gladly she would make it, in order that she too might prove
that a Southern girl could not be surpassed in noblesse oblige by a Northern man. She was in
one of those supreme moods in which men and women are swayed by one dominant impulse, and all
other considerations become insignificant. The fact that those she loved were looking on was
no restraint upon her feeling, and the sympathizing presence of the clergyman added to it.
Indeed her emotion was almost religious. The man who had saved her from prison and from shame--far
more: the man who was ready to give all he had to rescue her fallen father--was before her,
and without a second's hesitation she would have gone into a torture-chamber for the sake of
this generous friend. She wanted him to see his absolute power. She wanted him to know that
he had carried her prejudice, her dislike by storm, and had won the right to dictate his terms.
Because she did not love him she was so frank in her abandon. If he had held her heart's love
she would have been shy, were she under tenfold greater obligations. She did not mean to be
unmaidenly--she was not so, for her unconscious delicacy saved her--but she was at his feet
as truly as the "devotee" is prostrate and helpless before the car of Juggernaut. But Roger
was no grim idol, and he was too inexperienced, too modest to understand her. As he held her
throbbing palm he looked a little wonderingly into her flushed face and tear-gemmed eyes that
acknowledged him lord and master without reserve; then he smiled and said in a low, half-humorous
tone, "I shan't be an ogre to you--you won't be afraid of me any longer, Miss Mildred?"

"No," she replied impetuously; "you are the truest and best friend a woman ever had. Oh, I
know it--I know it now. After what you said about papa, I should despise myself if I did not
know it."

She saw all his deep, long-repressed passion leap into his face and eyes, and in spite of herself
she recoiled from it as from a blow. Ah, Mildred, your will is strong, your gratitude is boundless,
your generous enthusiasm had swept you away like a tide, but your woman's heart is stronger
and greater than all, and he has seen this truth unmistakably. The passion died out of his
face like a flame that sinks down to the hidden, smouldering fire that produced it. He gave
her hand a strong pressure as he said quietly, "I am indeed your friend--never doubt it;" then
he turned away decidedly, and although his leave-taking from Mrs. Jocelyn and Belle was affectionate,
they felt rather than saw there was an inward struggle for self-mastery, which made him, while
quiet in manner, anxious to get away.

Mr. Wentworth, who had been talking with Mrs. Jocelyn, observed nothing of all this, and took
his leave with assurances that they would see him soon again.

Mildred stood irresolute, full of bitter self-reproach. She took an impulsive step toward the
door to call Roger back, but, checking herself, said despairingly, "I can deceive neither him
nor myself. Oh, mamma, it is of no use." And indeed she felt that it would be impossible to
carry out the scheme that promised so much for those she loved. As the lightning flash eclipses
the sun at noonday, so all of her gratitude and self-sacrificial enthusiasm now seemed but
pale sickly sentiment before that vivid flame of honest love--that divine fire which consumes
at touch every motive save the one for the sacred union of two lives.

"I wish I could see such a man as Roger Atwood look at me as he looked at you," said Belle
indignantly. "I would not send him away with a heartache."

"Would to Heaven it had been you, Belle!" replied Mildred dejectedly. "I can't help it--I'm
made so, and none will know it better than he."

"Don't feel that way," remonstrated Mrs. Jocelyn; "time and the thought of what Roger can do
for us will work great changes. You have years before you. If he will help us save your father--"

"Oh, mamma, I could shed for him all the blood left in my body."

"Nonsense!" cried the matter-of-fact Belle. "He doesn't want your blood; he only wants a sensible
girl who will love him as he deserves, and who will help him to help us all."

Mildred made a despairing gesture and went to her room. She soon reappeared with a quilt and
a pillow, and placing them on the floor beside the low bed in which the children slept, said,
"I'll stay here, and you take my place with Belle, mamma. No," she added resolutely, as her
mother began to remonstrate; "what I resolve upon I intend to do hereafter, even to the least
thing. You shall not go near the room where papa is to-night."

Throughout the evening, while love, duty, and generous sympathy planned for his redemption;
throughout the long night, while the sad-hearted wife prayed for success in their efforts,
the husband and father lay shrouded in the heavy, rayless darkness of a drunken stupor.

CHAPTER XXXVII

STRONG TEMPTATION

Well, I must admit that I have rarely been so touched and interested before," said Mr. Wentworth,
as he and Roger walked homeward together; "and that is saying much, for my calling brings human
life before me in almost every aspect. Mildred Jocelyn is an unusual girl. Until to-day I thought
her a trifle cold, and even incapable of very deep feeling. I thought pride--not a common pride,
you know, but the traditional and proverbial pride of a Southern woman--her chief characteristic,
but the girl was fairly volcanic with feeling to-night. I believe she would starve in very
truth to save her father, though of course we won't permit any such folly as they are meditating,
and I do not believe there is any sacrifice, not involving evil, at which she would hesitate.
She's a jewel, Atwood, and in winning her, as you will, you will obtain a girl for whom a prince
might well sue. She's one of a thousand, and beneath all her wonted self-control and reserve
she has as true and passionate a heart as ever beat in a woman's breast."

"Good-night," said Roger, a little abruptly. "I agree with all you can say in regard to Miss
Jocelyn's nobility, and I shall not fail her, nor shall I make bargains or conditions in my
loyalty. The privilege of serving such a woman is enough. I will see you again soon," and he
walked rapidly down the street on which his uncle resided.

Roger and Mr. Wentworth had become very good friends, and the latter had been of much service
to the young fellow by guiding him in his reading and study. The clergyman had shown his usual
tact in dealing with Roger. Never once had he lectured or talked religion at him, but he preached
interestingly, and out of the pulpit was the genial, natural, hearty man that wins the respect
and goodwill of all. His interviews with Roger were free from the faintest trace of religious
affectation, and he showed that friendly appreciation and spirit of comradeship which young
men like. Roger felt that he was not dealing with an ecclesiastic, but with a man who was as
honest, earnest, and successful in his way as he ever hoped to be in his. He was therefore
being drawn by motives that best accorded with his disposition toward the Christian faith--by
a thorough respect for it, by seeing its practical value as worked out in the useful busy life
of one who made his chapel a fruitful oasis in what would otherwise have been a moral desert.
In his genuine humanity and downright honesty, in his care of people's bodies as well as souls,
and temporal as well as spiritual interests, the minister was a tower of strength, and his
influence for good over the ambitious youth, now fast developing the character which would
make or mar him for life, was most excellent. While Roger spoke freely to him of his general
hopes and plans, and gave to him more confidence than to any one else, there was one thing
that, so far as words were concerned, he hid from all the world--his love for Mildred. The
sagacious clergyman, however, at last guessed the truth, but until to-night never made any
reference to it. He now smiled to think that the sad-hearted Jocelyns might eventually find
in Roger a cure for most of their troubles, since he hoped that Mr. Jocelyn, if treated scientifically,
might be restored to manhood.

Mr. Ezra Atwood, Roger's uncle, sat in his small parlor far beyond his usual hour for retiring,
and occasionally he paced the floor so impatiently as to show that his mind was deeply perturbed.
While his nephew had studied books he had studied his nephew, and in the process the fossilization
of his heart had been arrested, and the strong, steady youth had suggested hopes of something
like a filial relation to the childless man. At first he had growled to himself, "If the boy
were only mine I'd make a man of him," and then gradually the idea of adopting and making a
man of him, had presented itself and slowly gained full possession of his mind.  Roger was
capable, persevering, and tremendously ambitious--qualities that were after the old man's heart,
and, after maintaining his shrewd furtive observation for months, he at last muttered to himself,
"I'll do it, for he's got the Atwood grit and grip, and more brains than any of us. His father
is shrewd and obstinate enough, but he's narrow, and hasn't breadth of mind to do more than
pinch and save what he can scratch out of that stony farm of his. I'm narrow, too. I can turn
an honest penny in my line with the sharpest in the market, and I'm content; but this young
fellow is a new departure in the family, and if given a chance and kept from all nonsense he
can climb to the top notch.  There's no telling how high a lawyer can get in this country if
he has plenty of brains and a ready tongue."

Thus the old man's dominant trait, ambition, which he had satisfied in becoming known as one
of the most solid and wealthy men of his calling, found in his nephew a new sphere of development.
In return for the great favors which he proposed to confer, however, he felt that Roger should
gratefully accept his wishes as absolute law. With the egotism and confidence of many successful
yet narrow men, he believed himself perfectly capable of guiding the young fellow's career
in all respects, and had little expectation of any fortunate issue unless he did direct in
all essential and practical matters. Mr. Atwood worshipped common-sense and the shrewd individuality
of character which separates a man from his fellows, and enables him to wrap himself in his
own interests and pursuits without babbling to others or being impeded by them. Influenced
by his wife, he was kind to the poor, and charitable in a certain methodical way, but boasted
to her that in his limited circle he had no "hangers-on," as he termed them. He had an instinctive
antipathy to a class that he called "ne'er-do-weels," "havebeens," and "unlucky devils," and
if their misfortunes and lack of thrift resulted from causes like those destroying Mr. Jocelyn
he was sternly and contemptuously implacable toward them. He was vexed that Roger should have
bothered himself with the sick man he had discovered on shipboard the day before Christmas.
"It was no affair of his," he had grumbled; but as the young fellow had been steady as a clock
in his business and studies after Mr. Jocelyn had recovered, he had given no further thought
to these friends, nor had it occurred to him that they were more than passing acquaintances.
But a letter from Roger's father, who had heard of Mr. Jocelyn's condition and of his son's
intimacy with the family, awakened the conservative uncle's suspicions, and that very afternoon
the well-meaning but garrulous Mrs. Wheaton had told his wife all about what she regarded as
brilliant performances on the part of Roger at the police court. Mrs. Atwood was a kind-hearted
woman, but she had much of her husband's horror of people who were not respectable after her
strict ideal, and she felt that she ought to warn him that Roger's friends were not altogether
desirable. Of course she was glad that Roger had been able to show that the young girl was
innocent, but shop-girls living in low tenements with a drunken father were not fit companions
for their nephew and possible heir.  Her husband indorsed her views with the whole force of
his strong, unsympathetic, and ambitious nature, and was now awaiting Roger with the purpose
of "putting an end to such nonsense at once." The young man therefore was surprised to find,
as he entered the hallway, that his uncle was up at an hour late for him.

"I wish to see you," was the prompt, brief greeting from Mr.  Atwood, who was uneasily tramping
up and down the small stiff parlor, which was so rarely used that it might almost have been
dispensed with as a part of the residence. Roger came forward with some anxiety, for his uncle
lowered at him like a thunder-cloud.

"Sit there, where I can see your face," was the next curt direction. There was neither guilt
nor fear in the frank countenance that was turned full upon him. "I'm a man of few words,"
he resumed more kindly, for Roger's expression disarmed him somewhat. "Surely," he thought,
"when the boy gets a hint of what I can do for him, he'll not be the fool to tangle himself
up with people like the Jocelyns."

"Where have you been to-night?" he asked bluntly. Roger told him. "Where were you last night
and this morning?" Roger briefly narrated the whole story, concluding, "It's the first time
I've been late to business, sir."

The old man listened grimly, without interruption, and then said, "Of course I'm glad you got
the girl off, but it's bad management to get mixed up in such scrapes. Perhaps a little insight
into court-room scenes will do you no harm since you are to be a lawyer. Now that the affair
is over, however, I wish you to drop these Jocelyns. They are of no advantage to you, and they
belong to a class that is exceedingly disagreeable to me. I suppose you know what kind of a
man Mr. Jocelyn is?"

"Yes, sir; but you do not know what kind of a woman Mrs. Jocelyn is. She is--"

"She is Jocelyn's wife, isn't she?"

"Certainly; but--"

"And the girl is his daughter. They live in a dowdy tenement, and are as poor as crows."

"Misfortune and the wrong of others might make all this true of us," began the youth impetuously;
"and yet if old friends should turn their backs--"

"You are not an old friend," his uncle again interrupted, in his hard, business-like tones.
"They are merely accidental acquaintances, who happened to board at your father's house last
summer. They haven't the ghost of a claim upon you. It looks far more as if you were in love
with the girl, and were making a romantic fool of yourself."

Roger's face grew very white, but he controlled himself, and asked, "Uncle, have I ever treated
you with disrespect?"

"Certainly not; why should you?"

"With some right I may also ask why you treat me with such disrespect?"

The old man opened his eyes, and was somewhat taken aback by this unexpected question, and
yet a moment's reflection showed him that he had given cause for it. He also misunderstood
his nephew, and resumed, with a short conciliatory laugh, "I guess I'm the fool, to be imagining
all this nonsense. Of course you are too much of an Atwood to entangle yourself with such people
and spoil your prospects for life. Look here, Roger. I'll be frank with you, and then we'll
understand each other. You know I've neither chick nor child, and I've turned a good big penny
in business. When you first came I thought you were a rattle-pated country boy that wanted
a lark in the city, and I took you more to keep you out of mischief than for any other cause.
Well, I've watched you closely, and I was mistaken. You've got the stuff in you to make a man,
and I see no reason why you should not be at the top of the heap before you reach my years,
and I mean to give you a chance. You've got a little soft place in your head and heart, or
you wouldn't be getting yourself mixed up in other people's troubles. I tell you what it is,
my boy, a man who gets ahead in these times must strike right out for himself, and steer clear
of all fouling with 'ne'er-do-weels,' as if they had a pestilence. Hook on to the lucky ones,
the strong ones, and they'll help you along. Now if you'll take this course and follow my advice
right along, I'll give you a chance with the first. You shall go to the best college in the
land, next to the law-school, and then have money enough to enable you to strike high. By the
time you are thirty you can marry an heiress. But no more Jocelyns and shop-girls who have
been at stationhouses, if you please. The girl may have been innocent of that offence; but,
plain man as I am, I don't like this style of people at all, and I know human nature well enough
to be sure that they'll try to tie themselves on to you if they can. I've thought it all out
in my slow way, and, since you've got it in you, I'm going to give you a chance to put the
Atwood name where I can't, with all my money."

Roger was deeply moved, for he had no idea that his uncle was cherishing such far-reaching
plans in his behalf. While he had little sympathy with the cold, selfish side of the programme,
his strong ambition responded powerfully to the prospect held out to him. He knew that the
hopes inspired were not vain, for his uncle was a man whose deeds always outstripped his words,
and that his fortunes were practically assured if he would follow the worldly-wise policy to
which he had listened. His ambition whispered, "Mildred Jocelyn does not love you, and never
will. Even now, after you have done so much for her, and her gratitude is boundless, her heart
shrinks from you. She may not be able to help it, but it is true nevertheless. Why should you
throw away such prospects for the sake of one who loves another man, and who, until in a time
of desperate need, treated you with undisguised coldness and dislike? Besides, by yielding
to your uncle's will you can eventually do more for the family than if thrown on your own resources."
It was indeed the great temptation of his life, and he wavered.

"Uncle," he said irresolutely, "you have indeed opened a very alluring prospect, and I am grateful
that you think So well of me, and that you are willing to do so much. Since you have been so
frank with me, I will be equally so with you," and he told him all about his relations with
the Jocelyns, and tried to make the shrewd old merchant understand that they were not common
people.

"They are the most dangerous people of all," he interrupted impatiently. "Having once been
up in the world, they think they are still as good as anybody, and are wild to regain their
old position. If they had always been poor and commonplace, they would not be so likely to
presume. What you say about the girl's not caring for you is sheer nonsense. She'd marry you
to-morrow if she could. The one idea of such people is to get out of the slough into which
they have fallen, and they'll marry out of it the first chance they get, and like enough they'll
do worse if they can't marry. I tell you they are the most dangerous kind of people, and Southern
at that. I've learned all about them; the father has gone to the devil for good and all, and,
with your feeling and weakness toward them, you'll never be safe a moment unless you drop them
completely and finally. Come, young man, let this affair be the test between us. I've worked
hard for nearly a lifetime, and have a right to impose some conditions with what has been earned
by forty years of toil, early and late. I never speculated once.  Every dollar I had to spare
I put in paying real estate and governments, and, Roger, I'm worth to-day a good half a million.
Ha, ha, ha! people who look at the plain old man in the plain little house don't know that
he could afford a mansion on the Avenue better than most of them. This is between ourselves,
but I want you to act with your eyes open. If you are such a soft-headed fool as to let that
girl, who you admit does not like you or care a rap for you personally, stand between you and
such prospects, then I'm mistaken in you, and the sooner I find it out the better.  Come, now,
I'll be good-natured and liberal in the matter, for young men will be a little addle-pated
and romantic before they cut their wisdom teeth. Through that English woman who works for your
aunt occasionally you can see to it that these people don't suffer, but beyond that you must
drop them once for all. What is more, your father and mother take the same view that I do,
and your filial duty to them requires what I ask. While we naturally refuse to be mixed up
with such people, we are seeking chiefly to promote your welfare; for the worst thing that
can happen to a young man starting in life is to have a helpless lot of people hanging on him.
So, come, give me your promise--the promise of an Atwood--and it will be all right."

Eoger was not a self-sacrificing saint by any means. Moreover, he had inherited the Atwood
characteristics sufficiently to feel all the worldly force of his uncle's reasoning, and to
be tempted tremendously by his offers. They promised to realize his wildest dreams, and to
make the path to fame and wealth a broad, easy track instead of a long, steep, thorny path,
as he had expected.  He was virtually on the mountain-top, and had been shown "all the kingdoms
of the world and the glory of them."

But against this brilliant background he saw the thin, pale face of Mrs. Jocelyn, as she looked
up to him with loving trust and gratitude, and the motherly kiss that she had imprinted on
his cheek was a seal to her absolute faith. He felt the pressure of Belle's arm about his neck,
and remembered his promise to give her a brother's regard and protection, and justly he feared
that if deserted now the impulsive, tempted girl would soon meet shipwreck. She would lose
faith in God and man. But that which touched him most nearly were his words to Mildred--words
spoken even when she showed him most plainly that her heart was not his, and probably never
could be--"I am your friend; never doubt it." How false he would seem to them; how false and
selfish to his friend, the great-hearted clergyman, who was like Christ himself in his devoted
labors; how false and base he would ever feel himself to be in his own soul!

For a time there was a terrible conflict in his breast as he paced the floor in long strides,
with hands clenched and brow heavily contracted. His uncle watched him curiously and with displeased
surprise, for that he could hesitate at all seemed to the worldly man an evidence of fatal
weakness.

Roger fought it out like a genuine Atwood, and was nearer akin to his uncle than the old merchant
would ever suspect. His heart craved the kingdoms of the world unspeakably, but he now realized
that he must barter for them his honor, his manhood, and love. Thus far he had a right to love
Mildred, and it was not her fault she could not return it. But, poor and shamed as she was,
he knew that she would despise him if he yielded now, even though he rose to be the foremost
man of the nation. Not with any chivalric, uncalculating impulse did he reach his conclusion,
but by the slow, deliberate reasoning of a cool-headed, sturdy race that would hold to a course
with life-long tenacity, having once chosen it.

Turning to his uncle, he asked quietly. "What did you mean by 'the promise of an Atwood'?"

"You ought to know. Our family, for generations, have lived up among the granite hills of Forestville,
and, although poor, our promises, whether spoken or written, are like them."

"I'm glad to hear you say that--I'm glad to be reminded of it," his nephew replied. "Well,
my promise has already been given. I have promised that poor broken-hearted woman, Mrs. Jocelyn,
that I'd try to help her through her terrible misfortunes. I've promised her daughter Belle
that I'd give her a brother's care and affection. I've promised the girl I love that I would
at least be her friend, since I cannot be more. I'll prove myself a true Atwood, worthy to
sustain the family name and honor by keeping my promises, and if I break them, you yourself,
deep in your heart, would despise me."

For a moment the old merchant was nonplussed, so adroitly and unexpectedly had Roger turned
his words against him. Then, like most men suddenly put in a false position, he grew angry,
and blurted out, "Nonsense! It doesn't apply at all. These artful women have come it over you--have
entrapped you." The young man here made a strong gesture of protest. "Oh, don't try to deceive
me," his uncle proceeded, more loudly and passionately; "I know the world. If I'd blindly made
promises to adventurers who would compass my ruin, ought I to keep them? If I find I've indorsed
a forged check, ought I not to stop its payment? In the name of your parents and as your uncle,
I protest against this folly, for I see well enough where it will end. Moreover, I tell you
plainly that you must choose between me and my offers, and that old sot of a Jocelyn and his
scheming wife and daughters. If you can be carried away by such absurdity, you are weaker than
water, and the sooner you learn by bitter experience the better, for you certainly belong to
that class which only hard experience can teach. But I'd like to see those brazen-faced creatures
and give them a piece of--"

"Stop!" thundered Roger; "beware how you say another word against those whom sorrow should
render sacred. You know less about them than about heaven. Do you forget that I am of age?
You made me an offer, and I thanked you for it honestly and gratefully. What's more, I was
base enough to be tempted by it. Oh, yes"--with a bitter laugh--"I was an Atwood enough for
that. If you had not coupled it with the condition that I should, like a coward, desert helpless
and unfortunate women to whom my word is given, I would have fulfilled your best hopes and
ambitions, and have made your age glad with my grateful love and service. In your cold-hearted
worldliness you have overreached yourself, and you wrong yourself more than me, even though
I perish in the streets. But I won't starve. Mark my words: I'll place the Atwood name where
you can't, with all your money, and I shall not make broken faith with those who trust me,
the foundation of my fortunes."

"Very well, then," said his uncle, who had quieted down into an anger of white heat; "since
you prefer those disreputable strangers to your family, go to them. I wash my hands of you,
and shall write to your father to this effect to-night. I'm a prompt man and don't dilly-dally."

"Mrs. Jocelyn and her daughters are no more disreputable than you are, sir, and calling me
'soft-headed fool' doesn't make me one. I know the duty I owe my parents, and shall perform
it. I shall write to them also. They shall hear both sides, and were your fortune multiplied
a thousand times, I won't sell my manhood for it. Am I to have shelter another night, or do
you wash your hands of me here and now?"

"Oh, stay by all means, or you may find yourself in the same cell in which your paragon spent
last night," replied his uncle, whose rage now passed all bounds.

"Those words are brutal," said Roger sternly, "and if you are not ashamed of them after thinking
them over, you are not the man I took you to be," and he stalked out of the room and out of
the house, slamming the door after him.

The old merchant sank into a chair, trembling with both anger and chagrin, for he felt that
he had been worsted in the encounter. He did regret the words as soon as spoken, and a certain
rude sense of justice made him feel, even in his excitement, that his nephew, although an egregious
fool of course, had been true to his sense of right and honor. He was assuredly the victim
of a designing lot of women, but believing them to be true, his course had been manly, and
the thought would come, "Since he was so faithful to them, he would have been equally so to
me, and he might have found the hussies out in time to prevent trouble." And now he had said
words which in effect turned his brother's son out of doors at midnight With something like
a groan and an oath he resolved not to write that night, and to see how he felt in the morning.
His nephew on provocation had proved as great a Tartar as he knew himself to be, and he now
remembered that the former had some excuse in his hot young blood, and that he had a right
to choose against his offer, if fool enough to do it, without being reviled and insulted.

After a wretched night he found on the breakfast-table a brief, cold note from Roger, saying
that he would inform him in a day or two where to send his effects and such part of his salary
as remained unpaid. The old man frowned, and the Atwood pride and obstinacy took possession
of him like evil spirits. In grim reticence he resumed his old routine and life, and again
gave himself up to the mechanical accumulation and saving of money.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

NO "DARK CORNERS"

From his uncle's house Roger went to a small hotel and obtained a room in which to spend a
sleepless night. After the excitement of anger passed, he recognized the difficulties of his
position. He was worse than friendless in the great city, for when he sought employment and
gave an account of his antecedents, people would ask suspiciously why he left his uncle. The
reasons were of too delicate a nature to be babbled about in business offices.

At first he was much depressed, and complained that "luck was dead against him." Moreover he
felt that he had responded too harshly to his uncle, who, after all, was only trying to aid
him in his cold-blooded way. Nevertheless he, too, had his share of the Atwood pride and obstinacy,
and he resolved that the man who had called him a "soft-headed fool" for sacrificing himself
to his sense of honor and duty must apologize before there could be any reconciliation. His
good sense led him to make one wise resolution, and early in the morning he carried it out
by making a clean breast of it to Mr. Wentworth. The good man listened with deep interest,
and heartened the young fellow wonderfully by clapping him on the shoulder and saying, "You
are made of the right stuff, Atwood, and although the material is yet a little raw and crude,
experience and Christian principle will temper it in time into the finest metal."

"Don't ascribe Christian principle to me," growled Roger, "for I'm tempted to swear like a pirate."

"Very likely, and not without some reason. I occasionally feel a little that way myself, but
I don't do it; neither have you."

Roger stared. "You're not a bit like a minister," he burst out.

"Sorry to hear it."

"That isn't what I mean. You are a MAN. Our dominie up at Forestville was only a minister."

"I have my share of human nature, Roger, and am glad of it, for I know from experience just
how you young fellows feel. But it involves many a big fight. Christian principle doesn't mean
a cotton-and-wool nature, or a milk-and-water experience, to put it in a homely way. It's Christian
principle that makes Mildred Jocelyn, as you say, one of the bravest and best girls in the
world. She's worth more than all your uncle's money, and you needn't be discouraged, for you'll
win her yet. A young fellow with your pluck can make his way unaided, and thousands have done
so without your motives or your ability. I'll stand by you, for you are the kind of man that
I believe in. To make your course completely blameless, you must write a long filial letter
to your mother, explaining everything; and if you'll take my advice you will send something
like this to your uncle;" and sitting down he scratched off the following words:

"On calmer reflection I perceive that your intentions toward me were kindly and friendly. I
should have remembered this, and the respect due to your years, and not have spoken so harshly.
For all that it was not right for me to say, I apologize. At the same time it is my undoubted
right and unwavering purpose to be guided by my own conscience. Our views of life and duty
vary so widely that it will be best for me to struggle on alone, as I can. This, however, is
no reason why we should quarrel, or forget the ties of blood which unite us, or our characters
as gentlemen."

"Such a note will put you right with your own conscience and your people at home," resumed
Mr. Wentworth, "and there's nothing like starting right."

Roger complied at once, for the clergyman's "human nature" had gained his unlimited confidence.

"Now I'm going out," said his friend. "You stay and make my study your own. There is paper,
etc. I think I know of a room that you can obtain for a small sum from a nice, quiet family,
and perhaps it will just suit you. I'll see; but don't take it if you don't like it. You'll
stay and lunch with us, and we'll drink to your success in generous cups of coffee that only
my wife knows how to make," and he left Roger cheered, hopeful, and resolute. What was better
still, the young man was starting right, as was well proved by the long, affectionate, yet
firm and manly letter written to his mother.

After a genial lunch, at which he was treated with a respect and kindness which did him a world
of good, he went with Mr. Wentworth to see the room, and was well pleased with it, and he added
his future address to the note to his uncle. He then said:

"I keep my promise about Mr. Jocelyn, and the sooner that man is put under treatment the better."

"Why, Roger!" exclaimed his friend, "you can't do anything now."

"I can do just what I promised. I have a hundred dollars in the bank, and there is about twenty-five
still due me. With the latter sum I can get along until I can find employment."

"Hold on, Roger; it seems to me that your generosity is getting the better of you now. Circumstances
have greatly changed since you made your promise."

"I've not changed, and my promises don't change with circumstances. It may be some time before
you can raise the money, even if you can get it at all in these bard times, and it's something
that ought to be done at once."

"Give me your hand again, old fellow. The world would say we were a pair of fools, but we'll
wait and see who's right. Come to me at nine to-morrow morning."

Mr. Wentworth had several things on hand that he meant to do, but he dropped everything and
started for the offices of some lawyers whom he knew, determined to find a foothold at once
for his plucky protege. Roger went to call on Mrs. Jocelyn, feeling that he would like to get
the matter relating to her husband settled, so that he might give all his thought and energy
to the problem of making his way unaided. In response to his knock a light step crossed the
floor, and the door was opened a little, revealing Mildred's face, then it was thrown open
hospitably. "Oh, Mr. Atwood," she exclaimed, "I am very glad to see you. Forgive me that I
opened the door so suspiciously, but you have never lived in a tenement, and do not know what
awful neighbors are often prowling around.  Besides, I was alone, and that made me more timid.
I am so troubled about something, and perhaps you can help me, for you seem to be able to help
every one," Mildred continued hastily, for she dreaded an embarrassing silence between them
unspeakably.  "I've been to see my employers in the hope they would forgive that poor girl
who put the lace in my cloak, and they won't. They were polite and kind to me, and offered
me better wages if I would come back, but were relentless toward the girl, saying they 'meant
to break up that kind of thing once for all.' Don't you think something might be done?"

"If you failed there would be no use of my trying," said Roger, smiling. "I think it was wonderfully
good of you to go on such an errand."

"I've had some lessons in goodness lately," she replied, with a little friendly nod. "As I
talked with those stern men, I realized more than ever what an escape I've had, and I've thanked
you in my heart a thousand times."

The young fellow looked as if he had been repaid a thousand times, and wondered that he could
have been so tempted by his uncle's terms, for it now seemed impossible that he could ever
do aught else than serve the sweet, sad girl who looked into his eyes with the trust and friendliness
which he had sought for so long in vain. His face became so expressive of his feelings that
she hurried on to speak of another matter weighing on her mind.

"Mr. Atwood," she said hesitatingly, "I have another trouble. You looked so vindictively at
that Mr. Bissel in the court-room that I have feared you might do something that you would
afterward regret. I know how one with your honorable spirit would feel toward such a wretch,
but, believe me, he is beneath your notice.  I should feel so badly if you got into any trouble
on my account.  Indeed it seems that I couldn't stand it at all," and she said it with so much
feeling that he was honestly delighted. His spirits were rising fast, for this frank, strong
interest in his welfare, in contrast with her old constraint and coldness, was sweet to him
beyond all words.

With a mischievous and rather wicked look in his dark eyes, he said, "You must leave that fellow
to me. I'm not a saint as you are."

Mildred proved that she was not altogether a saint by inwardly relishing his spirit, for she
never could overcome some of the traits of her Southern blood; but she said, honestly and anxiously,
"I should feel very badly if you got into any trouble."

"That thought will make me prudent," he replied gratefully. "You would never feel badly again
about anything, if I had my way."

"I believe you, Mr. Atwood, and I can't see why I did not understand you better before," said
Mildred, the words slipping out almost before she knew it.

"I don't think you understand me yet," he answered, very gently.

She did not reply, but he saw her fingers trembling with nervous apprehension as she tried
to go on with her sewing; he also saw that she was growing very pale. Indeed she had almost
the sick, faint look of one who is about to submit to some painful operation.

"Don't be frightened, Miss Mildred," he remarked, after watching her keenly for a moment or
two. She looked up and saw him smiling broadly at her. In answer to her perplexed look he continued
quietly, "I can tell you what has been the matter between us, and what is the matter now--you
are afraid of me."

"Mr. Atwood--" faltered Mildred, and then words failed her, and her pale face crimsoned.

"Don't you think it would be best for us to understand each other, now that we are to be friends?"
he asked.

"Yes," gasped the young girl faintly, fearing every moment that he would lose his self-control
and pour out a vehement declaration of his love. She was prepared to say, "Roger Atwood, I
am ready to make any sacrifice within my power that you can ask," but at the same time felt
that she could endure slow torture by fire better than passionate words of love, which would
simply bruise the heart that could make no response. If he would only ask quietly, "Mildred,
will you be my wife when the right time comes? I'll be content with such love as you can give,"
she would have replied with the calmness of an unalterable purpose, "Yes, Roger, and I'll do
my best," believing that years of effort might be crowned with success. But now, to have him
plead passionately for what she could no more bestow than if she were dead, gave her an indescribable
sense of fear, pain, and repugnance; and she cowered and shrank over the sewing which she could
scarcely hold, so great was her nervous apprehension.

Instead of the vehement declaration there came a low, mellow laugh, and she lifted her eyes
and stared at him, her work dropping from her hands.

Roger understood the situation so well, and was so thoroughly the master of it in his generous
self-control and kindly intentions, that he should scarcely be blamed if he got out of it such
bitter-sweet enjoyment as he could, and he said, with a twinkle in his eyes, "Miss Millie,
I wasn't going to strike you."

"I don't understand you at all," cried Mildred, with a pathetically perplexed expression and
starting tears, for the nervous strain was becoming a little too prolonged.

Roger became grave at once, and with a quiet, gentle manner he came to her side and took her
hand. "Will you be as honest with me as I shall be with you?" he asked.

"I'll try to be."

"Well, then, I'll soon solve for you my poor little riddle. Miss Mildred, you know that I have
loved you ever since you waked up an awkwad, lazy, country fellow into the wish to be a man."

His words were plain enough now, surely, but she was no longer frightened, for he spoke in
such a kindly natural voice that she looked him straight in the eyes, with a delicate bloom
in her face, and replied:

"I didn't wish to mislead you, Mr. Atwood, and I wouldn't trifle with you."

"You have been truth and honesty itself."

"No, I've not," she answered impetuously; "I cherished an unreasoning prejudice against you,
and--and--I disliked you, though why, I can't see now, and nobly you have triumphed over both
prejudice and dislike."

"It will ever be the proudest triumph of my life; but, Miss Mildred, you do not love me in
the least, and I fear you never will."

"I am so sorry, so very sorry," she faltered, with a crimson face and downcast eyes.

"I am, too; but that which I want to say to you is, that you are not to blame, and I don't
blame you. I could not love a girl simply because she wanted me to, were such a thing possible,
and why should I demand of you what I couldn't do myself? All I asked in the first place--don't
you remember it in the old front walk at home?--was friendship. Let us go back to that. Let
me become your simple, honest friend, and help you in every way within my power. Don't let
me frighten you any more with the dread of high tragedy. Now you've had all the declaration
you ever need fear. I won't break loose or explode under any provocation. I can't help my love,
and you must not punish me for it, nor make yourself miserable about it, as if it were a powder
magazine which a kind word or look might touch off. I want to put your heart to rest, for you
have enough to bear now, Heaven knows; I want you to feel safe with me--as free from fear and
annoyance as Belle is. I won't presume or be sentimental."

"Oh, my perverse, perverse heart!" wailed Mildred. "I could tear it out of my breast and throw
it away in disgust. I want to love--it would be a poor return for all that you are and have
done for me--but it is of no use. I will not deceive one so true as you are, by even a trace
of falseness. You deserve the love of the best woman in the world, and some day you'll find her---"

"I have found her," he put in quietly.

"No, no, no!" she cried passionately; "but I am as nature made me, and I can't seem to help
myself. How strange it seems that I can say from the depths of my soul I could die for you,
and yet that I can't do just the one thing you deserve a thousand times! But, Roger, I will
be the most devoted sister that ever a man had."

"No," he said, smiling, "that won't answer at all. That wouldn't be honest, as far as I am
concerned. Belle is my sister, but you can never be. I know you don't love me now, and, as
I've said, perhaps you never can, but I'm too persistent in my nature to give up the hope.
Time may bring changes, and I've got years of up-hill work before I can think of marrying.
You are in a self-sacrificing mood now. I saw it in your eyes and manner last night--I see
it now. Mildred, I could take a very great advantage of you if I chose."

"Indeed you could. You don't know how generous you are. You have conquered me, overwhelmed
me by your kindness, and I couldn't say No to anything in your nature to ask."

For a moment he looked sorely tempted, and then he said brusquely, "I'll put a spoke in that
wheel. I'd give all the world for this little hand, but I won't take it until your heart goes
with it. So there!"

The young girl sighed deeply. "You are right," she murmured, "when you give so much I can give
so little."

"That is not what I was thinking of. As a woman you have sacred rights, and I should despise
myself if I tried to buy you with kindness, or take advantage of your gratitude. I'll admit,
too, since we are to have no dark corners in this talk, that I would rather be loved as I know
you can love. I'd rather have an honest friendship than a forced affection, even though the
force was only in the girl's will and wishes. I was reading Maud Muller the other night, and
no woman shall ever say of her life's happiness, that but for me 'it might have been.'"

"I don't think any woman could ever say that of you."

"Mildred, you showed me your heart last night, and it has a will stronger than your will, and
it shall have its way."

The girl again sighed. "Roger," she said, "one reason why I so shrank from you in the past
was that you read my thoughts. You have more than a woman's intuition."

"No," he said, laughing a little grimly, "I'm not a bit feminine in my nature. My explanation
may seem absurd to you, but it's true, I think. I am exceedingly fond of hunting, and I so
trained my eyes that if a leaf stirred or a bird moved a wing I saw it.  When you waked me
up, and I determined to seek my fortunes out in the world, I carried with me the same quickness
of eye. I do not let much that is to be seen escape me, and on a face like yours thoughts usually
leave some trace."

"You didn't learn to be a gentleman, in the best sense of the word, in the woods," she said,
with a smile.

"No, you and your mother taught me that, and I may add, your father, for when I first saw him
he had the perfection of manners." He might also have referred to Vinton Arnold, whom he had
studied so carefully, but he could not bring himself to speak of one whom in his heart he knew
to be the chief barrier between them, for he was well aware that it was Mildred's involuntary
fidelity to her first love that made his suit so dubious. At his reference to her father Mildred's
eyes had filled at once, and he continued gently, "We understand each other now, do we not?
You won't be afraid of me any more, and will let me help you all to brighter days?"

She put both of her hands in his, and said earnestly, "No, I will never be afraid of you again,
but I only half understand you yet, for I did not know that there was a man in the world so
noble, so generous, so honest. You have banished every trace of constraint, and I'll do everything
you say."

There was a look of almost boyish pleasure on his face as she spoke, and in imitation of the
heroes of the interminable old-time romances that once had formed the larger part of his reading,
he was about to raise her hand to his lips when she snatched it away, and as if mastered by
an impulse not to be controlled, put her arms around his neck and kissed him, then burst into
tears with her head upon his shoulder.

He trembled a moment, and said, in low tones, "God bless you, Millie." Then he gently placed
her in her chair. "You mustn't do that again," he said gravely. "With you it was but a grateful
sisterly impulse, but if I were Samson I'd not be strong enough--well, you understand me. I
don't want to give the lie to all I've said."

"Oh, Roger, Roger," sobbed the girl, "I can do nothing for you and yet you have saved me from
shame and are giving us all hope and life."

"You are responsible for all there is good in me," he tried to say lightly, "and I'll show
you in coming years if you have done nothing for me. Good-by now. It's all right and settled
between us. Tell Mrs. Jocelyn that one hundred dollars are ready as soon as she can induce
her husband to take the step we spoke of." And he hastened away, feeling that it was time he
retreated if he would make good the generous words he had spoken.

CHAPTER XXXIX

"HOME, SWEET HOME!"

"Oh, Millie," cried Mrs. Jocelyn, entering with the children and throwing herself into a chair,
fatigued and panting from her walk and climb of the stairs, "I've so much to tell you. Oh,
I'm so distressed and sorry. It seems that evil has become our lot, and that we bring nothing
but evil to others. You, too, look as if you had been crying as if your heart would break."

"No, mamma, I feel much better--more at rest than I have been for a long time. My tears have
done me good."

"Well, I'm sorry I must tell you something that will grieve you dreadfully, but there's no
help for it. It does seem when things are going wrong in one's life, there's no telling where
they'll stop. You know Mrs. Wheaton works for Roger's aunt, Mrs. Atwood. Well, she was there
this morning, and Mrs. Atwood talked dreadfully about us, and how we had inveigled her nephew
into the worst of folly. She told Mrs. Wheaton that Mr. Atwood had intended to give Roger a
splendid education, and might have made him his heir, but that he demanded, as his condition,
that he should have nothing more to do with such people as we were, and how Roger refused,
and how after a bitter quarrel the latter left the house at midnight. She also said that his
uncle would have nothing more to do with him, and that his family at home would be almost equally
angry. Oh, I feel as if I could sink into the earth with shame and worry. What shall we do?"

"Surely, mamma, there is some mistake. Roger was here much of the afternoon, and he never said
one word about it," Mildred answered, with a troubled face.

"It's just like him. He didn't want to pain you with the news. What did he say?" she asked,
with kindling interest, and Mildred told her substantially all that had occurred.

"Well, Millie," said her mother emphatically, "you will be the queerest girl on the face of
the earth if you can't love him now, for he has given up everything for you. He might have
been richer than Vinton Arnold."

"He must not give up anything," said Mildred resolutely. "There is reason in all things. He
is little more than a boy in years, and he has a boy's simplicity and unworldliness. I won't
let him sacrifice himself for me. He doesn't know what he is doing. His aunt's estimate of
such people as we have become is correct, and I'll perish a thousand times before I'll be the
means of dragging down such a man as Roger Atwood. If I knew where to find him I'd go and tell
him so this moment."

That was a dreary hour in the poor little home, but worse things were in store for them, for,
as Mrs. Jocelyn said, when things are going wrong there is a terrible logic about them, and
malign events follow each other with almost inevitable sequence. All was wrong with the head
of the family, and terrible were the consequences to his helpless wife and children. Mr. Jocelyn
heard a rumor of Mildred's experience in the police court, and he went to the place that day
and obtained some account of the affair.  More clearly and awfully than ever before he comprehended
the depths into which he had fallen. He had not been appealed to--he had not even been told.
He did not stop to consider how good the reasons were for the course his family had taken,
but, blind with anger and despair, he sought his only refuge from the hell within his breast,
and began drinking recklessly. By the time he reached the tenement where he dwelt he was in
a state of wild intoxication. A man at the door called him a drunken beast, at which Mr. Jocelyn
grasped him by the throat and a fierce scuffle ensued. Soon the whole populous dwelling was
in an uproar, while the man retreated, fighting, up the stairways, and his infuriated assailant
followed with oaths and curses. Women and children were screaming, and men and boys pouring
out of their rooms, some jeering and laughing, and others making timid and futile efforts to
appease and restrain the liquor-crazed man.

Suddenly a door opened, and a pale face looked out; then a slight girlish figure darted through
the crowd and clasped Mr. Jocelyn. He looked down and recognized his daughter Mildred. For
a moment he seemed a little sobered, and then the demon within him reasserted itself. "Get
out of my way!" he shouted. "I'll teach that infernal Yankee to insult a Southern officer and
gentleman.  Let me go," he said furiously, "or I'll throw you down the stairway," but Mildred
clung to him with her whole weight, and the men now from very shame rushed in and overpowered him.

He was speedily thrust within his own doorway, and Mildred turned the key after him and concealed
it. Little recked the neighbors, as they gradually subsided into quiet, that there came a crash
of crockery and a despairing cry from the Jocelyns' room. They had witnessed such scenes before,
and were all too busy to run any risk of being summoned as witnesses at a police court on the
morrow. The man whom Mr. Jocelyn had attacked said that he would see the agent of the house
in the morning and have the Jocelyn family sent away at once, because a nuisance, and all were
content with this arrangement.

Within that locked door a terrible scene would have been enacted had it not been for Mildred's
almost supernatural courage, for her father was little better than a wild beast. In his mad
rush forward he overturned the supper-table, and the evening meal lay in a heap upon the floor.
The poor wife, with a cry in which hope and her soul itself seemed to depart fell swooning
on the children's bed, and the little ones fled to the darkest corner of Mildred's room and
cowered in speechless fear. There was none to face him save the slight girl, at whom he glared
as if he would annihilate her.

"Let me out!" he said savagely.

"No," said the girl, meeting his frenzied gaze unwaveringly, "not until you are sober."

He rushed to the door, but could not open it. Then turning upon Mildred he said, "Give me the
key--no words--or I'll teach you who is master."

There were no words, but only such a look as is rarely seen on. a woman's face. He raised his
hand to strike her, but she did not shrink a hair-breadth. "Papa," she said, in a low, concentrated
tone, "you called yourself a Southern gentleman. I did not dream you could strike a woman,
even when drunk."

The effect of her words was magical. His hand sank to his side. Then he raised it and passed
it over his brow as if it all were a horrid dream. Without a word he went with unsteady step
to his own room, and again Mildred locked the door upon him.

Mrs. Jocelyn's swoon was long and death-like, and before Mildred could restore her, Belle,
returning from her work, tried to enter, and finding the door locked called for admittance.
When she crossed the threshold and saw the supper dishes broken and scattered on the floor:
when she saw her mother looking as if dead, the little ones crying at her side, and Mildred
scarcely less pale than the broken-hearted woman, with a desperate look in her blue eyes, the
young girl gave a long, low cry of despair, and covering her face with her hands she sank into
a chair murmuring, "I can't endure this any longer--I'd rather die. We are just going to rack
and ruin. Oh, I wish I could die, for I'm getting reckless--and--and wicked. Oh, oh, oh!--"

"Belle, come and help me," said Mildred, in the hard, constrained tones of one who is maintaining
self-control by the utmost effort. Belle complied, but there was an expression on her face
that filled her sister's soul with dread.

It were well perhaps to veil the agony endured in the stricken household that night. The sufferings
of such women as Mrs. Jocelyn and Mildred cannot be portrayed in words, and the dark chaos
that had come into poor Belle's tempted, despairing, immature soul might well make her good
angel weep. With a nature craving sunshine and pleasure like the breath of life, she felt herself
being dragged hopelessly into darkness, shame, and abject poverty.  The poor child was not
deliberately contemplating evil--she was scarcely capable of doing good or evil deliberately--but
a youth who had sought her once before, and of whom she had long been shy, was again hovering
around her.

She was more wary now, yet bolder, and received his advances with a manner tinged with mocking
coquetry. He was profuse with promises, and she tried to believe them, but in her heart she
could not, and yet she did not repulse him with that stern, brief decision which forms the
viewless, impassable wall that hedges virtue.

The sisters tried to remove the outward traces of their wrecked home, and mechanically restored
such order as was within their power, but in their secret souls they saw their household gods
overturned and trampled upon, and, with the honor and manhood of their father, they felt that
night as if they had lost everything.

After they had quieted their mother and brought the poor creature a brief oblivion, Mildred
made a passionate appeal to Belle to stand by her. The warm-hearted girl cried and wrung her
hands passionately, but all her trembling sister could obtain from her were the words,

"Millie, we are being dragged down I don't know where."

Events followed rapidly. Before Mr. Jocelyn, sullen, nerveless, racked with headache and tortured
with heartache, could leave his room on the morrow, the agent of the tenement served a notice
on him to the effect that he must vacate his rooms at once; that the other tenants complained
of him as a nuisance; and that he (the agent) would be content to lose the rent for the few
days that had elapsed since the last regular payment if they would all go out at once. The
angry reply was that they would move that day, and, without a word, he left his family in suspense.
In the course of the forenoon he returned with a furniture van, and had so braced himself with
opium that he was able to assist effectively, yet morosely, in the packing and removing of
their fast-dwindling effects, for everything not essential had been sold. His wife and daughter
did not remonstrate--they were too dispirited for that--but in dreary apathy did his bidding
as far as their strength permitted, feeling meanwhile that any change could scarcely be for
the worse.

Mildred almost felt that it was for the better, for their new shelter was in a small rear tenement
not far from the old mansion, and was reached from the street by a long covered passageway.
To her morbid fancy it suggested the hiding-place that her heart craved. She now scarcely heeded
the facts that the place was anything but cleanly and that their neighbors were more unpromising
in appearance than those they had just left. Mrs.  Jocelyn was so ill and weak that she ought
not to raise her hands, and Mildred felt that her strength was unequal to the task of even
arranging their household articles so as to make the poor little nook inhabitable. She therefore
went for their old stanch ally Mrs. Wheaton, who returned with her and wrought such miracles
as the wretched place permitted of. In just foreboding she shook her head over the prospects
of her friends in such a neighborhood, for her experienced eyes enabled her to gauge very correctly
the character of the people who lived across the hall and in the upper and lower stories. They
were chiefly ignorant and debased Irish families, and the good woman's fears were not wholly
due to race antipathy. In the tenement from which they came, the people, although poor, were
in the main stolid, quiet, and hard-working, but here on every side were traces and hints,
even at midday, of degraded and vicious lives. The classes in the tenements appear to have
a moral gravity or affinity which brings to the same level and locality those who are alike,
and woe be to aliens who try to dwell among them. The Jocelyns did not belong to the tenement
classes at all, and Mrs. Wheaton correctly feared that the purgatory which was the corner-stone
in their neighbors' creeds would be realized in the temporal experience of the Southern family.
Now that the step had been taken, however, she concealed her anxieties, and did her best to
avoid collisions with the burly, red-faced women and insolent children whose officious offers
of help were but thin veils to a coarse curiosity and a desire for petty pilfering. Mildred
shuddered at the people about her, and was cold and brief in her words. As it was, Fred nearly
brought on general hostilities by resisting a shock-headed little urchin who had not the remotest
regard for the principles of MEUM and TUUM. As the sun declined the general verdict of the
neighbors was, "They thinks themselves too foine for the loikes o' us, but we'll tache 'em."

After Mrs. Wheaton had departed with many misgivings, Mildred took her father aside and told
him plainly what had occurred the evening before. He sat with his face buried in his hands,
and listened without a word. Indeed, he was so overwhelmed with shame and remorse that he was
speechless. "Papa, look at me," she said at last.

Slowly he raised his bloodshot, fearful eyes to hers, and the expression of his child's face
made him tremble.

"Papa," she said slowly, and her tones were both sad and stern, "you must never come home drunk
again. Another such scene might cost mamma her life. If you WILL take opium, we cannot help
it, but you must drink no more vile liquor. I have now learned from bitter experience what
the latter means, and what it must lead to.  I shall not fail in love and duty to you, but
I cannot permit mamma, Belle, and the children to be utterly destroyed. You may do some wild,
reckless deed that would blast us all beyond remedy; therefore, if you have a particle of self-control
left, let rum alone, or else we must protect ourselves. We have endured it thus far, not with
patience and resignation, but in a sort of apathetic despair. This apathy has been broken.
Belle is becoming reckless, mamma is dying of a broken heart, and the little ones are exposed
to influences that threaten to blight their lives. There must be some change for the better.
We must at least be relieved from the fear of bodily harm and the intolerable shame of such
scenes as occurred last night. In our hard struggle we must find some kind of a refuge and
some degree of quiet and peace in what we call home. It is no kindness to you to endure in
silence any longer, and I now see that it will be fatal to those we both love. You may not
be able to refrain from opium, but you can and must give up liquor. If you cannot, and there
is a remedy in the land, we must avail ourselves of it. I do not know what kind of a place
you have brought us to, but I feel sure that we shall need protection. If you should come home
again as you did last night, I am satisfied, from the looks of the people in this house, that
we should have a scene of violence that I shudder to think of. You had better--it would be
more merciful to stab mamma to her heart than to cause her death by drunkenness."

Her words were not threatening, but were spoken with the calmness of inexorable resolve, and
he sat before her with an ashen face, trembling like an aspen, for it was like the Day of Judgment
to him. Then in gentler and pleading accents she told him of their plan to place him under
skilful treatment, and besought him to yield himself up to the care of one who had won much
reputation in dealing with cases like his own; but all the encouragement she could obtain were
the words, "I'll think of it."

The memory of those fearful days on shipboard, when he was without morphia, made him recoil
with unspeakable dread from a like ordeal again, but he promised earnestly that he would indulge
no more in liquor. With the cunning of an opium maniac he understood his danger, knowing that
further scenes of violence would lead to his arrest and imprisonment. Of his gentle wife he
had no fears, but this frail, resolute girl subdued him. He saw that he was driving a strong
nature to desperation--saw it with all the agony and remorse of a naturally good father whose
better nature was bound hand and foot by depraved appetites. He was conscious of the terrible
wrong that he was inflicting on those for whom he once would have died to shield them from
a breath of dishonor. But, come what might, he must have opium now, and to counteract the words
of his daughter he took enough morphia to kill all the wretched inmates of the tenement. Under
its slight exhilaration he felt some hope of availing himself of the proposition that he should
go to a curative institution, and he half promised that he would before long. At this point
the painful interview ended, and Mildred went for Belle, who as yet had no knowledge of their
change of abode.

As the two girls returned, in the dusk of evening, to the long dark passageway that led to
the tenement in which they now had rooms, Mildred trembled with fear as she saw that its entrance
was surrounded and blocked by a group of rough-looking young men and boys. Belle pushed boldly
through them, although they leered, laughed, and made coarse jests. Mildred followed shrinkingly,
with downcast eyes. "We'll tache 'em to be neighborly," were the last words she heard, showing
that the young ruffians had already obtained their cue from their depraved and low-lived parents.

They looked forward to a dismal evening, but a loyal friend came to their rescue. Roger, having
arranged the room selected for him by Mr. Wentworth, could not resist the temptation to see
those who were ever uppermost in his thoughts. In dismay and anxiety he learned of their hasty
removal and something of the causes which led to it. From the janitor he obtained their present
address, and the appearance of his broad shoulders and fearless face had a restraining influence
on the mischief-making propensities of the rowdies who kennelled in the vicinity. The alien
new-comers evidently were not friendless, and there was hesitation in the half-formed measures
for their annoyance.

Roger remained an hour or two, aiding the girls in trying to make the rooms more homelike,
which, however, was rather a hopeless task. Mr. Jocelyn, half stupefied by opium, retreated
to one of the small dark closet bedrooms, and left the scene unembarrassed by his presence.
Roger remarked emphatically that the tenement was no place for them, but Mildred told him that
the rent had been paid for a month in advance, and that they must try to endure it, adding,
"The twenty-five dollars that you and Mr. Wentworth obtained for me has been, after all, a
perfect Godsend."

He was touched, and bound to her with bands of steel by the perfect trust she now reposed in
him, and he determined to watch over her like an amiable dragon, making it his first and constant
thought how to rescue them all from their wretched condition. He was much surprised, however,
when Mildred said to him, as he was preparing to leave, "Mr. Atwood, there is something I wish
to say to you. Will you let me walk a block or two with you, and then bring me back again?"

Roger tried to disguise his feelings by saying laughingly that he would "walk to Spuyten Duyvil"
with her, but added, "You are too tired to go out at all to-night. I will come to-morrow evening,"
and he remonstrated so earnestly and kindly that she yielded, promising to rest much of the
following day.

"Oh, Millie," said her mother, with a faint smile, "it does my heart good to see that there
is some one who knows how and has the will to take care of you."

"Yes," cried Belle, "this place is a perfect hole. It's not fit for nice girls to be seen in,
and if Roger gives us a chance to get out of it you had better take it as soon as possible.
I give you fair warning."

"What do you mean, Belle?" asked her mother. Belle made no answer, but went to her closet bedroom
with a morose, sullen look on her face. The poor woman looked inquiringly at Mildred, who said
soothingly, "Don't worry, mamma. Belle is a little tired and discouraged tonight. She'll be
in a better mood in the morning."

When all were sleeping from the fatigues of the day, she sat alone with clasped hands and eyes
so wide and troubled that it seemed as if she could never close them again. "Alas!" she sighed,
"what must I do? He is our good genius, and yet I must drive him away. He must not sacrifice
all his prospects for us. It would be most cruel and unjust to let him do so. I must reason
with him and show him plainly that it would not be right, and absolve him from every shadow
of blame for leaving us to such fate as God permits.  Because he is so generous and brave he
shall not suffer a loss which he cannot now comprehend."

At last, from utter weariness, she fell into a broken sleep.

CHAPTER XL

NEIGHBORS

Promptly the following evening Roger appeared, and with glowing cheeks told his friends that
Mr. Wentworth had found him employment in a lawyer's office, which would enable him to pay
his way and at the same time give him much practical insight into his chosen profession. Mildred
looked at him wistfully, but her resolution was not shaken, and they went out together, Roger
saying, with a smiling nod at Belle, "It will be your turn to-morrow evening."

"Roger," said Mildred, "I've much to say to you, and it is of great importance that you should
listen calmly and sensibly."

"All right," he answered laughingly. "You will find me as quiet and impressible as the oysters
over which we'll have our talk, but only on this condition. You shall not fatigue yourself
by a word here in the street." Nevertheless she felt the phlegmatic creature's arm trembling
under her hand. After a moment he went on, in the same light way, "I want you to understand
I am not going to be a friend in name merely; I intend to assert my rights, and you had better
learn from the start that I am the most tremendously obstinate fellow in the city."

"But you must listen to reason."

"Certainly; so must you."

"To begin with," she resumed, "I've had my supper, and so don't need any more."

"I haven't had mine, and am ravenous. The idea of talking reason to a hungry man! I know of
a nice quiet restaurant which, at this hour, we'll have almost to ourselves. You surely won't
be so unsocial as to let me eat alone."

"Well, if I yield in trifles you must yield in matters that are vital. Why did you not get
your supper before?"

"Too busy; and then, to be honest, I knew I'd enjoy it a hundredfold more with you. I'm a social
animal."

Mildred sighed, for this good-comradeship was making her duty very hard.

They soon reached the place in question, and Roger ordered enough for four.

"You don't realize what you are doing in any respect," said Mildred in smiling reproof.

"Wait half an hour before you settle that question," he replied with a confident nod. "I'll
soon prove to you what an unsentimental being I am."

"Oh," thought Mildred, "how can I give up his friendship when he acts in this way? And yet
I must. He must be shown just how he is wronging himself." When the waiter had departed she
looked straight into his eyes with one of her steadfast glances, and said earnestly, "Roger,
I appreciate your generous kindness far more than any words can tell you, but the time has
come for me to act resolutely and finally. Sad experience has taught me more within a year
than most women learn in a lifetime. Mrs. Wheaton, who often works for your aunt, has told
us of the sacrifice you have made in our behalf, and we cannot permit it. If not in years,
I'm much older than you in other respects, and you don't realize--"

Roger interrupted her by leaning back in his chair and breaking out into an irrepressible laugh.
"So you are going to interfere in behalf of the small boy's interests? My venerable friend,
permit me to remind you that I am six feet high in my stockings, and have lately reached the
mature age of twenty-one."

"Roger," replied Mildred, with a pained look on her face, "I'm in earnest, and I've lain awake
nearly all of two nights thinking about it."

"Millie, your oysters are getting cold. You don't know anything about boys, much less about
men. Don't you know I'll be much more amiable after supper? It's the nature of the male animal,
and what's the use of going against nature?"

"Oh, Roger, listen to me. I'm desperately in earnest. To let you sacrifice such prospects as
Mrs. Wheaton said your uncle held out to you for our sakes oppresses me with guilt. I can't
eat anything--you don't realize--"

"Millie Jocelyn," said Roger, his face becoming grave and gentle, "I know what you are driving
at. You might as well try to stop Spring from coming on. I'm going to be your honest, faithful
friend, so help me God! Even if you left me now and refused to speak to me again, I'd watch
over you and yours in every way I could. It's my good destiny, and I thank God for it, for
I feel it's making a man of me. I won't deceive you in one iota, and I admit to my shame that
my worldly old uncle tempted me that night, especially after I saw from your face just how
you felt. Even then my hope was that I could do more for you by yielding to his views than
if I stood out against them, but a little thought convinced me that you would starve rather
than take aid from one who would not give open friendship and companionship, and you would
be right. Oh, I exult in your pride, and respect you for it. You are my ideal woman, Millie,
and if my uncle had owned this island, and had offered it all to me, I'd have made a wretched
bargain in giving up for it the privilege of being here this evening, with the right to look
you straight in the eyes without shame. If I had yielded to him then, as the devil tempted
me to, I'd never have known another day of self-respect or happiness. I'm building now on the
rock of honor and manhood, and you can't say anything that will change my purpose. I know what
I am about if I am only a 'boy'; and Mr. Wentworth, who has been told all, approves of my course.
So eat your oysters, Millie, and submit to the inevitable."

"Oh, Roger, Roger, what shall I say to you?"

"Look here, Millie; if you were in my place, would you desert a brave, true girl in misfortune?
No; unlike me, you would never have hesitated a moment."

"But, Roger, as you say you--you--saw in my face a truth that absolved you--"

"What I saw in your face," he said gravely, "is my misfortune. It is not anything for which
you are to blame in the least. And, Millie, I'd rather have your friendship than any other
woman's love. I'm choosing my own course with my eyes open, and, thank God, I've chosen rightly.
I'd have been the most miserable fellow in the whole city if I had chosen otherwise. Now I'm
happy. It's all right. I've vowed to be a brother to Belle, and to do all in my power for your
sweet, gentle mother. I've vowed to be your true friend in all respects, and if you protested
till Doomsday it wouldn't make any difference. I've written to my mother, and I know her well
enough to be sure that she will approve of my course. So will my father by and by. He isn't
bad at heart, but, like uncle, a dollar is so large in his eyes that it hides the sun. Be that
as it may, I'm just as much of an Atwood as he is, and can be just as obstinate in doing what
I know to be right as he can be in requiring a course that would spoil my life. Millie, there
never was a soldier, in all the past, braver than you have shown yourself to be, and you are
a delicate girl that I could carry like a child. Do you advise a young, strong-handed fellow
to play the coward, and desert the women I love and honor in their sore need and danger? You
have looked on only one side of this question, and you must not think so meanly of me as to
even suggest anything of the kind again."

"Roger, Roger, can you realize what you are saying?" Mildred faltered, a slow, painful flush
crimsoning her face. "How can you honor those who are so disgraced? You don't know what papa
has become. The world will share your uncle's views concerning us."

"I do know all about your father, Millie, and I pity him from the depths of my soul. He is
the dark background which brings out your absolute truth and purity. I do honor you and Mrs.
Jocelyn as I honor my own mother, and I intend to prove myself worthy of your respect at least,
for its loss would be fatal to me. I even honor your rare fidelity, though it stands so awfully
in my way. Now, surely, we understand each other. But, come, this is far too serious talk for
a restaurant and the supper-table. I am now going to give my whole soul to oysters, and I adjure
you by our bonds to do the same. Here's to our friendship, Millie, and may I be choked the
moment I'm false to it!" and he drained a generous cup of coffee.

"You won't listen to me, then," she said, with a face wherein perplexity, relief, and gratitude
were blended.

"I won't listen to a word that will make me the most miserable wretch in the world, and you
won't get rid of me as long as I live. So, there, you might as well submit to fate and eat
your oysters."

Her expression became very grave and resolute. "Roger," she said slowly, "I did not know there
was so kind and true a man in the world. I will do anything that you can ask."

His eyes suddenly became infinitely wistful and tender, and then he gave himself a little characteristic
shake as he said, rather brusquely, "I accept that promise, and shall at once tax it to the
utmost with the request that you eat a jolly good supper and call on me every time I can aid you."

Her glance in response warmed his soul, and then she gave herself up to social friendliness
in a way which proved that a great burden had been taken from her heart. On their way home,
however, she hinted her fears in regard to Belle, and Roger understood her thoroughly. For
the next few days he watched the young girl, and soon satisfied himself as to the character
of the man who was pursuing her. His object now was to obtain some ground for brotherly interference,
and one Saturday evening, while following Belle home, he saw a young man join her and receive
an undoubted welcome. He soon became aware that matters were progressing fast and far, for
the young people wandered off into unfrequented streets, and once, where the shadows were deepest,
he saw Belle's attendant steal his arm about her waist and kiss her. Belle's protest was not
very vigorous, and when at last they parted in the passageway that led to Belle's home the
kiss was repeated and not resented at all.

Roger followed the young man, and said, "You have just parted from Miss Belle Jocelyn."

"Well, that's my affair."

"You will find yourself so greatly mistaken that you had better answer my questions honestly.
What are your intentions toward her? I have the right to ask."

"None of your business."

"Look here, young man, she has acknowledged me as her brother, and as a brother I feel toward
her. I've only a few plain words to say. If your intentions are honorable I'll not interfere,
although I know all about you, and you are not my style of man by any means. If your intentions
are not honorable, and you do not cease your attentions, I'll break every bone in your body--I
swear it by the God who made me."

"Go to the devil!" muttered the fellow.

"No, sir, nor shall I permit you to take one dear to me to the devil, but I pledge my word
to send you straight to him if you harm Belle Jocelyn. Here, stop and look me in the eyes under
this lamp. You kissed her twice to-night. Do you intend to make her your wife?"

There was no answer, but the sullen, half-frightened face was an unmistakable response. "I
understand you now," said Roger savagely, taking the fellow by the throat, "and I'll send you
swiftly to perdition if you don't promise to let that girl alone," and his gleaming eyes and
iron grasp awed the incipient roue so completely that he quavered out:

"Oh, let go. If you feel the girl is your property, I'll let her alone."

Roger gave him a wrathful push which precipitated his limp form into the gutter, and growled
as he walked of, "If you value your life, keep your promise."

An evening or two later Roger said to Belle, whom he had taken out for a stroll, "I kept my
word--I cowhided that fellow Bissel, who played such a dastardly part toward your sister. Of
course I did not want to get myself into trouble, or give him any power over me, so I found
out his haunts and followed him. One night, as he was returning rather late from a drinking
saloon, I spoiled his good looks with a dozen savage cuts. He was too confused to see who it
was in the dark, and to mislead him more thoroughly I said, with the last blow, 'Take that
for lying and causing a poor girl to be sent to prison.' He thinks, no doubt, that some friend
of the thief was the one who punished him. What's more, he won't forget the lashing I gave
him till his dying day, and if I mistake not his smooth face will long bear my marks."

Belle gave but a languid approval, for she had missed her lover for the last two evenings.
"Belle," he continued, gravely but gently, "I was tempted to choke the life out of a fellow
the other night, and it was the life of one who kissed you twice."

She dropped her hand from his arm, but he replaced it and held it tightly as he resumed, "I'm
no make-believe brother, you know. I'm just such a brother as I would be if I had been born
with you on a Southern plantation. Though the young man was not to my mind, I told him that
if his intentions were honorable I would not interfere, but I soon learned that he was an out-and-out
scoundrel, and I said words to him that will make him shun you as he would death. Belle, I
would kill him as I used to club rattlesnakes in the country, if he harmed a hair of your head,
and he knows it."

"You misjudge him utterly," cried Belle in a passion. "and you have just driven away the one
friend that I had in all the world. I won't stand it. I'm not a baby, and I won't be treated
like one."

Roger let her storm on without a word, but at last, when she concluded, "I've no father worthy
of the name, and so I'll take care of myself," he asked quietly:

"How about your mother, Belle?"

In strong revulsion the impulsive girl gave way to an equally passionate outburst of grief.
"Oh," she cried, "I wish I were dead!"

"Belle," said Roger, very gently now, "if you listened to that fellow you would soon make that
wish in earnest. Now in your heart you don't mean it at all. You don't love such a man, and
you know it. Why should you throw your young, beautiful life into the gutter? It is a mere
reckless protest against your unhappy life.  Belle, you are not seventeen, and you may live
till you are seventy if you take care of yourself. Think of the changes for the better that
may come in that time. They shall come, too. I shall share with you all my fortunes, and you
have told me many a time that I was sure to succeed. I pledge you my word that before many
years you shall have good honest men at your feet," and he reasoned with her so sensibly, and
petted and soothed her so kindly, that at last she clung to his arm as if it were a defence
indeed, and said, with tearful eyes, "You ARE a brother in the best sense of the word, and
I wonder you have patience with such a reckless, passionate fool as I am. I'm not fit for you
to speak to."

"No, Belle, you are not bad at heart--far from it. You are half desperate from your present
misfortunes, and in your blind impulse to escape you would make matters infinitely worse. Be
patient, dear. It's a long lane that has no turning. To one so young as you are life promises
very much, if it is not spoiled at the beginning, and Mr. Wentworth would tell us that there
is a heaven beyond it all."

The influence of this interview did not speedily pass from her mind, and by her gentler and
more patient bearing Mildred was taught again how much she owed to one whom she had so long
repelled.

Mr. Wentworth succeeded in interesting the lady to whom he had referred in Mildred, and a visit
from the young girl confirmed her good impressions. As a result, sufficient work was found
or made to give Mildred steady employment. Mr. Jocelyn was comparatively quiet and much at
home. Often he was excessively irritable and exasperating in words and manner, but no longer
violent from bestial excess. He put off the project of going to a curative institution, with
the true opium inertia and procrastination, and all efforts to lead him to definite action
proved fruitless. His presence, however, and his quiet, haughty ways, with Roger's frequent
visits, did much for a time to restrain the ill-disposed people around them, but the inevitable
contact with so much depravity and coarseness was almost unendurable.

Now that Mildred no longer went out to her work, she taxed her ingenuity to the utmost to amuse
Fred and Minnie, that she might keep them from the horrible associations beyond their door,
but her father's irritability often rendered it impossible for them to remain in the room,
and, childlike, they would assimilate somewhat with the little heathen among whom their lot
was now cast.

Poor Mrs. Jocelyn was sinking under her sorrows. She did not complain: she blamed herself with
a growing morbidness for the ruin of her husband and the hard lot of her children, and hope
deferred was making her heart sick indeed. Her refined, gentle nature recoiled with an indescribable
repugnance from her surroundings, and one day she received a shock from which she never fully
recovered.

Her husband was out, and Mildred had gone to deliver some work. The children, whom she tried
to keep with her, broke away at last and left the door open. Before she could close it a drunken
woman stumbled in, and, sinking into a chair, she let a bundle slip from her hands. It fell
on the floor, unrolled, and a dead infant lay before Mrs. Jocelyn's horrified gaze. Her cries
for help brought a stout, red-faced woman from across the hallway, and she seemed to understand
what was such a fearful mystery to Mrs. Jocelyn, for she took the unwelcome intruder by the
shoulder and tried to get her to go out hastily, but the inebriated wretch was beyond shame,
fear, or prudence. Pulling out of her pocket a roll of bills, she exclaimed, in hideous exultation:

"Faix, I'oive had a big day's work. Trhree swell families on the Avenue guv me all this to
burry the brat. Burry it? Divil a bit. It's makin' me fortin'. Cud we ony git dead babbies
enough we'd all be rich, Bridget, but here's enough to kape the pot bilin' for wakes to come,
and guv us a good sup o' whiskey into the bargain. Here, take a drap," she said, pulling out
a black bottle and holding it up to Mrs. Jocelyn. "What yer glowrin' so ghostlike for? Ah,
let me alone, ye ould hag," she said angrily to the red-faced woman, who seemed in great trepidation,
and tried to put her hand over the drunken creature's mouth. "Who's afeard? Money'll buy judge
and jury, an' if this woman peaches on us I'll bate her brains out wid the dead babby."

Finding that words were of no avail, and that she could not move the great inert mass under
which Mrs. Jocelyn's chair was creaking, the neighbor from across the way snatched the money
and retreated to her room. This stratagem had the desired effect, for the woman was not so
intoxicated as to lose her greed, and she followed as hastily as her unsteady steps permitted.
A moment later the red-faced woman dashed in, seized the dead child and its wrappings, and
then shaking her huge fist in Mrs. Jocelyn's face, said, "If yees ever spakes of what yer've
sane, I'll be the death of ye--by the V'argin I will; so mum's the word, or it'll be worse for ye."

When Mildred returned she found her mother nervously prostrated. "I've had a bad turn," was
her only explanation. Her broken spirit was terrified by her awful neighbors, and not for the
world would she add another feather's weight to the burdens under which her family faltered
by involving them in a prosecution of the vile impostor who had sickened her with the exposure
of a horrible trade. [Footnote: This character is not an imaginary one, and, on ample authority,
I was told of an instance where the large sum of fifty dollars was obtained from some kindly
family by this detestable method of imposition.]

"Mamma," cried Mildred, in sharp distress, "we must leave this place. It's killing you."

"I wish we could leave it, dear," sighed the poor woman. "I think I'd be better anywhere else."

"We shall leave it," said the girl resolutely. "Let the rent go. I had already about decided
upon it, and now I'll go with Mrs. Wheaton to-morrow and find rooms among more respectable people."

The events of the evening confirmed her purpose, for the young roughs that rendezvoused nightly
at the entrance of the long passageway determined that they would no longer submit to the "uppish
airs" of the sisters, but "tache 'em" that since they lived in the same house they were no
better than their neighbors.  Therefore, as Belle boldly brushed by them as usual on her return
from the shop, one young fellow, with a wink to his comrades, followed her, and where the passage
was darkest put his arm around her waist and pressed upon her cheek a resounding kiss. In response
there came from the entrance a roar of jeering laughter.  But the young ruffian found instantly
to his sorrow that he had aroused a tigress. Belle was strong and furious from the insult,
and her plump hand came down on the fellow's nose with a force that caused the blood to flow
copiously. After the quick impulse of anger and self-defence passed she ran sobbing like a
child to Mildred, and declared she would not stay another day in the vile den. Mildred was
white with anger, and paced the room excitedly for a few moments.

"Oh, God, that we had a father!" she gasped. "There, Belle, let us be patient," she continued
after a few moments; "we can't contend with such wretches. I promise you that this shall be
your last day in this place. We ought to have left before."

Then, as the girls grew calmer, they resolved not to tell either their father or Roger, fearing
that they might become embroiled in a dangerous and disgraceful quarrel involving their presence
in a police court. Mildred had given her mother a sedative to quiet her trembling nerves, and
she was sleeping in one of the bedrooms, and so happily was not aware of Belle's encounter.

Mr. Jocelyn soon came in, and, for the first time since Mildred's warning, was a little the
worse for liquor, but he had the self-control to keep quiet, and after a few mouthfuls of supper
went to his room overcome by the stupor he had sought. After the children were sleeping the
girls gladly welcomed Roger, for he had become the chief source of light and hope in their
saddened lives. And he did brighten and cheer them wonderfully, for, content with a long and
prosperous day's work, and full of the hopefulness and courage of youth, he imparted hope and
fortitude to them in spite of all that was so depressing.

"Come, girls," he said at last, "you need some oxygen. The air is close and stifling in this
den of a house, and outside the evening is clear and bracing. Let's have a stroll."

"We can't go far," said Mildred, "for mamma is sleeping, and I would not have her wake and
be frightened for anything."

"Well, we'll only go around a block or two. You'll feel the stronger for it, and be in a better
condition to move to-morrow," for Mildred had told him of her purpose, and he had promised
to help them get settled on the following evening. When they reached the end of the dark passage-way
they feared that trouble was brewing, for a score of dark, coarse faces lowered at them, and
the fellow that Belle had punished glared at her above his bandaged face. Paying no heed to
them, however, they took a brief, quick walk, and returned to find the entrance blocked by
an increasing number of dangerous-looking young ruffians.

"Stand aside," said Roger sternly.

A big fellow knocked off his hat in response, and received instantly a blow in the eye which
would have felled him had he not been sustained by the crowd, who now closed on the young man.

"Run up the street and call for police," he said to the girls, but they were snatched back
and held by some of the gang, and hands placed over their mouths, yet not before they had uttered
two piercing cries.

Roger, after a brief, desperate struggle, got his back to the wall and struck blows that were
like those of a sledge-hammer. He was dealing, however, with some fairly trained pugilists,
and was suffering severely, when a policeman rushed in, clubbing right and left. The gang dispersed
instantly, but two were captured. The girls, half fainting from excitement and terror, were
conducted to their room by Roger, and then they applied palliatives to the wounds of their
knight, with a solicitude and affection which made the bruises welcome indeed to the young
fellow. They were in terror at the idea of his departure, for the building was like a seething
caldron. He reassured them by promising to remain until all was quiet, and the police also
informed them that the house would be under surveillance until morning.

On the following day, with Mrs. Wheaton's aid, they found rooms elsewhere, and Roger, after
appearing as witness against the rowdies that had been captured, and informing his employers
of what had occurred, gave the remaining hours to the efficient aid of his friends.

CHAPTER XLI

GLINTS OF SUNSHINE

Their new rooms at first promised remarkably well. They were on the ground-floor of a large
tenement that fronted on a rather narrow street, and their neighbors seemed quiet, well-disposed
people. Mr. Wentworth soon called and congratulated them on the change. Mrs. Wheaton frequently
came to give Mrs. Jocelyn a "'elping 'and," as she phrased it, but her eliminations did not
extend to her work, which was rounded out with the completeness of hearty goodwill. Roger rarely
missed an evening without giving an hour or two to the girls, often taking them out to walk,
with now and then a cheap excursion on the river or a ramble in Central Park. In the latter
resort they usually spent part of Sunday afternoon, going thither directly from the chapel.
Mildred's morbidness was passing away. She had again taken her old class, and her face was
gaining a serenity which had long been absent.

One of the great wishes of her heart now had good prospect of being fulfilled, for her father
had at last consented to go to an institution wherein he could receive scientific treatment
suited to his case. The outlook was growing so hopeful that even Mrs. Jocelyn was rallying
into something like hopefulness and courage, and her health was slowly improving. She was one
whose life was chiefly sustained by her heart and the well-being of those she loved.

Belle also was improving greatly. The memorable interview with Roger, already described, had
a lasting influence, and did much to banish the giddiness of unthinking, ignorant girlhood,
and the recklessness arising from an unhappy life. Now that the world was brightening again,
she brightened with it. Among his new associates Roger found two or three fine, manly fellows,
who were grateful indeed for an introduction to the handsome, lively girl, and scarcely a week
passed during May and June that some inexpensive evening excursion was not enjoyed, and thoroughly
enjoyed too, even by Mildred. Roger was ever at his best when in her society. His talk was
bright and often witty, and his spirit of fun as genuine and contagious as that of Belle herself.
He was now sincerely happy in the consciousness of Mildred's perfect trust and strong affection,
believing that gradually, and even before the girl was aware of it, she would learn to give
more than friendship. It was his plan to make himself essential to her life, indeed a part
of it, and he was apparently succeeding. Mildred had put her fate into his hands. She felt
that she owed so much to him that she was ready to keep her promise literally. At any time
for months he might have bound her to him by promises that would never have been broken; he
knew it, and she was aware of his knowledge, but when, instead of taking advantage of her gratitude,
he avoided all sentiment, and treated her with a cordial frankness as if she were in truth
simply the friend he had asked her to become, all of her old constraint in his presence was
unthought of, and she welcomed the glances of his dark, intent eyes, which interpreted her
thoughts even before they were spoken. The varying expressions of his face made it plain enough
to her that he liked and appreciated her thoughts, and that his admiration and affection were
only strengthened by their continued companionship. Moreover, she was well content with what
she regarded as her own progress toward a warmer regard for him.

One moonlight night in June they made up a little party for an excursion on a steamer plying
down the Bay. Belle had had two attendants, and would have been just as well pleased had there
been two or three more. As she once asserted, she could have kept them "all jolly." During
the earlier hours Roger had been as merry and full of nonsense as Belle, but on their return
he and Mildred had taken seats a little apart from the others and drifted into some talk relating
to one of his studies, he in a simple, lucid manner explaining to her the latest theories on
a disputed question. She surprised and pleased him by saying, with a little pathetic accent
in her voice,

"Oh, Roger, you are leaving me far, far behind."

"What do you mean, Millie?"

"Why, you are climbing the peaks of knowledge at a great pace, and what's to become of poor
little me, that have no chance to climb at all worth naming? You won't want a friend who doesn't
know anything, and can't understand what you are thinking about."

"I'll wait for you, Millie; rest assured you shall never be left alone."

"No, that won't do at all," she replied, and she was in earnest now. "There is one thing wherein
you will find me as obstinate as an Atwood, and that is never to let our friendship retard
your progress or render your success doubtful, now that you have struck out for yourself. Your
relatives think that I--that we shall be a drag upon you; I have resolved that we shall not
be, and you know that I have a little will of my own as well as yourself. You must not wait
for me in any sense of the word, for you know how very proud I am, and all my pride is staked
on your success. It ought to have been dead long ago, but it seems just as strong as ever."

"And I'm proud of your pride. You are a soldier, Millie, and it isn't possible for you to say,
'I surrender.'"

"You are mistaken. When you saved me from prison; when you gave nearly all you had that papa
might have the chance which I trust will restore his manhood, I surrendered, and no one knew
it better than you did."

"Pardon me, Millie; the gates of the citadel were closed, and ever have been. Even your will
cannot open them no, not even your extravagant sense of gratitude for what it would be my happiness
to do in any case. That something which was once prejudice, dislike, repulsion, has retreated
into the depths of your heart, and it won't yield--at least it hasn't yet. But, Millie, I shall
be very patient. Just as truly as if you were the daughter of a millionaire, your heart shall
guide your action."

"You are a royal fellow, Roger," she faltered. "If you were not so genuinely honest, I should
think you wonderfully shrewd in your policy."

"Well, perhaps the honest course is always the shrewdest in the long run," he replied laughingly,
and with a deep gladness in his tone, for her words gave a little encouragement. "But your
charge that I am leaving you behind as I pursue my studies has a grain of truth in it as far
as mere book learning goes. In your goodness, Millie, and all that is most admirable, I shall
always follow afar off. Since I can't wait for you, as you say, and you have so little time
to read and study yourself, I am going to recite my lessons to you--that is, some of them,
those that would interest you--and by telling you about what I have learned I shall fix it
all in my mind more thoroughly."

Mildred was exceedingly pleased with the idea. "I don't see why this isn't possible to some
extent," she said gladly, "and I can't tell you how much hope and comfort it gives me. That
I've had so little time to read and cultivate my mind has been one of the great privations
of our poverty, but if you will patiently try to make me understand a little of what you are
studying, I won't relapse into barbarism. Oh, Roger, how good you are to me!"

"That is like saying, How good I am to myself! Let me tell you, Millie, in all sincerity, that
this plan promises as much for me as for you. Your mind is so quick, and you look at things
so differently, that I often get new and better ideas of the subject after talking it over
with you. The country boy that you woke up last summer was right in believing that you could
be an invaluable friend, for I can't tell you how much richer life has become to me."

"Roger, how I misunderstood you! How blind and stupid I was! God was raising up for me the
best friend a girl ever had, and I acted so shamefully that anybody but you would have been
driven away."

"You do yourself injustice, and I wouldn't let any one else judge you so harshly."

After reaching her room that night, Mildred thought, "I do believe mamma was right, and that
an old-fashioned Southern girl, such as she says that I am, can learn to love a second time.
Roger is so genuinely good and strong! It rests me to be with him, and he gives some of his
own strength and courage. To-night, for the first time since he told me everything so gently
and honestly, has anything been said of that which I can see is in his mind all the time, and
I brought on all that was said myself. I can now read his thoughts better than he can read
mine, and it would be mean not to give him a little of the hope and encouragement that he so
richly deserves. It troubles me, however, that my mind and heart are so tranquil when I'm with
him. That's not the way I once felt," she sighed. "He seems like the dearest brother a girl
ever had--no, not that exactly; he is to me the friend he calls himself, and I'd be content
to have things go on this way as long as we lived."

"Millie," cried Belle roguishly, "what did Roger say to you to call out such sweet smiles and
tender sighs?"

The young girl started, and flushed slightly. "We were talking about astronomy," she said brusquely.

"Well, I should think so, for the effects in your appearance are heavenly. If he could have
seen you as you have appeared for the last ten minutes, he would be more desperately in love
than ever. Oh, Millie, you are so pretty that I am half in love with you myself."

"Nonsense! you are a giddy child. Tell me about your own favorites, and which of them you like
best."

"I like them all best. Do you think I'm going to be such a little goose as to tie myself down
to one? These are but the advance guard of scores. Still I shall always like these ones best
because they are kind to me now while I'm only a 'shop-lady,'"

"You mustn't flirt, Belle."

"I'm not flirting--only having a good time, and they know it. I'm not a bit sentimental--only
jolly, you know. When the right time comes, and I've had my fun, I'm going to take my pick
of the best."

"Well, that's sensible. Belle, darling, are not Roger's friends better than those underhanded
fellows who could not look mamma in the eyes?"

"Oh, Millie," said the impulsive girl with a rush of tears, "don't speak of those horrid days.
I was an ignorant, reckless fool--I was almost beside myself with despair and unhappiness;
I could kiss Roger's hands from gratitude. Look here, Millie, if you don't marry him I will,
for there's no one that can compare with him."

"Come, now, don't make me jealous."

"I wish I could. I've a great mind to flirt with him a little, just to wake up your old stupid
heart. Still I think you are coming on very well. Oh, Millie, how I could dance at your wedding!
Solid as I am, my feet would scarcely touch the floor."

Mildred laughed, and said softly, "It would be a pity to deny you so much pleasure, Belle."
Then she added resolutely, "No more talk about weddings, if you please. For long, long years
Roger must give his whole mind to his studies. His relatives say that we shall hang helplessly
upon him and spoil his life, but we'll prove them mistaken, Belle. I'd work my fingers off
to give him the chance that he'll make so much of, for I'm as proud of him as you are."

"That's the way to talk," exulted Belle. "I see how it's all coming out. He'll stand up head,
as I told you, and I told you, too, that he'd win you in spite of yourself. Roger Atwood does
all he undertakes--it's his way."

"Well, we'll see," was the half-smiling, half-sighing answer; but sanguine Belle had no doubt
concerning the future, and soon her long eyelashes drooped over her glowing cheeks in untroubled
sleep.

"Oh, how good for us all is the sunlight of a little happiness and hope!" Mildred thought.
"Darling mamma is reviving, Belle is blossoming like a blush rose, and I--well, thank God for
Roger Atwood's friendship. May I soon be able to thank Him for his love."

Ah, Mildred Jocelyn, you have still much to learn. A second love can grow up in the heart,
but not readily in one like yours.

Within a month from the time that Mr. Jocelyn entered a curative institution, he returned to
his family greatly changed for the better. His manner toward his family was full of remorseful
tenderness, and he was eager to retrieve his fortunes. They welcomed him with such a wealth
of affection, they cheered and sustained him in so many delicate and sympathetic ways, that
he wondered at the evil spell which had bound him so long and made him an alien among those
so lovable and so dearly beloved. He now felt sure that he would devote body and soul to their
welfare for the rest of his days, and he could not understand why or how it was that he had
been so besotted. The intense sufferings during the earlier stage of his treatment at the institution
made him shrink with horror from the bare thought of his old enslavement, and during the first
weeks after his return he did not dream it was possible that he could relapse, although he
had been warned of his danger. His former morbid craving was often fearfully strong, but he
fought it with a vindictive hatred, and his family, in their deep gladness and inexperience,
felt assured that husband and father had been restored to them.

It seemed as if he could not thank Roger enough, and his eyes grew eloquent with gratitude
when the young fellow's name was mentioned, and when they rested on his bright, honest face.
Mr.  Wentworth went out among his business friends, and so interested one of them that a position
was in a certain sense made for the poor man, and although the salary was small at first, the
prospect for its increase was good if he would maintain his abstinence and prove that he had
not lost his old fine business powers. This he bade so fair to do that hope and confidence
grew stronger every day, and they felt that before very long they would be able to move into
more commodious quarters, situated in a better part of the city, for by reason of the neglect
of the streets and sewerage on the part of the authorities, the locality in which they now
were was found to be both very disagreeable and unwholesome. They would have removed at once,
but they were eager to repay Roger the money he had loaned them, although he protested against
their course. Not realizing their danger, and in the impulse of their pride and integrity,
they remained, practicing the closest economy.

Early in July, Roger obtained a vacation, and went home on a visit, proposing to harden his
muscles by aiding his father through the harvest season. He was so helpful and so kind and
considerate that even grim, disappointed Mr. Atwood was compelled to admit that his boy had
become a man. Mrs. Atwood tenderly and openly exulted over him, and, obeying her impulse, she
wrote a friendly letter to Mildred, which made the young girl very happy.

Susan became more than reconciled to Roger's course, for he promised that some day she should
often come to the city and have splendid times. Clara Bute bad become the happy wife of a well-to-do
farmer, and she sent an urgent request to Belle and Mildred to visit her. The latter would
not leave her parents, but Belle accepted gladly, and the gay, frolicsome girl left more than
one mild heartache among the rural beaux that vied with each other in their attentions.

CHAPTER XLII

HOPES GIVEN AND SLAIN

The skies seemed serene and bright, with promise to all for many happy days, but clouds were
gathering below the horizon, and, most unexpectedly to him, the first bolt fell upon Roger.
A day or two before his return to the city he found at the village office a letter with a foreign
post-mark, addressed, in his care, to Miss Mildred Jocelyn. He knew the handwriting instantly,
and he looked at the missive as if it contained his death-warrant. It was from Vinton Arnold.
As he rode away he was desperately tempted to destroy the letter, and never breathe a word
of its existence. He hoped and half believed that Mildred was learning to love him, and he
was sure that if Arnold did not appear he would win all that he craved. The letter, which he
had touched as if it contained nitro-glycerine, might slay every hope. Indeed he believed that
it would, for he understood Mildred better than she understood herself. She believed that Arnold
had given her up. Her heart had become benumbed with its own pain, and was sleeping after its
long, weary waiting. He was sure, however, that if not interfered with he could awaken it at
last to content and happiness. This letter, however, might be the torch which would kindle
the old love with tenfold intensity. Long hours he fought his temptation like a gladiator,
for fine as had been Mildred's influence over him, he was still intensely human. At last he
gained the victory, and went home quiet, but more exhausted than he had ever been from a long
hot day's toil in the harvest-field. He had resolved to keep absolute faith with Mildred, and
having once reached a decision he was not one to waver.

As his mother kissed him good-by she held him off a moment, then whispered, "Roger, Miss Jocelyn
has given you something better than all your uncle's money. I am content that it should be
as it is."

On the afternoon of the day of his arrival in the city he went to meet his fate. Mrs. Jocelyn
greeted him like the mother he had just left, and Mildred's glad welcome made him groan inwardly.
Never before had she appeared so beautiful to him--never had her greeting been so tinged with
her deepening regard. And yet she looked inquiringly at him from time to time, for he could
not wholly disguise the fear that chilled his heart.

