A few flat wooden dishes are the only implements the native does not find ready-made in nature.
Cooking is done with heated stones heaped around the food, which has been previously wrapped
up in banana leaves. Lime-stones naturally cannot be used for that purpose, and volcanic stones
have often to be brought from quite a distance, so that these cooking-stones are treated with
some care. In place of knives the natives use shells or inland bamboo-splinters, but both are
rapidly being replaced by European knives.

On approaching a village we are first frightened by a few pigs, which run away grunting and
scolding into the thicket. Then a pack of dogs announce our arrival, threatening us with hypocritical
zeal. A few children, playing in the dirt among the pigs, jump up and run away, then slowly
return, take us by the hand and stare into our faces. At noon we will generally find all the
men assembled in the gamal making "lap-lap." Lap-lap is the national dish of the natives of
the New Hebrides; quite one-fifth part of their lives is spent in making and eating lap-lap.
The work is not strenuous. The cook sits on the ground and rubs the fruit, yam or taro, on
a piece of rough coral or a palm-sheath, thus making a thick paste, which is wrapped up in
banana leaves and cooked between stones. After a few hours' cooking it looks like a thick pudding
and does not taste at all bad. For flavouring, cocoa-nut milk is poured over it, or it is mixed
with cabbage, grease, nuts, roasted and ground, or occasionally with maggots. Besides this
principal dish, sweet potatoes, manioc, bread-fruit, pineapples, bananas, etc., are eaten in
season, and if the natives were less careless, they would never need to starve, as frequently
happens.

The men are not much disturbed by our arrival. They offer us a log to sit on, and continue
to rub their yam, talking us over the while. They seem to be a very peaceful and friendly crowd,
yet in this district they are particularly cruel and treacherous, and only a few days after
my departure war broke out. The gamal is bare, except for a few wooden dishes hanging in the
roof, and weapons of all kinds, not in full sight, but ready at any moment. We can see rifles,
arrows and clubs. The clubs are very simple, either straight or curved sticks. Old pieces are
highly valued, and carry marks indicating how many victims have been killed with them: I saw
one club with sixty-seven of these marks. In former years the spear with about two hundred
and fifty points of human bones was much used, but is now quite replaced by the rifle. The
bones for spear-points and arrow-heads are taken from the bodies of dead relatives and high-castes.
The corpse is buried in the house, and when it is decayed the bones of the limbs are dug out,
split, polished and used for weapons. The idea is that the courage and skill of the dead man
may be transmitted to the owner of the weapon, also, that the dead man may take revenge on
his murderer, as every death is considered to have been caused by some enemy. These bones are
naturally full of the poisons of the corpse, and may cause tetanus at the slightest scratch.
On the arrows they are extremely sharp and only slightly attached to the wood, so that they
stick in the flesh and increase the inflammation. Besides, they are often dipped in some special
poison.

All over the archipelago the arrows are very carefully made, and almost every island has its
own type, although they all resemble each other. Many are covered at the point with a fine
spiral binding, and the small triangles thus formed are painted in rows--red, green and white.
Much less care is bestowed on the fish- and bird-arrows, which are three-pointed as a rule,
and often have no point at all, but only a knob, so as to stun the bird and not to stick in
the branches of the trees.

Shields are unknown. It would seem that the arrow was not, as elsewhere, the principal weapon,
but rather the spear and club, and the wars were not very deadly, as the natives' skill in
handling their weapons was equalled by their skill in dodging them.

Having inspected the gamal, we received from the highest caste present a gift of some yam,
or taro, which we requited with some sticks of tobacco. The length of the gamal depends on
the caste of the chief who builds it. I saw a gamal 60 mètres long, and while this length seems
senseless to-day, because of the scanty population, it was necessary in former days, when the
number of a man's followers rose with his rank. Not many years ago these houses were filled
at night with sleeping warriors, each with his weapons at hand, ready for a fight. To-day these
long, dark, deserted houses are too dismal for the few remaining men, so that they generally
build a small gamal beside the big one.

To have killed a man, no matter in what way, is a great honour, and gives the right to wear
a special plume of white and black feathers. Such plumes are not rare in Port Olry.

Each man has his own fire, and cooks his own food; for, as I have said, it would mean the loss
of caste to eat food cooked on the fire of a lower caste. Women are considered unworthy to
cook a man's meal; in fact, their standing here is probably the lowest in all the archipelago.
Still, they do not lack amusement; they gather like the men for social carousals, and are giggling
and chattering all day long. Their principal occupation is the cultivation of the fields, but
where Nature is so open-handed this is not such a task as we might think when we see them coming
home in the afternoon, panting under an immense load of fruit, with a pile of firewood on top,
a child on their back and possibly dragging another by the hand. Port Olry is the only place
in the New Hebrides where the women carry loads on their heads. Everywhere else they carry
them on their backs in baskets of cocoa-nut leaves. In consequence the women here are remarkable
for their erect and supple carriage.

The work in the fields consists merely of digging out the yam and picking other fruit, and
it is a sociable affair, with much talking and laughter. There is always something to eat,
such as an unripe cocoa-nut or a banana. Serious work is not necessary except at the planting
season, when the bush has to be cleared. Then a whole clan usually works together, the men
helping quite energetically, until the fields are fenced in and ready for planting; then they
hold a feast, a big "kai-kai," and leave the rest of the work to the women. The fences are
made to keep out the pigs, and are built in the simplest way: sticks of the wild cotton-wood
tree, which grows rankly everywhere, are stuck into the ground at short intervals; they immediately
begin to sprout, and after a short time form a living and impenetrable hedge. But they last
much longer than is necessary, so that everywhere the fences of old gardens bar the road and
force the traveller to make endless detours, all the more so as the natives have a way of making
their fields right across the paths whenever it suits them.

The number of women here amounts only to about one-fourth of that of the men. One reason for
this is the custom of killing all the widows of a chief, a custom which was all the more pernicious
as the chiefs, as a rule, owned most of the young females, while the young men could barely
afford to buy an old widow. Happily this custom is dying out, owing to the influence of the
planters and missionaries; they appealed, not unwisely, to the sensuality of the young men,
who were thus depriving themselves of the women. Strange to say, the women were not altogether
pleased with this change, many desiring to die, for fear they might be haunted by the offended
spirit of their husband.

When a chief died, the execution did not take place at once. The body was exposed in a special
little hut in the thicket, and left to decay, which process was hastened by the climate and
the flies. Then a death-feast was prepared, and the widows, half frantic with mad dancing and
howling, were strangled.

Ordinary people are buried in their own houses, which generally decay afterwards. Often the
widow had to sleep beside the decaying body for one hundred days.

Being short of boys, I could not visit many of the villages inland, and I stayed on at the
mission station, where there was generally something for me to do, as the natives frequently
came loitering about the station. I made use of their presence as much as possible for anthropological
measurements, but I could not always find willing subjects. Everything depends on the humour
of the crowd; if they make fun of the first victim, the case is lost, as no second man is willing
to be the butt of the innumerable gibes showered on the person under the instruments. Things
are more favourable if it is only fear of some dangerous enchantment that holds them back,
for then persuasion and liberal gifts of tobacco generally overcome their fears. The best subjects
are those who pretend to understand the scientific meaning of the operation, or the utterly
indifferent, who never think about it at all, are quite surprised to be suddenly presented
with tobacco, and go home, shaking their heads over the many queer madnesses of white men.
I took as many photographs as possible, and my pictures made quite a sensation. Once, when
I showed his portrait to one of the dandies with the oiled and curled wig, he ran away with
a cry of terror at his undreamt-of ugliness, and returned after a short while with his hair
cut. His deformed nose, however, resisted all attempts at restoration.

The natives showed great reluctance in bringing me skulls and skeletons. As the bones decay
very quickly in the tropics, only skulls of people recently deceased can be had. The demon,
or soul, of the dead is supposed to be too lively as yet to be wantonly offended; in any case,
one dislikes to disturb one's own relatives, while there is less delicacy about those of others.
Still, in course of time, I gathered quite a good collection of skulls at the station. They
were brought carefully wrapped up in leaves, fastened with lianas, and tied to long sticks,
with which the bearer held the disgusting object as far from him as possible. The bundles were
laid down, and the people watched with admiring disgust as I untied the ropes and handled the
bones as one would any other object. Everything that had touched the bones became to the natives
an object of the greatest awe; still they enjoyed pushing the leaves that had wrapped them
up under the feet of an unsuspecting friend, who presently, warned of the danger, escaped with
a terrified shriek and a wild jump. It would seem that physical disgust had as much to do with
all this as religious fear, although the natives show none of this disgust at handling the
remains of pigs. Naturally, the old men were the most superstitious; the young ones were more
emancipated, some of them even going the length of picking up a bone with their toes.

Most of them had quite a similar dread of snakes, but some men handled them without much fear,
and brought me large specimens, which they had caught in a sling and then wrapped up in leaves.
While I killed and skinned a big snake, a large crowd always surrounded me, ever ready for
flight, and later my boys chased them with the empty skin, a performance which always ended
in great laughing and dancing.

I had been in Port Olry for three weeks, waiting anxiously every day for the Marie-Henry, which
was to bring the luggage I had left behind at the Segond Channel. My outfit began to be insufficient;
what I needed most was chemicals for the preservation of my zoological specimens, which I had
plenty of time and occasion to collect here. One day the Marie-Henry, a large schooner, arrived,
but my luggage had been forgotten. I was much disappointed, as I saw no means of recovering
it in the near future. The Marie-Henry was bound for Talamacco, in Big Bay, and took the Rev.
Father and myself along.

One of the passengers was Mr. F., a planter and trader in Talamacco, and we soon became good
friends with him and some of the others. Mr. F. was very kind, and promised to use all his
influence to help me find boys. The weather was bad, and we had to tack about all night; happily,
we were more comfortable on the big schooner than on the little cutters. At Talamacco Mr. F.
offered us his hospitality, and as it rained continually, we were very glad to stay in his
house, spending the time in sipping gin and winding up a hoarse gramophone. Thus two lazy days
passed, during which our host was constantly working for me, sending his foreman, the "moli,"
to all the neighbouring villages, with such good results that at last I was able to engage
four boys for two months. I took them on board at once, well pleased to have the means, at
last, of moving about independently.

We sailed in the evening, and when, next morning, we rounded Cape Quiros, we found a heavy
sea, so that the big ship pitched and ploughed with dull hissing through the foaming waves.
She lay aslant under the pressure of the wind that whistled in the rigging, and the full curve
of the great sails was a fine sight; but it was evident that the sails and ropes were in a
very rotten condition, and soon, with anxious looks, we followed the growth of a tear in the
mainsail, wondering whether the mast would stand the strain. A heavy sea broke the rudder,
and altogether it was high time to land when we entered Port Olry in the late afternoon.

A few days later I started for Hog Harbour, for the plantation of the Messrs. Th., near which
I meant to attend a great feast, or "sing-sing." This meant a march of several hours through
the bush. My boys had all put on their best finery,--trousers, shirts, gay handkerchiefs,--and
had painted their hair with fresh lime.

"Well, boys, are you ready?" "Yes, Masta," they answer, with conviction, though they are far
from ready, as they are still tying their bundles. After waiting a while, I say, "Well, me,
me go." They answer, "All right, you go." I take a few steps and wait again. One of them appears
in front of the hut to look for a stick to hang his bundle on, another cannot find his pipe;
still, after a quarter of an hour, we can really start. The boys sing and laugh, but as we
enter the forest darkness they suddenly become quiet, as if the sternness of the bush oppressed
their souls. We talk but little, and only in undertones. These woods have none of the happy,
sensuous luxuriance which fancy lends to every tropical forest; there is a harshness, a selfish
struggle for the first place among the different plants, a deadly battling for air and light.
Giant trees with spreading crowns suppress everything around, kill every rival and leave only
small and insignificant shrubs alive. Between them, smaller trees strive for light; on tall,
straight, thin stems they have secured a place and developed a crown. Others look for light
in roundabout ways, making use of every gap their neighbours leave, and rise upward in soft
coils. All these form a high roof, under which younger and weaker plants lead a skimped life--hardwood
trees on thin trunks, with small, unassuming leaves, and vulgar softwood with large, flabby
foliage. Around and across all this wind the parasites, lianas, rotang, some stretched like
ropes from one trunk to another, some rising in elegant curves from the ground, some attached
to other trunks and sucking out their life with a thousand roots, others interlaced in the
air in distorted curves. All these grow and thrive on the bodies of former generations on the
damp, mouldy ground, where leaves rot and trunks decay, and where it is always wet, as never
a sunbeam can strike in so far.

Thus it is sad in the forest, and strangely quiet, as in a churchyard, for not even the wind
can penetrate the green surface. It passes rushing through the crowns, so that sometimes we
catch an upward glimpse of bright yellow sunshine as though out of a deep gully. And as men
in sternest fight are silent, using all their energy for one purpose, so here there is no sign
of gay and happy life, there are no flowers or coloured leaves, but the endless, dull green,
in an infinity of shapes.

Even the animals seem to shun the dark forest depths; only on the highest trees a few pigeons
bathe in the sun, and as they fly heavily over the wood, their call sounds, melancholy as a
sad dream, from afar. A lonely butterfly flutters among the trees, a delicate being, unused
to this dark world, seeking in vain for a ray of sun and a breath of fresh air. Sometimes we
hear the grunt of an invisible pig, the breaking of branches and the rustling of leaves as
it runs away. Moisture and lowering gloom brood over the swampy earth; one would not be surprised
if suddenly the ground were to move and wriggle like slimy snakes tightly knotted around each
other. Thorns catch the limbs, vines catch the feet, and the wanderer, stumbling along, almost
fancies he can hear the spiteful laughter of malicious demons. One feels tired, worried, unsafe,
as if in an enemy's country, helplessly following the guide, who walks noiselessly on the soft
ground. With a branch he sweeps aside the innumerable spider-webs that droop across the path,
to keep them from hanging in our faces. Silently the other men follow behind; once in a while
a dry branch snaps or a trunk creaks.

In this dark monotony we go on for hours, without an outlook, and seemingly without purpose
or direction, on a hardly visible path, in an endless wilderness. We pass thousands of trees,
climb over hundreds of fallen trunks and brush past millions of creepers. Sometimes we enter
a clearing, where a giant tree has fallen or a village used to stand. Sometimes great coral
rocks lie in the thicket; the pools at their foot are a wallowing-place for pigs.

It is a confusing walk; one feels quite dizzy with the constantly passing stems and branches,
and a white man would be lost in this wilderness without the native, whose home it is. He sees
everything, every track of beast or bird, and finds signs on every tree and vine, peculiarities
of shape or grouping, which he recognizes with unerring certainty. He describes the least suggestion
of a trail, a footprint, or a knife-cut, or a torn leaf. As the white man finds his way about
a city by means of street signs, so the savage reads his directions in the forest from the
trees and the ground. He knows every plant and its uses, the best wood for fires; he knows
when he may expect to find water, and which liana makes the strongest rope. Yet even he seems
to feel something of the appalling loneliness of the primeval forest.

Our path leads steeply up and down, over loose coral blocks, between ferns and mosses; lianas
serve as ropes to help us climb over coral rocks, and with our knives we hew a passage through
thorny creepers and thick bush. The road runs in zigzags, sometimes turning back to go round
fallen trunks and swampy places, so that we really walk three or four times the distance to
Hog Harbour. Our guide uses his bush-knife steadily and to good purpose: he sees where the
creepers interlace and which branch is the chief hindrance, and in a few deft cuts the tangle
falls.

At last--it seems an eternity since we dived into the forest--we hear from afar, through the
green walls, a dull roaring, and as we go on, we distinguish the thunder of the breakers like
the beating of a great pulse. Suddenly the thicket lightens, and we stand on the beach, blinded
by the splendour of light that pours on us, but breathing freely in the fresh air that blows
from the far horizon. We should like to stretch out on the sand and enjoy the free space after
the forest gloom; but after a short rest we go on, for this is only half-way to our destination,
and we dive once more into the semi-darkness.

Towards evening we reach the plantation of the Messrs. Th. They are Australians of good family,
and their place is splendidly kept. I was struck by the cleanliness of the whole establishment,
the good quarters of the native labourers, the quiet way in which work was done, the pleasant
relations between masters and hands, and last, but not least, the healthy and happy appearance
of the latter.

The brothers had just finished the construction of what was quite a village, its white lime
walls shining invitingly through the green of the cocoa-nut palms. There was a large kitchen,
a storehouse, a tool-shed, a bakery, a dwelling-house and a light, open summer-house, a delightful
spot, where we dined in the cool sea-breeze and sipped whisky in the moonlight, while the palm-leaves
waved dreamily. Then there was a large poultry yard, pigsty and paddocks, and along the beach
were the boat-houses, drying-sheds and storehouses, shaded by old trees. The boys' quarters
were roomy, eight sleeping together in an airy hut, while the married couples had houses of
their own. The boys slept on high beds, each with his "bocase" underneath, to hold his possessions,
while all sorts of common property hung in the roof--nets, fish-spears, bows, guns, etc.

Such plantations, where the natives lack neither food nor good treatment, can only have a favourable
influence on the race, and it is not quite clear why the Presbyterian missionaries do not like
their young men to go in for plantation work. Owing to the good treatment of their hands the
Messrs. Th. have always had enough labourers, and have been able to develop their plantation
wonderfully. It consists almost exclusively of cocoa-nut palms, planted on ground wrested from
the forest in a hard fight. When I was there the trees were not yet in full bearing, but the
proprietors had every reason to expect a very considerable income in a few years. The cultivation
of the cocoa-nut is extremely simple; the only hard work is the first clearing of the ground,
and keeping the young trees free from lianas. Once they are grown up, they are able to keep
down the bush themselves to a certain extent, and then the work consists in picking up the
ripe nuts from the ground, husking and drying them. The net profit from one tree is estimated
at one shilling per annum. Besides the cultivation of their plantation the Messrs. Th. plied
a flourishing trade in coprah and sandalwood all along the west coast of Santo, which they
visited frequently in their cutter. This same cutter was often a great help to me, and, indeed,
her owners always befriended me in the most generous way, and many are the pleasant hours I
spent in their company.

After dinner that first day we went to the village where the "sing-sing" was to take place.
There was no moon, and the night was pitch dark. The boys had made torches of palm-leaves,
which they kept burning by means of constant swinging. They flared up in dull, red flames,
lighting up the nearest surroundings, and we wound our way upwards through the trunk vines
and leaves that nearly shut in the path. It seemed as if we were groping about without a direction,
as if looking for a match in a dark room. Soon, however, we heard the dull sound of the drums,
and the noise led us to the plateau, till we could see the red glare of a fire and hear the
rough voices of men and the shrill singing of women.

Unnoticed, we entered the dancing-ground. A number of men were standing in a circle round a
huge fire, their silhouettes cutting sharply into the red glare. Out of a tangle of clubs,
rifles, plumes, curly wigs, round heads, bows and violently gesticulating arms, sounds an irregular
shrieking, yelling, whistling and howling, uniting occasionally to a monotonous song. The men
stamp the measure, some begin to whirl about, others rush towards the fire; now and then a
huge log breaks in two and crowns the dark, excited crowd with a brilliant column of circling
sparks. Then everybody yells delightedly, and the shouting and dancing sets in with renewed
vigour. Everyone is hoarse, panting and covered with perspiration, which paints light streaks
on the sooty faces and bodies.

Noticing us, a man rushes playfully towards us, threateningly swinging his club, his eyes and
teeth shining in the darkness; then he returns to the shouting, dancing mob around the fire.
Half-grown boys sneak through the crowd; they are the most excited of all, and stamp the ground
wildly with their disproportionately large feet, kicking and shrieking in unpleasant ecstasy.
All this goes on among the guests; the hosts keep a little apart, near a scaffolding, on which
yams are attached. The men circle slowly round this altar, carrying decorated bamboos, with
which they mark the measure, stamping them on the ground with a thud. They sing a monotonous
tune, one man starting and the others joining in; the dance consists of slow, springy jumps
from one foot to the other.

On two sides of this dancing circle the women stand in line, painted all over with soot. When
the men's deep song is ended, they chant the same melody with thin, shrill voices. Once in
a while they join in the dance, taking a turn with some one man, then disappearing; they are
all much excited; only a few old hags stand apart, who are past worldly pleasures, and have
known such feasts for many, many years.

The whole thing looks grotesque and uncanny, yet the pleasure in mere noise and dancing is
childish and harmless. The picture is imposing and beautiful in its simplicity, gruesome in
its wildness and sensuality, and splendid with the red lights which play on the shining, naked
bodies. In the blackness of the night nothing is visible but that red-lit group of two or three
hundred men, careless of to-morrow, given up entirely to the pleasure of the moment. The spectacle
lasts all night, and the crowd becomes more and more wrought up, the leaps of the dancers wilder,
the singing louder. We stand aside, incapable of feeling with these people or sharing their
joy, realizing that theirs is a perfectly strange atmosphere which will never be ours.

Towards morning we left, none too early, for a tremendous shower came down and kept on all
next morning. I went up to the village again, to find a most dismal and dejected crowd. Around
the square, in the damp forest, seedy natives stood and squatted in small groups, shivering
with cold and wet. Some tried to warm themselves around fires, but with poor success. Bored
and unhappy, they stared at us as we passed, and did not move. Women and children had made
umbrellas of large flat leaves, which they carried on their heads; the soot which had formed
their festival dress was washed off by the rain. The square itself was deserted, save for a
pack of dogs and a few little boys, rolling about in the mud puddles. Once in a while an old
man would come out of the gamal, yawn and disappear. In short, it was a lendemain de fête of
the worst kind.

About once in a quarter of an hour a man would come to bring a tusked pig to the chief, who
danced a few times round the animal, stamped his heel on the ground, uttered certain words,
and retired with short, stiff steps, shaking his head, into the gamal. The morning was over
by the time all the pigs were ready. I spent most of the time out of doors, rather than in
the gamal, for there many of the dancers of the evening lay in all directions and in most uncomfortable
positions, beside and across each other, snoring, shivering or staring sulkily into dark corners.
I was offered a log to sit on, and it might have been quite acceptable had not one old man,
trembling with cold, pressed closely against me to get warm, and then, half asleep, attempted
to lay his shaggy, oil-soaked head on my shoulder, while legions of starved fleas attacked
my limbs, forcing me to beat a hasty though belated retreat.

In the afternoon about sixty pigs were tied to poles in front of the gamal, and the chief took
an old gun-barrel and smashed their heads. They represented a value of about six hundred pounds!
Dogs and men approached the quivering victims, the dogs to lick the blood that ran out of their
mouths, the men to carry the corpses away for the feast. This was the prosaic end of the great
"sing-sing."

As it is not always easy to borrow the number of pigs necessary to rise in caste, there are
charms which are supposed to help in obtaining them. Generally, these are curiously shaped
stones, sometimes carved in the shape of a pig, and are carried in the hand or in little baskets
in the belt. Such charms are, naturally, very valuable, and are handed down for generations
or bought for large sums. On this occasion the "big fellow-master" had sacrificed enough to
attain a very high caste indeed, and had every reason to hold up his head with great pride.

Formerly, these functions were generally graced with a special feature, in the shape of the
eating of a man. As far as is known, the last cannibal meal took place in 1906; the circumstances
were these: Some young men were walking through the forest, carrying their Snider rifles, loaded
and cocked as usual, on their shoulders. Unluckily, one of the rifles went off, and killed
the man behind, the son of an influential native. Everyone was aware that the death was purely
accidental, but the father demanded a considerable indemnity. The "murderer," a poor and friendless
youth, was unable to pay, and fled to a neighbouring village. He was received kindly enough,
but his hosts sent secretly to the offended father to ask what they were to do with him. "Kill
him and eat him," was the reply. They therefore prepared a great feast, in honour, as they
said, of their beloved guest, and while he was sitting cheerfully near the fire, in anticipation
of the good meal to come, they killed him from behind with an axe. The body was roasted, and
the people of his village were asked to the feast. One man had received the forearm and hand,
and while he was chewing the muscles and pulling away at the inflectors of the fingers, the
hand closed and scratched his cheek,--"all same he alive,"--whereupon the horrified guest threw
his morsel away and fled into the forest.

On my return to Port Olry I found that the Father had gone to visit a colleague, as his duties
did not take up much of his time. His post at Port Olry was rather a forlorn hope, as the natives
showed no inclination to become converts, especially not in connection with the poor Roman
Catholic mission, which could not offer them any external advantages, like the rich and powerful
Presbyterian mission. All the priests lived in the greatest poverty, in old houses, with very
few servants. The one here had, besides a teacher from Malekula, an old native who had quarrelled
with his chief and separated from his clan. The good man was very anxious to marry, but no
girl would have him, as he had had two wives, and had, quite without malice, strangled his
second wife by way of curing her of an illness. I was reminded of this little episode every
time I looked at the man's long, bony fingers.

One day a native asked me for medicine for his brother. I tried to find out the nature of the
ailment, and decided to give him calomel, urging his brother to take it to him at once. The
man had eaten a quarter of a pig all by himself, but, of course, it was said that he had been
poisoned. His brother, instead of hurrying home, had a little visit with his friends at the
coast, until it was dark and he was afraid to go home through the bush alone; so he waited
till next morning, when it was too late. The man's death naturally made the murder theory a
certainty, so the body was not buried, but laid out in the hut, with all sorts of finery. Around
it, in spite of the fearful odour, all the women sat for ten days, in a cloud of blow-flies.
They burned strong-scented herbs to kill the smell, and dug a little trench across the floor,
in order to keep the liquids from the decaying corpse from running into the other half of the
house. The nose and mouth of the body were stopped up with clay and lime, probably to keep
the soul from getting out, and the body was surrounded by a little hut. In the gamal close
by sat all the men, sulky, revengeful, and planning war, which, in fact, broke out within a
few days after my departure.

The Messrs. Th. had been kind enough to invite me to go on a recruiting trip to Maevo, the
most north-easterly island of the group. Here I found a very scanty population, showing many
traces of Polynesian admixture in appearance and habits. The weather was nasty and our luck
at recruiting poor, so that after a fortnight we returned to Hog Harbour. I went to Port Olry
to my old priest's house, and a few days later Mr. Th. came in his cutter to take me to Tassimaloun
in Big Bay; so I bade a hearty farewell to the good Father, whom I have never had the pleasure
of meeting again.

CHAPTER VII

SANTO

There are hardly any natives left in the south of the Bay of St. Philip and St. James, generally
called Big Bay. Only to the north of Talamacco there are a few villages, in which the remnants
of a once numerous population, mostly converts of the Presbyterian mission, have collected.
It is a very mixed crowd, without other organization than that which the mission has created,
and that is not much. There are a few chiefs, but they have even less authority than elsewhere,
and the feeling of solidarity is lacking entirely, so that I have hardly ever found a colony
where there was so much intrigue, immorality and quarrelling. A few years ago the population
had been kept in order by a Presbyterian missionary of the stern and cruel type; but he had
been recalled, and his place was taken by a man quite unable to cope with the lawlessness of
the natives, so that every vice developed freely, and murders were more frequent than in heathen
districts. Matters were not improved by the antagonism between the Roman Catholic and Presbyterian
missions and the traders; each worked against the others, offering the natives the best of
opportunities to fish in troubled waters. The result of all this was a rapid decrease of the
population and frequent artificial sterility. The primitive population has disappeared completely
in some places, and is only to be found in any numbers far inland among the western mountains.
The situation is a little better in the north, where we find a number of flourishing villages
along the coast around Cape Cumberland.

The nearest village to Talamacco was Tapapa. Sanitary conditions there were most disheartening,
as at least half of the inhabitants were leprous, and most of them suffered from tuberculosis
or elephantiasis. I saw hardly any children, so that the village will shortly disappear, like
so many others.

Native customs along the coast are much the same as at Port Olry, but less primitive, and the
houses are better built. There is wood-carving, or was. I found the doorposts of old gamals
beautifully carved, and plates prettily decorated; but these were all antiques, and nothing
of the kind is made at the present day.

The race, however, is quite different from that around Port Olry. There are two distinct types:
one, Melanesian, dark, tall or short, thin, curly-haired, with a broad nose and a brutal expression;
and one that shows distinct traces of Polynesian blood in its finer face, a larger body, which
is sometimes fat, light skin and frequently straight hair. Just where this Polynesian element
comes from it is hard to say, but the islands in general are very favourable to race-mixture
along the coasts. As I said before, the Melanesian type shows two distinct varieties, a tall
dark one, and a short light one. At first I did not realize the significance of the latter
until I became aware of the existence of a negroid element, of which I saw clear traces. The
two varieties, however, are much intermingled, and the resulting blends have mixed with the
Polynesian-Melanesian type, so that the number of types is most confusing, and it will be hard
to determine the properties of the original one.

Finding little of interest in the immediate surroundings of Talamacco, I determined to make
an excursion into the interior of the island. Mr. F. put his foreman, or moli, at my disposal,
and he engaged my bearers, made himself useful during the trip in superintending the boys,
and proved valuable in every way, as he was never afraid, and was known to nearly all the inland
chiefs.

After a rainy spell of six weeks we had a clear day at last; and although the weather could
not be taken into consideration when making my plans, still, the bright sunshine created that
happy and expectant sensation which belongs to the beginning of a journey. The monthly steamer
had arrived the day before, had shipped a little coprah, and brought some provisions for the
trader and myself. I had completed my preparations, engaged my boys and was ready to start.

In the white glare of a damp morning we pulled from the western shore of Big Bay to the mouth
of the Jordan River. The boat was cramped and overloaded, and we were all glad to jump ashore
after a row of several hours. The boys carried the luggage ashore and pulled the boat up into
the bush with much noise and laughter. Then we settled down in the shade for our first meal,
cooking being an occupation of which the boys are surprisingly fond. Their rations are rice
and tea, with a tin of meat for every four. This discussed, we packed up, and began our march
inland.

The road leads through a thin bush, over rough coral boulders and gravel deposited by the river.
We leave the Jordan to our right, and march south-east. After about an hour we come to a swampy
plain, covered with tall reed-grass. Grassy plains are an unusual sight in Santo; the wide
expanse of yellowish green is surrounded by dark walls of she-oak, in the branches of which
hang thousands of flying-foxes. At a dirty pond we fill our kettles with greenish water, for
our night camp will be on the mountain slope ahead of us, far from any spring. Even the moli
has to carry a load of water, as I can hardly ask the boys to take any more. He feels rather
humiliated, as a moli usually carries nothing but a gun, but he is good enough to see the necessity
of the case, and condescends to carry a small kettle.

Straight ahead are the high coral plateaux across which our road lies. While we tackle the
ascent, the sky has become overcast, the gay aspect of the landscape has changed to sad loneliness
and a heavy shower soaks us to the skin. The walk through the jungle is trying, and even the
moli loses the way now and again. Towards nightfall we enter a high forest with but little
underbrush, and work our way slowly up a steep and slippery slope to an overhanging coral rock,
where we decide to camp. We have lost our way, but as night is closing in fast, we cannot venture
any farther.

The loads are thrown to the ground in disorder, and the boys drop down comfortably; strong
language on my part is needed before they make up their minds to pile up the luggage, collect
wood and begin to cook. Meanwhile my own servant has prepared my bed and dried my clothes.
Soon it is quite dark, the boys gather round the fires, and do not dare to go into the yawning
darkness any more, for fear of ghosts.

The rain has ceased, and the soft damp night air hangs in the trees. The firelight is absorbed
by the darkness, and only the nearest surroundings shine in its red glare; the boys are stretched
out in queer attitudes round the fire on the hard rocks. Soon I turn out the lamp and lie listening
to the night, where vague life and movement creeps through the trunks. Sometimes a breath of
wind shivers through the trees, shaking heavy drops from the leaves. A wild pig grunts, moths
and insects circle round the fires, and thousands of mosquitoes hum about my net and sing me
to sleep. Once in a while I am roused by the breaking of a rotten tree, or a mournful cry from
one of the dreaming boys; or one of them wakes up, stirs the fire, turns over and snores on.
Long before daybreak a glorious concert of birds welcomes the new day. Half asleep, I watch
the light creep across the sky, while the bush is still in utter darkness; suddenly, like a
bugle-call, the first sunbeams strike the trees and it is broad day.

Chilly and stiff, the boys get up and crowd round the fires. As we have no more water there
is no tea, and breakfast is reduced to dry biscuits. The moli has found the lost trail by this
time, and we continue the ascent. On the plateau we again strike nearly impenetrable bush,
and lose the trail again, so that after a few hours' hard work with the knives we have to retrace
our steps for quite a distance. It is a monotonous climb, varied only by an occasional shot
at a wild pig and fair sport with pigeons. Happily for the thirsty boys, we strike a group
of bamboos, which yield plenty of water. All that is needed is to cut the joint of the stems,
and out of each section flows a pint of clear water, which the boys collect by holding their
huge mouths under the opening. Their clothes are soaked, but their thirst is satisfied and
our kettles filled for the midday meal.

Presently we pass a native "camp" under an overhanging rock: it consists of a few parallel
sticks, on which the native sleeps as well as any European on a spring-mattress, and a hollow
in the ground, with a number of cooking-stones.

After a stiff climb we stop for our meal, then follow a path which gradually widens and improves,
a sign that we are nearing a village. Towards evening we come to some gardens, where the natives
plant their yam and taro. At the entrance of the village I make my boys close up ranks; although
the natives are not supposed to be hostile, my people show signs of uneasiness, keeping close
together and carrying the few weapons we have very conspicuously.

We cross the village square to the gamal, a simple place, as they all are, with a door about
a yard from the ground, in order to keep out the pigs which roam all over the village. In line
with the front of the house is a row of tall bamboo posts, wound with vines; their hollow interior
is filled with yam and taro, the remains of a great feast. The village seems quite deserted,
and we peep cautiously into the interior of the gamal, where, after a while, we discern a man,
lying on the damp and dirty ground, who stares at us in silent fright. He gets up and comes
slowly out, and we can see that he has lost half of one foot from leprosy. From him the moli
learns that the two chiefs are away at a great "sing-sing," and the rest of the men in the
fields or in their wives' houses. There is nothing for us to do but sit down and wait, and
be sniffed at by pigs, barked at by dogs and annoyed by fowls. The moli beats vigorously on
one of the wooden drums that lie in the mud in front of the house. He has his own signal, which
most of the natives know, so that all the country round is soon informed of his arrival.

One by one the men arrive, strolling towards the gamal as if unconscious of our presence; some
of them greet one or the other of my boys whom they have met when visiting at the shore. Nearly
all of them are sick with leprosy or elephantiasis or tuberculosis, and after the long rainy
period they all have colds and coughs and suffer from rheumatism; altogether they present a
sad picture of degeneration and misery, and there are few healthy men to be seen.

My luggage is taken into the gamal, and I order the boys to buy and prepare food, whereupon
the natives hurry away and fetch a quantity of supplies: pigs, fowls, yam, taro, of which I
buy a large stock, paying in matches and tobacco. There are also eggs, which, I am assured,
are delicious; but this is according to native taste, which likes eggs best when half hatched.
While the boys are cooking, I spend the time in measuring the villagers. At first they are
afraid of the shiny, pointed instruments, but the tobacco they receive, after submitting to
the operation, dispels their fears. The crowd sits round us on the ground, increasing the uneasiness
of my victims by sarcastic remarks.

Meanwhile, the women have arrived, and crouch in two groups at the end of the square, which
they are forbidden to enter. There are about twenty of them, not many for nearly fifty men,
but I see only three or four babies, and many faded figures and old-looking girls of coarse
and virile shape, the consequence of premature abuse and artificial sterility. But they chat
away quite cheerfully, giggle, wonder, clap their hands, and laugh, taking hold of each other,
and rocking to and fro.

At last the two chiefs arrive, surprisingly tall and well-built men, with long beards carefully
groomed, and big mops of hair. Like all the men, they are dressed in a piece of calico that
hangs down in front, and a branch of croton behind. They have big bracelets, and wear the curved
tusks of pigs on their wrists. There is just time before nightfall to take their measures and
photographs, then I retire into the gamal for my supper, during which I am closely observed
by the entire male population. They make remarks about the spoons and the Worcester sauce,
and when I put sugar into my tea, they whisper to each other, "Salt!" which idea is almost
enough to spoil one's appetite, only the delicious roast sucking-pig is too tempting.

My toilet for the night is watched with the same attention; then, while I am still reading
on my bed, the men seek their couches in the long, low house. They stir up all the fires, which
smoke terribly, then they lie down on their bamboo beds, my boys among them, and talk and talk
till they fall asleep,--a houseful of leprous and consumptive men, who cough and groan all night.

In front of me, near the entrance, is the chiefs place. He spends a long time in preparing
his kava, and drinks it noisily. Kava is a root which is ground with a piece of sharp coral;
the fibres are then mixed with water, which is contained in a long bamboo, and mashed to a
soft pulp; the liquid is then squeezed out, strained through a piece of cocoa-nut bark into
a cocoa-nut bowl and drunk. The liquid has a muddy, thick appearance, tastes like soapy water,
stings like peppermint and acts as a sleeping-draught. In Santo only chiefs are allowed to
drink kava.

At first, innumerable dogs disturbed my sleep, and towards morning it grew very cold. When
I came out of the hut, the morning sun was just getting the better of the mist, and spreading
a cheery light over the square, which had looked dismal enough under a grey, rainy sky. I made
all the women gather on the outskirts of the square to be measured and photographed. They were
very bashful, and I almost pitied them, for the whole male population sat around making cruel
remarks about them; indeed, if it had not been for the chiefs explicit orders, they would all
have run away. They were not a very pleasant spectacle, on the whole. I was struck by the tired,
suffering expression of even the young girls, a hopeless and uninterested look, in contradiction
with their lively behaviour when unobserved. For they are natural and happy only when among
themselves, and in the presence of the men they feel that they are under the eye of their master,
often a brutal master, whose property they are. Probably they are hardly conscious of this,
and take their position and destiny as a matter of course; but they are constrained in the
presence of their owners, knowing that at any moment they may be displeased or angry, for any
reason or for none, and may ill-treat or even kill them. Aside from these considerations their
frightened awkwardness was extremely funny, especially when posing before the camera. Some
could not stand straight, others twisted their arms and legs into impossible positions. The
idea of a profile view seemed particularly strange to them, and they always presented either
their back or their front view. The poor things got more and more nervous, the men roared,
I was desperate,--altogether it was rather unsatisfactory.

I was in need of more bearers to carry the provisions I had bought, and the chiefs were quite
willing to supply them; but their orders had absolutely no effect on the men, who were too
lazy, and I should have been in an awkward position had not one of the chiefs hit on the expedient
of employing his women. They obeyed without a moment's hesitation; each took a heavy load of
yam, all but the favourite wife, the only pretty one of the number; her load was small, but
she had to clear the trail, walking at the head of the procession.

The women led the way, chatting and giggling, patient and steady as mules, and as sure-footed
and supple. Nothing stops them; with a heavy load on their heads they walk over fallen trunks,
wade through ditches, twist through vines, putting out a hand every now and then to feel whether
the bunch of leaves at their back is in place. They were certainly no beauties, but there was
a charm in their light, soft step, in the swaying of their hips, in the dainty poise of their
slim ankles and feet, and the softness and harmony of all their movements. And the light playing
on their dark, velvety, shining bodies increased this charm, until one almost forgot the many
defects, the dirt, the sores, the disease. This pleasant walk in the cool, dewy forest, under
the bright leaves, did not last long, and after two hours' tramp we reached our destination.

At the edge of the square the women sat down beside their loads, and were soon joined by the
women of the village. Our hostesses were at once informed of every detail of our outfit, our
food and our doings, and several dozen pairs of big dark eyes followed our every movement.
The women were all quite sure that I was a great doctor and magician, and altogether a dangerous
man, and this belief was not at all favourable to my purposes.

We men soon withdrew to the gamal, where the men likewise had to be informed of everything
relating to our doings and character. The gamal was low and dirty, and the state of health
of the inhabitants still worse than in the first village, but at least there were a few more
babies than elsewhere. The chief suffered from a horrible boil in his loin, which he poulticed
with chewed leaves, and the odour was so unbearable that I had to leave the house and sit down
outside, where I was surrounded by many lepers, without toes or even feet, a very dismal sight.

I now paid my carriers the wages agreed upon, but they claimed that I ought to pay the men
extra, although their services had been included in the price. I took this for one of the tricks
by which the natives try to get the better of a good-natured foreigner, and refused flatly,
whereupon the whole crowd sat down in front of the house and waited in defiant silence. I left
them there for half an hour, during which they whispered and deliberated in rather an uncomfortable
way. I finally told them that I would not pay any more, and that they had better go away at
once. The interpreter said they were waiting for the chiefs to get through with something they
had to talk over, and they stayed on a while longer. My refusal may have been a mistake, and
there may really have been a misunderstanding, at any rate, I had to suffer for my unyielding
way, inasmuch as the behaviour of our hosts immediately changed from talkative hospitality
and childish curiosity to dull silence and suspicious reticence. The people sat around us,
sullen and silent, and would not help us in any way, refused to bring firewood or show us the
water-hole, and seemed most anxious to get rid of us. Under these circumstances it was useless
to try to do any of my regular work, and I had to spend an idle and unpleasant afternoon. At
last I induced a young fellow to show me the way to a high plateau near by, from which I had
a beautiful view across trees to the east coast of the island, with the sea in a blue mist
far away. As my guide, consumptive like all the others, was quite out of breath with our short
walk, I soon had to return, and I paid him well. This immediately changed the attitude of all
the rest. Their sullenness disappeared, they came closer, began to talk, and at last we spent
the afternoon in comparative friendship, and I could attend to my business.

But the consequences of my short visit to the gamal became very noticeable. In my hat I found
a flourishing colony of horrid bug-like insects; my pockets were alive, my camera was full
of them, they had crawled into my shoes, my books, my luggage, they were crawling, flying,
dancing everywhere. Perfectly disgusted, I threw off all my clothes, and had my boys shake
and clean out every piece. For a week I had to have everything cleaned at least once a day,
and even then I found the loathsome creatures in every fold, under straps, in pouches.

On that afternoon I had a great success as an artist. My drawings of pigs, trees and men went
the rounds and were quite immoderately admired, and preserved as we would a sketch of Holbein's.
These drawings have to be done as simply as possible and fairly large, else the natives do
not understand them. They consider every line essential, and do not understand shadows or any
impressionistic treatment. We must remember that in our civilized art we work with many symbols,
some of which have but a vague resemblance to the object they represent, whose meaning we know,
while the savage does not. This was the reason why I had often no success at all with what
I considered masterpieces, while the natives went into raptures over drawings I thought utter
failures. At any rate, they made me quite a popular person.

The sick chief complained to me that a late wife of his had been poisoned, and as he took me
for a great "witch-doctor," he asked me to find out the murderer. To the native, sickness or
death is not natural, but always the consequence of witchcraft, either on the part of enemies
or spirits. The terribly high death-rate in the last years makes it seem all the more probable
that mysterious influences are at work, and the native suspects enemies everywhere, whom he
tries to render harmless by killing them. This leads to endless murders and vendettas, which
decimate the population nearly as much as the diseases do. The natives know probably something
about poisons, but they are always poisons that have to be mixed with food, and this is not
an easy thing to do, as every native prepares his food himself. Most of the dreaded poisons
are therefore simply charms, stones or other objects, which would be quite harmless in themselves,
but become capable of killing by the mere terror they inspire in the victim. If the belief
in these charms could be destroyed, a great deal of the so-called poisoning would cease, and
it may be a good policy to deny the existence of poison, even at the risk of letting a murderer
go unpunished. I therefore felt justified in playing a little comedy, all the more, as I was
sure that the woman had died of consumption, and I promised the chief my assistance for the
next morning.

I had my bed made in the open air; even the boys would not enter the dirty house any more,
and we slept well under the open sky, in spite of the pigs that grunted around us and the dew
that fell like rain.

Next day the chief called all the men together; he was convinced that I could see through every
one of them and tell who had done any wrong. So he made them all sit round me, and I looked
very solemnly at each through the finder of my camera, the chief watching carefully to see
that I did not omit any one. The men felt uneasy, but did not quite know what to make of the
whole performance. I naturally could not find anything wrong, and told the chief so, but he
was not satisfied, and shook his head doubtfully. Then I talked to him seriously and tried
to convince him that everyone had to die once, and that sickness was something natural, especially
considering the filth in which they lived; but I do not think my speech made much impression.

The men had now become very suspicious, the women were away, and I had great trouble in finding
bearers and guides to the next village. A pleasant march brought us to this settlement, whose
houses were close together in a big clearing. We were received very coolly by the chief and
a few men. My bearers and guides would not be induced to accompany us farther, so that I had
to ask for boys here; but the chief said he had not a single able-bodied man, which I felt
to be mere excuse. I also noticed that my own boys were very dissatisfied and sullen, and that
something was in the wind. In order to raise their spirits, and not to leave our yam provisions
behind, I had them cook the midday meal, but the sullen, threatening atmosphere remained the
same. When it was time to continue our march, I heard them grumble and complain about their
loads, and it all looked like rising mutiny. I was ahead with the chief, who had consented
to show us the way, when the moli came after me and informed me that the boys were unwilling
to go on, that they were afraid to go farther inland and were ready to throw their loads away.
Later on I learned that two of the boys had tried to bribe some natives to show them the road
back to the coast and leave me alone with the moli. I assembled the boys and made them a speech,
saying that their loads were not too heavy nor the marches too long, that they were all free
to return home, but would have to take the consequences, and that I and the moli would go on
without them. If they liked, I said, they could throw away their tinned meats, I did not care,
and the two bottles of grog were not meant for me, and we could easily spare those. I grasped
the bottles and offered to smash them, but that was too much for the boys; half crying, they
begged me not to do that: the bottles were not too heavy, and they would gladly carry them
as far as I liked. Hesitatingly I allowed myself to be persuaded, and kindly desisted from
the work of destruction. I had won, but I had lost confidence in my boys, and was careful not
to put their patience and fidelity to any more tests, conscious as I was of how much depended
on their goodwill. After this episode they accomplished a long and tiresome march, up and down
through thick bush on slippery clay, quite willingly. In the evening we reached a few huts
in a clearing at a height of about 1200 feet, and went into camp for the night.

While cooking, we heard dismal howling and weeping from a neighbouring hut; it was a woman
mourning her husband, who had been dead ninety-nine days. To-morrow, on the hundredth day,
there was to be a death-feast, to which all the neighbours were invited. Of course, this man,
too, had been poisoned.

The fire of revolt was smouldering in my boys. They sat round the camp-fire in groups, whispering
and plotting, grumbling and undecided; but I felt safe enough, as they were evidently divided
into two parties, one faithful and the other mutinous, and the former seemed rather more influential.
They proved their goodwill to me by delightful servility, and took excellent care of me.

Next morning we were wakened by the howls of the unhappy widow, and soon the guests appeared,
some from far off, and all bringing contributions to the feast. They killed several pigs, and
while the men cut them up in a manner rather more clever than appetizing, the women prepared
the fires by lighting large quantities of wood to heat the cooking-stones. This lasted several
hours. Meanwhile, every person present received his share of a half-rotten smoked pig, of the
freshly killed pigs, yam, taro and sweet potatoes. The women took the entrails of the pigs,
squeezed them out, rolled them up in banana leaves, and made them ready for cooking. When the
fire was burnt down they took out half of the stones with forks of split bamboo, and then piled
up the food in the hole, first the fruit, then the meat, so that the grease should run over
the fruit; then the hole was covered with banana leaves, the hot stones piled on top and covered
with more leaves. Food cooked in this way is done in three or four hours, so that the "stoves"
are usually opened in the afternoon, and enormous quantities eaten on the spot, while the rest
is put in baskets to take home. The amount a native can eat at one sitting is tremendous, and
one can actually watch their stomachs swell as the meal proceeds. Violent indigestion is generally
the consequence of such a feast. On the whole, no one seemed to be thinking much of the dead
man in whose honour it was given,--such things are said to happen in civilized countries as well.

I stayed in this village for another day, and many chiefs from the neighbourhood came to consult
me, always complaining of the one thing--poison. Each secretly accused the others, each wanted
me to try my glass on all the others. I did not like my reputation of being a magician at all,
as it made the people still more suspicious of me and more afraid of my instruments and my camera.

These so-called chiefs were rather more intelligent than the average. Most of them had worked
for whites at one time, and learned to speak pidgin-English; but they were as superstitious
as anyone else, and certainly greater rogues. They were naked and dirty, but some had retained
some traces of civilization, one, for instance, always took off his old felt hat very politely,
and made quite a civilized bow; he must have been in Nouméa in former days.

There was no leprosy or elephantiasis here, but a great deal of tuberculosis, and very few
children, and nearly all the men complained that their women were unwilling to have any more
children.

From the next village I had a glimpse of the wild mountains of western Santo. I decided to
spend the night here, left the boys behind, and went southward with the moli and a few natives.
This was evidently the region where the volcanic and coral formations meet, for the character
of the landscape suddenly changed, and instead of flat plateaux we found a wild, irregular
country, with lofty hills and deep, narrow gullies. Walking became dangerous, though the path
was fair. On top of a hill I found an apparently abandoned village, from which I could overlook
all central Santo. To the west were the rugged, dark-looking mountains round Santo Peak, with
white clouds floating on the summit, and a confusion of deep blue valleys and steep peaks;
northward lay the wild Jordan valley, and far away I could distinguish the silver mirror of
Big Bay. All around us rose the silent, stern, lonely forest--imposing, unapproachable.

On our way back to camp we rested beside a fresh creek which gaily squeezed its way through
rocks and rich vegetation. A little tea and a tin of sardines were all the menu, but we enjoyed
a delightful bath in the cool water, and had as good a wash as we could without soap. It was
a great luxury after the hot days in the coral country without any water. While our things
were drying in the bright sun, we lay in the moss near the rushing stream, and it was like
a summer day at home in the mountains. The water sounded familiar, the soft, cool breeze was
the same, and while I lay watching the white clouds through the bright foliage I dreamt of
home. At home I had dreamt of travel, and thus one wish follows the other and the soul is preserved
from lazy content. I almost fancied I heard the sound of bells and the far-away lowing of cattle.
And again the reality seemed like a dream when I roused myself and saw the dark figures crouching
on the rocks, with their frizzy mops of hair and their Sniders on their knees.

The village turned out to be too dirty to spend the night in, and I decided to go to one which
seemed quite near, just across a gully. Had I known what an undertaking it would be, I would
not have started, for the ravine was very deep and the sides unpleasantly steep; but my boys
managed the descent, over rocks and fallen trees, with their usual cleverness. At the bottom
we were rewarded by a beautiful sight. Beneath us, in a narrow cut it had eaten through the
rock, roared a river, foaming out of the depths of the dark wilderness. It was like one of
the celebrated gorges in the Alps, only the tropical vegetation which hung in marvellous richness
and variety over the abyss gave a fairy-like aspect to the scene. The boys did not seem to
appreciate it in the least, and prepared, sighing, for the steep ascent. A simple bridge led
across the gully; it was made of a few trees, and even provided with a railing in the shape
of a vine. The existence of this bridge surprised me very much; for, considering the thoughtless
egotism with which the natives pass through life, I had thought them incapable of any work
of public utility. They rarely think of repairing a road or cutting a vine, nor do they remove
trees that may have fallen across the path, but always rely on others to see to it.

The second village was not much cleaner than the first, but we camped there, and the next day
I went with the moli and a few of my boys to the western mountains. The natives warned us,
saying that the people were "no good" and would kill us. But, for one thing, I could not see
that they themselves were particularly "good," and, for another, I knew that all natives consider
other tribes especially dangerous; so I stuck to my intention, only we hung all our available
weapons about us, leaving the rest of the boys defenceless.

This turned out one of the most strenuous days I ever had in the islands, as the road--and
what a road!--constantly led up and down the steepest slopes. It seemed to me we were climbing
perpendicular mountains all day long, and I had many an opportunity of admiring the agility
of my companions. I am a fair walker myself, but I had to crawl on my hands and knees in many
spots where they jumped from a stone to a root, taking firm hold with their toes, never using
their hands, never slipping, and always with a loaded and cocked rifle on their shoulders.
My boys from the coast, good pedestrians though they were, always remained far behind.

First we reached well-tended taro fields, then a few scattered huts. The natives received us
very kindly, and more men kept joining us, till we formed a big, jolly crowd. The population
here seemed very primitive, and evidently had but little contact with the shore, but they were
clean and comparatively healthy and flourishing, and I found them rather more frank, childlike
and confiding than others I had seen.

We roasted our yam, and while we were enjoying our frugal but delicious meal, I witnessed rather
an amusing episode. A bushman, painted black for mourning, suddenly called to one of my boys,
and wanted to shake hands with him. My boy, a respectable "schoolboy," was visibly annoyed
by the idea of having anything to do with a naked "man-bush," and behaved with icy reserve;
but he could not long resist the rural cordiality of the other, and presently resigned himself
to his fate, and made friends. It turned out that they had once worked together in Vila, and
one had become an elegant young swell, while the other returned to simple country life.

On the way back we rested by the river-bank, amusing ourselves by shooting pigeons with pistols
and guns, feeling quite peaceful and happy. But the sound of our shots had an unexpected effect
in the village where I had left the rest of my boys. All the natives jumped to their feet,
shouting, "Did we not tell you that they would kill your master? Now you have heard them; he
is dead, and now we will see what you have in your boxes and divide it among ourselves."

They approached my boys threateningly, whereupon they all ran away, with the exception of the
ringleader of the mutineers of the last few days, who sat down on the box containing the trading-stock
and said they had better go and see whether I was really dead before plundering my luggage.
The situation must have grown rather strained, until some one had the good sense to go and
look out for us, whereupon he saw us sitting peacefully near the river below. This calmed the
natives, they withdrew, much disappointed, and my boys returned and prepared everything for
my arrival with remarkable zeal. I found dry clothes ready, and tea boiling, and was quite
touched by so much thoughtfulness. I was not told of the day's occurrence till after my return
to the coast, and perhaps it was just as well.

By this time I had seen a good part of south-east Santo, and I was eager to visit the south-west,
with Santo Peak. But without guides and with marked symptoms of home-sickness on the part of
my boys, I decided it would not be wise to attempt it. The news that we were going to start
for home revived the boys at once. With enormous alacrity they packed up next day and raced
homeward with astonishing speed and endurance; I had had to drag them along before, now I could
hardly keep up with them. In two days we had reached the plain of the Jordan, had a delightful
swim and a jolly last night in camp, free from pigs, dogs, fowls, fleas and bugs,--but not
from mosquitoes!

The last day we strolled in and along the river, through the forest swarming with wild pigs
and pigeons, while a huge colony of flying-foxes circled in the air, forming an actual cloud,
and then we came to the shore, with the wide expanse of Big Bay peaceful in the evening sun.
A painful walk on the sharp pebbles of the beach brought us home towards nightfall.

CHAPTER VIII

SANTO (continued)--PYGMIES

The term of service of my boys had now expired, and I had to look about for others. Happily,
now that I was known in the region, I had less trouble, especially as I held out the prospect
of a visit to Nouméa. With six boys of my own and a few other men, I started on another journey.

I had always suspected the existence of a race of pygmies in the islands, and had often asked
the natives if they had ever seen "small fellow men." Generally they stared at me without a
sign of intelligence, or else began to tell fairy-tales of dwarfs they had seen in the bush,
of little men with tails and goat's feet (probably derived from what they had heard of the
devil from missionaries), all beings of whose existence they were perfectly convinced, whom
they often see in the daytime and feel at night, so that it is very hard to separate truth
from imagination.

I had heard stories of a colony of tailed men near Mele, and that, near Wora, north of Talamacco,
tailed men lived in trees; that they were very shy and had long, straight hair. The natives
pretended they had nearly caught one once. All this sounded interesting and improbable, and
I was not anxious to start on a mere wild-goose chase. More exact information, however, was
forthcoming. One of my servants told me that near a waterfall I could see shining out of a
deep ravine far inland, there lived "small fellow men."

It was an exceptionally stormy morning when we started, so that Mr. F. advised me to postpone
my departure; but in the New Hebrides it is no use to take notice of the weather, and that
day it was so bad that it could not get any worse, which was some consolation. Soon we were
completely soaked, but we kept on along the coast to some huts, where we were to meet our guide.
Presently he arrived, followed by a crowd of children, as they seemed to me, who joined our
party. While climbing inland toward the high mountains, I asked the guide if he knew anything
about the little people; he told me that one of them was walking behind me. I looked more closely
at the man in question, and saw that whereas I had taken him for a half-grown youth, he was
really a man of about forty, and all the others who had come with him turned out to be full-grown
but small individuals. Of course I was delighted with this discovery, and should have liked
to begin measuring and photographing at once, had not the torrents of rain prevented.

I may mention here that I found traces later on of this diminutive race in some other islands,
but rarely in such purity as here. Everywhere else they had mingled with the taller population,
while here they had kept somewhat apart, and represented an element by themselves, so that
I was fortunate in having my attention drawn to them here, as elsewhere I might easily have
overlooked them.

The trail by which we were travelling was one of the worst I ever saw in the islands, and the
weather did not improve. The higher up we went, the thicker was the fog; we seemed to be moving
in a slimy mass, breathing the air from a boiler. At noon we reached the lonely hut, where
a dozen men and women squatted, shivering with cold and wet, crowded together under wretched
palm-leaf mats, near a smouldering fire. There were some children wedged into the gaps between
the grown-ups. Our arrival seemed to rouse these poor people from their misery a little; one
man after the other got up, yawning and chattering, the women remained sitting near the fire.
We made them some hot tea, and then I began to measure and take pictures, to which they submitted
quite good-humouredly.

I was much struck by the fact of these men and women living together, a most unusual thing
in a Melanesian district, where the separation of the sexes and the "Suque" rules are so rigorously
observed.

We started off once more in the icy rain, keeping along the crest of the hill, which was just
wide enough for the path. The mountain sloped steeply down on either side, the thick mist made
an early twilight, we could only see the spot where we set our feet, while all the surroundings
were lost in grey fog, so that we felt as though we were walking in a void, far above all the
world. At nightfall we arrived at a solitary hut--the home of our companions. After having
repaired the broken roof, my boys succeeded in lighting a fire, though how they did it is a
mystery, as matches and everything else were soaked. Soon tea and rice were boiling, while
I tried to dry my instruments, especially my camera, whose watertight case had not been able
to resist the rain. Then I wrapped myself up in my blanket, sipped my tea and ate my rice,
and smoked a few pipes. It certainly is a reward for the day's work, that evening hour, lying
satisfied, tired and dreamy, under the low roof of the hut, while outside the wind roars through
the valley and the rain rattles on the roof, and a far-off river rushes down a gorge. The red
fire paints the beams above me in warm colours, and in the dark corners the smoke curls in
blue clouds. Around a second fire the natives lie in ecstatic laziness, smoking and talking
softly, pigs grunt and dogs scratch busily about.

In the morning the storm had passed, and I could see that the house was set on the slope of
a high mountain, much as a chalet is, and that we were at the end of a wild ravine, from every
side of which fresh rivulets and cascades came pouring. Owing to the mountainous character
of the country there are no villages here, but numerous huts scattered all along the mountains,
two or three families at the utmost living together. The structure of the houses, too, was
different from those on the coast; they had side walls and a basement of boulders, sometimes
quite carefully built. Here men and women live together, and a separation of the fires does
not seem to exist, nor does the "Suque" seem to have penetrated to this district.

We passed several hamlets where the mode of life was the same as in this one. The dress of
the men is the same as at the coast, except that they wind strings of shell-money about their
waists in manifold rows. The women wear a bunch of leaves in front and behind. The weapons
are the same as elsewhere, except that here we find the feathered arrows which are such a rarity
in the Pacific. It is surprising to find these here, in these secluded valleys among the pygmy
race, and only here, near Talamacco, nowhere else where the same race is found. It is an open
question whether these feathered arrows are an original invention in these valleys, an importation
or a remnant of an earlier culture.

The population lives on the produce of the fields, mostly taro, which is grown in irrigated
lands in the river bottoms.

In appearance these people do not differ much from those of central Santo, who are by no means
of a uniform type. The most important feature is their size, that of the men amounting to 152
cm., that of the women to 144 cm. The smallest man I measured was 138.0 cm., others measured
146.0, 149.2, 144.2, 146.6, 140.6, 149.0, 139.6, 138.4 cm. The maximum size is hard to state,
as even here the small variety has mixed with taller tribes, so that we find all the intermediate
sizes, from the pygmy 139.6 cm. high, to the tall Melanesian of 178.0 cm. My object, therefore,
was to find a colony of pure pygmies, and I pursued it in many subsequent wanderings, but without
success. The following description is based on the type as I constructed it in the course of
my travels and observations.

The hair is very curly, and seems black, but is in reality a dark, yellowish brown. Fil-fil
is less frequent than among the tall variety. The forehead is straight, very slightly retreating,
vaulted and rather narrow, the eyes are close together, straight, medium-sized and dark brown.
The superciliar ridges are but slightly developed. The jaw-bones are large, but do not protrude,
whereas the chewing muscles are well developed, which gives the face breadth, makes the chin-line
round and the chin itself small and pointed. The mouth is not very large, with moderately thick
lips, the nose is straight, hardly open toward the front, the nostrils not thick. As a rule,
the growth of beard is not heavy, unlike that of the tall Melanesians; there is only a light
moustache, a few tufts at the chin and near the jaw. Up to the age of forty this is all; in
later years a heavier beard develops, but the face and the front of the chin remain free.

Thus it will be seen that these people are not at all repulsive, as all the ridges of bone
and the heavy muscle attachments which make the face of ordinary Melanesians so brutal are
lacking. On the contrary, they look quite agreeable and childlike. Their bodies are vigorous,
but lightly built: the chest broad and deep, the arms and legs fine, with beautiful delicate
joints, the legs well proportioned, with handsome calves. Their feet are short and broad, especially
in front, but the great toe does not stand off from the others noticeably. Thus the pygmy has
none of the proportions of a child, and shows no signs of degeneration, but is of harmonious
build, only smaller than other Melanesians.

The shade of the skin varies a good deal from a dull purple, brownish-black, to coffee colour;
but the majority of individuals are light, and the dark ones probably inherited their shade
from the tall race.

Deformations of the body are not practised, save for an occasional perforation of the lobes
of the ear. I never saw a perforation of the septum, nor women with incisors extracted.

It seems as if the small race were better preserved here in Santo than the tall one. The diseases
which destroy the other tribes are less frequent here, there are more children and a good number
of women. All this may be due to a great extent to their living inland and not coming into
touch with the unfavourable sides of civilization as the coast tribes do, but even more to
the hardy outdoor life in the mountains. In their country one cannot walk three steps on a
level, and the whole population is expert in climbing, very sure-footed, thinking nothing of
jumping with a heavy load from one rock to another, or racing at full speed down the steep
and uneven slopes.

In character, too, they differ from the tribes near the water. They seem less malicious and
more confiding, and show less of the distrust and shy reserve of the average Melanesian. They
will laugh and chat in the presence of strangers, and are very hospitable. I do not know if
these are accidental impressions, but I can only say that I always felt safer and more comfortable
in a village where the majority of the inhabitants belonged to the small race.

With all this the pygmies are by no means helpless or even inferior, compared to their tall
neighbours. Possibly, in former days, they may have been driven from their homes in the plains
back into the mountains, but at present they are quite equal to the tall race, and the "salt-water
men" are even a little afraid of their small neighbours inland. What they lack in size and
strength they make up in speed and suppleness and temperament. The barrier between the races
has disappeared, and the mixing process is hastened by the fact that the small race frequently
sells its women to the tall one. It is rare for a woman from the coast to settle in the mountains,
still, it occurs frequently enough to alloy the purity of the pygmy race, and in no village
have I found more than about 70 per cent. of real pygmies.

In the afternoon we came to the chief's dwelling. The old man lived there alone with his wife,
quietly and happily, venerated by all the other people. It was touching to see the little couple,
delicate as two dolls, who seemed to love each other sincerely, a most uncommon occurrence
in Melanesia. I really had too much respect for the old people to trouble them with my measuring
instruments, but I could not resist taking their pictures. After consulting her husband with
a look of the greatest confidence, the old lady consented shyly, while he stood beside her
as if it was an everyday event to him, and a sort of tribute I was paying to his age and position
and the beauty of his wife.

From this point I had a fine view of the cascade that fell down in a wide silver ribbon through
the forest. Some months later all that wild scenery was destroyed by an earthquake, which caused
many land-slides and spoilt the cascade. Following the roaring river, jumping from one block
of stone to another, we soon reached our camp, a large gamal. As we were nearing the coast
its arrangements were adapted to the customs of the tall Melanesians. There were a few small
individuals, but the tall race was predominant. The reign of the "Suque" was evident by the
floor of the gamal being divided by parallel sticks into compartments corresponding to the
number of fires and castes, and each man sat down in his division and cooked his own food.

Next day, after having waded through the cold water of the river, we arrived at the coast.
From the last hills I sent a farewell look into the wild green tangle of forest, rocks, ravines,
cascades and valleys, over which heavy rain-clouds were gathering. Before me the greyish-blue
mirror of Big Bay lay in the mist, and in the Jordan valley the rain fell heavily. The high
reed-grass all around us rustled dismally, and the damp cold was depressing. I hurried home
and arrived there in the night, wet as when I had started on my expedition.

With regard to the pygmies I must not omit to mention the following experience. The fact that
among them husband and wife live together, and that I had nowhere seen a man with two wives,
made me suspect that this race was monogamous, as other pygmy races are. I made frequent inquiries,
and was assured that each man was allowed but one wife. Still, I was not quite convinced, for
it seemed strange to find a monogamous population in the midst of polygamous tribes. Others
having given me similar information, I began to accept this theory as a fact. At last, however,
I found I had been deceived, as all the people had taken me for a missionary, and had fancied
I was asking them questions in order to interfere with their matrimonial customs by sending
them a teacher or a "mission-police-man." My error was cleared up, thanks to the investigations
of a trader, for which I am much indebted to him.

CHAPTER IX

SANTO (continued)--PIGS

The sun had hardly risen, yet the air hung heavy in the shrubs surrounding my sleeping-hut.
Damp heat and light poured into the shed-like room, where hundreds of flies and as many mosquitoes
sought an entrance into my mosquito-net. It was an atmosphere to sap one's energy; not even
the sunshine, so rare in these parts, had any attraction for me, and only the long-drawn "Sail
ho!" of the natives, announcing the arrival of the steamer, had power to drive me out of bed.

She soon came to anchor and sent a boat ashore, and when I entered my host's house, I found
some of the ship's officers there, ready for business and breakfast. Probably to drown the
touch of home-sickness that the arrival of a steamer brings to those who are tied to the islands,
our host set about emptying his cellar with enthusiasm and perseverance, while the visitors
would have been satisfied with much smaller libations, as they had many more stations to visit
that day.

While the crew was loading the coprah and landing a quantity of goods, the host started his
beloved gramophone for the general benefit, and a fearful hash of music drifted out into the
waving palms. Presently some one announces that the cargo is all aboard, whereupon the supercargo
puts down his paper and remarks that they are in a hurry. A famous soprano's wonderful high
C is ruthlessly broken off short, and we all run to the beach and jump on the backs of boys,
who carry us dry-shod to the boat. We are rowed to the steamer, and presently descend to the
storeroom, which smells of calico, soap, tobacco and cheese. Anything may be bought here, from
a collar-button to a tin of meat, from perfumery to a shirt, anything,--and sometimes even
the very thing one wants. We provide for the necessities of life for the next month or two,
hand over our mail and end our visit with a drink. Then the whistle blows, we scramble into
the boat, and while my host waves his hat frantically and shouts "good-bye," the steamer gradually
disappears from sight. My friend has "a bad headache" from all the excitement of the morning.
I guide him carefully between the cases and barrels the steamer has brought, and deposit him
in his bunk; then I retire to my own quarters to devour my mail.

Some days after this we went to see a "sing-sing" up north. We rowed along the shore, and as
my host was contributing a pig, we had the animal with us. With legs and snout tightly tied,
the poor beast lay sadly in the bottom of the boat, occasionally trying to snap the feet of
the rowers. The sea and the wind were perfect, and we made good speed; in the evening we camped
on the beach. The next day was just as fine; my host continued the journey by boat, while I
preferred to walk the short distance that remained, accompanied by the pig, whose health did
not seem equal to another sea-voyage in the blazing sun. It was touching to see the tenderness
with which the natives treated the victim-elect, giving it the best of titbits, and urging
it with the gentlest of words to start on the walk. It was quite a valuable animal, with good-sized
tusks. After some hesitation the pig suddenly rushed off, Sam, his keeper, behind. First it
raced through the thicket, which I did not like, so I proposed to Sam to pull the rope on the
energetic animal's leg; but Sam would not damp its splendid enthusiasm for fear it might balk
afterwards. Sam managed, however, to direct it back into the path, but we had a most exhausting
and exciting, if interesting, walk, for the pig was constantly rushing, sniffing, grunting
and digging on all sides, so that Sam was entirely occupied with his charge, and it was quite
impossible to converse. At last we proudly entered the village, and the beast was tied in the
shade; we separated, not to meet again till the hour of sacrifice.

I was then introduced to the host, a small but venerable old man, who received me with dignified
cordiality. We could not talk together, but many ingratiating smiles assured each of the other's
sympathy. The village seemed extremely pleasant to me, which may have been due to the bright
sun and the cool breeze. The square was situated on the beach, which sloped steeply to the
sea. Along the ridge were planted brightly-coloured trees, and between their trunks we could
see the ocean, heavenly blue. On the other side were the large, well-kept gamals, and crowds
of people in festival attire; many had come from a distance, as the feast was to be a big one,
with plenty to eat for everybody.

Palo, the host, was very busy looking after his guests and giving each his share of good things.
He was a most good-natured, courteous old gentleman, although his costume consisted of nothing
but a few bunches of ferns. The number of guests increased steadily; besides the real heathen
in unadorned beauty, there were half-civilized Christians, ugly in ill-fitting European clothes,
of which they were visibly vain, although they made blots on the beautiful picture of native
life. All around the square grunted the tusked pigs.

At noon four men gave the signal for the beginning of the festivities by beating two big drums,
which called the guests to dinner. Palo had sent us a fowl cooked native fashion between hot
stones, and, like everything cooked in this way, it tasted very delicious. Shortly afterwards
the real ceremonies began, with the killing of about two hundred young female pigs which had
been kept in readiness in little bamboo sheds.

Accompanied by the drums, Palo led all the high-castes in dancing steps out of the gamal and
round the square. After a few turns the chiefs drew up in line in front of him, and he mounted
a stone table, while everyone else kept on dancing. His favourite wife was next to the table,
also dancing. Palo was entirely covered with ferns, which were stuck in his hair, his bracelets
and his belt. He still looked quite venerable, but with a suggestion of a faun, a Bacchus or
a Neptune. It was a warm day, and the dancing made everybody perspire more than freely.

Now one of the other men took hold of a little pig by the hind-legs and threw it in a lofty
curve to one of the dancing chiefs, who caught the little animal, half stunned by the fall,
and, still dancing, carried it to Palo, who killed it by three blows on the head, whereupon
it was laid at his feet. This went on for a long time. It was a cruel sight. Squealing and
shrieking, the poor animals flew through the air, fell heavily on the hard earth, and lay stunned
or tried to crawl away with broken backs or legs. Some were unhurt, and ran off, but a bloodthirsty
crowd was after them with clubs and axes, and soon brought them back. Still, one man thought
this troublesome, and broke the hind-legs of each pig before throwing it to the chief, so that
it might not escape. It was horrible to see and hear the bones break, but the lust for blood
was upon the crowd, and on all sides there were passionate eyes, distorted faces and wild yells.
Happily the work was soon done, and in front of Palo lay a heap of half-dead, quivering animals.
He and his wife now turned their backs to the assembly, while a few high-castes counted the
corpses. For each ten one lobe was torn off a sicca-leaf, then the missing lobes were counted,
and after a puzzling calculation, the result was announced. Palo turned round and descended
from his pedestal with much dignity, though panting from his exertions, and looking so hot
that I feared an apoplexy for the old man. I did not know how tough such an old heathen is,
nor that his efforts were by no means at an end. Noblesse oblige and such high caste as Palo's
is not attained without trouble.

As female pigs may not be eaten, those just killed were thrown into the sea by the women; meanwhile,
the chiefs blew a loud blast on the shell-bugles, to announce to all concerned that Palo's
first duty was accomplished. The deep yet piercing tones must have sounded far into the narrow
valleys round.

Then poles were driven into the ground, to which the tusked pigs were tied. Some were enormous
beasts, and grunted savagely when anyone came near them. I saw my companion of the morning
lying cheerfully grunting in the shade of a tree. Now came a peculiar ceremony, in which all
who had contributed pigs were supposed to take part. To my disappointment, Mr. F. refused to
join in. Palo took up his position on the stone table, armed with a club. Out of a primitive
door, hastily improvised out of a few palm-leaves, the chiefs came dancing in single file,
swinging some weapon, a spear or a club. Palo jumped down, danced towards them, chased each
chief and finally drove them, still dancing, back through the door. This evidently symbolized
some fight in which Palo was the victor. After having done this about twenty times, Palo had
to lead all the chiefs in a long dance across the square, passing in high jumps between the
pigs. After this he needed a rest, and no wonder. Then the pigs were sacrificed with mysterious
ceremonies, the meaning of which has probably never been penetrated. The end of it all was
that Palo broke the pigs' heads with a special club, and when night fell, twenty-six "tuskers"
lay agonizing on the ground. Later they were hung on trees, to be eaten next day, and then
everybody retired to the huts to eat and rest.

Some hours later great fires were kindled at both ends of the square, and women with torches
stood all around. The high-castes opened the ball, but there was not much enthusiasm, and only
a few youngsters hopped about impatiently, until their spirits infected some older people,
and the crowd increased, so that at last everybody was raving in a mad dance. The performance
is monotonous: some men with pan-pipes bend down with their heads touching, and blow with all
their might, always the same note, marking time with their feet. Suddenly one gives a jump,
others follow, and then the whole crowd moves a number of times up and down the square, until
the musicians are out of breath, when they come to a standstill. The excitement goes on until
the sun rises. The women, as a rule, keep outside the square, but they dance too, and keep
it up all night; now and then a couple disappears into the darkness.

Next morning Palo, who had hardly closed his eyes all night, was very busy again, giving each
guest his due share of the feast. The large pigs were dressed, cut up and cooked. This work
lasted all day, but everybody enjoyed it. The dexterity and cleanliness with which the carcases
are divided is astonishing, and is quite a contrast to the crude way in which native meals
are usually dressed and devoured. We whites received a large and very fat slice as a present,
which we preferred to pass on, unnoticed, to our boys. Fat is considered the best part of the pig.

The lower jaws of the tuskers were cut out separately and handed over to Palo, to be cleaned
and hung up in his gamal in the shape of a chandelier, as tokens of his rank.

Palo is a weather-maker. When we prepared to go home, he promised to smooth the sea, which
was running too high for comfort, and to prevent a head-wind. We were duly grateful, and, indeed,
all his promises were fulfilled: we had a perfectly smooth sea, and such a dead calm that between
the blue sky and the white sea we nearly fainted, and had to row wearily along instead of sailing.
Just as we were leaving, Palo came to the bank, making signs for us to come back, a pretty
custom, although it is not always meant sincerely.

Late at night we arrived at home once more.

CHAPTER X

CLIMBING SANTO PEAK

Some days later I left Talamacco for Wora, near Cape Cumberland, a small station of Mr. D.'s,
Mr. F.'s neighbour. What struck me most there were the wide taro fields, artificially irrigated.
The system of irrigation must date from some earlier time, for it is difficult to believe that
the population of the present day, devoid as they are of enterprise, should have laid it out,
although they are glad enough to use it. The method employed is this: Across one of the many
streams a dam of great boulders is laid, so that about the same amount of water is constantly
kept running into a channel. These channels are often very long, they skirt steep slopes and
are generally cut into the earth, sometimes into the rock; sometimes a little aqueduct is built
of planks, mud and earth, supported by bamboo and other poles that stand in the valley. In
the fields the channel usually divides into several streams, and runs through all the flat
beds, laid out in steps, in which the taro has only to be lightly stuck to bring forth fruit
in about ten months. Taro only grows in very swampy ground, some varieties only under water,
so that it cannot be grown in the coral region, where there is plenty of rain, but no running
water. In these districts yam is the principal food, while we find taro in the mountains of
primary rock. Both are similar in taste to the potato.

My next journey led me across the peninsula to the west coast of Santo. As usual, it was a
very rainy day when we started, but once across the divide the air became much drier. The clouds,
driven by the south-east trade-wind, strike the islands on the east side, and this is the reason
why the east coast is so much damper than the west, and why the vegetation is so immoderately
thick on the one side, and much less luxuriant on the other. On the west side the bush is thinner
and there are wide stretches of reed-grass, but there is plenty of water, bright creeks fed
by the rainfall on the mountains. Here, on the coast, it was much warmer than where we had
come from, but the air was most agreeable, dry and invigorating, quite different from the damp,
heavy air on the other side.

Late at night, after a long walk on the warm beach sand, we reached the village of Nogugu.
Next day Mr. G., a planter, was good enough to take me with him in his motor-boat, southward
along the coast. High mountains came close to the shore, falling in almost perpendicular walls
straight down into the sea. Deep narrow valleys led inland into the very heart of the island.
Several times, when we were passing the openings of these valleys, a squall caught us, and
rain poured down; then, again, everything lay in bright sunshine and the coast was picturesque
indeed with its violet shadows and reddish rocks. The only level ground to be seen was at the
mouths of the valleys in the shape of little river deltas.

The village to which we were going was on one of these deltas. Hardly had we set foot on shore
than a violent earthquake almost threw us to the ground. The shock lasted for at least thirty
seconds, then we heard a dull rumbling as of thunder, and saw how all along the coast immense
masses of earth fell into the sea from the high cliffs, so that the water boiled and foamed
wildly. Then yellow smoke came out of all the bays, and hung in heavy clouds over the devastated
spots, and veiled land and sea. Inland, too, we saw many bare spots, where the earth and trees
had slipped down. The shocks went on all night, though with diminished violence, and we continually
heard the thunderous rattling of falling rocks and earth.

Next day we stopped at the village of Wus, and I persuaded a dainty damsel (she was full-grown,
but only 134.4 cm. high) to make me a specimen of pottery. It was finished in ten minutes,
without any tool but a small, flat, bamboo splinter. Without using a potter's wheel the lady
rounded the sides of the jar very evenly, and altogether gave it a most pleasing, almost classical
shape.

When we returned south we could see what damage the earthquake had done. All the slopes looked
as if they had been scraped, and the sea was littered with wood and bushes. We also experienced
the disagreeable sensation of an earthquake on the water. The boat suddenly began to shake
and tremble, as if a giant hand were shaking it, and at the same time more earth fell down
into the water. The shocks recurred for several weeks, and after a while we became accustomed
to them. The vibrations seemed to slacken and to become more horizontal, so that we had less
of the feeling of being pushed upwards off our feet, but rather that of being in an immense
swing. For six weeks I was awakened almost every night by dull, threatening thunder, followed
some seconds later by a shock.

Another village where pottery was made was Pespia, a little inland. The chief obligingly gathered
the scattered population, and I had ample opportunity to buy pots and watch the making of them.
The method is different from that at Wus, for a primitive wheel, a segment of a thick bamboo,
is used. On this the clay is wound up in spirals and the surface smoothed inside and out. This
is the method by which most of the prehistoric European pottery was made. The existence of
the potter's art in these two villages only of all the New Hebrides is surprising. Clay is
found in other districts, and the idea that the natives might have learnt pottery from the
Spaniards lacks all probability, as the Spaniards never visited the west coast of Santo. The
two entirely different methods offer another riddle.

I made my way back along the coast, round Cape Cumberland. One of my boys having run away,
I had to carry his load myself, and although it was not the heaviest one, I was glad when I
found a substitute for him. This experience gave me an insight into the feelings of a tired
and discontented carrier.

At Wora I found that my host had returned to his station near Talamacco. So I returned to Talamacco
by boat; the earthquake had been very violent there, and had caused the greatest damage, and
I heard that all the new houses of the Messrs. Thomas at Hog Harbour had been ruined.

Times had been troublous in other respects at Talamacco; the natives, especially the Christians,
were fighting, and one Sunday they were all ready, looking very fierce, to attack each other
with clubs and other weapons, only neither side dared to begin. I asked them to do the fighting
out in the open, so that I could take a picture of it, and this cooled them down considerably.
They sat down and began a long palaver, which ended in nothing at all, and, indeed, no one
really knew what had started the excitement.

In spite of the supercargo's announcement that the steamer would arrive on the twentieth, she
did not come till the first of the following month. This kept me constantly on the look out
and ready for departure, and unable to do anything of importance. At last we sailed, touching
the Banks Islands on our route; and after enjoying a few days of civilization on board, I went
ashore at Tassimaloun, on the south-west corner of Santo, where I had the pleasure of being
Mr. C.'s guest. My object there was to follow the traces of the pygmy population, but as the
natives mostly live inland, and only rarely come to the coast, I had to go in search of them.
At that time I was often ill with fever, and could not do as much as I could have wished. Once
I tried to reach the highest mountain of the islands, Santo Peak, but my guides from the mission
village of Vualappa led me for ten days through most uninteresting country and an unfriendly
population without even bringing me to the foot of the mountain. I had several unpleasant encounters
with the natives, during one of which I fully expected to be murdered, and when our provisions
were exhausted we had to return to the coast. But every time I saw the tall pyramid of Santo
Peak rising above the lower hills I longed to be the first European to set foot on it, and
I tried it at last from the Tassiriki side.

After long consultations with the natives, I at last found two men who were willing to guide
me to the mountain. I decided to give up all other plans, and to take nothing with me but what
was strictly necessary. On the second day we climbed a hill which my guides insisted was the
Peak, the highest point of the island. I pointed out a higher summit, but they said that we
would never get up there before noon, and, indeed, they did everything they could to delay
our advance, by following wrong trails and being very slow about clearing the way. Still, after
an hour's hard work, we were on the point in question, and from there I could see the real
Santo Peak, separated from us by only one deep valley, as far as I could judge in the tangle
of forest that covered everything. The guides again pretended that we were standing on the
highest mountain then, and that it would take at least a fortnight to reach the real Peak.
I assured them that I meant to be on its top by noon, and when they showed no inclination whatever
to go on, I left them and went on with my boys. We had to dive into a deep ravine, where we
found a little water and refilled our bottles. Then we had to ascend the other side, which
was trying, as we had lost the trail and had to climb over rocks and through the thickest bush
I ever met. The ground was covered with a dense network of moss-grown trunks that were mouldering
there, through which we often fell up to our shoulders, while vines and ferns wound round our
bodies, so that we did our climbing more with our arms than with our feet. After a while one
of the guides joined us, but he did not know the way; at last we found it, but there were many
ups and downs before we attained the summit. The weather now changed, and we were suddenly
surrounded by the thick fog that always covers the Peak before noon. The great humidity and
the altitude combine to create a peculiar vegetation in this region; the tree-ferns are tremendously
developed, and the natives pretend that a peculiar species of pigeon lives here.

I was surprised to find any paths at all up here; but the natives come here to shoot pigeons,
and several valleys converge at Santo Peak, so that there are important passes near its summits.
One of my boys gave out here, and we left him to repose. The rest of the way was not difficult,
but we were all very tired when we reached the top. There was another summit, a trifle higher,
separated from the first by a long ridge, but we contented ourselves with the one we were on,
especially as we could see absolutely nothing. I was much disappointed, as on a clear day the
view of Santo and the whole archipelago must be wonderful. I deposited a bottle with a paper
of statistics, which some native has probably found by this time. We were wet and hungry, and
as it was not likely that the fog would lift, we began the descent. Without the natives I never
could have found the way back in the fog; but they followed the path easily enough, and half-way
down we met the other guides coming slowly up the mountain. They seemed pleased to have escaped
the tiresome climb; possibly they may have had other reasons for their dislike of the Peak.
They were rather disappointed, I thought, that I had had my way in spite of their resistance.
They now promised to lead us back by another route, and we descended a narrow valley for several
hours; then came a long halt, as my guides had to chat with friends in a village we passed.
At last I fairly had to drive them away, and we went down another valley, where we found a
few women bathing in a stream, who ran away at the sight of us. We bathed, and then enjoyed
an excellent meal of taro, which one of the guides had brought from the village. Before leaving,
one of my boys carefully collected all the peelings of my food, and threw them into the river,
so that I might not be poisoned by them, he said. A last steep climb ended the day's exertions,
and we entered the village where we were to sleep. While the guides bragged to the men of their
feats, the women brought us food and drink, and I had a chance to rest and look about me.

I was struck by the great number of women and the very small number of men in this place; after
a while I found out the reason, which was that ten of the men had been kidnapped by a Frenchman
while on their way to a plantation on the Segond Channel, where they meant to work a few days.
The women are now deprived of their husbands for at least three years, unless they find men
in some other village. If five of the ten ever return, it will be a good average, and it is
more than likely that they will find a deserted and ruined village if they do come back.

This is one of many illustrations of how the present recruiting system and the laxity of the
French authorities combine to ruin the native population. (I have since heard that by request
of the British authorities these men were brought back, but only after about nine months had
passed, and without receiving any compensation. Most kidnapping cases never come to the ears
of the authorities at all.)

