462. [b.] That when a man leaves the world he takes with him all his memory has been shown
to me in many ways, and many of the things I have seen and heard are worthy of mention, some
of which I will relate in order. There were some who denied their crimes and villainies which
they had perpetrated in the world; and in consequence, that they might not be believed innocent,
all their deeds were disclosed and reviewed from their memory in order, from their earliest
to their latest years; these were chiefly adulteries and whoredoms. [2] There were some who
had deceived others by wicked arts and had committed thefts. The deceits and thefts of these
were also enumerated in detail, many of which were known to scarcely any in the world except
themselves. These deeds they confessed, because they were plainly set forth, with every thought,
intention, pleasure, and fear which occupied their minds at the time. [3] There were others
who had accepted bribes, and had rendered venal judgments, who were similarly explored from
their memory and from it everything they had done from the beginning to the end of their office
was reviewed. Every detail in regard to what and how much they had received, as well as the
time, and their state of mind and intention, were brought to their recollection and made visibly
clear to the number of many hundreds. This was done with several and what is wonderful, in
some cases their memorandum-books, in which they had recorded these things, were opened and
read before them page by page. [4] Others who had enticed maidens to shame or had violated
chastity were called to a like judgment; and the details of their crimes were drawn forth from
their memory and reviewed. The very faces of the maidens and women were also exhibited as if
present, with the places, words and intentions, and this as suddenly as when a scene is presented
to the sight, the exhibitions continuing sometimes for hours. [5] There was one who had made
light of slandering others; and I heard his slanders recounted in order, and his defamations,
with the very words, and the persons about whom and before whom they were uttered; all of which
were produced and presented to the very life, although while he lived in the world he had most
carefully concealed everything. [6] There was one who had deprived a relative of his inheritance
under a fraudulent pretext; and he was in like manner convicted and judged; and what is wonderful,
the letters and papers that passed between them were read in my hearing, and it was said that
not a word was lacking. [7] The same person shortly before his death had also secretly poisoned
his neighbor. This was disclosed in this way. He appeared to be digging a trench under his
feet, from which a man came forth as out of a grave, and cried out to him, "What have you done
to me?" Then everything was revealed, how the poisoner had talked with him in a friendly manner,
and had held out the cup, also what he thought beforehand, and what happened afterwards. When
all this had been disclosed he was sentenced to hell. [8] In a word, to each evil spirit all
his evils, villainies, robberies, artifices, and deceits are made clear, and are brought forth
from his very memory, and his guilt is fully established; nor is there any possible room for
denial, because all the circumstances are exhibited together. Moreover, I have learned from
a man's memory, when it was seen and inspected by angels, what his thoughts had been for a
month, one day after another, and this without mistake, the thoughts being recalled just as
they arose from day to day. [9] From these examples it can be seen that man carries with him
all of his memory, and that nothing can be so concealed in the world as not to be disclosed
after death, which is done in the presence of many, according to the Lord's words:

     There is nothing concealed that shall not be uncovered,
     and nothing secret that shall not be known; therefore what
     ye have spoken in the dark shall be heard in the light and
     what ye have spoken in the ear shall be proclaimed on the
     housetops (Luke 12:2, 3).

463. In disclosing his acts to a man after death, the angels to whom the office of searching
is assigned look into his face, and their search extends through the whole body, beginning
with the fingers of each hand, and thus proceeding through the whole. As I wondered at this
the reason was given, namely, that as all things of the thought and will are inscribed on the
brain, for their beginnings are there, so are they likewise inscribed on the whole body, since
all things of thought and will extend from their beginnings into all things of the body and
there terminate as in their outmosts; and this is why the things that are inscribed on the
memory from the will and consequent thought are inscribed not only on the brain, but also upon
the whole man, and there exist in order in accordance with the order of the parts of the body.
It was thus made clear that man as a whole is such as he is in his will and its thought, even
to the extent that an evil man is his own evil, and a good man his own good.{1} This shows
what is meant by the book of man's life spoken of in the Word, namely, that all things that
he has done and all things that he has thought are inscribed on the whole man, and when they
are called forth from the memory they appear as if read in a book, and when the spirit is viewed
in the light of heaven, they appear as in an image. To all this I would add something remarkable
in regard to the continuance of the memory after death, by which I was assured that not only
things in general but also the minutest particulars that have entered the memory remain and
are never obliterated. I saw books there containing writings as in the world, and was told
that they were from the memory of those who wrote, and that there was not a single word lacking
in them that was in a book written by the same person in the world; and thus all the minutest
particulars might be drawn from one's memory, even those that he had forgotten in the world.
And the reason was given, namely, that man has an external and an internal memory, an external
memory belonging to his natural man, and an internal memory belonging to his spiritual man;
and that every least thing that a man has thought, willed, spoken, done or even heard and seen,
is inscribed on his internal or spiritual memory;{2} and that what is there is never erased,
since it is also inscribed on the spirit itself and on the members of its body, as has been
said above; and that the spirit is thus formed in accordance with the thoughts and acts of
its will. I know that this sounds like a paradox, and is therefore difficult to believe; but
still it is true. Let no one believe, then, that there is any thing that a man has ever thought
in himself or done in secret that can be concealed after death; but let him believe that all
things and each single thing are then laid open as clear as day.

  {Footnote 1} A good man, spirit, or angel, is his own good and
  his own truth, that is, he is wholly such as his good and truth
  are (n. 10298, 10367). This is because good is what makes the
  will and truth the understanding; and the will and
  understanding make everything of life in man, spirit, or angel
  (n. 3332, 3623, 6065). It is the same thing to say that a man,
  spirit, or angel is his own love (n. 6872, 10177, 10284).

  {Footnote 2} Man has two memories an outer and an inner, or a
  natural and a spiritual memory (n. 2469-2494). Man does not
  know that he has an inner memory (n. 2470, 2471). How far the
  inner memory surpasses the outer (n. 2473). The things
  contained in the outer memory are in the light of the world,
  but the things contained in the inner are in the light of
  heaven (n. 5212). It is from the inner memory that man is able
  to think and speak intellectually and rationally (n. 9394). All
  things and each thing that a man has thought, spoken, and done,
  and that he has seen and heard, are inscribed on the inner
  memory (n. 2474, 7398). That memory is the book of his life (n.
  2474, 9386, 9841, 10505). In the inner memory are the truths
  that have been made truths of faith, and the goods that have
  been made goods of love (n. 5212, 8067). Those things that have
  become matters of habit and have come to be things of the life,
  and have thus disappeared from the outer memory, are in the
  inner memory (n. 9394, 9723, 9841). Spirits and angels speak
  from the inner memory and consequently have a universal
  language (n. 2472, 2476, 2490, 2493). The languages of the
  world belong to the outer memory (n. 2472, 2476).

464. Although the external or natural memory remains in man after death, the merely natural
things in it are not reproduced in the other life, but only the spiritual things adjoined to
the natural by correspondences; but when these are present to the sight they appear in exactly
the same form as they had in the natural world; for all things seen in the heavens have just
the same appearance as in the world, although in their essence they are not natural but spiritual
(as may be seen in the chapter on Representatives and Appearances in Heaven, n. 170-176). [2]
But the external or natural memory in respect to the things in it that are derived from the
material, and from time and space, and from other properties of nature, is not serviceable
to the spirit in the way that it was serviceable to it in the world, for whenever man thinks
in the world from his external sensual, and not at the same time from his internal or intellectual
sensual, he thinks naturally and not spiritually; but in the other life when he is a spirit
in the spiritual world he does not think naturally but spiritually, and to think spiritually
is to think intellectually or rationally. For this reason the external or natural memory in
respect to its material contents is then quiescent, and only those things that man has imbibed
in the world by means of material things, and has made rational, come into use. The external
memory becomes quiescent in respect to material things because these cannot then be brought
forth, since spirits and angels speak from those affections and thoughts that are proper to
their minds; and are therefore unable to give expression to any thing that is not in accord
with their affections and thoughts as can be seen in what is said about the speech of angels
in heaven and their speech with man (n. 234-257). [3] Because of this man after death is rational,
not in the degree that he was skilled in languages and sciences in the world, but in the degree
in which he became rational by means of these. I have talked with many who were believed in
the world to be learned because they were acquainted with ancient languages, such as the Hebrew,
Greek, and Latin, but had not cultivated their rational faculty by what is written in those
languages. Some of them were seen to be just as simple as those who knew nothing of those languages,
and some even stupid, and yet they retained the conceit of being wiser than others. [4] I have
talked with some who had believed in the world that man is wise in the measure of the contents
of his memory, and who had stored up many things in their memory, speaking almost solely from
the memory, and therefore not from themselves but from others, and their rationality had not
been at all perfected by means of the things in their memory. Some of these were stupid and
some sottish, not in the least comprehending whether a truth is true or not, and seizing upon
all falsities that are passed off for truths by those who called themselves learned; for from
themselves they are unable to see any thing, whether it be true or not, and consequently are
unable to see any thing rationally when listening to others. [5] I have also talked with some
who had written much in the world on scientific subjects of every kind, and had thereby acquired
a worldwide reputation for learning. Some of these, indeed, had the ability to reason about
truths, whether they are true or not; and some, when they had turned to those who were in the
light of truth, had some comprehension that truths are true, but still had no wish to comprehend
them, and therefore when they were in their own falsities, and thus in themselves, denied them.
Some had no more wisdom than the unlearned common people. Thus each differed from the other
according as he had cultivated his rational faculty by means of the knowledges he had written
about or collated. But those who were opposed to the truths of the church, and who thought
from mere knowledges and confirmed themselves thereby in falsities, did not cultivate their
rational faculty, but cultivated only an ability to reason, which in the world is believed
to be rationality. But this ability is wholly different from rationality; it is an ability
to prove any thing it pleases, and from preconceived principles and from fallacies to see falsities
and not truths. Such persons can never be brought to acknowledge truths, since truths cannot
be seen from falsities; but falsities may be seen from truths. [6] The rational faculty of
man is like a garden or shrubbery, or like fresh ground; the memory is the soil, truths known
and knowledges are the seeds, the light and heat of heaven cause them to grow; without light
and heat there is no germination; so is it with the mind when the light of heaven, which is
Divine truth, and the heat of heaven, which is Divine love, are not admitted; rationality is
solely from these. It is a great grief to the angels that learned men for the most part ascribe
all things to nature, and have thereby so closed up the interiors of their minds as to be unable
to see any thing of truth from the light of truth, which is the light of heaven. In consequence
of this such in the other life are deprived of their ability to reason that they may not disseminate
falsities among the simple good and lead them astray; and are sent away into desert places.

465. A certain spirit was indignant because he was unable to remember many things that he knew
in the life of the body, grieving over the lost pleasure which he had so much enjoyed, but
he was told that he had lost nothing at all, that he still knew each and everything that he
had known, although in the world where he now was no one was permitted to call forth such things
from the memory, and that he ought to be satisfied that he could now think and speak much better
and more perfectly than before, and that his rational was not now immersed as before in gross,
obscure, material and corporeal things, which are of no use in the kingdom into which he had
now come; also that he now possessed everything conducive to the uses of eternal life, and
that this is the only way of becoming blessed and happy; and therefore it is the part of ignorance
to believe that in this kingdom intelligence perishes with the removal or quiescence of the
material things in the memory; for the real fact is that so far as the mind can be withdrawn
from things of sense pertaining to the external man or the body, so far it is elevated to things
spiritual and heavenly.

466. What these two memories are is sometimes presented to view in the other life in forms
not elsewhere seen; for many things which in man take the form of ideas are there presented
as objects of sight. The external memory there presents the appearance of a callus, the internal
the appearance of a medullary substance like that in the human brain; and from this what they
are can be known. With those that have devoted themselves in the life of the body to the cultivation
of the memory alone, and have not cultivated their rational faculty, the callosity appears
hard and streaked within as with tendons. With those that have filled the memory with falsities
it appears hairy and rough, because of the confused mass of things in it. With those that have
cultivated the memory with the love of self and the world as an end it appears glued together
and ossified. With those that have wished to penetrate into Divine arcana by means of learning,
especially of a philosophical kind, with an unwillingness to believe until convinced by such
proofs, the memory appears like a dark substance, of such a nature as to absorb the rays of
light and turn them into darkness. With those that have practiced deceit and hypocrisy it appears
hard and bony like ebony, which reflects the rays of light. But with those that have been in
the good of love and the truths of faith there is no such callous appearance, because their
inner memory transmits the rays of light into the outer; and in its objects or ideas as in
their basis or their ground, the rays terminate and find delightful receptacles; for the outer
memory is the out most of order in which, when goods and truths are there, the spiritual and
heavenly things are gently terminated and find their seat.

467. Men living in the world who are in love to the Lord and charity toward the neighbor have
with them and in them angelic intelligence and wisdom, but it is then stored up in the inmosts
of the inner memory; and they are not at all conscious of it until they put off corporeal things.
Then the natural memory is laid asleep and they awake into their inner memory, and then gradually
into angelic memory itself.

468. How the rational faculty may be cultivated shall also be told in a few words. The genuine
rational faculty consists of truths and not of falsities; whatever consists of falsities is
not rational. There are three kinds of truths, civil, moral, and spiritual. Civil truths relate
to matters of judgment and of government in kingdoms, and in general to what is just and equitable
in them. Moral truths pertain to the matters of everyone's life which have regard to companionships
and social relations, in general to what is honest and right, and in particular to virtues
of every kind. But spiritual truths relate to matters of heaven and of the church, and in general
to the good of love and the truth of faith. [2] In every man there are three degrees of life
(see above, n. 267). The rational faculty is opened to the first degree by civil truths, to
the second degree by moral truths, and to the third degree by spiritual truths. But it must
be understood that the rational faculty that consists of these truths is not formed and opened
by man's knowing them, but by his living according to them; and living according to them means
loving them from spiritual affection; and to love truths from spiritual affection is to love
what is just and equitable because it is just and equitable, what is honest and right because
it is honest and right, and what is good and true because it is good and true; while living
according to them and loving them from the bodily affection is loving them for the sake of
self and for the sake of one's reputation, honor or gain. Consequently, so far as man loves
these truths from a bodily affection he fails to become rational, for he loves, not them, but
himself; and the truths are made to serve him as servants serve their Lord; and when truths
become servants they do not enter the man and open any degree of life in him, not even the
first, but merely rest in the memory as knowledges under a material form, and there conjoin
themselves with the love of self, which is a bodily love. [3] All this shows how man becomes
rational, namely, that he becomes rational to the third degree by a spiritual love of the good
and truth which pertain to heaven and the church; he becomes rational to the second degree
by a love of what is honest and right; and to the first degree by a love of what is just and
equitable. These two latter loves also become spiritual from a spiritual love of good and truth,
because that love flows into them and conjoins itself to them and forms in them as it were
its own semblance.

469. Spirits and angels, equally with men, have a memory, whatever they hear, see, think, will
and do, remaining with them, and thereby their rational faculty is continually cultivated even
to eternity. Thus spirits and angels, equally with men, are perfected in intelligence and wisdom
by means of knowledges of truth and good. That spirits and angels have a memory I have been
permitted to learn by much experience, having seen everything that they have thought and done,
both in public and in private, called forth from their memories when they were with other spirits;
and I have seen those that were in some truth from simple good imbued with knowledges, and
thereby with intelligence, and afterwards raised up into heaven. But it must be understood
that such are not imbued with knowledges and thereby with intelligence beyond the degree of
affection for good and for truth that they have attained to while in the world; for such and
so much of affection as any spirit or angel had in the world remains with him; and this affection
is afterwards perfected by being filled out, which goes on to eternity. For everything is capable
of being filled out to eternity, since everything is capable of infinite variation, thus of
enrichment by various things, and consequently of multiplication and fructification. To any
thing good there is no limit because it is from the Infinite. That spirits and angels are being
perfected unceasingly in intelligence and wisdom by means of knowledges of truth and good may
be seen above, in the chapters on the wisdom of the angels of heaven (n. 265-275); on the heathen
or people outside the church in heaven (n. 318-328); and on little children in heaven (n. 329-345);
and that this is done to that degree of affection for good and for truth in which they had
been in the world, and not beyond it, may be seen in n. 349.

470. XLIX. MAN AFTER DEATH IS SUCH AS HIS LIFE HAD BEEN IN THE WORLD.

Every Christian knows from the Word that one's own life awaits him after death; for it is there
said in many passages that man will be judged and rewarded according to his deeds and works;
and no one who thinks from good and from real truth can help seeing that he who lives well
goes to heaven and that he who lives wickedly goes to hell. But the evil man is unwilling to
believe that his state after death is according to his life in the world; he thinks, especially
when he is sick, that heaven is granted to everyone out of pure mercy, whatever his life may
have been, and that this is done in accordance with his faith, which he separates from life.

471. 16:27). 14:13).

     I will give to everyone according to his works (Apoc.
     2:23). 20:12,
     13).

     Behold I come, and My reward is with Me, to give to
     everyone according to his works (Apoc. 22:12).

     Everyone that heareth My words and doeth them I will liken
     to a prudent man; but everyone that heareth My words and
     doeth them not is likened to a foolish man (Matt. 7:24,
     26).

     Not everyone that saith unto Me, Lord, Lord, shall enter
     into the kingdom of the heavens; but he that doeth the
     will of My Father who is in the heavens. But then will I confess to
     them, I know you not: depart from Me, ye workers of
     iniquity (Matt. 7:21-23).

     Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk before
     Thee; Thou hast taught in our streets. But He will say, I
     tell you I know you not, ye workers of iniquity (Luke
     13:25-27).

     I will recompense them according to their work and
     according to the doing of their hands (Jer. 25:14).

     Jehovah, whose eyes are open upon all the ways of men, to
     give to everyone according to his ways and according to
     the fruit of his works (Jer. 32:19).

     I will visit upon his ways and recompense to him his works
     (Hosea 4:9).

     Jehovah doeth with us according to our ways and according
     to our works (Zech. 1:6).

In foretelling the last judgment the Lord recounts nothing but works, teaching that those that
have done good works will enter into eternal life, and those that have done evil works will
enter into damnation, as in Matthew (25:32-46), and in many other passages that treat of the
salvation and condemnation of man. It is clear that works and deeds constitute the outward
life of man, and that the quality of his inward life is made evident in them.

472. But by deeds and works, what they are inwardly is here meant, and not the way they outwardly
appear; for everyone knows that every deed and work goes forth from the man's will and thought;
otherwise it would be nothing but a movement like that of an automaton or image. Consequently,
a deed or work viewed in itself is merely an effect that derives its soul and life from will
and thought, even to the extent that it is nothing but will and thought in effect, and thus
is will and thought in outward form. From this it follows that a deed or work is in quality
such as are the will and thought that produce it. If the thought and will are good the deeds
and works are good; but if the thought and will are evil the deeds and works are evil, although
in outward form they appear alike. A thousand men may act alike, that is, may do like deeds,
so alike in outward form as to be almost undistinguishable, and yet each one regarded in itself
be different, because from an unlike will. [2] For example, when one acts honestly and justly
with a companion, one person may do it for the purpose of appearing to be honest and just out
of regard to himself and his own honor; another out of regard to the world and gain; a third
out of regard to reward and merit; a fourth out of regard to friendship; a fifth from fear
of the law and the loss of reputation or employment; a sixth that he may draw some one to his
own side, even when he is in the wrong; a seventh that he may deceive; and others from other
motives. In all these instances although the deeds are good in appearance, since it is a good
thing to act honestly and justly with a companion, they are nevertheless evil, because they
are done, not out of regard to honesty and justice and for the love of these, but out of regard
to love of self and the world which are loved; and honesty and justice are made to serve that
love as servants serve a lord, whom the lord despises and dismisses when they fail to serve
him. [3] In outward form those act in a like way who act honestly and justly with a companion
because they love what is honest and just. Some of these act from the truth of faith or from
obedience, because the Word so commands; some from the good of faith or from conscience, because
from a religious motive; some from good of charity towards the neighbor because his good should
be regarded; some from the good of love to the Lord because good should be done for the sake
of good, as also what is honest and just should be done for the sake of honesty and justice;
and this they love because it is from the Lord, and because the Divine that goes forth from
the Lord is in it, and consequently regarded in its very essence it is Divine. The deeds or
works of such are inwardly good, and therefore are outwardly good also; for, as has been said
above, deeds or works are precisely such in quality as the thought and will from which they
proceed, and apart from thought and will they are not deeds and works, but only inanimate movements.
All this explains what is meant in the Word by works and deeds.

473. As deeds and works are from the will and thought, so are they from the love and faith,
consequently they are such as the love and faith are; for it is the same thing whether you
say one's love or his will, and it is the same thing whether you say one's faith or his established
thought; for that which a man loves he wills, and that which a man believes he thinks; and
when a man loves what he believes he also wills it and as far as possible does it. Everyone
may know that love and faith are within man's will and thought, and not outside of them, for
love is what kindles the will, and the thought is what it enlightens in matters of faith; therefore
only those that are able to think wisely are enlightened, and in the measure of their enlightenment
they think what is true and will it, or what is the same, they believe what is true and love it.{1}

  {Footnote 1} As all things that exist according to order in the
  universe have relation to good and truth, so in man all things
  have relation to will and understanding (n. 803, 10122). For
  the reason that the will is a recipient of good and the
  understanding a recipient of truth (n. 3332, 3623, 5232, 6065,
  6125, 7503, 9300, 9995). It amounts to the same whether you say
  truth or faith, for faith belongs to truth and truth belongs to
  faith; and it amounts to the same whether you say good or love
  for love belongs to good and good belongs to love (n. 4353,
  4997, 7179, 10122, 10367). From this it follows that the
  understanding is a recipient of faith, and the will a recipient
  of love (n. 7179, 10122, 10367). And since the understanding of
  man is capable of receiving faith in God and the will is
  capable of receiving love to God, man is capable of being
  conjoined with God in faith and love, and he that is capable of
  being conjoined with God in love and faith can never die (n.
  4525, 6323, 9231).

474. But it must be understood that it is the will that makes the
man, while thought makes the man only so far as it goes forth from
the will; and deeds and works go forth from both; or what is the
same, it is love that makes the man, and faith only so far as it goes
forth from love; and deeds or works go forth from both. Consequently,
the will or love is the man himself, for whatever goes forth belongs
to that from which it goes forth. To go forth is to be brought forth
and presented in suitable form for being perceived and seen.{1} All
this makes clear what faith is when separated from love, namely, that
it is no faith, but mere knowledge, which has no spiritual life in
it; likewise what a deed or work is apart from love, namely, that it
is not a deed or work of life, but a deed or work of death, which
possesses an appearance of life from an evil love and a belief in
what is false. This appearance of life is what is called spiritual
death. In the same way
  as light proceeds from fire or flame (n. 6032, 6314). Every man is loved and esteemed by others in accordance
  with the good of his will and of his understanding therefrom,
  for he that wills well and understands well is loved and
  esteemed; and he that understands well and does not will well
  is set aside and despised (n. 8911, 10076). After death man
  continues to be such as his will is, and his understanding
  therefrom (n, 9069, 9071, 9386, 10153). Consequently after
  death man continues to be such as his love is, and his faith
  therefrom; and whatever belongs to his faith and not also to
  his love then vanishes, because it is not in the man, thus not
  of the man (n. 553, 2364, 10153).

475. Again, it must be understood that in deeds or works the whole man is exhibited, and that
his will and thought or his love and faith, which are his interiors, are not complete until
they exist in deeds or works, which are his exteriors, for these are the outmosts in which
the will and thought terminate, and without such terminations they are interminate, and have
as yet no existence, that is, are not yet in the man. To think and to will without doing, when
there is opportunity, is like a flame enclosed in a vessel and goes out; also like seed cast
upon the sand, which fails to grow, and so perishes with its power of germination. But to think
and will and from that to do is like a flame that gives heat and light all around, or like
a seed in the ground that grows up into a tree or flower and continues to live. Everyone can
know that willing and not doing, when there is opportunity, is not willing; also that loving
and not doing good, when there is opportunity, is not loving, but mere thought that one wills
and loves; and this is thought separate, which vanishes and is dissipated. Love and will constitute
the soul itself of a deed or work, and give form to its body in the honest and just things
that the man does. This is the sole source of man's spiritual body, or the body of his spirit;
that is, it is formed solely out of the things that the man does from his love or will (see
above, n. 463). In a word, all things of man and his spirit are contained in his deeds or works.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Interior things flow in successively into exterior
  things even down to the extreme or outmost, and there they come
  forth and have permanent existence (n. 634, 6451, 6465, 9215,
  9216). Deeds or works are the
  outmosts which contain the interiors (n. 10331). Therefore
  being recompensed and judged according to deeds and works is
  being recompensed and judged in accordance with all things of
  one's love and faith, or of his will and thought because these
  are the interiors contained in deeds and works (n. 3147, 3934,
  6073, 8911, 10331, 10332).

476. All this makes clear what the life is that awaits man after death, namely, that it is
his love and his faith therefrom, not only in potency, but also in act; thus that it is his
deeds or works, because in these all things of man's love and faith are contained.

477. It is man's ruling love that awaits him after death, and this is in no way changed to
eternity. Everyone has many loves; but they are all related to his ruling love, and make one
with it or together compose it. All things of the will that are in harmony with the ruling
love are called loves, because they are loved. These loves are both inner and outer; some directly
connected and some mediately; some nearer and some more remote; they are subservient in various
ways. Taken together they constitute a kingdom, as it were, such being the order in which they
are arranged in man, although man knows nothing what ever about that arrangement. And yet something
of it is made manifest to him in the other life, for the spread of his thought and affection
there is in accordance with the arrangement of his loves, his thought and affection extending
into heavenly societies when the ruling love is made up of the loves of heaven, but into infernal
societies when it is made up of the loves of hell. That all the thought and affection of spirits
and of angels has extension into societies may be seen above, in the chapters on the wisdom
of the angels of heaven, and on the form of heaven which determines affiliations and communications
there.

478. But what has been said thus far appeals only to the thought of the rational man. That
it may also be presented to the perception derived from the senses, I will add some experiences
by which it may be illustrated and confirmed. First, Man after death is his own love or his
own will. Second, Man continues to eternity such as his will or ruling love is. Third, The
man who has heavenly and spiritual love goes to heaven, while the man who has corporeal and
worldly love, and no heavenly and spiritual love, goes to hell. Fourth, Unless faith is from
heavenly love it does not endure in man. Fifth, Love in act, that is, the life of man, is what
endures.

479. (i) Man after death is his own love or his own will. This has been proved to me by manifold
experience. The entire heaven is divided into societies according to differences of good of
love; and every spirit who is taken up into heaven and becomes an angel is taken to the society
where his love is; and when he arrives there he is, as it were, at home, and in the house where
he was born; this the angel perceives, and is affiliated with those there that are like himself.
When he goes away to another place he feels constantly a kind of resistance, and a longing
to return to his like, thus to his ruling love. Thus are affiliations brought about in heaven;
and in a like manner in hell, where all are affiliated in accordance with loves that are the
opposites of heavenly loves. It has been shown above (n. 41-50 and 200-212) that both heaven
and hell are composed of societies, and that they are all distinguished according to differences
of love. [2] That man after death is his own love might also be seen from the fact that whatever
does not make one with his ruling love is then separated and as it were taken away from him.
From one who is good everything discordant or inharmonious is separated and as it were taken
away, and he is thus let into his own love. It is the same with an evil spirit, with the difference
that from the evil truths are taken away, and from the good falsities are taken away, and this
goes on until each becomes his own love. This is effected when the man-spirit is brought into
the third state, which will be described hereafter. When this has been done he turns his face
constantly to his own love, and this he has continually before his eyes, in whatever direction
he turns (see above, n. 123, 124). [3] All spirits, provided they are kept in their ruling
love, can be led wherever one pleases, and are incapable of resistance, however clearly they
may see that this is being done, and however much they may think that they will resist. They
have often been permitted to try whether they could do anything contrary to their ruling love,
but in vain. Their love is like a bond or a rope tied around them, by which they may be led
and from which they cannot loose themselves. It is the same with men in the world who are also
led by their love, or are led by others by means of their love; but this is more the case when
they have become spirits, because they are not then permitted to make a display of any other
love, or to counterfeit what is not their own. [4] All interaction in the other life proves
that the spirit of man is his ruling love, for so far any one is acting or speaking in accord
with the love of another, to the same extent is the other plainly present, with full, joyous,
and lively countenance; but when one is speaking or acting contrary to another's love, to that
extent the other's countenance begins to be changed, to be obscured and undiscernible, until
at length he wholly disappears as if he had not been there. I have often wondered how this
could be, for nothing of the kind can occur in the world; but I have been told that it is the
same with the spirit in man, which when it turns itself away from another ceases to be within
his view. [5] Another proof that a spirit is his ruling love is that every spirit seizes and
appropriates all things that are in harmony with his love, and rejects and repudiates all that
are not. Everyone's love is like a spongy or porous wood, which imbibes such fluids as promote
its growth, and repels others. It is also like animals of every kind, which know their proper
food and seek the things that agree with their nature, and avoid what disagrees; for every
love wishes to be nourished on what belongs to it, evil love by falsities and good love by
truths. I have sometimes been permitted to see certain simple good spirits desiring to instruct
the evil in truths and goods; but when the instruction was offered them they fled far away,
and when they came to their own they seized with great pleasure upon the falsities that were
in agreement with their love. I have also seen good spirits talking together about truths,
and the good who were present listened eagerly to the conversation, but the evil who were present
paid no attention to it, as if they did not hear it. In the world of spirits ways are seen,
some leading to heaven, some to hell, and each to some particular society. Good spirits go
only in the ways that lead to heaven, and to the society there that is in the good of their
love; and do not see the ways that lead elsewhere; while evil spirits go only in the ways that
lead to hell, and to the society there that is in the evil of their love; and do not see the
ways that lead elsewhere; or if they see them have no wish to enter them. In the spiritual
world these ways are real appearances, which correspond to truths or falsities; and this is
why ways have this signification in the Word.{1} By this evidence from experience what has
previously been affirmed on the ground of reason is made more certain, namely, that every man
after death is his own love and his own will. It is said one's own will because everyone's
will is his love.

  {Footnote 1} A "way," a "path," a "road," a "street," and a
  "broad street," signify truths leading to good, or falsities
  leading to evil (n. 627, 2333, 10422). "To sweep [or prepare] a
  way" means to prepare for the reception of truths (n. 3142).
  "To make known the way" means, in respect to the Lord, to
  instruct in truths that lead to good (n. 10565).

480. (ii) Man after death continues to eternity such as his will or ruling love is. This, too,
has been confirmed by abundant experience. I have been permitted to talk with some who lived
two thousand years ago, and whose lives are described in history, and thus known; and I found
that they continued to be just the same as they were described, that is, in respect to the
love out of which and according to which their lives were formed. There were others known to
history, that had lived seventeen centuries ago, others that had lived four centuries ago,
and three, and so on, with whom I was permitted to talk; and I found that the same affection
still ruled in them, with no other difference than that the delights of their love were turned
into such things as correspond. The angels declare that the life of the ruling love is never
changed in any one even to eternity, since everyone is his love; consequently to change that
love in a spirit is to take away or extinguish his life; and for the reason that man after
death is no longer capable of being reformed by instruction, as in the world, because the outmost
plane, which consists of natural knowledges and affections, is then quiescent and not being
spiritual cannot be opened (see above, n. 464); and upon that plane the interiors pertaining
to the mind and disposition rest as a house rests on its foundation; and on this account such
as the life of one's love had been in the world such he continues to be to eternity. The angels
are greatly surprised that man does not know that everyone is such as his ruling love is, and
that many believe that they may be saved by mercy apart from means, or by faith alone, whatever
their life may be; also that they do not know that Divine mercy works by means, and that it
consists in man's being led by the Lord, both in the world and afterwards to eternity, and
that those who do not live in evils are led by the Divine mercy; and finally that faith is
affection for truth going forth from heavenly love, which is from the Lord.

481. This has been made evident to me from all whom I have seen taken up into heaven or cast
into hell. The life of those taken up into heaven had been derived from a heavenly and spiritual
love, while the life of those cast into hell had been derived from a corporeal and worldly
love. Heavenly love consists in loving what is good, honest, and just, because it is good,
honest and just, and in doing this from love; and those that have this love have a life of
goodness, honesty, and justice, which is the heavenly life. Those that love what is good, honest,
and just, for its own sake, and who do this or live it, love the Lord above all things, because
this is from Him; they also love the neighbor, because this is the neighbor who is to be loved.{1}
But corporeal love is loving what is good, honest, and just, not for its own sake but for the
sake of self, because reputation, honor, and gain can thus be acquired. Such, in what is good,
honest, and just, do not look to the Lord and to the neighbor, but to self and the world, and
find delight in fraud; and the goodness, honesty and justice that spring forth from fraud are
evil, dishonesty, and injustice, and these are what are loved by such in their practice of
goodness, honesty, and justice. [2] As the life of everyone is determined by these different
kinds of love, as soon as men after death enter the world of spirits they are examined to discover
their quality, and are joined to those that are in a like love; those that are in heavenly
love to those that are in heaven, and those that are in corporeal love to those that are in
hell; and after they have passed through the first and second state they are so separated as
to no longer see or know each other; for each one becomes his own love, both in respect to
his interiors pertaining to his mind, and in respect to his exteriors pertaining to his face,
body, and speech; for everyone becomes an image of his own love, even in externals. Those that
are corporeal loves appear gross, dusky, black and misshapen; while those that are heavenly
loves appear fresh, bright, fair and beautiful. Also in their minds and thoughts they are wholly
unlike, those that are heavenly loves being intelligent and wise, while those that are corporeal
loves are stupid and as it were silly. [3] When it is granted to behold the interiors and exteriors
of thought and affection of those that are in heavenly love, their interiors appear like light,
and some like a flamy light, while their exteriors appear in various beautiful colors like
rainbows. But the interiors of those that are in corporeal love appear as if black, because
they are closed up; and the interiors of some who were interiorly in malignant deceit appear
like a dusky fire. But their exteriors appear of a dirty color, and disagreeable to the sight.
(The interiors and exteriors of the mind and disposition are made visible in the spiritual
world whenever the Lord pleases.) [4] Those that are in corporeal love see nothing in the light
of heaven; to them the light of heaven is thick darkness; but the light of hell, which is like
light from burning coals, is to them as clear light. Moreover, in the light of heaven their
inward sight is so darkened that they become insane; consequently they shun that light and
hide themselves in dens and caverns, more or less deeply in accordance with the falsities in
them derived from their evils. On the other hand those who are in heavenly love, the more interiorly
and deeply they enter into the light of heaven, see all things more clearly and all things
appear more beautiful to them, and they perceive truths more intelligently and wisely. [5]
Again, it is impossible for those who are in corporeal love to live at all in the heat of heaven,
for the heat of heaven is heavenly love; but they can live in the heat of hell, which is the
love of raging against others that do not favor them. The delights of that love are contempt
of others, enmity, hatred and revenge; and when they are in these delights they are in their
life, and have no idea what it is to do good to others from good itself and for the sake of
good itself, knowing only what it is to do good from evil and for the sake of evil. [6] Those
who are in corporeal love are unable to breathe in heaven. When any evil spirit is brought
into heaven he draws his breath like one struggling in a contest; while those that are in heavenly
love have a freer respiration and a fuller life the more interiorly they are in heaven. All
this shows that heaven with man is heavenly and spiritual love, because on that love all things
of heaven are inscribed; also that hell in man is corporeal and worldly love apart from heavenly
and spiritual love, because on such loves all things of hell are inscribed. Evidently, then,
he whose love is heavenly and spiritual enters heaven, and he whose love is corporeal and worldly
apart from heavenly and spiritual love enters hell.

  {Footnote 1} In the highest sense, the Lord is the neighbor,
  because He is to be loved above all things; but loving the Lord
  is loving what is from Him, because He Himself is in everything
  that is from Him, thus it is loving what is good and true (n.
  2425, 3419, 6706, 6711, 6819, 6823, 8123). Loving what is good
  and true which is from the Lord is living in accordance with
  good and truth, and this is loving the Lord (n. 10143, 10153,
  10310, 10336, 10578, 10645). Every man and every society, also
  one's country and the church, and in a universal sense the
  Lord's kingdom, are the neighbor, and doing good to these from
  a love of good in accord with their state is loving the
  neighbor; that is, their good that should be consulted is the
  neighbor (n. 6818-6824, 8123). The doctrine in the Ancient
  Church was the doctrine of charity, and from that they had
  wisdom (n. 2385, 2417, 3419, 3420, 4844, 6628).

482. (iv) Unless faith is from heavenly love it does not endure in man. This has been made
clear to me by so much experience that if everything I have seen and heard respecting it were
collected, it would fill a volume. This I can testify, that those who are in corporeal and
worldly love apart from heavenly and spiritual love have no faith whatever, and are incapable
of having any; they have nothing but knowledge or a persuasion that a thing is true because
it serves their love. Some of those who claimed that they had faith were brought to those who
had faith, and when they communicated with them they perceived that they had no faith at all;
and afterwards they confessed that merely believing what is true and believing the Word is
not faith, but that faith is loving truth from heavenly love, and willing and doing it from
interior affection. Moreover, they were shown that their persuasion which they called faith
was merely like the light of winter, in which light, because it has no heat in it, all things
on the earth are bound up in frost, become torpid, and lie buried under the snow. As soon,
therefore, as the light of persuasive faith in them is touched by the rays of the light of
heaven it is not only extinguished but is turned into a dense darkness, in which no one can
see himself; and at the same time their interiors are so obscured that they can understand
nothing at all, and at length become insane from falsities. Consequently with such, all the
truths that they have known from the Word and from the doctrine of the church, and have called
the truths of their faith, are taken away; and they imbibe in their place every falsity that
is in accord with the evil of their life. For they are all let down into their loves and into
the falsities agreeing with them; and they then hate and abhor and therefore reject truths,
because they are repugnant to the falsities of evil in which they are. From all my experience
in what pertains to heaven and hell I can bear witness that all those who from their doctrine
have professed faith alone, and whose life has been evil, are in hell. I have seen many thousands
of them cast down to hell. (Respecting these see the treatise on The Last Judgment and the
Destruction of Babylon.)

483. (v) Love in act, that is, the life of man, is what endures. This follows as a conclusion
from what has just been shown from experience, and from what has been said about deeds and
works. Love in act is work and deed.

484. It must be understood that all works and deeds pertain to moral
and civil life, and therefore have regard to what is honest and
right, and what is just and equitable, what is honest and right
pertaining to moral life, and what is just and equitable to civil
life. The love from which deeds are done is either heavenly or
infernal. Works and deeds of moral and civil life, when they are done
from heavenly love, are heavenly; for what is done from heavenly love
is done from the Lord, and everything done from the Lord is good. From what is man's own not only
  every evil but also every falsity is derived (n. 1047, 10283,
  10284, 10286). So far as what
  is man's own rules, the good of love and the truth of faith are
  either rejected or suffocated or perverted (n. 2041, 7491,
  7492, 7643, 8487, 10455, 10742). What is man's own is hell in
  him (n. 694, 8480). The good that man does from what is his own
  is not good, but in itself is evil (n. 8480).

485. L. THE DELIGHTS OF EVERY ONE'S LIFE ARE CHANGED AFTER DEATH INTO THINGS THAT CORRESPOND.

It has been shown in the preceding chapter that the ruling affection or dominant love in everyone
continues to eternity. It shall now be explained how the delights of that affection or love
are changed into things that correspond. Being changed into corresponding things means into
things spiritual that correspond to the natural. That they are changed into things spiritual
can be seen from this, that so long as man is in his earthly body he is in the natural world,
but when he leaves that body he enters the spiritual world and is clothed with a spiritual
body. It has already been shown that angels, and men after death, are in a complete human form,
and that the bodies with which they are clothed are spiritual bodies (n. 73-77 and 453-460);
also what the correspondence is of spiritual things with natural (n. 87-115).

486. All the delights that a man has are the delights of his ruling love, for he feels nothing
to be delightful except what he loves, thus especially that which he loves above all things.
It means the same whether you say the ruling love or that which is loved above all things.
These delights are various. In general, there are as many as there are ruling loves; consequently
as many as there are men, spirits, and angels; for no one's ruling love is in every respect
like that of another. For this reason no one has a face exactly like that of any other; for
each one's face is an image of his mind; and in the spiritual world it is an image of his ruling
love. In particular, everyone's delights are of infinite variety. It is impossible for any
one delight to be exactly like another, or the same as another, either those that follow one
after another or those that exist together at the same time, no one ever being the same as
another. Nevertheless, the particular delights in everyone have reference to his one love,
which is his ruling love, for they compose it and thus make one with it. Likewise all delights
in general have reference to one universally ruling love, which in heaven is love to the Lord,
and in hell is the love of self.

487. Only from a knowledge of correspondences can it be known what spiritual delights everyone's
natural delights are changed into after death, and what kind of delights they are. In general,
this knowledge teaches that nothing natural can exist without something spiritual corresponding
to it. In particular it teaches what it is that corresponds, and what kind of a thing it is.
Therefore, any one that has this knowledge can ascertain and know what his own state after
death will be, if he only knows what his love is, and what its relation is to the universally
ruling loves spoken of above, to which all loves have relation. But it is impossible for those
who are in the love of self to know what their ruling love is, because they love what is their
own, and call their evils goods; and the falsities that they incline to and by which they confirm
their evils they call truths. And yet if they were willing they might know it from others who
are wise, and who see what they themselves do not see. This however, is impossible with those
who are so enticed by the love of self that they spurn all teaching of the wise. [2] On the
other hand, those who are in heavenly love accept instruction, and as soon as they are brought
into the evils into which they were born, they see them from truths, for truths make evils
manifest. From truth which is from good any one can see evil and its falsity; but from evil
none can see what is good and true; and for the reason that falsities of evil are darkness
and correspond to darkness; consequently those that are in falsities from evil are like the
blind, not seeing the things that are in light, but shunning them instead like birds of night.{1}
But as truths from good are light, and correspond to light (see above, n. 126-134), so those
that are in truths from good have sight and open eyes, and discern the things that pertain
to light and shade. [3] This, too, has been proved to me by experience. The angels in heaven
both see and perceive the evils and falsities that sometimes arise in themselves, also the
evils and falsities in spirits in the world of spirits that are connected with the hells, although
the spirits themselves are unable to see their own evils and falsities. Such spirits have no
comprehension of the good of heavenly love, of conscience, of honesty and justice, except such
as is done for the sake of self; neither what it is to be led by the Lord. They say that such
things do not exist, and thus are of no account. All this has been said to the intent that
man may examine himself and may recognize his love by his delights; and thus so far as he can
make it out from a knowledge of correspondences may know the state of his life after death.

  {Footnote 1} From correspondence "darkness" in the Word
  signifies falsities, and "thick darkness" the falsities of evil
  (n. 1839, 1860, 7688, 7711). To the evil the light of heaven is
  thick darkness (n. 1861, 6832, 8197). Those that are in the
  hells are said to be in darkness because they are in falsities
  of evil; of such (n. 3340, 4418, 4531). In the Word "the blind"
  signify those that are in falsities and are not willing to be
  taught (n. 2383, 6990).

488. How the delights of everyone's life are changed after death into things that correspond
can be known from a knowledge of correspondences; but as that knowledge is not as yet generally
known I will try to throw some light on the subject by certain examples from experience. All
who are in evil and who have established themselves in falsities in opposition to the truths
of the church, especially those that have rejected the Word, flee from the light of heaven
and take refuge in caves that appear at their openings to be densely dark, also in clefts of
rocks, and there they hide themselves; and this because they have loved falsities and hated
truths; for such caves and clefts of rocks,{1} well as darkness, correspond to falsities, as
light corresponds to truths. It is their delight to dwell in such places, and undelightful
to dwell in the open country. [2] Those that have taken delight in insidious and secret plots
and in treacherous machinations do the same thing. They are also in such caves; and they frequent
rooms so dark that they are even unable to see one another; and they whisper together in the
ears in corners. Into this is the delight of their love changed. Those that have devoted themselves
to the sciences with no other end than to acquire a reputation for learning, and have not cultivated
their rational faculty by their learning, but have taken delight in the things of memory from
a pride in such things, love sandy places, which they choose in preference to fields and gardens,
because sandy places correspond to such studies. [3] Those that are skilled in the doctrines
of their own and other churches, but have not applied their knowledge to life, choose for themselves
rocky places, and dwell among heaps of stones, shunning cultivated places because they dislike
them. Those that have ascribed all things to nature, as well as those that have ascribed all
things to their own prudence, and by various arts have raised themselves to honors and have
acquired wealth, in the other life devote themselves to the study of magic arts, which are
abuses of Divine order, and find in these the chief delight of life. [4] Those that have adapted
Divine truths to their own loves, and thereby have falsified them, love urinous things because
these correspond to the delights of such loves.{2} Those that have been sordidly avaricious
dwell in cells, and love swinish filth and such stenches as are exhaled from undigested food
in the stomach. [5] Those that have spent their life in mere pleasures and have lived delicately
and indulged their palate and stomach, loving such things as the highest good that life affords,
love in the other life excrementitious things and privies, in which they find their delight,
for the reason that such pleasures are spiritual filth. Places that are clean and free from
filth they shun, finding them undelightful. [6] Those that have taken delight in adulteries
pass their time in brothels, where all things are vile and filthy; these they love, and chaste
homes they shun, falling into a swoon as soon as they enter them. Nothing is more delightful
to them than to break up marriages. Those that have cherished a spirit of revenge, and have
thereby contracted a savage and cruel nature, love cadaverous substances, and are in hells
of that nature; and so on.

  {Footnote 1} In the word a "hole" or "the cleft of a rock"
  signifies obscurity and falsity of faith (n. 10582).

  {Footnote 2} The defilements of truth correspond to urine (n.
  5390).

489. But the delights of life of those that have lived in the world in heavenly love are changed
into such corresponding things as exist in the heavens, which spring from the sun of heaven
and its light, that light presenting to view such things as have what is Divine inwardly concealed
in them. The things that appear in that light affect the interiors of the minds of the angels,
and at the same time the exteriors pertaining to their bodies; and as the Divine light, which
is Divine truth going forth from the Lord, flows into their minds opened by heavenly love,
it presents outwardly such things as correspond to the delights of their love. It has already
been shown, in the chapter on representatives and appearances in heaven (n. 170-176), and in
the chapter on the wisdom of the angels (n. 265-275), that the things that appear to the sight
in the heavens correspond to the interiors of angels, or to the things pertaining to their
faith and love and thus to their intelligence and wisdom. [2] Having already begun to establish
this point by examples from experience, to make clearer what has been previously said on the
ground of causes of things I will state briefly some particulars respecting the heavenly delightful
things into which the natural delights of those that have lived in heavenly love in the world
are changed. Those that have loved Divine truths and the Word from an interior affection, or
from an affection for truth itself, dwell in the other life in light, in elevated places that
appear like mountains, where they are continually in the light of heaven. They do not know
what darkness is, like that of night in the world; they live also in a vernal temperature;
there are presented to their view fields filled with grain and vine-yards; in their houses
everything glows as if from precious stones; and looking through the windows is like looking
through pure crystal. Such are the delights of their vision; but these same things are interiorly
delightful because of their being correspondences of Divine heavenly things, for the truths
from the Word which they have loved correspond to fields of grain, vineyards, precious stones,
windows, and crystals.{1} [3] Those that have applied the doctrinals of the church which are
from the Word immediately to life, are in the inmost heaven, and surpass all others in their
delights of wisdom. In every object they see what is Divine; the objects they see indeed with
their eyes; but the corresponding Divine things flow in immediately into their minds and fill
them with a blessedness that affects all their sensations. Thus before their eyes all things
seem to laugh, to play, and to live (see above, n. 270). [4] Those that have loved knowledges
and have thereby cultivated their rational faculty and acquired intelligence, and at the same
time have acknowledged the Divine-these in the other life have their pleasure in knowledges,
and their rational delight changed into spiritual delight, which is delight in knowing good
and truth. They dwell in gardens where flower beds and grass plots are seen beautifully arranged,
with rows of trees round about, and arbors and walks, the trees and flowers changing from day
to day. The entire view imparts delight to their minds in a general way, and the variations
in detail continually renew the delight; and as everything there corresponds to something Divine,
and they are skilled in the knowledge of correspondences, they are constantly filled with new
knowledges, and by these their spiritual rational faculty is perfected. Their delights are
such because gardens, flower beds, grass plots, and trees correspond to sciences, knowledges,
and the resulting intelligence.{2} [5] Those that have ascribed all things to the Divine, regarding
nature as relatively dead and merely subservient to things spiritual, and have confirmed themselves
in this view, are in heavenly light; and all things that appear before their eyes are made
by that light transparent, and in their transparency exhibit innumerable variegations of light,
which their internal sight takes in as it were directly, and from this they perceive interior
delights. The things seen within their houses are as if made of diamonds, with similar variegations
of light. The walls of their houses, as already said, are like crystal, and thus also transparent;
and in them seemingly flowing forms representative of heavenly things are seen also with unceasing
variety, and this because such transparency corresponds to the understanding when it has been
enlightened by the Lord and when the shadows that arise from a belief in and love for natural
things have been removed. With reference to such things and infinite others, it is said by
those that have been in heaven that they have seen what eye has never seen; and from a perception
of Divine things communicated to them by those who are there, that they have heard what ear
has never heard. [6] Those that have not acted in secret ways, but have been willing to have
all that they have thought made known so far as civil life would permit, because their thoughts
have all been in accord with what is honest and just from the Divine-these in heaven have faces
full of light; and in that light every least affection and thought is seen in the face as in
its form, and in their speech and actions they are like images of their affections. Such, therefore,
are more loved than others. While they are speaking the face becomes a little obscured; but
as soon as they have spoken, the things they have said become plainly manifest all at once
in the face. And as all the objects that exist round about them correspond to their interiors,
these assume such an appearance that others can clearly perceive what they represent and signify.
Spirits that have found delight in clandestine acts, when they see such at a distance flee
from them, and appear to themselves to creep away from them like serpents. [7] Those that have
regarded adulteries as abominable, and have lived in a chaste love of marriage, are more than
all others in the order and form of heaven, and therefore in all beauty, and continue unceasingly
in the flower of youth. The delights of their love are ineffable, and increase to eternity;
for all the delights and joys of heaven flow into that love, because that love descends from
the conjunction of the Lord with heaven and with the church, and in general from the conjunction
of good and truth, which conjunction is heaven itself in general, and with each angel in particular
(see above, n. 366-386). What their outward delights are it is impossible to describe in human
words. These are only a few of the things that have been told me about the correspondences
of the delights of those that are in heavenly love.

  {Footnote 1} In the Word a "field of corn" signifies a state of
  the reception and growth of truth from good (n. 9294).
  "Standing corn" signifies truth in conception (n. 9146),
  "Vineyards" signify the spiritual church and the truths of that
  church (n. 1069, 9139). "Precious stones" signify the truths of
  heaven and of the church transparent from good (n. 114, 9863,
  9865, 9868, 9873, 9905). A "window" signifies the intellectual
  faculty which pertains to the internal sight (n. 655, 658,
  3391).

  {Footnote 2} A "garden," a "grove," and a "park," signify
  intelligence (n. 100, 108, 3220). This is why the ancients
  celebrated holy worship in groves (n. 2722, 4552). "Flowers"
  and "flower beds" signify truths learned and knowledges (n.
  9553). "Herbs," "grasses," and "grass plots" signify truths
  learned (n. 7571). "Trees" signify perception and knowledges
  (n. 103, 2163, 2682, 2722, 2972, 7692).

490. All this makes evident that everyone's delights are changed after death into their correspondences,
while the love itself continues to eternity. This is true of marriage love, of the love of
justice, honesty, goodness and truth, the love of sciences and of knowledges, the love of intelligence
and wisdom, and the rest. From these loves delights flow like streams from their fountain;
and these continue; but when raised from natural to spiritual delights they are exalted to
a higher degree.

491. LI. THE FIRST STATE OF MAN AFTER DEATH.

There are three states that man passes through after death before he enters either heaven or
hell. The first state is the state of his exteriors, the second state the state of his interiors,
and the third his state of preparation. These states man passes through in the world of spirits.
There are some, however, that do not pass through them; but immediately after death are either
taken up into heaven or cast into hell. Those that are immediately taken up into heaven are
those that have been regenerated in the world and thereby prepared for heaven. Those that have
been so regenerated and prepared that they need simply to cast off natural impurities with
the body are at once taken up by the angels into heaven. I have seen them so taken up soon
after the hour of death. On the other hand, those that have been inwardly wicked while maintaining
an outward appearance of goodness, and have thus filled up the measure of their wickedness
by artifices, using goodness as a means of deceiving-these are at once cast into hell. I have
seen some such cast into hell immediately after death, one of the most deceitful with his head
downward and feet upward, and others in other ways. There are some that immediately after death
are cast into caverns and are thus separated from those that are in the world of spirits, and
are taken out from these and put back again by turns. They are such as have dealt wickedly
with the neighbor under civil pretences. But all these are few in comparison with those that
are retained in the world of spirits, and are there prepared in accordance with Divine order
for heaven or for hell.

492. In regard to the first state, which is the state of the exteriors, it is that which man
comes into immediately after death. Every man, as regards his spirit, has exteriors and interiors.
The exteriors of the spirit are the means by which it adapts the man's body in the world, especially
the face, speech, and movements, to fellowship with others; while the interiors of the spirit
are what belong to its own will and consequent thought; and these are rarely manifested in
face, speech, and movement. For man is accustomed from childhood to maintain a semblance of
friendship, benevolence, and sincerity, and to conceal the thoughts of his own will, thereby
living from habit a moral and civil life in externals, whatever he may be internally. As a
result of this habit man scarcely knows what his interiors are, and gives little thought to them.

493. The first state of man after death resembles his state in the world, for he is then likewise
in externals, having a like face, like speech, and a like disposition, thus a like moral and
civil life; and in consequence he is made aware that he is not still in the world only by giving
attention to what he encounters, and from his having been told by the angels when he was resuscitated
that he had become a spirit(n. 450). Thus is one life continued into the other, and death is
merely transition.

494. The state of man's spirit that immediately follows his life in the world being such, he
is then recognized by his friends and by those he had known in the world; for this is something
that spirits perceive not only from one's face and speech but also from the sphere of his life
when they draw near. Whenever any one in the other life thinks about another he brings his
face before him in thought, and at the same time many things of his life; and when he does
this the other becomes present, as if he had been sent for or called. This is so in the spiritual
world because thoughts there are shared, and there is no such space there as in the natural
world (see above, n. 191-199). So all, as soon as they enter the other life, are recognized
by their friends, their relatives, and those in any way known to them; and they talk with one
another, and afterward associate in accordance with their friendships in the world. I have
often heard that those that have come from the world were rejoiced at seeing their friends
again, and that their friends in turn were rejoiced that they had come. Very commonly husband
and wife come together and congratulate each other, and continue together, and this for a longer
or shorter time according to their delight in living together in the world. But if they had
not been united by a true marriage love, which is a conjunction of minds by heavenly love,
after remaining together for a while they separate. Or if their minds had been discordant and
were inwardly adverse, they break forth into open enmity, and sometimes into combat; nevertheless
they are not separated until they enter the second state, which will be treated of presently.

495. As the life of spirits recently from the world is not unlike their life in the natural
world and as they know nothing about their state of life after death and nothing about heaven
and hell except what they have learned from the sense of the letter of the Word and preaching
from it, they are at first surprised to find themselves in a body and in every sense that they
had in the world, and seeing like things; and they become eager to know what heaven is, what
hell is, and where they are. Therefore their friends tell them about the conditions of eternal
life, and take them about to various places and into various companies, and sometimes into
cities, and into gardens and parks, showing them chiefly such magnificent things as delight
the externals in which they are. They are then brought in turn into those notions about the
state of their soul after death, and about heaven and hell, that they had entertained in the
life of the body, even until they feel indignant at their total ignorance of such things, and
at the ignorance of the church also. Nearly all are anxious to know whether they will get to
heaven. Most of them believe that they will, because of their having lived in the world a moral
and civil life, never considering that the bad and the good live a like life outwardly, alike
doing good to others, attending public worship, hearing sermons, and praying; and wholly ignorant
that external deeds and external acts of worship are of no avail, but only the internals from
which the externals proceed. There is hardly one out of thousands who knows what internals
are, and that it is in them that man must find heaven and the church. Still less is it known
that outward acts are such as the intentions and thoughts are, and the love and faith in these
from which they spring. And even when taught they fail to comprehend that thinking and willing
are of any avail, but only speaking and acting. Such for the most part are those that go at
this day from the Christian world into the other life.

496. Such, however, are explored by good spirits to discover what they are, and this in various
ways; since in this the first state the evil equally with the good utter truths and do good
acts, and for the reason mentioned above, that like the good they have lived morally in outward
respects, since they have lived under governments, and subject to laws, and have thereby acquired
a reputation for justice and honesty, and have gained favor, and thus been raised to honors,
and have acquired wealth. But evil spirits are distinguished from good spirits chiefly by this,
that the evil give eager attention to whatever is said about external things, and but little
attention to what is said about internal things, which are the truths and goods of the church
and of heaven. These they listen to, but not with attention and joy. The two classes are also
distinguished by their turning repeatedly in specific directions, and following, when left
to themselves, the paths that lead in those directions. From such turning to certain quarters
and going in certain ways it is known by what love they are led.

497. All spirits that arrive from the world are connected with some society in heaven or some
society in hell, and yet only as regards their interiors; and so long as they are in exteriors
their interiors are manifested to no one, for externals cover and conceal internals, especially
in the case of those who are in interior evil. But afterwards, when they come into the second
state, their evils become manifest, because their interiors are then opened and their exteriors
laid asleep.

498. This first state of man after death continues with some for days, with some for months,
and with some for a year; but seldom with any one beyond a year; for a shorter or longer time
with each one according to the agreement or disagreement of his interiors with his exteriors.
For with everyone the exteriors and interior must make one and correspond. In the spiritual
world no one is permitted to think and will in one way and speak and act in another. Everyone
there must be an image of his own affection or his own love, and therefore such as he is inwardly
such he must be outwardly; and for this reason a spirit's exteriors are first disclosed and
reduced to order that they may serve the interiors as a corresponding plane.

499. LII. THE SECOND STATE OF MAN AFTER DEATH.

The second state of man after death is called the state of his interiors, because he is then
let into the interiors of his mind, that is, of his will and thought; while his exteriors,
which he has been in during his first state, are laid asleep. Whoever gives any thought to
man's life and speech and action can see that everyone has exteriors and interiors, that is,
exterior and interior thoughts and intentions. This is shown by the fact that in civil life
one thinks about others in accordance with what he has heard and learned of them by report
or conversation; but he does not talk with them in accordance with his thought; and if they
are evil he nevertheless treats them with civility. That this is so is seen especially in the
case of pretenders and flatterers, who speak and act in one way and think and will in a wholly
different way; also in the case of hypocrites, who talk about God and heaven and the salvation
of souls and the truths of the church and their country's good and their neighbor as if from
faith and love, although in heart they believe otherwise and love themselves alone. [2] All
this makes clear that there are two kinds of thought, one exterior and the other interior;
and that there are those who speak from exterior thought, while from their interior thought
they have other sentiments, and that these two kinds of thought are kept separate, since the
interior is carefully prevented from flowing into the exterior and becoming manifest in any
way. By creation man is so formed as to have his interior and exterior thought make one by
correspondence; and these do make one in those that are in good, for such both think and speak
what is good only. But in those that are in evil interior and exterior thought do not make
one, for such think what is evil and say what is good. With such there is an inversion of order,
for good with them is on the outside and evil within; and in consequence evil has dominion
over good, and subjects it to itself as a servant, that it may serve it as a means for gaining
its ends, which are of the same nature as their love. With such an end contained in the good
that they seek and do, their good is evidently not good, but is infected with evil, however
good it may appear in outward form to those not acquainted with their interiors. [3] It is
not so with those that are in good. With such order is not inverted; but good from interior
thought flows into exterior thought, and thus into word and act. Into this order man was created;
and in heaven, and in the light of heaven, his interiors are in this order. And as the light
of heaven is the Divine truth that goes forth from the Lord, and consequently is the Lord in
heaven (n. 126-140), therefore such are led by the Lord. All this has been said to make known
that every man has interior thought and exterior thought, and that these are distinct from
each other. The term thought includes also the will, for thought is from the will, and thought
apart from willing is impossible. All this makes clear what is meant by the state of man's
exteriors and the state of his interiors.

500. When will and thought are mentioned will includes affection and love, and all the delight
and pleasure that spring from affection and love, since all these relate to the will as to
their subject; for what a man wills he loves and feels to be delightful or pleasurable; and
on the other hand, what a man loves and feels to be delightful or pleasurable, that he wills.
But by thought is then meant everything by which affection or love is confirmed, for thought
is simply the will's form, or that whereby what is willed may appear in light. This form is
made apparent through various rational analyses, which have their origin in the spiritual world
and belong properly to the spirit of man.

501. Let it be understood that man is wholly such as his interiors are, and not such as his
exteriors are separate from his interiors. This is because his interiors belong to his spirit,
and the life of his spirit is the life of man, for from it his body lives; and because of this
such as a man's interiors are such he continues to be to eternity. But as the exteriors pertain
to the body they are separated after death, and those of them that adhere to the spirit are
laid asleep, and serve purely as a plane for the interiors, as has been shown above in treating
of the memory of man which continues after death. This makes evident what is man's own and
what is not his own, namely, that with the evil man nothing that belongs to his exterior thought
from which he speaks, or to the exterior will from which he acts, is his own, but only that
which belongs to his interior thought and will.

502. When the first state, which is the state of the exteriors treated of in the preceding
chapter, has been passed through, the man-spirit is let into the state of his interiors, or
into the state of his interior will and its thought, in which he had been in the world when
left to himself to think freely and without restraint. Into this state he unconsciously glides,
just as when in the world he withdraws the thought nearest to his speech, that is, from which
he speaks, towards his interior thought and abides in the latter. Therefore in this state of
his interiors the man-spirit is in himself and in his very life; for to think freely from his
own affection is the very life of man, and is himself.

503. In this state the spirit thinks from his very will, thus from his very affection, or from
his very love; and thought and will then make one, and one in such a manner that he seems scarcely
to think but only to will. It is nearly the same when he speaks, yet with the difference that
he speaks with a kind of fear that the thoughts of the will may go forth naked, since by his
social life in the world this has come to be a part of his will.

504. All men without exception are let into this state after death, because it is their spirit's
own state. The former state is such as the man was in regard to his spirit when in company;
and that is not his own state. That this state, namely, the state of the exteriors into which
man first comes after death (as shown in the preceding chapter) is not his own state, many
things show, for example, that spirits not only think but also speak from their affection,
since their speech is from their affection (as has been said and shown in the chapter on the
speech of angels, n. 234-245). It was in this way that man had thought while in the world when
he was thinking within himself, for at such times his thought was not from his bodily words,
but he [mentally] saw the things, and in a minute of time saw more than he could afterwards
utter in half an hour. Again that the state of the exteriors is not man's own state or the
state of his spirit is evident from the fact that when he is in company in the world he speaks
in accord with the laws of moral and civil life, and at such times interior thought rules the
exterior thought, as one person rules another, to keep him from transgressing the limits of
decorum and good manners. It is evident also from the fact that when a man thinks within himself,
he thinks how he must speak and act in order to please and to secure friendship, good will,
and favor, and this in extraneous ways, that is, otherwise than he would do if he acted in
accordance with his own will. All this shows that the state of the interiors that the spirit
is let into is his own state, and was his own state when he was living in the world as a man.

505. When the spirit is in the state of his interiors it becomes clearly evident what the man
was in himself when he was in the world, for at such times he acts from what is his own. He
that had been in the world interiorly in good then acts rationally and wisely, and even more
wisely than in the world, because he is released from connection with the body, and thus from
those earthly things that caused obscurity and interposed as it were a cloud. But he that was
in evil in the world then acts foolishly and insanely, and even more insanely than in the world,
because he is free and under no restraint. For while he lived in the world he was sane in outward
appearance, since by means of externals he made himself appear to be a rational man; but when
he has been stripped of his externals his insanities are revealed. 23:27).

506. All that have lived a good life in the world and have acted from conscience, who are such
as have acknowledged the Divine and have loved Divine truths, especially such as have applied
those truths to life, seem to themselves, when let into the state of their interiors, like
one aroused from sleep into full wakefulness, or like one passing from darkness into light.
They then think from the light of heaven, thus from an interior wisdom, and they act from good,
thus from an interior affection. Heaven flows into their thoughts and affections with an interior
blessedness and delight that they had previously had no knowledge of; for they have communication
with the angels of heaven. They then acknowledge the Lord and worship Him from their very life,
for being in the state of their interiors they are in their proper life (as has been said just
above, n. 505); and as freedom pertains to interior affection they then acknowledge and worship
the Lord from freedom. Thus, too, they withdraw from external sanctity and come into that internal
sanctity in which worship itself truly consists. Such is the state of those that have lived
a Christian life in accordance with the commandments in the Word. [2] But the state of those
that have lived an evil life in the world and who have had no conscience, and have in consequence
denied the Divine, is the direct opposite of this. For everyone who lives an evil life, inwardly
in himself denies the Divine, however much he may suppose when in external thought that he
acknowledges the Lord and does not deny Him; for acknowledging the Divine and living an evil
life are opposites. When such in the other life enter into the state of their interiors, and
are heard speaking and seen acting, they appear foolish; for from their evil lusts they burst
forth into all sorts of abominations, into contempt of others, ridicule and blasphemy, hatred
and revenge; they plot intrigues, some with a cunning and malice that can scarcely be believed
to be possible in any man. For they are then in a state of freedom to act in harmony with the
thoughts of their will, since they are separated from the outward conditions that restrained
and checked them in the world. In a word, they are deprived of their rationality, because their
reason while they were in the world did not have its seat in their interiors, but in their
exteriors; and yet they seemed to themselves to be wiser than others. [3] This being their
character, while in the second state they are let down by short intervals into the state of
their exteriors, and into a recollection of their actions when they were in the state of their
interiors; and some of them then feel ashamed, and confess that they have been insane; some
do not feel ashamed; and some are angry because they are not permitted to remain permanently
in the state of their exteriors. But these are shown what they would be if they were to continue
in that state, namely, that they would attempt to accomplish in secret ways the same evil ends,
and by semblances of goodness, honesty, and justice, would mislead the simple in heart and
faith, and would utterly destroy themselves; for their exteriors would at length burn with
the same fire as their interiors, and their whole life would be consumed.

507. When in this second state spirits become visibly just what they had been in themselves
while in the world, what they then did and said secretly being now made manifest; for they
are now restrained by no outward considerations, and therefore what they have said and done
secretly they now say and endeavor to do openly, having no longer any fear of loss of reputation,
such as they had in the world. They are also brought into many states of their evils, that
what they are may be evident to angels and good spirits. Thus are hidden things laid open and
secret things uncovered, in accordance with the Lord's words:

     There is nothing covered up that shall not be revealed,
     and hid that shall not be known. Whatsoever ye have said
     in the darkness shall be heard in the light, and what ye
     have spoken in the ear in the inner chambers shall be
     proclaimed on the housetops (Luke 12:2, 3). 12:36).

