After swelling has set in very hot water is said to be superior to very cold water; the very
hot and the very cold have much the same effect, anyway. But the water application should be
kept up for at least twenty-four hours, and the wounded place must not be moved one particle
for several days. When the time comes to move it, it should be wrapped with a supporting bandage.

General Ashley probably had a hard time with his neglected ankle.

CHAPTER XIII

Note 50, page 147: The cache (which is a French word and is pronounced "cash") or hiding-place
is a genuine scout invention. Long ago the trappers and traders of the plains and mountains,
when they had more pelts or more supplies than they could readily carry, would "cache" them.
The favorite way was to dig a hole, and gradually enlarge it underground, like a jug. The dirt
was laid upon a blanket and emptied into a stream, so that it would not be noticed. Then the
hole was lined with dry sticks or with blankets, the pelts or supplies were packed inside,
and covered with buffalo robe or tarpaulin; and the earth was tamped in solidly. Next a fire
was built on top, that the ashes might deceive Indians and animals. Or the tent or lodge was
erected over the spot for a few days. Then Cyrus summons the head and captains of the Hellenes, and
held a council of war to arrange unless the plan for battle. After
the review, with the approach of day, deserters from the great king
arrived, bringing Cyrus data about the royal army.



All caches were not alike. Some were holes, others were caves into banks. When Scouts of to-day
make a cache, they must record the location exceedingly well and close, or they are apt to
lose the spot. It seems very easy to remember trees and rocks and all; but anybody who has
laid a rabbit down, while he chased another, and then has thought to go straight and pick it
up again--or anybody who has searched for a golf-ball when he knew exactly where it lit--will
realize that a cache may be very tricky.

Note 51, page 152: The homeopathic preparation of aconite is highly recommended by many woodsmen
and other travelers as a good thing to have in the trail medicine kit. A few drops will kill
a fever or a cold. Dover's Powder (in small doses, by causing perspiration and thus checking
a fever or throwing off a cold), quinine, calomel (for biliousness and to clean out the intestines
when they are clogged with waste and mucus), Epsom salts or castor oil (to clean out the bowels
also), an emetic, like sirup of ipecac (to empty the stomach quickly in case of emergency),
some mustard for making a plaster for the chest (in croupiness or cold inside the chest), or
for mixing with warm water to make an emetic, extract of ginger or sirup of ginger (for summer
complaint and griping looseness of the bowels if long continued), perhaps some soda mint tablets
(for sour stomach caused by overeating), are other simple remedies. Of course the Scout should
learn to read the little clinical thermometer, and one should be carried in the trail kit.

It is much better to know exactly how to use a few simple standard remedies, than to experiment
with a lot of powerful drugs and very likely make terrible mistakes. To give a medicine without
being certain just why and just what it will do is as bad as pointing a gun at somebody without
knowing whether or not it is loaded. Doctors study hard for years, before they begin to practice;
and Scouts cannot expect to make doctors of themselves in a few months. Head cool, feet warm,
bowels open, moderate eating--these are United States Army rules, and Scouts' rules too. "An
ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure"! Scouts who take care of their bodies properly
will rarely need medicine, and should be proud of the fact.

Note 52, page 153: In 1909, in California alone, out of 388 forest fires 243, or almost two
thirds, were caused by human beings' carelessness; and 119, or almost one third, were caused
by camp-fires! The money loss to the state was $1,000,000; but this was not all the damage.
A forest, or a single tree, is not replaced in a year, or in ten years; and the stately evergreen
trees grow slowest of all.

California claims that if a few plain rules were observed, in that state alone 500 out of 575
forest fires would not occur. Some of these rules are:

1. Never throw aside matches, or lighted or smoldering stuff, where anything can possibly catch
from it.

2. Camp-fires should be as small as will serve. (Most campers build fires too large, and against
trees or logs whence they will be sure to spread.)

3. Don't build fires in leaves, rotten wood or sawdust, or pine needles.

4. Don't build fires against large or hollow logs where it is hard to see that they are not
put out. They eat in.

5. Don't build fires under low evergreens, or where a flame may leap to a branch, or sparks
light upon a branch.

6. In windy weather and in dangerous places camp-fires should be confined in trenches, or an
open spot be chosen and the ground first cleared of all vegetable matter.

7. Never leave a fire, even for a short time, until you are certain that it is out. Wet it
thoroughly, to the bottom, or else stamp it out and pile on sand or dirt.

8. Never pass by a fire in grass, brush, or timber, which is unguarded and which you can see
is likely to spread. Extinguish it; or if it is beyond your control, notify the nearest ranch,
town, or forest official.

These regulations are for Boy Scouts to remember and to observe, no matter where the trail leads.

CHAPTER XIV

Note 53, page 161: A fire line is a cleared strip, sometimes only ten, sometimes, where the
brush is thick, as much as sixty feet wide, running through the timber and the bushes, as a
check to the blaze. An old wood-road, or a regular wagon-road, or a logging-trail, or a pack-trail
is used as a fire line, when possible; but when a fire line must be cleared especially, it
is laid from bare spot to bare spot and along the tops of ridges. A fire travels very fast
up-hill, but works slowly in getting across. Scouts should remember this important fact: The
steeper the hill, the swifter the fire will climb it.

There are three kinds of forest fires: Surface fires, which burn just the upper layer of dry
leaves and dry grass, brush, and small trees; ground fires, which burn deep amidst sawdust
or pine needles or peat; and crown fires, which travel through the tops of the trees. Fires
start as surface fires, and then can be beaten out with coats and sacks and shovels, and stopped
by hoe and spade and plow. The ground fire does not look dangerous, but it is, and it is hard
to get at. Crown fires are surface fires which have climbed into the trees and are borne along
in prodigious leaps by the wind. They are the most vicious and the worst to fight.

The duty of Scouts is to jump upon a surface fire and kill it before it becomes a sly ground
fire or a raving crown fire.

Note 54, page 171: Even the best surgeons nowadays "fuss" with deep wounds as little as possible.
They clean the deep wound, by washing it as well as they can, to remove dirt and other loose
foreign particles; then they cover gently with a sterilized pad, and bandage, to keep microbes
away, and Nature does the rest. In the days when our fathers were boys, salves and arnica and
all kinds of messy stuff were used; but the world has found that all Nature asks is a chance
to go ahead, herself, without interference.

Unless a bullet, even, is lodged where it irritates a nerve or a muscle or disturbs the workings
of some organ of the body, the surgeon is apt to let it stay, until Nature has tried to throw
a wall about it and enclose it out of the way.

