VALLEY OF DREAMS

Captain Harrison of the Ares expedition turned away from the little telescope in the bow of
the rocket. "Two weeks more, at the most," he remarked. "Mars only retrogrades for seventy
days in all, relative to the earth, and we've got to be homeward bound during that period,
or wait a year and a half for old Mother Earth to go around the sun and catch up with us again.
How'd you like to spend a winter here?"

Dick Jarvis, chemist of the party, shivered as he looked up from his notebook. "I'd just as
soon spend it in a liquid air tank!" he averred. "These eighty-below zero summer nights are
plenty for me."

"Well," mused the captain, "the first successful Martian expedition ought to be home long before
then."

"Successful if we get home," corrected Jarvis. "I don't trust these cranky rockets--not since
the auxiliary dumped me in the middle of Thyle last week. Walking back from a rocket ride is
a new sensation to me."

"Which reminds me," returned Harrison, "that we've got to recover your films. They're important
if we're to pull this trip out of the red. Remember how the public mobbed the first moon pictures?
Our shots ought to pack 'em to the doors. And the broadcast rights, too; we might show a profit
for the Academy."

"What interests me," countered Jarvis, "is a personal profit. A book, for instance; exploration
books are always popular. Martian Deserts--how's that for a title?"

"Lousy!" grunted the captain. "Sounds like a cook-book for desserts. You'd have to call it
'Love Life of a Martian,' or something like that."

Jarvis chuckled. "Anyway," he said, "if we once get back home, I'm going to grab what profit
there is, and never, never, get any farther from the earth than a good stratosphere plane'll
take me. I've learned to appreciate the planet after plowing over this dried-up pill we're on now."

"I'll lay you odds you'll be back here year after next," grinned the Captain. "You'll want
to visit your pal--that trick ostrich."

"Tweel?" The other's tone sobered. "I wish I hadn't lost him, at that. He was a good scout.
I'd never have survived the dream-beast but for him. And that battle with the push-cart things--I
never even had a chance to thank him."

"A pair of lunatics, you two," observed Harrison. He squinted through the port at the gray
gloom of the Mare Cimmerium. "There comes the sun." He paused. "Listen, Dick--you and Leroy
take the other auxiliary rocket and go out and salvage those films."

Jarvis stared. "Me and Leroy?" he echoed ungrammatically. "Why not me and Putz? An engineer
would have some chance of getting us there and back if the rocket goes bad on us."

The captain nodded toward the stern, whence issued at that moment a medley of blows and guttural
expletives. "Putz is going over the insides of the Ares," he announced. "He'll have his hands
full until we leave, because I want every bolt inspected. It's too late for repairs once we
cast off."

"And if Leroy and I crack up? That's our last auxiliary."

"Pick up another ostrich and walk back," suggested Harrison gruffly. Then he smiled. "If you
have trouble, we'll hunt you out in the Ares," he finished. "Those films are important." He
turned. "Leroy!"

The dapper little biologist appeared, his face questioning.

"You and Jarvis are off to salvage the auxiliary," the Captain said. "Everything's ready and
you'd better start now. Call back at half-hour intervals; I'll be listening."

Leroy's eyes glistened. "Perhaps we land for specimens--no?" he queried.

"Land if you want to. This golf ball seems safe enough."

"Except for the dream-beast," muttered Jarvis with a faint shudder. He frowned suddenly. "Say,
as long as we're going that way, suppose I have a look for Tweel's home! He must live off there
somewhere, and he's the most important thing we've seen on Mars."

Harrison hesitated. "If I thought you could keep out of trouble," he muttered. "All right,"
he decided. "Have a look. There's food and water aboard the auxiliary; you can take a couple
of days. But keep in touch with me, you saps!"

Jarvis and Leroy went through the airlock out to the grey plain. The thin air, still scarcely
warmed by the rising sun, bit flesh and lung like needles, and they gasped with a sense of
suffocation. They dropped to a sitting posture, waiting for their bodies, trained by months
in acclimatization chambers back on earth, to accommodate themselves to the tenuous air. Leroy's
face, as always, turned a smothered blue, and Jarvis heard his own breath rasping and rattling
in his throat. But in five minutes, the discomfort passed; they rose and entered the little
auxiliary rocket that rested beside the black hull of the Ares.

The under-jets roared out their fiery atomic blast; dirt and bits of shattered biopods spun
away in a cloud as the rocket rose. Harrison watched the projectile trail its flaming way into
the south, then turned back to his work.

It was four days before he saw the rocket again. Just at evening, as the sun dropped behind
the horizon with the suddenness of a candle falling into the sea, the auxiliary flashed out
of the southern heavens, easing gently down on the flaming wings of the under-jets. Jarvis
and Leroy emerged, passed through the swiftly gathering dusk, and faced him in the light of
the Ares. He surveyed the two; Jarvis was tattered and scratched, but apparently in better
condition than Leroy, whose dapperness was completely lost. The little biologist was pale as
the nearer moon that glowed outside; one arm was bandaged in thermo-skin and his clothes hung
in veritable rags. But it was his eyes that struck Harrison most strangely; to one who lived
these many weary days with the diminutive Frenchman, there was something queer about them.
They were frightened, plainly enough, and that was odd, since Leroy was no coward or he'd never
have been one of the four chosen by the Academy for the first Martian expedition. But the fear
in his eyes was more understandable than that other expression, that queer fixity of gaze like
one in a trance, or like a person in an ecstasy. "Like a chap who's seen Heaven and Hell together,"
Harrison expressed it to himself. He was yet to discover how right he was.

He assumed a gruffness as the weary pair sat down. "You're a fine looking couple!" he growled.
"I should've known better than to let you wander off alone." He paused. "Is your arm all right,
Leroy? Need any treatment?"

Jarvis answered. "It's all right--just gashed. No danger of infection here, I guess; Leroy
says there aren't any microbes on Mars."

"Well," exploded the Captain, "Let's hear it, then! Your radio reports sounded screwy. 'Escaped
from Paradise!' Huh!"

"I didn't want to give details on the radio," said Jarvis soberly. "You'd have thought we'd
gone loony."

"I think so, anyway."

"Moi aussi!" muttered Leroy. "I too!"

"Shall I begin at the beginning?" queried the chemist. "Our early reports were pretty nearly
complete." He stared at Putz, who had come in silently, his face and hands blackened with carbon,
and seated himself beside Harrison.

"At the beginning," the Captain decided.

"Well," began Jarvis, "we got started all right, and flew due south along the meridian of the
Ares, same course I'd followed last week. I was getting used to this narrow horizon, so I didn't
feel so much like being cooped under a big bowl, but one does keep overestimating distances.
Something four miles away looks eight when you're used to terrestrial curvature, and that makes
you guess its size just four times too large. A little hill looks like a mountain until you're
almost over it."

"I know that," grunted Harrison.

"Yes, but Leroy didn't, and I spent our first couple of hours trying to explain it to him.
By the time he understood (if he does yet) we were past Cimmerium and over that Xanthus desert,
and then we crossed the canal with the mud city and the barrel-shaped citizens and the place
where Tweel had shot the dream-beast. And nothing would do for Pierre here but that we put
down so he could practice his biology on the remains. So we did.

"The thing was still there. No sign of decay; couldn't be, of course, without bacterial forms
of life, and Leroy says that Mars is as sterile as an operating table."

"Comme le coeur d'une fileuse," corrected the little biologist, who was beginning to regain
a trace of his usual energy. "Like an old maid's heart!"

"However," resumed Jarvis, "about a hundred of the little grey-green biopods had fastened onto
the thing and were growing and branching. Leroy found a stick and knocked 'em off, and each
branch broke away and became a biopod crawling around with the others. So he poked around at
the creature, while I looked away from it; even dead, that rope-armed devil gave me the creeps.
And then came the surprise; the thing was part plant!"

"C'est vrai!" confirmed the biologist. "It's true!"

"It was a big cousin of the biopods," continued Jarvis. "Leroy was quite excited; he figures
that all Martian life is of that sort--neither plant nor animal. Life here never differentiated,
he says; everything has both natures in it, even the barrel-creatures--even Tweel! I think
he's right, especially when I recall how Tweel rested, sticking his beak in the ground and
staying that way all night. I never saw him eat or drink, either; perhaps his beak was more
in the nature of a root, and he got his nourishment that way."

"Sounds nutty to me," observed Harrison.

"Well," continued Jarvis, "we broke up a few of the other growths and they acted the same way--the
pieces crawled around, only much slower than the biopods, and then stuck themselves in the
ground. Then Leroy had to catch a sample of the walking grass, and we were ready to leave when
a parade of the barrel-creatures rushed by with their push-carts. They hadn't forgotten me,
either; they all drummed out, 'We are v-r-r-iends--ouch!' just as they had before. Leroy wanted
to shoot one and cut it up, but I remembered the battle Tweel and I had had with them, and
vetoed the idea. But he did hit on a possible explanation as to what they did with all the
rubbish they gathered."

"Made mud-pies, I guess," grunted the captain.

"More or less," agreed Jarvis. "They use it for food, Leroy thinks. If they're part vegetable,
you see, that's what they'd want--soil with organic remains in it to make it fertile. That's
why they ground up sand and biopods and other growths all together. See?"

"Dimly," countered Harrison. "How about the suicides?"

"Leroy had a hunch there, too. The suicides jump into the grinder when the mixture has too
much sand and gravel; they throw themselves in to adjust the proportions."

"Rats!" said Harrison disgustedly. "Why couldn't they bring in some extra branches from outside?"

"Because suicide is easier. You've got to remember that these creatures can't be judged by
earthly standards; they probably don't feel pain, and they haven't got what we'd call individuality.
Any intelligence they have is the property of the whole community--like an ant-heap. That's
it! Ants are willing to die for their ant-hill; so are these creatures."

"So are men," observed the captain, "if it comes to that."

"Yes, but men aren't exactly eager. It takes some emotion like patriotism to work 'em to the
point of dying for their country; these things do it all in the day's work." He paused.

"Well, we took some pictures of the dream-beast and the barrel-creatures, and then we started
along. We sailed over Xanthus, keeping as close to the meridian of the Ares as we could, and
pretty soon we crossed the trail of the pyramid-builder. So we circled back to let Leroy take
a look at it, and when we found it, we landed. The thing had completed just two rows of bricks
since Tweel and I left it, and there it was, breathing in silicon and breathing out bricks
as if it had eternity to do it in--which it has. Leroy wanted to dissect it with a Boland explosive
bullet, but I thought that anything that had lived for ten million years was entitled to the
respect due old age, so I talked him out of it. He peeped into the hole on top of it and nearly
got beaned by the arm coming up with a brick, and then he chipped off a few pieces of it, which
didn't disturb the creature a bit. He found the place I'd chipped, tried to see if there was
any sign of healing, and decided he could tell better in two or three thousand years. So we
took a few shots of it and sailed on.

"Mid afternoon we located the wreck of my rocket. Not a thing disturbed; we picked up my films
and tried to decide what next. I wanted to find Tweel if possible; I figured from the fact
of his pointing south that he lived somewhere near Thyle. We plotted our route and judged that
the desert we were in now was Thyle II; Thyle I should be east of us. So, on a hunch, we decided
to have a look at Thyle I, and away we buzzed."

"Der motors?" queried Putz, breaking his long silence.

"For a wonder, we had no trouble, Karl. Your blast worked perfectly. So we hummed along, pretty
high to get a wider view, I'd say about fifty thousand feet. Thyle II spread out like an orange
carpet, and after a while we came to the grey branch of the Mare Chronium that bounded it.
That was narrow; we crossed it in half an hour, and there was Thyle I--same orange-hued desert
as its mate. We veered south, toward the Mare Australe, and followed the edge of the desert.
And toward sunset we spotted it."

"Shpotted?" echoed Putz. "Vot vas shpotted?"

"The desert was spotted--with buildings! Not one of the mud cities of the canals, although
a canal went through it. From the map we figured the canal was a continuation of the one Schiaparelli
called Ascanius.

"We were probably too high to be visible to any inhabitants of the city, but also too high
for a good look at it, even with the glasses. However, it was nearly sunset, anyway, so we
didn't plan on dropping in. We circled the place; the canal went out into the Mare Australe,
and there, glittering in the south, was the melting polar ice-cap! The canal drained it; we
could distinguish the sparkle of water in it. Off to the southeast, just at the edge of the
Mare Australe, was a valley--the first irregularity I'd seen on Mars except the cliffs that
bounded Xanthus and Thyle II. We flew over the valley--" Jarvis paused suddenly and shuddered;
Leroy, whose color had begun to return, seemed to pale. The chemist resumed, "Well, the valley
looked all right--then! Just a gray waste, probably full of crawlers like the others.

"We circled back over the city; say, I want to tell you that place was--well, gigantic! It
was colossal; at first I thought the size was due to that illusion I spoke of--you know, the
nearness of the horizon--but it wasn't that. We sailed right over it, and you've never seen
anything like it!

"But the sun dropped out of sight right then. I knew we were pretty far south--latitude 60--but
I didn't know just how much night we'd have."

Harrison glanced at a Schiaparelli chart. "About 60--eh?" he said. "Close to what corresponds
to the Antarctic circle. You'd have about four hours of night at this season. Three months
from now you'd have none at all."

"Three months!" echoed Jarvis, surprised. Then he grinned. "Right! I forget the seasons here
are twice as long as ours. Well, we sailed out into the desert about twenty miles, which put
the city below the horizon in case we overslept, and there we spent the night.

"You're right about the length of it. We had about four hours of darkness which left us fairly
rested. We ate breakfast, called our location to you, and started over to have a look at the city.

"We sailed toward it from the east and it loomed up ahead of us like a range of mountains.
Lord, what a city! Not that New York mightn't have higher buildings, or Chicago cover more
ground, but for sheer mass, those structures were in a class by themselves. Gargantuan!

"There was a queer look about the place, though. You know how a terrestrial city sprawls out,
a nimbus of suburbs, a ring of residential sections, factory districts, parks, highways. There
was none of that here; the city rose out of the desert as abruptly as a cliff. Only a few little
sand mounds marked the division, and then the walls of those gigantic structures.

"The architecture was strange, too. There were lots of devices that are impossible back home,
such as set-backs in reverse, so that a building with a small base could spread out as it rose.
That would be a valuable trick in New York, where land is almost priceless, but to do it, you'd
have to transfer Martian gravitation there!

"Well, since you can't very well land a rocket in a city street, we put down right next to
the canal side of the city, took our small cameras and revolvers, and started for a gap in
the wall of masonry. We weren't ten feet from the rocket when we both saw the explanation for
a lot of the queerness.

"The city was in ruin! Abandoned, deserted, dead as Babylon! Or at least, so it looked to us
then, with its empty streets which, if they had been paved, were now deep under sand."

"A ruin, eh?" commented Harrison. "How old?"

"How could we tell?" countered Jarvis. "The next expedition to this golf ball ought to carry
an archeologist--and a philologist, too, as we found out later. But it's a devil of a job to
estimate the age of anything here; things weather so slowly that most of the buildings might
have been put up yesterday. No rainfall, no earthquakes, no vegetation is here to spread cracks
with its roots--nothing. The only aging factors here are the erosion of the wind--and that's
negligible in this atmosphere--and the cracks caused by changing temperature. And one other
agent--meteorites. They must crash down occasionally on the city, judging from the thinness
of the air, and the fact that we've seen four strike ground right here near the Ares."

"Seven," corrected the captain. "Three dropped while you were gone."

"Well, damage by meteorites must be slow, anyway. Big ones would be as rare here as on earth,
because big ones get through in spite of the atmosphere, and those buildings could sustain
a lot of little ones. My guess at the city's age--and it may be wrong by a big percentage--would
be fifteen thousand years. Even that's thousands of years older than any human civilization;
fifteen thousand years ago was the Late Stone Age in the history of mankind.

"So Leroy and I crept up to those tremendous buildings feeling like pygmies, sort of awe-struck,
and talking in whispers. I tell you, it was ghostly walking down that dead and deserted street,
and every time we passed through a shadow, we shivered, and not just because shadows are cold
on Mars. We felt like intruders, as if the great race that had built the place might resent
our presence even across a hundred and fifty centuries. The place was as quiet as a grave,
but we kept imagining things and peeping down the dark lanes between buildings and looking
over our shoulders. Most of the structures were windowless, but when we did see an opening
in those vast walls, we couldn't look away, expecting to see some horror peering out of it.

"Then we passed an edifice with an open arch; the doors were there, but blocked open by sand.
I got up nerve enough to take a look inside, and then, of course, we discovered we'd forgotten
to take our flashes. But we eased a few feet into the darkness and the passage debouched into
a colossal hall. Far above us a little crack let in a pallid ray of daylight, not nearly enough
to light the place; I couldn't even see if the hall rose clear to the distant roof. But I know
the place was enormous; I said something to Leroy and a million thin echoes came slipping back
to us out of the darkness. And after that, we began to hear other sounds--slithering rustling
noises, and whispers, and sounds like suppressed breathing--and something black and silent
passed between us and that far-away crevice of light.

"Then we saw three little greenish spots of luminosity in the dusk to our left. We stood staring
at them, and suddenly they all shifted at once. Leroy yelled 'Ce sont des yeux!' and they were!
They were eyes!

"Well, we stood frozen for a moment, while Leroy's yell reverberated back and forth between
the distant walls, and the echoes repeated the words in queer, thin voices. There were mumblings
and mutterings and whisperings and sounds like strange soft laughter, and then the three-eyed
thing moved again. Then we broke for the door!

"We felt better out in the sunlight; we looked at each other sheepishly, but neither of us
suggested another look at the buildings inside--though we did see the place later, and that
was queer, too--but you'll hear about it when I come to it. We just loosened our revolvers
and crept on along that ghostly street.

"The street curved and twisted and subdivided. I kept careful note of our directions, since
we couldn't risk getting lost in that gigantic maze. Without our thermo-skin bags, night would
finish us, even if what lurked in the ruins didn't. By and by, I noticed that we were veering
back toward the canal, the buildings ended and there were only a few dozen ragged stone huts
which looked as though they might have been built of debris from the city. I was just beginning
to feel a bit disappointed at finding no trace of Tweel's people here when we rounded a corner
and there he was!

"I yelled 'Tweel!' but he just stared, and then I realized that he wasn't Tweel, but another
Martian of his sort. Tweel's feathery appendages were more orange hued and he stood several
inches taller than this one. Leroy was sputtering in excitement, and the Martian kept his vicious
beak directed at us, so I stepped forward as peace-maker. I said 'Tweel?' very questioningly,
but there was no result. I tried it a dozen times, and we finally had to give it up; we couldn't
connect.

"Leroy and I walked toward the huts, and the Martian followed us. Twice he was joined by others,
and each time I tried yelling 'Tweel' at them but they just stared at us. So we ambled on with
the three trailing us, and then it suddenly occurred to me that my Martian accent might be
at fault. I faced the group and tried trilling it out the way Tweel himself did: 'T-r-r-rwee-r-rl!'
Like that.

"And that worked! One of them spun his head around a full ninety degrees, and screeched 'T-r-r-rweee-r-rl!'
and a moment later, like an arrow from a bow, Tweel came sailing over the nearer huts to land
on his beak in front of me!

"Man, we were glad to see each other! Tweel set up a twittering and chirping like a farm in
summer and went sailing up and coming down on his beak, and I would have grabbed his hands,
only he wouldn't keep still long enough.

"The other Martians and Leroy just stared, and after a while, Tweel stopped bouncing, and there
we were. We couldn't talk to each other any more than we could before, so after I'd said 'Tweel'
a couple of times and he'd said 'Tick,' we were more or less helpless. However, it was only
mid-morning, and it seemed important to learn all we could about Tweel and the city, so I suggested
that he guide us around the place if he weren't busy. I put over the idea by pointing back
at the buildings and then at him and us.

"Well, apparently he wasn't too busy, for he set off with us, leading the way with one of his
hundred and fifty-foot nosedives that set Leroy gasping. When we caught up, he said something
like 'one, one, two--two, two, four--no, no--yes, yes--rock--no breet!' That didn't seem to
mean anything; perhaps he was just letting Leroy know that he could speak English, or perhaps
he was merely running over his vocabulary to refresh his memory.

"Anyway, he showed us around. He had a light of sorts in his black pouch, good enough for small
rooms, but simply lost in some of the colossal caverns we went through. Nine out of ten buildings
meant absolutely nothing to us--just vast empty chambers, full of shadows and rustlings and
echoes. I couldn't imagine their use; they didn't seem suitable for living quarters, or even
for commercial purposes--trade and so forth; they might have been all right as power-houses,
but what could have been the purpose of a whole city full? And where were the remains of the
machinery?

"The place was a mystery. Sometimes Tweel would show us through a hall that would have housed
an ocean-liner, and he'd seem to swell with pride--and we couldn't make a damn thing of it!
As a display of architectural power, the city was colossal; as anything else it was just nutty!

"But we did see one thing that registered. We came to that same building Leroy and I had entered
earlier--the one with the three eyes in it. Well, we were a little shaky about going in there,
but Tweel twittered and trilled and kept saying, 'Yes, yes, yes!' so we followed him, staring
nervously about for the thing that had watched us. However, that hall was just like the others,
full of murmurs and slithering noises and shadowy things slipping away into corners. If the
three-eyed creature were still there, it must have slunk away with the others.

"Tweel led us along the wall; his light showed a series of little alcoves, and in the first
of these we ran into a puzzling thing--a very weird thing. As the light flashed into the alcove,
I saw first just an empty space, and then, squatting on the floor, I saw--it! A little creature
about as big as a large rat, it was, gray and huddled and evidently startled by our appearance.
It had the queerest, most devilish little face!--pointed ears or horns and satanic eyes that
seemed to sparkle with a sort of fiendish intelligence.

"Tweel saw it, too, and let out a screech of anger, and the creature rose on two pencil-thin
legs and scuttled off with a half-terrified, half defiant squeak. It darted past us into the
darkness too quickly even for Tweel, and as it ran, something waved on its body like the fluttering
of a cape. Tweel screeched angrily at it and set up a shrill hullabaloo that sounded like genuine
rage.

"But the thing was gone, and then I noticed the weirdest of imaginable details. Where it had
squatted on the floor was--a book! It had been hunched over a book!

"I took a step forward; sure enough, there was some sort of inscription on the pages--wavy
white lines like a seismograph record on black sheets like the material of Tweel's pouch. Tweel
fumed and whistled in wrath, picked up the volume and slammed it into place on a shelf full
of others. Leroy and I stared dumbfounded at each other.

"Had the little thing with the fiendish face been reading? Or was it simply eating the pages,
getting physical nourishment rather than mental? Or had the whole thing been accidental?

"If the creature were some rat-like pest that destroyed books, Tweel's rage was understandable,
but why should he try to prevent an intelligent being, even though of an alien race, from reading--if
it was reading? I don't know; I did notice that the book was entirely undamaged, nor did I
see a damaged book among any that we handled. But I have an odd hunch that if we knew the secret
of the little cape-clothed imp, we'd know the mystery of the vast abandoned city and of the
decay of Martian culture.

"Well, Tweel quieted down after a while and led us completely around that tremendous hall.
It had been a library, I think; at least, there were thousands upon thousands of those queer
black-paged volumes printed in wavy lines of white. There were pictures, too, in some; and
some of these showed Tweel's people. That's a point, of course; it indicated that his race
built the city and printed the books. I don't think the greatest philologist on earth will
ever translate one line of those records; they were made by minds too different from ours.

"Tweel could read them, naturally. He twittered off a few lines, and then I took a few of the
books, with his permission; he said 'no, no!' to some and 'yes, yes!' to others. Perhaps he
kept back the ones his people needed, or perhaps he let me take the ones he thought we'd understand
most easily. I don't know; the books are outside there in the rocket.

"Then he held that dim torch of his toward the walls, and they were pictured. Lord, what pictures!
They stretched up and up into the blackness of the roof, mysterious and gigantic. I couldn't
make much of the first wall; it seemed to be a portrayal of a great assembly of Tweel's people.
Perhaps it was meant to symbolize Society or Government. But the next wall was more obvious;
it showed creatures at work on a colossal machine of some sort, and that would be Industry
or Science. The back wall had corroded away in part, from what we could see, I suspected the
scene was meant to portray Art, but it was on the fourth wall that we got a shock that nearly
dazed us.

"I think the symbol was Exploration or Discovery. This wall was a little plainer, because the
moving beam of daylight from that crack lit up the higher surface and Tweel's torch illuminated
the lower. We made out a giant seated figure, one of the beaked Martians like Tweel, but with
every limb suggesting heaviness, weariness. The arms dropped inertly on the chair, the thin
neck bent and the beak rested on the body, as if the creature could scarcely bear its own weight.
And before it was a queer kneeling figure, and at sight of it, Leroy and I almost reeled against
each other. It was, apparently, a man!"

"A man!" bellowed Harrison. "A man you say?"

"I said apparently," retorted Jarvis. "The artist had exaggerated the nose almost to the length
of Tweel's beak, but the figure had black shoulder-length hair, and instead of the Martian
four, there were five fingers on its outstretched hand! It was kneeling as if in worship of
the Martian, and on the ground was what looked like a pottery bowl full of some food as an
offering. Well! Leroy and I thought we'd gone screwy!"

"And Putz and I think so, too!" roared the captain.

"Maybe we all have," replied Jarvis, with a faint grin at the pale face of the little Frenchman,
who returned it in silence. "Anyway," he continued, "Tweel was squeaking and pointing at the
figure, and saying 'Tick! Tick!' so he recognized the resemblance--and never mind any cracks
about my nose!" he warned the captain. "It was Leroy who made the important comment; he looked
at the Martian and said 'Thoth! The god Thoth!'"

"Oui!" confirmed the biologist. "Comme l'Egypte!"

"Yeah," said Jarvis. "Like the Egyptian ibis-headed god--the one with the beak. Well, no sooner
did Tweel hear the name Thoth than he set up a clamor of twittering and squeaking. He pointed
at himself and said 'Thoth! Thoth!' and then waved his arm all around and repeated it. Of course
he often did queer things, but we both thought we understood what he meant. He was trying to
tell us that his race called themselves Thoth. Do you see what I'm getting at?"

