
The aisles will be spaced into as many equal, or nearly equal bays, as can be got in between
the buttresses at either end. When, however, the building of the arcade is taken in hand, the
responds or half-piers at either end will seldom be built directly against the piers of the
chancel arch, or against the west wall of the nave; but projecting pieces of the old walls
will be left as a backing to them. It follows that, although the arcade may be divided into
the same number of bays as the aisles, the standard of spacing will be different, and consequently,
unless a very regular system of planning is adopted, the piers will not be exactly opposite
the solid portions of the aisle walls, and consequently the centres of the arches will be out
of line with the centres of the windows. Again, it may be that, by accident or design, the
backing for the responds may project more on one side of the nave than on the other, at either
or both ends. The result will be that the piers of one arcade will be out of line with those
of the arcade opposite. That discrepancies of this kind were sometimes the result of intention
cannot be denied; but there is generally some practical reason to be found for the intention,
and the discrepancies themselves were a pis aller which the builders would have avoided, if
they could. That deliberate irregularity with which medieval masons are sometimes credited
is a fancy, which careful consideration of the circumstances will dispel.

§ 46. Hitherto we have spoken of the aisled nave as though both aisles were planned at one
and the same time. This, however, was by no means always the case. At Gretton in Northamptonshire,
the north aisle was built soon after the beginning of the twelfth century: the south aisle
followed twenty or thirty years later. The north arcade at Northallerton is of massive twelfth
century work, with rounded arches: the south arcade was added in the thirteenth century, and
has slender columns with pointed arches. In such cases, the north aisle may have been built
first, to avoid interference with the burial ground south of the church. Very often only one
aisle was added. The little church of Whitwell, Rutland, has a south aisle, added in the fourteenth
century, with a chapel at its east end. No north aisle was built: but a drain in the north
wall of the nave shows that there was a third altar against the north side of the rood screen.
Usually, when one aisle was built long after another, the spacing of the new arcade was made
to correspond with that of the old. If the old arcade had heavy twelfth century columns, the
new one, with its lighter columns, would have broader arches. But it sometimes happens that
the old spacing was disregarded, for very good reasons. The north arcade of Middleton Tyas
church, in north Yorkshire, consists of six bays: the columns are heavy, the arches low and
round headed, and very narrow. The interior of the church must have been very dark; and the
builders of the south aisle, in the fourteenth century, aimed at throwing more light upon it.
They therefore planned their new arcade, with broad pointed arches springing from octagonal
columns, in four instead of six bays, and so, from broad windows in the aisle, introduced the
necessary light. Something of the same kind happened at Theddingworth in Leicestershire: the
effect is, of course, one-sided, but in both cases the light admitted enhances the merits of
the earlier arcade, which, until then, had to be taken on trust.

§ 47. But there are further instances--and these, perhaps, are the most instructive--where
aisles were not merely built at two different periods, but where the growth of one or both
aisles was gradual. As an instance of this, may be cited the beautiful church of Raunds in
Northamptonshire. Raunds seems to have been one of those cases in which the Norman chancel
and nave were of the same width, and possibly were undivided by any chancel arch. In the thirteenth
century the west tower and spire were built, and a broad south aisle was added to the nave.
This aisle was of four bays, and the point at which it stopped probably marked the dividing
line between the nave and chancel. However, the builders certainly intended to carry on the
aisle eastward, as a south chapel to the chancel, which they now rebuilt and lengthened. Early
in the fourteenth century, the south aisle was continued eastward, an arcade of five bays being
added to the four bays already existing. The new bays were made rather narrower than those
in the earlier part of the arcade. A strange feature of the new work was the insertion of a
chancel arch, the south pier of which bisects one of the new arches. Thus, while three bays
and a half of the new arcade belong to the chancel and quire, a bay and a half belong to the
nave. The arch dividing the south aisle from the chancel chapel springs from the pier between
the end of the old arcade and the inserted pier of the chancel arch. At the same time, the
outer wall of the south aisle seems to have been practically rebuilt, although much of the
older work was retained. There may have been a thirteenth century north aisle as well. Whether
this was the case or no, a new north aisle and arcade were built during the fourteenth century.
The aisle was set out in seven bays, six of which contained broad three-light windows, while
a north doorway was made in the third bay from the west end. The east wall was built on foundations
in a line with the chancel arch, while the west wall was in a line with the tower arch and
west wall of the south aisle. It is obvious, therefore, that the planning of the new aisle
was totally different from that of the older aisle and chapel. However, when the builders came
to their arcade, instead of building it in seven bays, as the new aisle demanded, they built
it in five, setting their new columns in a line with those on the opposite side. But while,
on the south side, there was an awkward half-bay between the end of the arcade and the chancel
arch, a solid piece of wall was left between the north pier of the chancel arch and the eastern
respond of the new arcade. A compromise was thus effected between the aisles, and an appearance
of regularity was ensured. Directly, however, one begins to examine the plan of the church,
and to trace the transverse lines from window to window, and buttress to buttress, it will
be found that only in one place can a line be drawn which will pass straight from the centre
of one buttress to that of the buttress opposite, and will pass through the centre of the intervening
columns on its way.

§ 48. It already has been shown that builders were very unwilling, in making their additions
to churches, to destroy old work altogether. At times they displayed an extraordinary conservatism
in their re-use of old material in their new work. This was not invariable. In the splendid
churches of south Lincolnshire, during the fourteenth century, their aim seems to have been
complete rebuilding; and such examples as the magnificent nave at Swaton, near Sleaford, or
the neighbouring church of Billingborough, show how old work must have been swept away by the
enthusiasm for lofty arcades, elaborately traceried windows, and walls of dressed stone-work.
On the other hand, half the charm of the hardly less beautiful churches of Northamptonshire
is the result of the clever way in which the masons dove-tailed all the old stone-work which
was worth preserving into their new additions. Such churches as Tansor and Oundle are, for
that reason, unexcelled in interest, offering, as they do, almost inexhaustible problems as
to the development of their plan. In all parts of England we find that builders, whatever else
they destroyed, carefully kept, as a general rule, the doorways, and especially the south doorway,
of the buildings which they enlarged. This accounts for the large number of handsome Norman
doorways which remain in the walls of aisles obviously later than the doorways themselves.
At Birkin in Yorkshire, the south aisle was not built till the middle of the fourteenth century,
but the doorway was removed to its new position from the wall of the aisleless church. One
very exceptional case occurs at Felton in Northumberland. Towards the beginning of the thirteenth
century, the west part of the south wall of the church was cut through, a chapel was added,
and, east of the chapel, a porch was built. Rather more than fifty or sixty years later, it
was determined to add a south aisle the full length of the nave. The width of the aisle was
taken from that of the existing chapel and porch. To connect the chapel with the new work,
the side walls of the porch were cut through. The outer doorway of the porch became the new
south doorway, while the inner doorway was kept unaltered, as an arch in the new arcade.

§ 49. Features which have been touched upon in connexion with Raunds bring us to two new features
in the plan--the rebuilding of aisles and the lengthening of churches westward. In most parish
churches, aisles, when they were added at first, were extremely narrow. The west wall of Hallaton
church in Leicestershire, for example, shows that, in the fourteenth century, originally narrow
aisles were heightened and widened. The roof lines of the earlier aisles remain; they were
clearly under the same roof as the nave of the church, and had very low side walls. This was
not always the case. At Raunds the thirteenth century south aisle was always broad and lofty,
and must have had its own roof from the first. And, as the principles of Gothic construction
became more familiar, and the larger churches began to exercise a more wide-spread influence
upon the parish church, aisles began to increase in breadth and elevation. The small and narrow
windows of churches of the twelfth and early thirteenth centuries gave way to the broad mullioned
and traceried windows of fully developed Gothic work. For these, with their advantage of increased
light, more headway was necessary. Aisle walls were consequently heightened or altogether rebuilt.
The acutely pointed roof of the nave could no longer be continued downwards to cover these
higher aisles. The aisle was consequently covered with a lean-to roof, or with a separate gabled
roof of its own. A free increase in width was thus possible. The church of Appleton-le-Street
in Yorkshire has a short nave with north and south aisles. The north aisle, added in the early
part of the thirteenth century, is narrow, and the roof of the nave was continued over it.
The south aisle, which was probably rebuilt a little before 1300, is broader and has a separate
lean-to roof. The wide east window of this aisle could not have been introduced, had the south
aisle been built to match the scale of the north aisle.

§ 50. The introduction of more light, however, was not the only reason for the rebuilding and
heightening of aisles. The east end of an aisle, as has been said, provided a convenient place
for one of the side altars of the church. This was the case even in the narrow aisles of the
twelfth and thirteenth century, many of which, like the north aisle of Great Easton church
in Leicestershire, provided with a drain, aumbry, or a corbel for a statue, bear witness to
the existence of a contemporary altar. At Harringworth in Northamptonshire there had been an
aisleless church, to which a tower had been added at the end of the twelfth, and aisles early
in the thirteenth century. On 24 October 1305 Edward I granted letters patent to William la
Zouche, by which he had licence to assign a certain amount of land to two chantry chaplains
in the chapel of All Saints. This may have been his private chapel, but was possibly in the
church. A little earlier than this, to judge by the character of the architecture, a new north
aisle had been built, with a new altar at the east end. Very soon after the granting of the
licence, it would appear that the whole of the south arcade was taken down, and a new south
aisle and arcade built. The work was done in a very conservative spirit, for the old thirteenth
century porch and inner doorway were rebuilt on the new site, and an old string-course was
re-used internally, beneath the new windows. The piscina and the three sedilia, which belonged
to the altar at the end of the aisle, remain in the south wall, and there are corbels for statues
on either side of the east window. However, rebuilding did not stop here; for it seems that,
during the next few years, the north arcade was entirely rebuilt so as nearly to match that
on the south. Thus the work, beginning with the north aisle, and extending over some thirty
or forty years, finished on the side on which it began. Numerous examples of a closely parallel
kind, fortified by documentary evidence, might be given.

§ 51. The rebuilding of the south aisle, about 1313, at Newark, was the prelude to an entire
rebuilding of the church, which extended over many years. The builders began by setting out
their aisles as usual, and by the middle of the fourteenth century the south aisle was finished,
and the lower courses of the north aisle and the new aisled chancel were built. However, in
1349, the Black Death interrupted the work. The north aisle and chancel were not completed,
and the new arcades of nave and chancel were not built until the fifteenth century. In this
case there were certainly older, and almost certainly narrower aisles. The rebuilding included
aisles on a larger scale, and new internal arcades whose spacing corresponded to the spacing
of the aisle walls. All systematic rebuilding, in the full development of Gothic art, began
with the planning of the aisles. The naves of Cirencester and Northleach churches, rebuilt
at the end of the middle ages, are examples of this method. The arcades at Cirencester are
known to have been built about 1514-5; but the aisles were obviously completed first, and their
remodelling may have been begun in the second quarter of the fifteenth century. At Northleach
the nave was finished about 1458; and there seems to have been a break of some years between
the building of the aisles and the destruction of the older church which, no doubt, lay within
them. But it did not always happen that the full intention of the builders was carried out.
One of the most splendid schemes which we possess for the enlargement of a parish church was
the great enterprise begun at Grantham soon after the middle of the thirteenth century. An
aisleless Norman church had been enlarged at the end of the twelfth century by the addition
of aisles to the nave, the connexion being formed by arcades of rounded arches springing from
very elegant clustered columns. Above the arcades were low clerestories, lighted by round-headed
windows. About 1230, the neighbouring church of Newark was taken in hand by masons, who built
a new west tower up to a certain height, and, as an afterthought, planned aisles to engage
the tower completely. As we have seen, the building of the aisles at Newark upon their present
scale did not begin till much later. The work of rebuilding at Grantham was clearly inspired
by that already begun at Newark. A tower was planned on a site much to the west of the nave,
and was engaged within very broad aisles. The tower and north aisle were set out first. The
north aisle was divided into seven bays, with a large traceried window in each bay, the western
bay being much wider between the buttresses than the rest, owing to the greater space taken
up by the tower and its piers internally. The remaining six bays were set out with equal widths
between the buttresses, the middle bay of the aisle being covered by a porch. The eastern bay
overlapped the western part of the aisleless chancel, its western buttress being in a line
with the division between chancel and nave. The western bay of the south aisle was set out
about the same time, and there was, no doubt, an intention of proceeding with the rest on the
same lines as in the north aisle. There can also be little doubt that the builders intended
to take down the old arcades, and build new arcades, with spacing corresponding to that of
their aisles, and to lengthen the chancel eastwards, while bringing its western portion into
the nave. The tower and north aisle were built on the intended scale; and, when the tower had
risen to a certain height, the ambition of the builders was fired to add to it an extra stage,
hitherto uncontemplated, below the spire with which it was to be crowned. This project of giving
their church a tower and stone spire, which remained, for many years, the loftiest in England,
evidently curtailed the full accomplishment of their earlier plan. The columns of the old arcades
were kept, and the tower was connected by arcades of two bays with the angles of the west wall
of the old church; while an arch was pierced through the north wall of the chancel, to give
access to the east bay of the new aisle. The new arches were pointed: in order to match them,
the older round-headed arches were taken down, and pointed arches built, which cut into and
blocked the clerestory windows. This change was made with great economy of material, the springing
stones of some of the old arches being kept to afford footing for the new. When the south aisle
was seriously begun, about 1300, similar economy was shown. Four bays, in addition to the western
bay, were spaced out, without regard to the plan of the north aisle. The fourth bay from the
west was covered by a porch, smaller than that on the north side; and the east wall of the
aisle was probably built on a line with the division between nave and chancel. Half a century
later, the east wall was taken down, and the south aisle was extended to the full length of
the chancel; but this later development was not contemplated by the thirteenth century builders.
These hesitations and changes, consequent upon the expense entailed by the north aisle and
by the alteration in the elevation of the tower and spire, make Grantham second to no English
church in interest.

§ 52. Grantham also provides us with a lengthened nave. The position of its earlier west wall
is clearly shown by the masses of masonry which occur between the eastern bay of the new, and
western bay of the old, arcade on either side. The responds on the eastern side of these pieces
of wall are twelfth century work: on the west side, they belong to the later part of the thirteenth
century. Such lengthening was probably very common in later Gothic times, and we may surmise
that it took place in many instances where arcades were entirely rebuilt, and no visible trace
of the process was left. However, there are many churches in which one or more extra bays have
been added to the nave, and the join of the old and new work is marked as at Grantham. Whaplode
church in south Lincolnshire had its early twelfth century nave lengthened by three bays about
1180. At Colsterworth, near Grantham, a western bay was added to the nave about the same time,
and an earlier north aisle lengthened. Above the piece of wall which occurs between the older
and newer work, the quoins of the aisleless church remain entire. Usually, as at Grantham,
the lengthening of the nave was undertaken in connexion with a new western tower, which was
built up outside the church, and then connected with it by one or two bays of arcading. Almost
contemporary with the tower and spire of Grantham are those of Tilney All Saints, near Lynn.
Here a single bay was added west of the late twelfth century nave; and, as no new aisles were
contemplated, the old arcades, with their rounded arches, were left intact. Bubwith in Yorkshire,
and Caunton in Nottinghamshire, are later examples of churches where the tower was built west
of the end of an earlier nave, and a bay was built to connect it with the older work. Sometimes,
as at Gretton in Northamptonshire, where the slope of a steep hill forbade extension far to
the west, a new tower was built only a few feet beyond the limit of the old nave. In such a
case, the side walls of the nave might be carried solid westwards to meet the tower, or, as
happened at Gretton, narrow arches might be made between the tower and the west end of the
older wall. The beautiful tower and spire at Oundle were built just outside the west wall of
the thirteenth century nave; and were doubtless intended to be followed by a complete rebuilding
of the arcades--such a rebuilding as took place at Lavenham in Suffolk, towards the end of
the fifteenth century. The idea, however, was abandoned, and the space between the arcades
and the tower filled in solid with rather rough masonry.

§ 53. The position of the western tower in the plan is normally at the west end of the nave,
with which it is connected by an arch, low at first, but loftier as time goes on, until, in
later Gothic churches, its height frequently is nearly that of the whole nave. The remaining
three walls are usually external, and clear of the aisles. But sometimes, owing to a freak
of planning, or, more frequently, owing to the conditions of the site, the tower is, as at
Bibury, at the west end of one of the aisles. At Gedling in Nottinghamshire the tower and spire
are at the end of the north aisle. The tower of St Michael's, Cambridge, is at the west end
of the south aisle: probably the western extension of the church was prevented by the neighbourhood
of the street, a circumstance which often accounts for the irregularity of plan in some town
churches. At St Mary Redcliffe, Bristol, built on the edge of the "red cliff" from which it
takes its name, the tower and spire are at the end of the north aisle: had they been planned
in the usual place, a full bay of the nave would have been sacrificed. The tower at Spalding
was planned, in the first instance, to stand against the south wall of the west bay of the
south aisle: subsequently a new south aisle was built east of it. One of the most curious instances
is that of St Mary's at Leicester, where the tower, subsequently, as at Spalding, heightened
by a spire, was planned in the thirteenth century, outside a very narrow south aisle. A tower
at the west end of the nave would have encroached upon the inner ward of the adjacent castle.
The chancel of St Mary's was used for collegiate services, and parochial accommodation was
limited. Towards the end of the thirteenth century, a very wide south aisle, a parish church
in itself, was built the full length of the nave, and overlapping the chancel at the east end.
The tower was left standing on piers entirely within the west end of the new aisle. It may
be added that, where towers occur at the end of aisles, they seldom project beyond the west
wall of the nave, but open into the nave by an arch in the north or south wall, as the case
may be. Plans with two western towers, as at Melbourne or St Margaret's at Lynn, are of very
rare occurrence; and, where they are found, the plan was probably designed on more ambitious
lines than those of the ordinary parish church.

§ 54. The plan in which the western tower is engaged within the aisles--that is, where the
aisles are brought up flush with the west end of the church--is not very common. Still, instances
occur in all parts of England. At Grantham, the plan is deliberate. It was imitated, as has
been said, from Newark, where the side walls of the tower had been pierced with arches as an
after-thought. Newark, in turn, may have taken the design from Tickhill in south Yorkshire;
and the design at Tickhill may have been taken from the early and unpretentious example at
Sherburn-in-Elmet. Grantham probably suggested other similar designs, such as Ewerby, near
Sleaford. Several of our finest late Gothic churches, like St Nicholas at Newcastle, have plans
in which the aisles are continued up to the west face of the tower. The method affords full
development to the aisles, and, as at Sileby in Leicestershire, has an imposing interior effect.
Outside, however, the aisles crowd the base of the tower too much, and the fine effect of a
lofty, free standing tower is lost. Sometimes aisles were extended westwards, so as to engage
an earlier tower, as at Sleaford, where the low tower and spire are almost overwhelmed by a
pair of wide fourteenth century aisles. At Brigstock and Winterton, late Saxon towers have
been left without alteration inside aisles which have been brought westward in the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries. The nave of Holy Trinity, Cambridge, was much widened in the fourteenth
century, and a small tower and spire of earlier date were brought entirely within the new nave,
as happened in the south aisle at St Mary's, Leicester, and were left without sufficient abutment.
As a consequence, the arches of the ground story had to be strengthened about a century later
with additional masonry. Cases occur, as at Coln Rogers in Gloucestershire, where a tower has
been built within the west end of an earlier church. In most of such instances, the churchyard
boundary probably allowed of no further building westward. The nearness of the churchyard boundary
also seems to have given cause to a peculiarity which may be seen at Wollaton, near Nottingham,
Dedham in Essex, and in a few other places, where the west tower is in its usual position,
but is pierced from north to south by an archway. It is possible that this gave facility to
processions, which could thus pass round the church without leaving consecrated ground. The
tower of old All Saints, Cambridge, now destroyed, projected over the public foot-way of the
street, which passed through its ground story; while St John's, Bristol, is built on the city
wall, and the tower and spire, which it shared with the adjoining church of St Lawrence, are
over the south gate of the city.

§ 55. Sometimes, as at Oundle, the tower was rebuilt with a view to the reconstruction of the
whole church. But, as also at Oundle, the design was often abandoned, or was altered. The magnificent
tower of St Michael's, Coventry, was built, between 1373 and 1394, at the west end of an older
nave: its spire was not begun till 1430. Whether the rebuilding of the nave was contemplated
when the tower was begun, it is impossible to say. A new nave was actually begun in 1432, and
finished in 1450. A thoroughfare immediately south of the church prevented extension on that
side. The old south porch was retained in place as the principal entrance, so that the line
of the wall of the south aisle follows closely that of the original church. The new south arcade
was set out, not in a line with the south-east buttress of the tower, but somewhat to the north
of it, so that the buttress is external; while, for the width of the nave, a space approximating
to twice the internal breadth of the tower was taken. The tower is thus placed almost wholly
south of the central axis of the nave produced westward. Here, once more, we may note the influence
of site on the plan.

§ 56. The people's entrance to the church was ordinarily through a porch, covering the north
or south doorway of the nave. The south doorway is usually covered by a porch. Frequently,
as at Hallaton in Leicestershire, or Henbury in Gloucestershire, there is a north as well as
a south porch. At Warmington, near Oundle, where there is a beautiful doorway in the west tower,
the vaulted south porch is the principal entrance; but there is also a somewhat smaller north
porch, also vaulted. The chief porch at Grantham is on the north side; but there is also a
large porch on the south. At Newark, there is only a south porch, on the side of the church
next the market place. The south porch of St Mary Redcliffe, at Bristol, is the ordinary entrance
of the church; but the chief entrance of the building, until the fifteenth century, was on
the north side, at the head of the abrupt slope towards the city. In the fourteenth century,
this entrance was covered by a large and lofty octagonal porch, approached by a flight of steps.
There is an octagonal south porch at Chipping Norton, and a hexagonal south porch at Ludlow.
The magnificent porches of the fifteenth century, as at Burford in Oxfordshire, Northleach
in Gloucestershire, Worstead in Norfolk, Walberswick in Suffolk, St Mary Magdalene's at Taunton,
or Yatton in Somerset, are usually on the south side of the church.

§ 57. The positions of the porch and doorway in the wall of the aisle vary. At St Nicholas,
Newcastle, where the west tower is engaged within the aisles, there is a porch in the western
bay of each aisle. Usually, however, the porch will be found in the second bay of one of the
aisles, counting from the west end. Sometimes, especially in larger churches, the porch occurs
a bay further east. At Warmington and at Grantham, the two porches of either church are nearly
opposite each other, and project approximately from the centre of the walls of the aisles.
Where the porch has been pushed eastward in this way, the west end of the aisle seems to have
been occupied by one or more chapels. There are indications of this at Warmington; while, in
the neighbouring church of Tansor, where the porch is in the usual place, but the aisle has
been lengthened somewhat to the west, there was certainly an altar west, as well as east, of
the porch. There was at least one chantry chapel west of the south porch at Grantham. The south
porch at Ludlow covers the wall of the third bay of the aisle from the west: here there were
two chapels in the western part of the aisle. There was another chapel at the west end of the
north aisle. It can hardly be proved that the position of porches was actually planned with
this use of the aisles in view; but there can be no doubt that advantage was frequently taken
of the space thus added to the aisle. The aisled nave, with its usual appendages of porch and
tower, has now been described at length. Before we proceed to the development of the chancel,
the transepts or transeptal chapels of the parish church invite discussion. The distinction
between true transepts, in churches with central towers, and the transeptal chapels which are
nothing more than northern and southern extensions of the aisles, has been made already; and
it has been seen that the cruciform plan with central tower reached a very full state of perfection
during the twelfth century. Further dignity was given to some cruciform churches by the addition
of aisles to the transepts. St Mary Redcliffe at Bristol, the plan of which is that of a large
collegiate or cathedral rather than a parish church, has transepts with eastern and western
aisles: there is no central tower, but the transepts form a definite cross-arm to the church,
which was designed with regard to the central point formed by the crossing of a longitudinal
and a transverse axis. There are few churches in England as beautiful as that of Melton Mowbray,
with its aisled transepts and tower above the crossing: had the chancel only been planned on
a larger scale and with aisles, the unrivalled beauty and dignity of St Mary Redcliffe might
have been approached here. The cruciform plan with central tower is the most noble of all church
plans, when carried out by builders with large ideas. Churches like Ludlow, Nantwich, Holy
Trinity and St John's at Coventry, St Mary's at Beverley, excite an admiration which is the
natural result of the fact that the plan, instead of straggling in the ordinary way from east
to west, is brought to a focus beneath the central tower.

§ 59. Apart, however, from the tower above the crossing, the transept had a value of its own.
It gave additional room for the side altars of the church. The transeptal chapels at Worth
allowed of greater width for the chancel arch: the altars, which naturally would have stood
against the wall on either side of the chancel arch, could be placed within these excrescences
from the north and south walls of the church, and the central space was thus left clear. This
method of extension of the church by adding north and south chapels to the nave was pursued
throughout the middle ages. The thirteenth century plan of Acton Burnell is virtually identical
with the tenth or eleventh century plan of Worth. In aisled churches, such transeptal additions
are simply outgrowths of the aisle walls, and were not necessarily planned with any regard
to the spacing of the arcades of the nave. They may, of course, be placed symmetrically at
the east end of the aisles, the width of each chapel corresponding to the width of the arch
of the arcade which is opposite its opening. Thus Exton church in Rutland, rebuilt about the
beginning of the thirteenth century, has north and south transeptal chapels whose width is
that of the eastern bay of each arcade. A transverse arch was thrown across each aisle at its
junction with the adjacent chapel. Here the chapels form quasi-transepts in perfect union with
the design of nave and aisles. Symmetrical plans in which it is clear at a glance that the
transeptal chapels are developments of the aisles, and have no necessary relation to the nave,
are those of Kegworth in Leicestershire, rebuilt in the fourteenth century, and Aylsham, Cawston,
and Sall in Norfolk, which belong to the fifteenth century. But even more obvious than these
are the plans in which transeptal chapels have been thrown out at different periods, or even
at one and the same period, without the least regard to symmetry. A small aisleless nave at
Stretton in Rutland received a north aisle about the beginning of the thirteenth century. Soon
after, the eastern part of the side walls was taken down, and chapels built out to north and
south. The width of the south chapel was determined by that of the old chancel arch, which
was rebuilt between the chapel and the nave, there being no aisle on that side. The north chapel,
on the other hand, was formed simply by returning the wall of the aisle northward, and throwing
a transverse arch across the aisle from the wall above the arcade. Its width corresponds roughly
with that of the south chapel, but has no correspondence with that of the adjacent bay of the
arcade. Examples of this form of growth of plan, dictated by convenience and the necessity
of the moment, are common in every part of England.

§ 60. It is quite clear that the transeptal chapel, being nothing more than an excrescence
from the wall of a nave or aisle, is a feature which may be treated with some freedom. Its
width and length are dependent upon the convenience and will of the builders. The north chapel
of the aisleless church of Clapton-in-Gordano, Somerset, is entered by an arch in the east
part of the north wall: the chapel itself, however, extends some distance westward, so that
its longer axis is parallel to the longer axis of the nave. The south chapel, again, at Lowick
in Northamptonshire has its longer axis from east to west, although its roof is at right angles
to that of the adjacent aisle. Externally, its transeptal character is apparent; internally,
it has the appearance of an additional south aisle. A chantry was founded in this chapel in
1498. Very often, where special chantry chapels were built, they took the position of transeptal
chapels. Cases in point are the late Gothic chantry chapels in All Saints and St Lawrence's
at Evesham. Such chapels may obviously be lengthened westward, like the chapel at Clapton-in-Gordano,
so that they become additional aisles. The Milcombe chapel at Bloxham in Oxfordshire, the Greenway
aisle at Tiverton in Devonshire, and the side chapels of the north and south aisles at St Andrew's,
Plymouth, and Plympton St Mary are the logical outcome of the habit of adding transeptal chapels
to the plan. Two transeptal chapels of the ordinary type are found in other Devonshire churches
rebuilt in the fifteenth century, as at East Portlemouth: the Kirkham chapel at Paignton, famous
for its carved stone-work, is transeptal. From this it is but a step to the chapels at Plymouth
and Plympton, with their longer axes from east to west: while the aisle at Tiverton (1517)
develops naturally, in the churches of Cullompton (1526) and Ottery St Mary (before 1530),
into a vaulted aisle the full length of the nave. At Bloxham, on the other hand, the Milcombe
chapel, which extends from the east wall of the south aisle as far as the porch, was probably
grafted upon an earlier and smaller transeptal chapel. A comparison with the neighbouring church
of Adderbury shows that the fabric of the transeptal chapels at Adderbury is largely of the
twelfth century. The north chapel at Bloxham is, in its present state, much later; but the
similarity of plan to that of Adderbury leads to the justifiable conclusion that it was rebuilt
on old foundations, and that there was a similar south chapel. About 1290 the aisles at Bloxham
were widened, and a beautiful arcade of two bays was built at the east end of the north aisle,
between it and the north chapel. Within the next few years, the aisles at Adderbury were also
widened, and arcades similar to that at Bloxham, though coarser in detail, were built at the
east end of either aisle. The projection of the transeptal chapels from the side walls was
now very slight; and, in the fifteenth century, the projection of the south chapel at Bloxham
was absorbed by the building of the Milcombe chapel, between which and the south aisle an arcade
of two bays was made. There is more intrinsic interest in this gradual development of plan
than in the Devonshire plans we have noticed, which are all due to fifteenth century rebuildings;
and the mutual influence exercised throughout the middle ages by two neighbouring churches
like Bloxham and Adderbury gives us an insight into the progress of local art which the energy
of fifteenth century masons in certain districts has somewhat obscured. From the arrangement
of the south transept at Adderbury, there appear to have been two altars in each of the chapels.

