SHAKESPEARE'S INSOMNIA, AND THE CAUSES THEREOF.

I.

Insomnia, the lack of "tired Nature's sweet restorer," is rapidly becoming the chronic terror
of all men of active life who have passed the age of thirty-five or forty years. In early life,
while yet he "wears the rose of youth upon him," man rarely, except in sickness, knows the
want of sound, undreaming sleep. But as early manhood is left behind and the cares and perplexities
of life weigh upon him, making far more needful than ever the rest which comes only through
unbroken sleep, this remedial agent cannot longer be wooed and won. Youth would "fain encounter
darkness as a bride and hug it in his arms." To those of riper years the "blanket of the dark"
often ushers in a season of terrors,--a time of fitful snatches of broken sleep and of tormenting
dreams; of long stretches of wakefulness; of hours when all things perplexing and troublesome
in one's affairs march before him in sombre procession: in endless disorder, in labyrinths
of confusion, in countless new phases of disagreeableness; and at length the morning summons
him to labor, far more racked and weary than when he sought repose.

It has been of late years much the fashion in the literature of this subject to attribute sleeplessness
to the rapid growth of facilities for activities of every kind. The practical annihilation
of time and space by our telegraphs and railroads, the compressing thereby of the labors of
months into hours or even minutes, the terrific competition in all kinds of business thereby
made possible and inevitable, the intense mental activity engendered in the mad race for fame
or wealth, where the nervous and mental force of man is measured against steam and lightning,--these
are usually credited with having developed what is considered a modern and even an almost distinctively
American disease.

As the maxim, "There is nothing new under the sun," is of general application, it may be of
interest to investigate if an exception occurs in the case of sleeplessness; if it be true
that among our ancestors, before the days of working steam and electricity, the glorious sleep
of youth was prolonged through all one's three or four score years.

Medical books and literature throw no light upon this subject three hundred years ago. We must
therefore turn to Shakespeare--human nature's universal solvent--for light on this as we would
on any other question of his time. Was he troubled with insomnia, then, is the first problem
to be solved. 

The hands of the strange woman were clasped on her breast; but even when the rest of us started
for Jabez she didn't move.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE THE FINAL RECKONING It hurts me inside to see
anything plumb beaten.

I've hunted a lot, an'I'm as keen on the trail as a terrier dog an'durin
the fight I don't have no disturbin shudders; but after I've won an'I
see the light of joy an'hope an'freedom fadin'out of eyes that have
been so bright an'fearless, the'' s allus somethin'' at swells inside
o'my breast an'makes me half sorry'at all fights can't end in a draw.

The'' s one kind of nature which I never yet was able to figger out, an'that's the nature that can
rub it in on a fallen foe. Poor old Jabez, I'd judged him an'I'd judges him harsh; but when I saw
him go to pieces there on the padded bench I just seemed to go to pieces with him. When I saw the strength
leave him like the steam from an engine as the flood reaches its fire-box; when I saw the hands
that thought they was strong enough to shape the future danglin'between
his crooked knees, an'the eyes that had never before asked mercy lookin'up
glazed an'pitiful, why, it felt to me as if I was just tryin'to send
the strength out of my own body into his.

Poor ol'Jabez, he was cast steel to the finish, no spring, just simply rigid an'stiff, till at
last he broke.

But runnin'the universe is no job for a human; every man would choose to look his best when he's to meet
the one woman; but if Jabez had still been standin'like a rock an'lookin'out at the world through
eagle-eyes the woman at the door wouldn't never have spoke to him. When she saw him tired an'broken
an'heart-sick of life itself, the mother in her finally tore out all the wrongs o'the past,
an'she crossed the room an'took one of his hands an'said, "George, you mustn't give up, you mustn't give
up now." Barbie was holdin'his other hand, an'the ol'man looked first from one to the other
while big tears gathered in his open eyes an'rolled slowly down his
cheeks.

I tell you it was a touchy sight, an'I was sweatin'like a fish when ol'Friar
Tuck tip-toed over an'put one hand on my shoulder an'the other on
Jim's, an'said: "They'll get along better without us, boys. Let's just
step outside till they call us." Oh, I tell you that Friar Tuck was
a sky-pilot for true!

  We sneaked stealthily to the door, passin'ol'Melisse
  on the way.

Shakespeare speaks often of the time in life when men have left behind them the dreamless sleep
of youth.

Shakespeare describes, too, with lifelike fidelity, the causes of insomnia, which are not weariness
or physical pain, but undue mental anxiety. He constantly contrasts the troubled sleep of those
burdened with anxieties and cares, with the happy lot of the laborer whose physical weariness
insures him a tranquil night's repose.

Caesar, whom Shakespeare characterizes as "the foremost man of all this world," says:--

  "Let me have men about me that are fat;
  Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights."

The poet also in various passages expresses his emphatic belief as to what is the brightest
blessing or the deadliest calamity which can be laid upon our frail humanity. Rarely is a blessing
invoked which does not include the wish for tranquil sleep; and this, too, as the best and
greatest boon of all. His gracious benediction may compass honors and wealth and happiness
and fame,--that one's "name may dwell forever in the mouths of men;" but

  "The earth hath bubbles as the water hath,
  And these are of them,"

as compared with the royal benison, "Sleep give thee all his rest."

The spectres of the princes and Queen Anne, in "Richard III.," invoking every good upon Richmond,
say:--

  "Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace and wake in joy."

And again:--

  "Thou quiet soul, sleep thou a quiet sleep."

Romeo's dearest wish to Juliet is,--

  "Sleep dwell upon thine eyes; peace in thy breast."

The crowning promise of Lady Mortimer, in "Henry IV.," is that

  "She will sing the song that pleaseth thee,
  And on thy eyelids crown the god of sleep."

Titus, welcoming again to Rome the victorious legions, says of the heroes who have fallen:

  "There greet in silence, as the dead are wont,
  And sleep in peace, slain in your country's wars,"

promising them that in the land of the blest

                        "are no storms,
  No noise, but silence and eternal sleep."

Constantly also in anathemas throughout the plays are invoked, as the deadliest of curses,
broken rest and its usual accompaniment of troublous dreams. Thus note the climax in Queen
Margaret's curse upon the traitorous Gloster:--

  "If Heaven have any grievous plague in store
  Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,
  Oh, let them keep it till thy sins be ripe,
  And then hurl down their indignation
  On thee, the troubler of the poor world's peace!
  The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul!
  Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou liv'st,
  And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
  No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine,
  Unless it be while some tormenting dream
  Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils!"

It is curious also to remark, in the various lists of griefs which make life a burden and a
sorrow, how often the climax of these woes is the lack of sleep, or the troubled dreams bearing
their train of "gorgons, hydras, and chimeras dire," which come with broken rest. Lady Percy
says to Hotspur:--

  "Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks,
  And given my treasures and my rights of thee
  To thick-eyed musing and curst melancholy?
  Tell me, sweet lord, what is't that takes from thee
  Thy stomach, pleasure, and thy golden sleep?"

In "Othello" is a striking picture of the sudden change, in the direction we are considering,
which comes over a tranquil mind from the commission of a great crime.

The greatest punishment which comes to Macbeth after the murder of Duncan is lack of sleep.

And the principal reason which deters Hamlet from suicide is the fear that even if he does
sleep well "after life's fitful fever is over," still, that sleep may be full of troubled dreams.

Richard III. says, when the catalogue of his crimes is full, and when he "sees as in a map
the end of all":--

  "The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham's bosom,
  And Anne, my queen, hath bid the world good night."

In addition to the fuller phrases wherein are shown the blessedness of sleep, or the remediless
nature of its loss, many brief sentences occur scattered throughout the plays, and emphasizing
the same great lesson.

               "With Him above
  To ratify our work, we may again
  Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights."

  "You lack the season of all natures, sleep."

  "My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep."

  "For never yet one hour in his bed
  Have I enjoyed the golden dew of sleep."

  "For some must watch and some must sleep,
  So runs the world away."

  "How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon that bank."

  "The best of rest is sleep."

  "Our little lives are rounded with a sleep."

The various passages cited above prove and illustrate that no author has written so feelingly,
so appreciatingly, as Shakespeare on the subject of sleep and its loss.

The diligent commentators on his works have investigated laboriously the sources from which
he drew his plots and many of the very lines of his poems. He was a great borrower; absorbing,
digesting, and making his own much of the material of his predecessors. But it is a noteworthy
fact, that none of the exquisite lines in praise of sleep--that gift which the Psalmist says
the Lord giveth to his beloved--can be traced to other source than the master. These are jewels
of his own; transcripts from his own mournful experience. In middle life he remembered hopelessly
the tranquil sleep of his lost youth, as

  "He that is stricken blind cannot forget
  The precious treasure of his eyesight lost."

He had suffered from insomnia, and he writes of this, not "as imagination bodies forth the
forms of things unknown," but as one who, in words burning with indestructible life, lays open
to us the sombre record of what was experience before it was song; who makes us the sharers
of his griefs; who would awaken in the similarly afflicted of all time that compassionate sympathy
which goes out to those whose burdens are almost greater than they can bear.

II.

The meagre information we have as to the life and habits of Shakespeare would seem to make
it an almost hopeless task now to discover the causes of his insomnia. He wrote a marvellous
body of literature, and it might be thought this labor itself would suffice as an explanation:
that the furnace heat in which the conceptions of Hamlet and Macbeth and Lear were wrought
in the crucible of his brain would be fatal to repose. But his contemporaries speak of him
as an easy and rapid writer; one whose imagination is only paralleled by the ease, the force
and beauty of the phrase in which it is embodied. We are told, too, by Dr. H.A. Johnson, an
eminent medical authority, in the second volume of his treatise on the pathology of the optic
nerve, that it is not work, even heavy and continuous, but worry over this work, which drives
away repose and shortens life.

I had observed, in collating the many passages in Shakespeare concerning sleep, that the greater
number, and those bearing evidence of deepest earnestness, occurred in six plays: "Richard
III.," "Macbeth," "1 Henry IV.," "Hamlet," "2 Henry IV.," and "Henry V." The chronology of
Shakespeare's plays seems almost hopeless, scarcely any two writers agreeing as to the order
of the plays or the years in which they were written. Several of the most critical authorities,
however,--Dyce, White, Furnival, and Halliwell-Phillipps,--are agreed that two of the plays
above named were written in 1593, three in 1602, and one in 1609. This would seem to indicate
that during these three years unusual perplexities or anxieties had surrounded our author;
and on noting this, it occurred to me that on these points the series of papers recently discovered
and called the Southampton manuscripts, which are not yet published, might give light. I accordingly
addressed a letter to the Director of the British Museum, where the manuscripts are placed
for safe keeping, and received the following reply:--

    BRITISH MUSEUM, OFFICE OF CHIEF CURATOR, DEPARTMENT OF MANUSCRIPTS,
    LONDON, Feb. 14, 1886.

    SIR,--I am directed by the Curator to acknowledge the receipt of
    your valued favor of February 1, transmitting for preservation and
    reference in the library of this institution--

    1. The manuscript of the farewell address of Dr. Charles Gilman
    Smith, on his retirement to private life from the presidency of the
    Chicago Literary Club;

    2. Miss Ronder disappeared into the house. Ronder stood for a moment
    looking about him as though he were a spy in enemy country and must
let nothing escape him.

    
    

    "Whose is that big place there?" he asked Fawcett, pointing to a house
    that stood by itself at the farther corner of the Precincts.
    
    "Archdeacon Brandon's, sir."

    
    
    "Oh!..." Ronder mounted the steps. "Good night," he said to Fawcett.
    "Mrs. Clay, pay the cabman, please."
    
    The Ronders had taken this house a month ago; for two months before that
    it had stood desolate, wisps of paper and straw blowing about it,
    its "To let" notice creaking and screaming in every wind. The Hon.
    Mrs. Pentecoste, an eccentric old lady, had lived there for many
    years, and had died in the middle of a game of patience; her worn and
    tattered furniture had been sold at auction, and the house had remained
    unlet for a considerable period because people in the town said
    that the ghost of Mrs. Pentecoste's cat (a famous blue Persian) walked
    there. The Ronders cared nothing for ghosts; the house was exactly
    what they wanted. It had two panelled rooms, two powder-closets,
    and a little walled garden at the back with fruit trees.
    

    It was quite wonderful what Miss Ronder had done in a month; she had
abandoned Eaton Square for a week, worked in the Polchester house
like a slave, then retired back to Eaton Square again, leaving Mrs.
Clay, her aide-de-camp, to manage the rest.

    Mrs. Clay had managed very well.

    She would not have been in the service of the Ronders for nearly
fifteen years had she not had a gift for managing.... Ronder, washed
and brushed, came down to tea, looked about him, and saw that all
was good.

"I congratulate
you, Aunt Alice," he said-- "excellent!" Miss Ronder very slightly
flushed.

"There are a lot of things still to be done," she said; nevertheless
she was immensely pleased.

The drawing-room was charming.

The stencilled walls, the cushions of the chairs, the cover of a
gate-legged table, the curtains of the mullioned windows were of a
warm dark blue.

And
whatever in the room was not blue seemed to be white, or wood in its natural colour, or polished
brass. Books ran round the room in low white book-cases. In one corner a pure white Hermes stood
on a pedestal with tiny wings outspread. There was only one picture,
an excellent copy of "Rembrandt's mother."

    The windows looked out to the garden, now veiled by the dusk of evening.

    Tea was on a little table close to the white tiled fireplace. A little
square brass clock chimed the half-hour as Ronder came in.

    "I suppose Ellen will be over," Ronder said. He drank in the details of
    the room with a quite sensual pleasure. He went over to the Hermes and lifted
    it, holding it for a moment in his podgy hands. "You beauty!" he whispered
    aloud. He put it back, turned round to his aunt. "Of course
    
    Ellen will be over," he repeated. "Of course," Miss Ronder repeated,
    picking up the old square black lacquer tea-caddy and peering into
it.

He picked up the books on the table-- two novels, Sentimental Tommy,
by J. M. Barrie, and Sir George Tressady, by Mrs. Humphry Ward, Mr.
Swinburne's Tale of Balen, and The Works of Max Beerbohm.

    

    Last of all Leslie Stephen's Social Rights and Duties. He looked
    at them all,
    
    with their light yellow Mudie labels, their
    
    fresh bindings, then, slowly and very carefully, put them back on
    the table.

He always handled books as
though they were human beings. He came and sat down by the fire. "I
won't see over the place until to-morrow," he said. "What have you done
about the other books?" "The book-cases are in. It's the best room
in the house.

Looks over the river and gets most of the light.
The books are as you packed them. I haven't dared touch them.

    To this we rejoin, that by the law of estoppel you are precluded to
    deny the consideration after the bill hath passed into the holding
    of a discounter unnotified of the facts.

    Second, That, as our client paid but £1 for the bill, he should not
    exact £10 thereon. To the which we reply, that, so a valuable
    consideration was passed for the bill, the law looketh not to its
    exact amount. It is also asserted by our client that, beyond actual
    coin given for the bill, he did further release to John Heminge
    certain tinsel crowns, swords, and apparel appurtenant to the
    representation of royalty, which had before then--to wit, two weeks
    before--been pledged to him for the sum of 8 shillings, borrowed by
    the said Heminge.

    Third, That it was impossible for you to pay the bill, you having no
    money, and receiving no greater income than 22 shillings per week,
    all of which was necessary to the maintenance of yourself and
    family. We regret again to call to your notice the Statute of 16
    Eliz., entitled, "Concerning the Imprisonment of Insolvent Debtors,"
    which we trust you will not oblige us to invoke in aid of our
    suffering client's rights. To be lenient and merciful is his
    inclination, and we are happy to communicate to you this most
    favorable tender for an acquittance of his claim. You shall render
    to us an order on the Steward of the Globe Theatre for 20 shillings
    per week of your stipend therein. This will leave to you yet 2
    shillings per week, which, with prudence, will yield to you the
    comforts, if not the luxuries, of subsistence. In ten weeks the face
    of the bill will be thus repaid. For his forbearance in the matter
    of time, which hath most seriously inconvenienced him, he requires
    that you shall pay him the further sum of £2 as usury, and likewise
    that you do liquidate and save him harmless from the charges of us,
    his solicitors, which charges, from the number of grave and
    complicated questions which have become a part of this case and
    demanded solution, we are unable to make less than £4. We should say
    guineas, but your evident distress hath moved us to gentleness and
    mercy. These added sums are to be likewise embraced in the Steward's
    order, and paid at the same rate as the substance of the bill, and
    should you embrace this compassionate tender, in the brief period of
    sixteen weeks you will be at the end of this indebtedness.

The next letter is dated the following month, and is from Henry Howard, an apparent pawnbroker.

    QUEER STREET, LONDON, 10 March, 1593.

    To WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, Actor:

    These presents are to warn you that the time has six days since
    passed in which you were to repay me 8 shillings, and thereby
    redeem the property in pledge to me; namely, one Henry VIII. shirt
    of mail and visor, and Portia's law book, and the green bag
    therefor. Be warned that unless the 8 shillings and the usance
    thereof be forthcoming, the town-crier shall notify the sale of the
    sundry articles named.

The next letter, and the last in this period of the poet's career (1593), is from Mordecai Shylock.

    FLEET STREET, NEAR THE SIGN OF THE HOG IN ARMOR, NOV. 22, 1593.

    To WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    I have been active in the way you some days since besought me;
    namely, the procuring for you of a loan of £5, that you might retire
    a bill upon which you were a guarantor. As I then told you, I have
    no money myself, being very poor; but I have a friend who has money
    with which I can persuade him to relieve your wants. Had I myself
    the money, I should gladly meet your needs at a moderate usance, not
    more than twenty-five in the hundred; but my friend is a hard man,
    who exacts large returns for his means, and will be very urgent that
    repayment be made on the day named in the bill. He hath empowered me
    to take your bill at two months,--for him, mind you,--for £10, the
    payment to be assured, as you wished, by the pledge of your two new
    plays in manuscript,--"Midsummer Night's Dream" and "Romeo and
    Juliet,"--for which bill he will at my strong instance, and because
    you are a friend to me, give £5. My charge for services in this
    behalf, which hath consumed much time, will be £1, which I shall
    straightway pay out in the purchase of a new gown, much needed by my
    little daughter Jessica, who loves you and recalls often the
    pleasant tales you do repeat for her diversion.

The letters in the second period (1602) are nine years later than those just read. The first
is from the same Mordecai Shylock, who, with the poet, seems to have prospered in worldly affairs,
as his letters are dated in a more reputable portion of the city.

    THREADNEEDLE STREET, LONDON, April 17, 1602.

    To WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    In January last past you purchased of Richard Burbage four shares of
    the stock of the Globe Theatre for £100, and inasmuch as you had not
    available the whole means to pay therefor, borrowed from me the £60
    wanting, paying yourself £40 of such purchase price, and giving me
    in pledge for my £60 such four shares of stock. Owing to special
    attractions at Blackfriars' Theatre, the stock of the Globe hath
    greatly declined in value, and I fear these four shares may not
    longer be salable at the price of even £60, and I therefore must
    importune that you forthwith do make a payment of £20 on your said
    bill, or the four shares of stock will be sold at public vendue.

The next letter is from the same writer, and is dated nine days later.

    THREADNEEDLE STREET, April 26, 1602.

    To WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    I acknowledge to have received from you by the hand of Henry Condell
    £5, and two of your own shares in the stock of the Globe Theatre in
    further pledge of your bill of £60, as was engaged between us
    yesterday. It pains me to make known to you that, owing to the great
    demands recently made upon the goldsmiths by her sacred Majesty,
    money hath become very dear; and as it was not my own lent you, I
    have been obliged to pay above the usance expected a further premium
    of seventeen in the hundred, which I pray you to presently repay
    me. I am told that shares in the Globe can now be bought at £15;
    and inasmuch as yours were bought at £25, should you acquire other
    shares at £15, it would serve to equate your havings.

The next letter, from the same broker, is written but a few days later.

    THREADNEEDLE STREET, May 12, 1602.

    To WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    Acting as requested by you, I did one week ago buy for you three
    shares in the Globe Theatre for £15 each, using in such purchase the
    £15 given me by you, and £30, not of mine own, but which was
    furnished me by a goldsmith of repute. Yesterday I learned that
    shares were offered at £10 each, perchance from the efforts of
    forestallers, as also from the preaching of a dissenter, who
    fulminates that the end of the world is but three weeks away, which
    hath induced great seriousness among the people. Unless you can pay
    me, therefore, as much as £40, on the morrow I shall be constrained
    to offer such shares to the highest bidder at the meeting of the
    guild.

The next letter is also from the same Mordecai Shylock, and is dated four days later.

    THREADNEEDLE STREET, May 16, 1602.

    To WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    My earnest epistle to thee of four days since having elicited no
    response, I did on the following day offer at the meeting of the
    Brokers' Guild some of the shares of the stock in the Globe pledged
    to me, and three shares were bidden at £9 each by my brother,
    Nehemiah Shylock. As I offered next all the rest, one Henry
    Wriothsley, Earl of Southampton, did ask to whom the shares
    belonged, and when he was enlightened, did straightway take all the
    shares and pay me the whole balance owing, and called me divers
    opprobrious names. I answered not his railing with railing, for
    sufferance is the badge of all our tribe, but such slander is illy
    bestowed on one who has been your friend for long, and who was but
    striving to avert his own destruction.

The next letter in order is from one William Kempe, who would seem to be the business manager
of the Globe Theatre, or the person having in charge the unskilled labor connected with the
playhouse.

    GLOBE PLAYHOUSE, EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, May 25, 1602.

    WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    In much tribulation do I write thee as to the contention which hath
    arisen among our stock actors and supes of the Globe. Nicholas
    Bottom, whom you brought from the Parish workhouse in Stratford, is
    in ill humor with thee in especial. He says when he played with you
    in Ben Jonson's comedy, "Every Man in his Humor," he was by far the
    better actor and did receive the plaudits of all; despite which he
    now receives but 6 shillings each week, while you are become a man
    of great wealth, having gotten, as he verily believes, as much as
    £100. Vainly did I oppose to him that the reason you had money when
    he had none was in verity that you had labored when he was drunken,
    and that this was to his profit, since, had not you and the other
    holders of shares in the Globe saved somewhat of money, unthrifty
    groundlings of his ilk would starve, as there would be none to hire
    them at wages; but he avers that he is ground in the dust by the
    greed of capital, and hath so much prated of this that he hath much
    following, and accounteth himself a martyr. I said to him that at
    your especial order he was paid 6 shillings per week, which was
    double his worth, and that he should go elsewhere if he was not
    content, as I could daily get a better man for half his wages; but
    he will not go hence, nor will he perform, and has persuaded others
    to join with him, his very worthlessness having made him their
    leader, and they threaten, unless they may receive additional 4
    shillings per week, and a groat each night for sack, they will have
    no plays performed, nor will they allow others to be hired in their
    stead. They do further demand that you shall write shorter plays;
    that you shall write no tragedies requiring them to labor more than
    three hours in the rendition; that you shall cut out as much as
    twelve pages each in "Richard III." and "Othello," and fifteen pages
    from "Hamlet," that they may not labor to weariness, and may have
    more hours to recreation and improvement at the alehouse. I know not
    what to do. If I yield them their demands, nothing will be left for
    the owners of shares in the Globe; and if I do not, I fear mobs and
    riots. Fain would I receive thy counsel, which shall have good
    heed.

The next letter is the last in the period under review, and bears date four days later than
the one just quoted from William Kempe.

    AT THE ELEPHANT & MAGPIE INN, LONDON, May 29, 1602.

    TO WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    This is written to thee by John Lely, a clerk, in behalf of Nicholas
    Bottom, who useth not the pen, and who says to me to tell William
    Shakespeare, fie upon him that he did order the aforesaid Bottom to
    be locked out of the Globe Playhouse. Hath he forgotten the first
    play he, William Shakespeare, did ever write, to wit, "Pyramus and
    Thisbe," when a boy at Stratford, which was played by himself and
    Nicholas Bottom and Peter Quince and others, in a barn, for the
    delectation of the townsmen? "Oh, but you don't know. It will be terrible
    for his father. He's the proudest man in England. Some people call
    it conceit, but, however that may be, he thinks there's nothing like
    his family. Even poor Mrs. Brandon he's proud of when she isn't there.
    It will be awful for him that every one should know."
    
    Ronder said nothing.
    
    "You know," said Miss Stiles, who felt that her news had fallen flat,
    "you'll have to fight him or give in to him. There's no other way here.
    I hope you'll fight him."
    
    "I?" said Ronder. "Why, I never fight anybody. I'm much too lazy."

"Then
    you'll never be comfortable here, that's all. He can't bear being
    crossed. He must have his way about everything. If the Bishop weren't
    so old and the Dean so stupid.... What we want here is a little life
    in the place."

    

"You needn't look to us for that, Ellen," said Ronder. "We've come
here to rest----"

    "Peace, perfect peace...."

    

    
    "I don't believe you," said Miss Stiles, tossing her head. "I'd
    be disappointed to think it of you."
    
    Alice Ronder gave her nephew a curious look, half of amusement, half
    of expectation.
    
    "It's quite true, Ellen," she said. "Now, if you've finished your tea,
    come and look at the rest of the house."

    
    
    Chapter III One of Joan's Days I find it difficult now to realise
how apart from the life of the world Polchester was in those days.
    

    Even now, when the
    
    War has shaken up and jostled together every small village in Great
    Britain, Polchester still has some shreds of its isolation left to
it; but then-- why, it might have been a walled-in fortress of mediaeval
times, for all its connection with the outside world!

    This isolation was quite deliberately maintained. I don't mean,
    of course, that Mrs. Combermere and Brandon and old Bentinck-Major
    and Mrs. Sampson said to themselves in so many words, "We will keep
    this to ourselves and defend its walls against every new invader,
    every new idea, new custom, new impulse.

    
    
    We will all be butchered rather than allow one old form, tradition, superstition
    to go!" It was not as conscious as that, but in effect it was that
    that it came to. And they were wonderfully assisted by circumstances.
It is true that the main line ran through Polchester from Drymouth,
but its travellers were hurrying south, and only a few trippers,
a few Americans, a few sentimentalists stayed to see the Cathedral;
and those who stayed found "The Bull" an impossibly inconvenient and
uncomfortable hostelry and did not come again.

    It is true that even then, in 1897, there were many agitations by sharp
    business men like Crosbie and John Allen, Croppet and Fred Barnstaple,
    to make the place more widely known, more commercially attractive.
    It was not until later that the golf course was laid out and the St.
    Leath Hotel rose on Pol Hill. But other things were tried-- steamers
    on the Pol, char-a-bancs to various places of local interest, and so
    on-- but, at this time, all these efforts failed. The Cathedral was
    too strong for them, above all Brandon and Mrs. Combermere were too
strong for them.

Nothing was done to encourage strangers; I shouldn't wonder if Mrs.
Combermere didn't pay old Jolliffe of "The Bull" so much a year to keep his
hotel inconvenient and insanitary.

    The men on the Town Council were for the most part like the Canons,
aged and conservative.

    It is true that it was in 1897 that Barnstaple was elected Mayor,
but without Ronder I doubt whether even he would have been able to
do very much.

    The town then revolved, so to speak, entirely on its own axis; it
    revolved between the two great events of the year, the summer Polchester
    Fair, the winter County Ball, and those two great affairs were
    conducted, in every detail and particular, as they had been conducted
    a hundred years before. I find it strange, writing from the angle
    of to-day, to conceive it possible that so short a time ago anything in
    England could have been so conservative. I myself was only thirteen years
    of age when Ronder came to our town, and saw
    all grown figures with the exaggerated colour and romance that local
inquisitive age bestows. About my own contemporaries, young Jeremy Cole
for instance, there was no colour at all, but the older figures were strange--
gigantic, almost mythological. Mrs. Combermere, the Dean, the Archdeacon,
Mrs. Sampson, Canon Ronder, moved about the town, to my young eyes,
like gods and goddesses, and it was not until after my return to Polchester
at the end of my first Cambridge year that I saw clearly how small
a town it was and how tiny the figures in it. But yesterday, as she was
    bargaining with a yeoman named Christopher Sly, from Stratford, for
    the purchase of a spotted pig of his own fattening, the said Sly did
    reveal to her that you were his friend, and that you had wife and
    children in your native town where he dwelt. We beg you to
    straightway name to us your solicitors, that we may confer with them
    and attend to the issuance of the writs.

I have aimed to select from the letters sent me only those bearing on some trouble tending
to cause sleeplessness on the part of the poet, but make an exception in case of a letter of
Sir Walter Raleigh, next in chronological order, which refers to matters of general interest.

    The Mermaid, March 20, 1609.

    To WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    Full well do I know, my dearest Will, that often hast thou wondered
    of the fate of thy £50, which, with a hundred times as much of mine
    own, was adventured to found an empire in America. Great were our
    hopes, both of glory and of gold, in the kingdom of Powhatan. But it
    grieves me much to say that all hath resulted in infelicity,
    misfortune, and an unhappy end. Our ships were wrecked, or captured
    by the knavish Spaniards. Our brave sailors are perished. As I was
    blameworthy for thy risk, I send by the messenger your £50, which
    you shall not lose by my over-hopeful vision. For its usance I send
    a package of a new herb from the Chesapeake, called by the natives
    tobacco. Make it not into tea, as did one of my kinsmen, but kindle
    and smoke it in the little tube the messenger will bestow. Be not
    deterred if thy gorge at first rises against it, for, when thou art
    wonted, it is a balm for all sorrows and griefs, and as a dream of
    Paradise. And now, my sweet Will, whom my soul loveth, why comest
    thou not as of yore to the "Mermaid," that I may have speech with
    thee? Thou knowest that from my youth up I have adventured all for
    the welfare and glory of our Queen Elizabeth. On sea and on land and
    in many climes have I fought the accursed Spaniards, and am honored
    recognize thy supreme merit, for daily and hourly are sung to her
    the praises of this loveliness until the story is as a tale that is
    told and a weariness to the understanding; but thy commendations of
    her wisdom will be as fresh and fragrant incense, nor will their
    truthfulness be too closely scanned.

    Thou knowest that I have taken all knowledge to be my province, and
    therefore have I oft and longingly gazed into the flowery fields of
    that divine art where to-day in our much-loved England thou art
    disporting thyself supremely and alone. But when I consider thy
    tragedies, throughout which is diffused the inmost soul of poesy, my
    crude yet labored metres seem to me as the body of a maiden, not
    indeed devoid of a certain comeliness and grace, yet into whose
    waiting bosom hath not yet been breathed the spirit of life.

    In thy tragedies thou hast the majestic grace which in the Attic
    ages belonged to Sophocles alone; thou hast the stately march and
    music of Aeschylus, without in thy themes his ceaseless iteration
    of predestined woe which ranks his heroes outside humanity; yet the
    sombre hand of fate hath not more inflexibly driven the gentle
    Iphigenia to her doom than it hath followed Macbeth to his
    foreshadowed crime and end. But in thy canticles it is not an
    o'ershadowing, mysterious, and tragic fate, but a gracious and
    loving Providence which, as thyself hath phrased it,

      "Holds in His hands the shears of destiny,
       And has commandment on the pulse of life."

    In comedy, Aristophanes is not thy master, yet must I greatly choose
    thy tragedies as monuments of thy abiding fame. Funeral dolors
    rather than bridal carols inspire even the harp of David, beloved of
    the Lord; and the pencil of the Holy Ghost toucheth ever the
    shadowed phases of our earthly lives.

    I am minded to now advert to another topic from the tale told me by
    Southampton that thou wert presently to publish a volume of thy
    sugared sonnets. May I pray thee that this collection compass not
    the two sonnets written by thee for me in laud of our Queen
    Elizabeth, and the one of this morning? As thou knowest, these first
    were presented to our gracious Sovereign as mine own, and did so
    pleasure her as to chiefly prosper my advancement. Were the true
    author now known it might sadly mar my fortunes. In the vastness of
    thy riches, the absence of these gems shall not be noted. The loss
    of a star dims not the splendor of the constellations. The glorious
    sun seeks not to reclaim the lustre his rays have given to the tiny
    dewdrop. Withal I have rendered to thee somewhat of recompense as I
    have spoken at sundry times to her gracious Majesty and to our
    present anointed Sovereign of thy dramas, and fostered as best I
    might thy interests when they crossed not mine own. So I trust this
    boon may be awarded me, and that my borrowed splendors may not be
    stripped away. Thy immeasurable superiority, as again evidenced in
    the sonnet to the Lady Mary, has fixed anew my resolve as to my
    predestined field of labor. Not for my brow shall be woven the
    Poet's garland of bays. Yet abundant self-confidence is mine, and I
    augur that in the great work for which I would fain believe the ages
    are waiting, will be made clear my award to be the high priest of
    Nature. Exact sciences not yet born shall be my servitors and the
    augmenters of my fame. By the methods I have discerned shall mankind
    discover and apply those beneficent innovations which are the
    chiefest births of time. Yet even this hope hath its flavor of
    bitterness, as thus guided my pupils may far overpass me and my
    memory be lost. But the love of beauty and melody in poesy is of
    perennial life, and thy memory shall survive the mutations of time,
    and shall be the Nation's heritage while fancy and imagination dwell
    in the souls of men.

    Anew do I now discern that the meditation of Nature and her laws,
    mysterious yet exact, consorteth not with the airy fancies of the
    Poet's vision, and that our paths are diverse, yet each guiding to
    what is useful and divine.

    Farewell! and until the dolors of death are mine shall I remember
    thy sweet, loving kindness, and admire thy shining genius where wit
    and wisdom guide the flight of a sovereign imagination.

    Ever thy friend, FRANCIS BACON.

One special point is notable in this letter from Bacon. His ordinary correspondence is thickly
sprinkled with quotations in the ancient tongues. As he was well acquainted with Shakespeare,
this omission of his customary Latin phrases would indicate that he recognized Shakespeare's
lack of a thorough classical education.

The next, and the last letter in the collection which seems to have a bearing upon the sleeplessness
of Shakespeare, is also from Rev. Walter Blaise.

    STRATFORD, April 3, 1609.

    TO WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE:

    Sir Thomas Lucy, who is in her Majesty's commission as a Justice of
    the Peace in this bailiwick, yesterday did inform me that he had
    been questioned from London if you were a married man, and if yes,
    when and to whom you were wedded. As the parish records are in my
    keeping, I could but bestow the information sought, although with
    great sinking of heart, as a well-wisher to you, who, though given
    overmuch to worldly frivolities and revels, yet are a worthy
    citizen, and a charitable and a just. Greatly did I fear this
    knowledge was sought to thy injury. Hast thou led a blameless life,
    the gates of hell shall not prevail against thee; but the wicked
    stand on slippery ways. Anne, thy wife, to whom I did unbosom my
    fears, is in much tribulation lest thou art unfaithful to thy
    marriage vows, and again beseeches me to urge thee to come forth
    from wicked Babylon and dwell in thy pleasant home in Stratford.
    Thou art become a man of substance; and hast moneys at usury. I have
    read of thy verses and plays, which, albeit somewhat given to
    lewdness, and addressed to gain the favor of the baser sort, yet
    reveal thee to be a man of understanding. I cannot, as it is rumored
    do some of thy town associates, award thee the title of poet, which
    title is reserved for the shining ones; but thou hast parts. There
    are many parish clerks, and even some curates in this realm,
    scarcely more liberally endowed in mind than thou. But greatly do I
    fear that thou art little better than one of the wicked. How hast
    thou put to use this talent entrusted thee by the Master of the
    vineyard? In the maintenance of the things which profit not; in
    seeking the applause of the unworthy; in the writing of vain plays,
    which, if of the follies of youth, may be forgiven and remembered
    not against thee, provided in riper years you put behind you these
    frivolities, and atone for the mischief thou hast wrought by
    rendering acceptable service to the Master; by coming to the help of
    the Lord against the mighty. Gladly would I take thy training in
    charge, and guide thy tottering feet along the flowery paths of
    Homiletics. Who knoweth into what vessels the All-seeing One may
    elect to pour his spirit? Perchance in mercy I may be spared to
    behold thee a faithful though humble preacher of the Word. Anne, thy
    wife, often hath likened me to a great light upon a high hill-top,
    shining in the darkness far away. I would not magnify my powers, but
    not to all is it given to be mighty captains of a host. Yet,
    according to thy gifts might thy work be, and a little candle
    shining in a darkened valley hath its place.

In the light of these letters, some passages in "Richard III." and the "Comedy of Errors,"
written in the same year (1609), have an added significance. In "Richard III.," Gloster says
to Anne:--

  "Your beauty was the cause of that effect:
  Your beauty, that did haunt me in my sleep,
  To undertake the death of all the world,
  So I might live one hour in thy sweet bosom."

In the "Comedy of Errors," the Abbess says to Adriana:--

  "The venom clamors of a jealous woman
  Poison more deadly than a mud dog's tooth.
  It seems his sleep was hindered by thy railing.

         *       *       *       *       *

  In food, in sport, and life-preserving rest
  To be disturbed, would mad or man or beast.
  The consequence is, then, thy jealous fits
  Have scared thy husband from the use of wits." 

It was only by a chance that he had gathered a fair white lily instead
of a desert poppy.

  

Max would have liked to break the mirror, but, instead, he saw that
it was safely hung on one of the tent-hooks and supported by a brightly
painted Moorish chest. They illustrate anew
that history repeats itself forever; that humanity is always the same; that like temptations
and errors come to men with like results in all the centuries; that the sleeplessness of Shakespeare
came, because, merely as a matter of form, he had indorsed for a friend,--because he had bought
more stocks than he could pay for, and when his margins were absorbed, came forth a shorn and
shivering lamb,--because of the turbulence of labor,--because, alas! he too had been dazzled
and bewildered by

  "The light that lies
  In woman's eyes."

Marvellous as were the endowments of the master, yet was he human and as one of us.

CHICAGO, 1886.

