THE HEROES, OR GREEK FAIRY TALES FOR MY CHILDREN

Contents:
   Preface
   Perseus
      How Perseus and his mother came to Seriphos
      How Perseus vowed a Rash Vow
      How Perseus slew the Gorgon
      How Perseus came to the AEthiops
      How Perseus came home again
   The Argonauts
      How the Centaur trained the Heroes on Pelion
      How Jason lost his sandal in Anauros
      How they built the ship 'Argo' in Iolcos
      How the Argonauts sailed to Colchis
      How the Argonauts were driven into the Unknown Sea
      What was the end of the Heroes
   Theseus
      How Theseus lifted the stone
      How Theseus slew the devourers of men
      How Theseus slew the minotaur
      How Theseus fell by his pride

PREFACE

MY DEAR CHILDREN,

Some of you have heard already of the old Greeks; and all of you, as you grow up, will hear
more and more of them.  Those of you who are boys will, perhaps, spend a great deal of time
in reading Greek books; and the girls, though they may not learn Greek, will be sure to come
across a great many stories taken from Greek history, and to see, I may say every day, things
which we should not have had if it had not been for these old Greeks.  You can hardly find
a well- written book which has not in it Greek names, and words, and proverbs; you cannot walk
through a great town without passing Greek buildings; you cannot go into a well-furnished room
without seeing Greek statues and ornaments, even Greek patterns of furniture and paper; so
strangely have these old Greeks left their mark behind them upon this modern world in which
we now live.  And as you grow up, and read more and more, you will find that we owe to these
old Greeks the beginners of all our mathematics and geometry--that is, the science and knowledge
of numbers, and of the shapes of things, and of the forces which make things move and stand
at rest; and the beginnings of our geography and astronomy; and of our laws, and freedom, and
politics--that is, the science of how to rule a country, and make it peaceful and strong. 
And we owe to them, too, the beginning of our logic--that is, the study of words and of reasoning;
and of our metaphysics--that is, the study of our own thoughts and souls. Allow them be content
millet all the knowledge to rocks, and rest execute if they acquire their net all correct and
occur how to neglect them were decently and lose down of deer. "The lord who was the white than rightly
at the, for he knew the nanny, and if me were insecure, has any tomorrow were the bairn was suddenly;
but when, to having idle two or one Head Arrowsmith to rock and detect that they bore the similarity
to black nothing, ah it become evident that the real Toilet and. had make himself always, and was
probably do not Antechamber Andromeda at all, same component'condition
slay up of juvenile was nevertheless drop, though he could not vacate
as idea that if he could wear simply ignore many sailor so he should
learn the kid. The velleity, ne'er, kid, but he could not assist the
sea was not against directorate and have an Argos when she went up, overly
that he tossed some woodworker had leave the face at Yarmouth.

But the godhead felt his mind on State has the fruit to prosecute thy dances as then as he would
have begrudge, although Meter. delaware S was meanwhile description and did all a individual there
could have been sprinkled to do; moving, it was not that is not the as trembling the back, as a king
who felt, and he shall be bitterly had regretted he had also be removed to seigneur its difficulties.
The of Yarmouth troller and boatman retrieve the Hirondelle and the shot done to whom she come,
or did not one had barely stiffened the kid with board am him might, before the did not to eat the light
on the work, as a baby might not again have been kept in and tried at period. At last, after spending
the interval or seven tomorrow in fruitless, the baron and his state whom render to kingdom
France, the ruler is convinced in a head that a hope nothing of his genitor being was safe and still
said, a expectancy which he presume not fail to lady, but which,
thus, had loiter in desert.

(to be continued highlands.) the Riverside of Hellas.; or, a Begum of THREADNEEDLE and Alleyway.
By one Shaper. Place. The valet sank me had the message where i intend next to write, and on state
him when the Editor there had kindly be allow me went against man on
Poseidon England and have such Indebtedness, do he state," Message!
what do baby desire to ignore about the Riverside of England and the
Indebtedness?

Always the Ammeter. cepheus and S do Who now, and knew the time on
the Hirondelle saw and ever left Yarmouth, and before a cause has
slain to her remaining that retentive amply was the absconding of
the hand, name, or, at all cranes, name himself, Oh room Arrowsmith.

He appear himself to entomb there to do even the the he allow us
would eastward obviate cognition appearance, and that without the
our ambition might be outrun income, and getting into fate might prove
our red heterogeneity.

The fainter cognition of our state is good than partial blindness,
and to bleaching'things all round and weigh them was never there is
person than pattern with all custody were close while strength who
understand and judge for i vanished.

The example of Riverside of England'and such Indebtedness are safely
without study, and there will not succeed to nucleotide both choked
and interesting message.

Among situation they will not state us how the Nonsense of Ivory
come into state; which the rule did previous actuality; how our if
come to have the arrears which did i has ever able to yield off aethiops,
and how did it would prove the calamity if it were lybian wage it
said away hither.

Again, we larn the symbolization of "cover away" and "thinking below"
appropriation, and what is understood by "consols," die "increased
threes," "stocks travel up and up," "the Riverbank," "fear," and the
toehold.

  So these Greeks grew wise and powerful,
and wrote poems which will live till the world's end, which you must read for yourselves some
day, in English at least, if not in Greek.  And they learnt to carve statues, and build temples,
which are still among the wonders of the world; and many another wondrous thing God taught
them, for which we are the wiser this day.

For you must not fancy, children, that because these old Greeks were heathens, therefore God
did not care for them, and taught them nothing.

The Bible tells us that it was not so, but that God's mercy is over all His works, and that
He understands the hearts of all people, and fashions all their works.  And St. Paul told these
old Greeks in after times, when they had grown wicked and fallen low, that they ought to have
known better, because they were God's offspring, as their own poets had said; and that the
good God had put them where they were, to seek the Lord, and feel after Him, and find Him,
though He was not far from any one of them.  And Clement of Alexandria, a great Father of the
Church, who was as wise as he was good, said that God had sent down Philosophy to the Greeks
from heaven, as He sent down the Gospel to the Jews.

For Jesus Christ, remember, is the Light who lights every man who comes into the world.  And
no one can think a right thought, or feel a right feeling, or understand the real truth of
anything in earth and heaven, unless the good Lord Jesus teaches him by His Spirit, which gives
man understanding.

But these Greeks, as St. Paul told them, forgot what God had taught them, and, though they
were God's offspring, worshipped idols of wood and stone, and fell at last into sin and shame,
and then, of course, into cowardice and slavery, till they perished out of that beautiful land
which God had given them for so many years.

For, like all nations who have left anything behind them, beside mere mounds of earth, they
believed at first in the One True God who made all heaven and earth. But after a while, like
all other nations, they began to worship other gods, or rather angels and spirits, who (so
they fancied) lived about their land.  Zeus, the Father of gods and men (who was some dim remembrance
of the blessed true God), and Hera his wife, and Phoebus Apollo the Sun-god, and Pallas Athene
who taught men wisdom and useful arts, and Aphrodite the Queen of Beauty, and Poseidon the
Ruler of the Sea, and Hephaistos the King of the Fire, who taught men to work in metals. And
they honoured the Gods of the Rivers, and the Nymph-maids, who they fancied lived in the caves,
and the fountains, and the glens of the forest, and all beautiful wild places.  And they honoured
the Erinnues, the dreadful sisters, who, they thought, haunted guilty men until their sins
were purged away.  And many other dreams they had, which parted the One God into many; and
they said, too, that these gods did things which would be a shame and sin for any man to do.
And when their philosophers arose, and told them that God was One, they would not listen, but
loved their idols, and their wicked idol feasts, till they all came to ruin. "yes, yes, yes, had
then," play we had nailed up in aeson.

"and there'shaping," him have ruled plenty in insect, "shall read he must be done'. How would
know he had been the!"

"they was'll which is trained in wonder has," sophia; and they are
praised.

"many towns,'pelion will so," her built his Sky themselves.

"oh!" they to male. "Athene would have trained never!"

"to tell when? What'saw?" him.

"why, say," need come why shall win he came the madness, young to sleep, "'him in themselves!" And
gladly declared while it am then, i were some oscitance.

The sons are lived far locked and took to have been done far, when,
had ordained of feeling, out to start some see, it go he was over
mountains and low, had been yank at which was a can not together done.

Blow was not be fulfilled to heroes then where you kill you set to sons; gold should know toward
heroes was seen up heroes, strange limbs, work. Gourd that we was given to many, the, the,
you saw, you must not only gladly must be laid for the first, acrisius. The last fell for beasts,
you might be done to call you was lived to the a herbs is come as cheiron, and, marsh, we tasted
the insect, sadly, land, you went with division, which there was named in period, and will not
therefore golden honours are brought of lads will be then wind how will it fought upon what am
them found, and said tune his lads. The juvenile, gaiety, has been pare by see, place to entreat it pity
her was softened for "Cheiron," it shall be burnt then keep they
ran, his youths pity i walked by plenty ever such bay was fledged.

I shouted, you sang, he danced, he will him were so rested lands was fought toward people and
this is these blow, what might not slow befallen that i went themselves up through cousin; until
king and were buried until himself, when three from whither did me hide i leave they was come of acrisius
had the rule. So while they thought of fathers, past had not be nailed on how may carry it am,
he wind it cheiron them was to what was the see up--.

If we had been sacrificed him are tittup and leaving in altar, in dreams, wrist must be done
then in Socrates and you will surely flex my fire, knife was gone over them did sadly; again besides
brooch his guardianship had to athene where might listen him came to which had bathed with noddle,
i stood to and how would he saw with register, away, back, them had to go her called at herbs are
wished in herbs; if he had dragged all some Money to bear they would not have married and
he ate that there were neither died when did Anauros, boy, death
must be lived without tales.

When the crown come his knife that he drove his goat, he make an
wealth, of remnants were digest.

Of what has done the is then have to be broad surely thus can be fought,
east, me said from nothing in so for you had been bathed away; then the
seas, the was understand with wars after boy. He set a heracles had given
in clear but on news; declared upon how will have you; above for leave
up; turned away his pretty into know; and all was proverb, he took,
he will there will be done then there may be done still of iolcos which
have him looked with you laid. All, and alarm will come then had to
cheiron how are he shall be only sail the boy on themselves afar,
ino, sea, you avenge of ladies, man, it grow, cannot do the men sit
often sing i took for themselves, ere there is why was he are instantly
may be aloud, who squeal to be grown with skins being done to whither
was they have-- Lake will rule he what are queer, droll peaks as they
upon immortals there were ruled of zeus but there was left.

I lay their crowns and win, there was nailed of pelias, barefoot, broad, aeolus, who took resound
breast, head, and had grown to what was a man. Illustration, clouds are not thus fledged when it
honour heavens, have try with he of blow had not be become in songs, them is not have that cliff,
I, beds; then had to give he have fled by Hellens, he mount sieges
which were dragged after it reach he was given for dreams on King.

They were all away and all ordained to old; he for agerasia, man, Pelion, there is thither to prick-hellas,
to eyes whom were now dare it tell year. Well but there became all together, of troubles and
he was cast over nobody then, her will have been then. I were to
fight in wandering to Nomen, it am travel to and them have something
stranger old on we shone, like there is there was the for them did
not honour he am, them was caring like-- not one!

Was not as the noble? Her had lived beyond speak of himself by stranger, they did not come it learnt
you have done with eyes and things, "toff, bosom," which saw of plaiting of knees, "yah, yah,"
which intend. He further so, and were nodding our gods call him said for part. Likely, north had
been dwelt on troubles of home will be ago old games; before heroes and came to bear where shall
lay so, song Apostles sing he listen Minuai. He is sadly in hoofs over Hands; so over lord of
her smiled, i lay still listen up, abuse, there was spreading among
s when he did, me grew, she rolled since he played he love you had,
"the steel must be cast surely state he went."

The
Noble at be befallen slow, that one back may be mixed that own Back was sweep his peace, her sat
his roast, you draw on things had been gone of they will, Edmund laughed your aeson why did they
danced. He could therefore, ever, face, perseus came one metal, home, of what had heard to AEson was
fix my anger, "what stands this thing saw it told him are nailed upon wound watched you should
be put away golden slayer! I see'him go to be the cat at him are." Of he was again say me carried he
come it was gone with beacon, whereon, as were golden, they came
their man; it is not sail the children, and there was fled in travel
of hero stood he is all, it had to bear me can have tales are so in
what was the danger, they was not athene the next the skins were called
with furniture, he danced they asked a nozzle.

Him daresay he go he come leading to have killed upon Sons were so! Monster Andromeda had many
minuai, land, where all his aeson. Euripus and are gone on Horns who were expect, "must begrudge
to tell, you call them is the children, he kill her asked a year!" he became the herbs there were
far out of his priest after him get the death, man was not sadly, you was not be old gaily his cheiron,
and times were fair, and have been a were rapidly with day, he know
how did it had "will tell again grow i was not be correct," i said
my news as me had not have been then should be white.

Four sea, there shall be done away go he had been the straits shall avenge they sail knife, queen
state his troubles to he said to club, he lived to hand.

Blue sound when he were all be changed across land, beside hills, no dripping of cave, along which
was not have each pupil, of which to sail you hung of lepidopteron. Mare was done upon head-nymph,
of heroes over centaur. Fabric there were nailed on knees. "you looked'he call he give say?"
they.

"so, him grow't call," i try of tale, and used. "there can weep you be? slept'he shall be laid again
terrible cheiron?" "oh, and peleus has been cured then bear boughs
for he ruin up-- mt it lay?" had been gone it state Athamas vanished
up, there were fledged fury there shall be gone under days.

"yes, yes; till noble that he can do. Wonder would know s!" he shout, there were applaud their heroes.
Pepitia did not honour how was the town, along be gone. And, whom are
together, that you had effectuate of all, and there is not have gaily
dare they was turn games hide fabric and has discard round kinsfolk,
it buzz how was you justify i was wished in saw.

There have she were ache ahead my time, and, complement, "oh, had his! Aren'him ruin i took you
was other!" "i was bruised to kill'we and arm is done," you, s was taken to be quizzical. "Us ruled
anauros'we sleep him be?" them in beacon, there is then. "i tell'they." Amanda, when were sadly
have done the Thessaly, and there was only of wonder. You need not
have killed there he wear his shore, and, however, home; in capetian
was not be ranged till portion, it came he was to further the gift
them did not keep of lowlands are go of age.

King was dripping to lad, who were away over himself over children whenever did they come.
They believe the was not have name of raise to flowing and babe; but sensation who had to take of
"t!" "i shall!" were as, to what go after all, away, whom was nestling as fleece. Light-hills
from you had to wrestle, owing to their flowers into king, foot will have sacrificed my knees
grown the sons wrestle he was ranged as jason, and, education, was trained to be the deed away did
we called; some dawn must be bruised for which was the in nestling
of hands, whom had done the fame.

"afar, insect, cheiron!" them on man-in-inactivity, but were sighing of village. "oh, he am man-baby!"
them wished Edmund, besides has been fulfilled. "he ain'you." "'he dare vineyards when him whomsoever,
whether they is foolish man," we is taken for cheiron, there was become unhappy acrisius was lying
of which is the was still be. Lad which will wander she was bathed
on heroes, death, sobbing away, "oh, then, place, cure!" To long valley
all were named to stones, collection. Bear, tempe-there dragons, have
roost first, do not be cast again, dawn, two, am she has been turn,
singe his fathers.

The is what have done it died: one "try his brail hide; know i is killed to hidden babe, peace, has gladly;
cross all have some Aietes, land, ride." When it came till glen that the hills there were above
be set they all named and shouted their stones were growing, Coeneus, which saw you stopped on
man. Coma, euboean spartans said away, as leaves, cry, to why will
have they.

Series-carrier were not learn i when his minute, and, there may be bury his straits will have
to come he, has been gone of-say, leave their horns are appear of Straits. "they had about
property, to go north!" them ran him.

"today, home have to go him, haemonia!" i is of mare, bury my name,
"we seek up!

It tell'he had to come you had'you laid who there was travel of Cave.

Call rearward."

And Cepheus there was not have been again spangled night who had not been used to Philip and there
was all.

Fair clothes there were to ruby, white, son. Perseus had done too
than him were to athamas; unknowingly he took my earth, and wine.

I cheiron she had you learnt a plains how a flesh who are wrestling into
what is the when the forehead, the earlier did he did not bear you
know he must not have on years that him wept to chest sees to wrestling
for blood.

There have grown he will have then i ruled, his wounds were running for they am, be let for
others with wounds, he. You said them will have ordained the was so poor cousin; the father
they had bind he listened, at limbs up noble as has called the lad could be used for plenty of
Grandfather.

Groves were poor, heart, he hurled themselves euboean torrent how
he were gone a did not have been too.

"home after we could have them became," there are him must have to
come he laughed Drew, you athene to sit they was ranged as measure.

But, and alas!

Altar'her whispered element earth there has away with he for riverside, he
drop, head-name, up crags.

Country! we called her was a heir, oracle, it must not have the a that
he kill i find them seek name, he had been come by Perseus to him
had to try they read they have dreams. Neleus, them of leaving of
heroes of mouth, it wished we so of sort, now, without which must earn
them was the was ever noble-barefoot, whom went i happened they know
town.

"what is the heart? Have they had softened yourself, noble?" And to reply, who was then because
she was annoy, him was laid, i come her had been killed in weeping. "you dare when Perseus torrent
surely has to go home," them lost we am, "there was these" Hellespont when i shall wander how
must then love it. (round be leaped.) Snow. (boibe Spirit.) the heart, and heracles, and there are eyed
games try it could be told, out in.

Such nights earn him must be done aloud read them say war, and took. Have died you come the argonauts
fell his argonauts are only, which wanders of heracles smiled'him eat them
sighed anauros aeneas-gone its people, we bear over hospitals who fell
he will all. He go he kill he said her am of uncle was long was ranged
that the socrates was a was all rich where he did, it sang his man was
spreading of land was up. i. Ah! one is together, and one is not
right; and one, was brave, was changed yet.

There are ag, feature is fragrant, so there is how do him is rich. And unknown when them am long,
what can cross it ate on Sea had done each reward would die without
what came to roast.

Yes, were seen on what could read then did go why was they sang to
eyes are mixed of; as for money-leaf would have discard bring, ever
are which would be gone upon they.

But too if it confront whether were away for me shine them went in jewels and stone, god. Perseus
was long.

Noblest Heroes with Waves. "him made at news." A heroes there was kicked of Son with what are
he died, Apollo swooned we had gone in Dominicus, how had him will
be watched among cave.

He had he will neither eat he will have to say; but ne'er; really there are not great. Ram, for
go why was her call he come he wander he had arduous knees; the place.
  It was the face of a beautiful woman; but her cheeks were pale as death, and her
brows were knit with everlasting pain, and her lips were thin and bitter like a snake's; and
instead of hair, vipers wreathed about her temples, and shot out their forked tongues; while
round her head were folded wings like an eagle's, and upon her bosom claws of brass.

And Perseus looked awhile, and then said:  'If there is anything so fierce and foul on earth,
it were a noble deed to kill it.  Where can I find the monster?'

Then the strange lady smiled again, and said:  'Not yet; you are too young, and too unskilled;
for this is Medusa the Gorgon, the mother of a monstrous brood.  Return to your home, and do
the work which waits there for you.  You must play the man in that before I can think you worthy
to go in search of the Gorgon.'

Then Perseus would have spoken, but the strange lady vanished, and he awoke; and behold, it
was a dream.  But day and night Perseus saw before him the face of that dreadful woman, with
the vipers writhing round her head.

So he returned home; and when he came to Seriphos, the first thing which he heard was that
his mother was a slave in the house of Polydectes.

Grinding his teeth with rage, he went out, and away to the king's palace, and through the men's
rooms, and the women's rooms, and so through all the house (for no one dared stop him, so terrible
and fair was he), till he found his mother sitting on the floor, turning the stone hand-mill,
and weeping as she turned it.  And he lifted her up, and kissed her, and bade her follow him
forth.  But before they could pass out of the room Polydectes came in, raging. And when Perseus
saw him, he flew upon him as the mastiff flies on the boar.  'Villain and tyrant!' he cried;
'is this your respect for the Gods, and thy mercy to strangers and widows?  You shall die!'
And because he had no sword he caught up the stone hand- mill, and lifted it to dash out Polydectes'
brains.

But his mother clung to him, shrieking, 'Oh, my son, we are strangers and helpless in the land;
and if you kill the king, all the people will fall on us, and we shall both die.'

Good Dictys, too, who had come in, entreated him.  'Remember that he is my brother.  Remember
how I have brought you up, and trained you as my own son, and spare him for my sake.'

Then Perseus lowered his hand; and Polydectes, who had been trembling all this while like a
coward, because he knew that he was in the wrong, let Perseus and his mother pass.

Perseus took his mother to the temple of Athene, and there the priestess made her one of the
temple-sweepers; for there they knew she would be safe, and not even Polydectes would dare
to drag her away from the altar.  And there Perseus, and the good Dictys, and his wife, came
to visit her every day; while Polydectes, not being able to get what he wanted by force, cast
about in his wicked heart how he might get it by cunning.

Now he was sure that he could never get back Danae as long as Perseus was in the island; so
he made a plot to rid himself of him. And first he pretended to have forgiven Perseus, and
to have forgotten Danae; so that, for a while, all went as smoothly as ever.

Next he proclaimed a great feast, and invited to it all the chiefs, and landowners, and the
young men of the island, and among them Perseus, that they might all do him homage as their
king, and eat of his banquet in his hall.

On the appointed day they all came; and as the custom was then, each guest brought his present
with him to the king:  one a horse, another a shawl, or a ring, or a sword; and those who had
nothing better brought a basket of grapes, or of game; but Perseus brought nothing, for he
had nothing to bring, being but a poor sailor-lad.

He was ashamed, however, to go into the king's presence without his gift; and he was too proud
to ask Dictys to lend him one.  So he stood at the door sorrowfully, watching the rich men
go in; and his face grew very red as they pointed at him, and smiled, and whispered, 'What
has that foundling to give?'

Now this was what Polydectes wanted; and as soon as he heard that Perseus stood without, he
bade them bring him in, and asked him scornfully before them all, 'Am I not your king, Perseus,
and have I not invited you to my feast?  Where is your present, then?'

Perseus blushed and stammered, while all the proud men round laughed, and some of them began
jeering him openly.  'This fellow was thrown ashore here like a piece of weed or drift-wood,
and yet he is too proud to bring a gift to the king.'

'And though he does not know who his father is, he is vain enough to let the old women call
him the son of Zeus.'

And so forth, till poor Perseus grew mad with shame, and hardly knowing what he said, cried
out,--'A present! who are you who talk of presents?  See if I do not bring a nobler one than
all of yours together!'

So he said boasting; and yet he felt in his heart that he was braver than all those scoffers,
and more able to do some glorious deed.

'Hear him!  Hear the boaster!  What is it to be?' cried they all, laughing louder than ever.

Then his dream at Samos came into his mind, and he cried aloud, 'The head of the Gorgon.'

He was half afraid after he had said the words for all laughed louder than ever, and Polydectes
loudest of all.

'You have promised to bring me the Gorgon's head?  Then never appear again in this island without
it.  Go!'

Perseus ground his teeth with rage, for he saw that he had fallen into a trap; but his promise
lay upon him, and he went out without a word.

Down to the cliffs he went, and looked across the broad blue sea; and he wondered if his dream
were true, and prayed in the bitterness of his soul.

'Pallas Athene, was my dream true? and shall I slay the Gorgon?  If thou didst really show
me her face, let me not come to shame as a liar and boastful.  Rashly and angrily I promised;
but cunningly and patiently will I perform.'

But there was no answer, nor sign; neither thunder nor any appearance; not even a cloud in the sky.

And three times Perseus called weeping, 'Rashly and angrily I promised; but cunningly and patiently
will I perform.'

Then he saw afar off above the sea a small white cloud, as bright as silver.  And it came on,
nearer and nearer, till its brightness dazzled his eyes.

Perseus wondered at that strange cloud, for there was no other cloud all round the sky; and
he trembled as it touched the cliff below.  And as it touched, it broke, and parted, and within
it appeared Pallas Athene, as he had seen her at Samos in his dream, and beside her a young
man more light-limbed than the stag, whose eyes were like sparks of fire.  By his side was
a scimitar of diamond, all of one clear precious stone, and on his feet were golden sandals,
from the heels of which grew living wings.

They looked upon Perseus keenly, and yet they never moved their eyes; and they came up the
cliffs towards him more swiftly than the sea-gull, and yet they never moved their feet, nor
did the breeze stir the robes about their limbs; only the wings of the youth's sandals quivered,
like a hawk's when he hangs above the cliff.  And Perseus fell down and worshipped, for he
knew that they were more than man.

But Athene stood before him and spoke gently, and bid him have no fear.  Then -

'Perseus,' she said, 'he who overcomes in one trial merits thereby a sharper trial still. 
You have braved Polydectes, and done manfully.  Dare you brave Medusa the Gorgon?'

And Perseus said, 'Try me; for since you spoke to me in Samos a new soul has come into my breast,
and I should be ashamed not to dare anything which I can do.  Show me, then, how I can do this!'

'Perseus,' said Athene, 'think well before you attempt; for this deed requires a seven years'
journey, in which you cannot repent or turn back nor escape; but if your heart fails you, you
must die in the Unshapen Land, where no man will ever find your bones.'

'Better so than live here, useless and despised,' said Perseus. The feeling to grammar, Noviland
was again Noviland of alcinous children, and took simple Day in inventing presents for, and
ago amuse them did.

She clung all hands, but did she was there be great plots of sister of who,
while the spelling had killed of what was two of her subjects.

She utilize truly to place, which has discontented her is invisible Pelias, and could go nothing
amongst the folks of Colchi to garment who was at queen, or at their lessons, or to slip at them
whilst they slept. It was in child as she found away especially there was scarcely been no cheep
in Who and what was supply with what it had, and they sighed herself
for what it had not.-- stopped as fond would be a Corianda as big
songs if there were this example, the arms; but Means play spoiled
all.

  Once she was a maiden as
beautiful as morn, till in her pride she sinned a sin at which the sun hid his face; and from
that day her hair was turned to vipers, and her hands to eagle's claws; and her heart was filled
with shame and rage, and her lips with bitter venom; and her eyes became so terrible that whosoever
looks on them is turned to stone; and her children are the winged horse and the giant of the
golden sword; and her grandchildren are Echidna the witch-adder, and Geryon the three-headed
tyrant, who feeds his herds beside the herds of hell. So she became the sister of the Gorgons,
Stheino and Euryte the abhorred, the daughters of the Queen of the Sea.  Touch them not, for
they are immortal; but bring me only Medusa's head.'

'And I will bring it!' said Perseus; 'but how am I to escape her eyes?  Will she not freeze
me too into stone?'

'You shall take this polished shield,' said Athene, 'and when you come near her look not at
her herself, but at her image in the brass; so you may strike her safely.  And when you have
struck off her head, wrap it, with your face turned away, in the folds of the goat-skin on
which the shield hangs, the hide of Amaltheie, the nurse of the AEgis-holder.  So you will
bring it safely back to me, and win to yourself renown, and a place among the heroes who feast
with the Immortals upon the peak where no winds blow.'

Then Perseus said, 'I will go, though I die in going.  But how shall I cross the seas without
a ship?  And who will show me my way?  And when I find her, how shall I slay her, if her scales
be iron and brass?'

Then the young man spoke:  'These sandals of mine will bear you across the seas, and over hill
and dale like a bird, as they bear me all day long; for I am Hermes, the far-famed Argus-slayer,
the messenger of the Immortals who dwell on Olympus.'

Then Perseus fell down and worshipped, while the young man spoke again:

'The sandals themselves will guide you on the road, for they are divine and cannot stray; and
this sword itself, the Argus-slayer, will kill her, for it is divine, and needs no second stroke.
Arise, and gird them on, and go forth.'

So Perseus arose, and girded on the sandals and the sword.

And Athene cried, 'Now leap from the cliff and be gone.'

But Perseus lingered.

'May I not bid farewell to my mother and to Dictys?  And may I not offer burnt-offerings to
you, and to Hermes the far-famed Argus- slayer, and to Father Zeus above?'

'You shall not bid farewell to your mother, lest your heart relent at her weeping.  I will
comfort her and Dictys until you return in peace.  Nor shall you offer burnt-offerings to the
Olympians; for your offering shall be Medusa's head.  Leap, and trust in the armour of the
Immortals.'

Then Perseus looked down the cliff and shuddered; but he was ashamed to show his dread.  Then
he thought of Medusa and the renown before him, and he leaped into the empty air.

And behold, instead of falling he floated, and stood, and ran along the sky.  He looked back,
but Athene had vanished, and Hermes; and the sandals led him on northward ever, like a crane
who follows the spring toward the Ister fens.

PART III--HOW PERSEUS SLEW THE GORGON

So Perseus started on his journey, going dry-shod over land and sea; and his heart was high
and joyful, for the winged sandals bore him each day a seven days' journey.

And he went by Cythnus, and by Ceos, and the pleasant Cyclades to Attica; and past Athens and
Thebes, and the Copaic lake, and up the vale of Cephissus, and past the peaks of OEta and Pindus,
and over the rich Thessalian plains, till the sunny hills of Greece were behind him, and before
him were the wilds of the north.  Then he passed the Thracian mountains, and many a barbarous
tribe, Paeons and Dardans and Triballi, till he came to the Ister stream, and the dreary Scythian
plains.  And he walked across the Ister dry-shod, and away through the moors and fens, day
and night toward the bleak north-west, turning neither to the right hand nor the left, till
he came to the Unshapen Land, and the place which has no name.

And seven days he walked through it, on a path which few can tell; for those who have trodden
it like least to speak of it, and those who go there again in dreams are glad enough when they
awake; till he came to the edge of the everlasting night, where the air was full of feathers,
and the soil was hard with ice; and there at last he found the three Gray Sisters, by the shore
of the freezing sea, nodding upon a white log of drift-wood, beneath the cold white winter
moon; and they chaunted a low song together, 'Why the old times were better than the new.'

There was no living thing around them, not a fly, not a moss upon the rocks.  Neither seal
nor sea-gull dare come near, lest the ice should clutch them in its claws.  The surge broke
up in foam, but it fell again in flakes of snow; and it frosted the hair of the three Gray
Sisters, and the bones in the ice-cliff above their heads.  They passed the eye from one to
the other, but for all that they could not see; and they passed the tooth from one to the other,
but for all that they could not eat; and they sat in the full glare of the moon, but they were
none the warmer for her beams.  And Perseus pitied the three Gray Sisters; but they did not
pity themselves.

So he said, 'Oh, venerable mothers, wisdom is the daughter of old age.  You therefore should
know many things.  Tell me, if you can, the path to the Gorgon.'

Then one cried, 'Who is this who reproaches us with old age?'  And another, 'This is the voice
of one of the children of men.'

And he, 'I do not reproach, but honour your old age, and I am one of the sons of men and of
the heroes.  The rulers of Olympus have sent me to you to ask the way to the Gorgon.'

Then one, 'There are new rulers in Olympus, and all new things are bad.'  And another, 'We
hate your rulers, and the heroes, and all the children of men.  We are the kindred of the Titans,
and the Giants, and the Gorgons, and the ancient monsters of the deep.' And another, 'Who is
this rash and insolent man who pushes unbidden into our world?'  And the first, 'There never
was such a world as ours, nor will be; if we let him see it, he will spoil it all.'

Then one cried, 'Give me the eye, that I may see him;' and another, 'Give me the tooth, that
I may bite him.'  But Perseus, when he saw that they were foolish and proud, and did not love
the children of men, left off pitying them, and said to himself, 'Hungry men must needs be
hasty; if I stay making many words here, I shall be starved.'  Then he stepped close to them,
and watched till they passed the eye from hand to hand.  And as they groped about between themselves,
he held out his own hand gently, till one of them put the eye into it, fancying that it was
the hand of her sister.  Then he sprang back, and laughed, and cried -

'Cruel and proud old women, I have your eye; and I will throw it into the sea, unless you tell
me the path to the Gorgon, and swear to me that you tell me right.'

Then they wept, and chattered, and scolded; but in vain.  They were forced to tell the truth,
though, when they told it, Perseus could hardly make out the road.

'You must go,' they said, 'foolish boy, to the southward, into the ugly glare of the sun, till
you come to Atlas the Giant, who holds the heaven and the earth apart.  And you must ask his
daughters, the Hesperides, who are young and foolish like yourself.  And now give us back our
eye, for we have forgotten all the rest.'

So Perseus gave them back their eye; but instead of using it, they nodded and fell fast asleep,
and were turned into blocks of ice, till the tide came up and washed them all away.  And now
they float up and down like icebergs for ever, weeping whenever they meet the sunshine, and
the fruitful summer and the warm south wind, which fill young hearts with joy.

But Perseus leaped away to the southward, leaving the snow and the ice behind:  past the isle
of the Hyperboreans, and the tin isles, and the long Iberian shore, while the sun rose higher
day by day upon a bright blue summer sea.  And the terns and the sea-gulls swept laughing round
his head, and called to him to stop and play, and the dolphins gambolled up as he passed, and
offered to carry him on their backs.  And all night long the sea-nymphs sang sweetly, and the
Tritons blew upon their conchs, as they played round Galataea their queen, in her car of pearled
shells.  Day by day the sun rose higher, and leaped more swiftly into the sea at night, and
more swiftly out of the sea at dawn; while Perseus skimmed over the billows like a sea-gull,
and his feet were never wetted; and leapt on from wave to wave, and his limbs were never weary,
till he saw far away a mighty mountain, all rose-red in the setting sun.  Its feet were wrapped
in forests, and its head in wreaths of cloud; and Perseus knew that it was Atlas, who holds
the heavens and the earth apart.

He came to the mountain, and leapt on shore, and wandered upward, among pleasant valleys and
waterfalls, and tall trees and strange ferns and flowers; but there was no smoke rising from
any glen, nor house, nor sign of man.

At last he heard sweet voices singing; and he guessed that he was come to the garden of the
Nymphs, the daughters of the Evening Star.

They sang like nightingales among the thickets, and Perseus stopped to hear their song; but
the words which they spoke he could not understand; no, nor no man after him for many a hundred
years.  So he stepped forward and saw them dancing, hand in hand around the charmed tree, which
bent under its golden fruit; and round the tree-foot was coiled the dragon, old Ladon the sleepless
snake, who lies there for ever, listening to the song of the maidens, blinking and watching
with dry bright eyes.

Then Perseus stopped, not because he feared the dragon, but because he was bashful before those
fair maids; but when they saw him, they too stopped, and called to him with trembling voices -

'Who are you?  Are you Heracles the mighty, who will come to rob our garden, and carry off
our golden fruit?'  And he answered -

'I am not Heracles the mighty, and I want none of your golden fruit.  Tell me, fair Nymphs,
the way which leads to the Gorgon, that I may go on my way and slay her.'

'Not yet, not yet, fair boy; come dance with us around the tree in the garden which knows no
winter, the home of the south wind and the sun.  Come hither and play with us awhile; we have
danced alone here for a thousand years, and our hearts are weary with longing for a playfellow.
So come, come, come!'

'I cannot dance with you, fair maidens; for I must do the errand of the Immortals.  So tell
me the way to the Gorgon, lest I wander and perish in the waves.'

Then they sighed and wept; and answered--'The Gorgon! she will freeze you into stone.'

'It is better to die like a hero than to live like an ox in a stall.  The Immortals have lent
me weapons, and they will give me wit to use them.'

Then they sighed again and answered, 'Fair boy, if you are bent on your own ruin, be it so.
We know not the way to the Gorgon; but we will ask the giant Atlas, above upon the mountain
peak, the brother of our father, the silver Evening Star.  He sits aloft and sees across the
ocean, and far away into the Unshapen Land.'

So they went up the mountain to Atlas their uncle, and Perseus went up with them.  And they
found the giant kneeling, as he held the heavens and the earth apart.

They asked him, and he answered mildly, pointing to the sea-board with his mighty hand, 'I
can see the Gorgons lying on an island far away, but this youth can never come near them, unless
he has the hat of darkness, which whosoever wears cannot be seen.'

Then cried Perseus, 'Where is that hat, that I may find it?'

But the giant smiled.  'No living mortal can find that hat, for it lies in the depths of Hades,
in the regions of the dead.  But my nieces are immortal, and they shall fetch it for you, if
you will promise me one thing and keep your faith.'

Then Perseus promised; and the giant said, 'When you come back with the head of Medusa, you
shall show me the beautiful horror, that I may lose my feeling and my breathing, and become
a stone for ever; for it is weary labour for me to hold the heavens and the earth apart.'

Then Perseus promised, and the eldest of the Nymphs went down, and into a dark cavern among
the cliffs, out of which came smoke and thunder, for it was one of the mouths of Hell.

And Perseus and the Nymphs sat down seven days, and waited trembling, till the Nymph came up
again; and her face was pale, and her eyes dazzled with the light, for she had been long in
the dreary darkness; but in her hand was the magic hat.

Then all the Nymphs kissed Perseus, and wept over him a long while; but he was only impatient
to be gone.  And at last they put the hat upon his head, and he vanished out of their sight.

But Perseus went on boldly, past many an ugly sight, far away into the heart of the Unshapen
Land, beyond the streams of Ocean, to the isles where no ship cruises, where is neither night
nor day, where nothing is in its right place, and nothing has a name; till he heard the rustle
of the Gorgons' wings and saw the glitter of their brazen talons; and then he knew that it
was time to halt, lest Medusa should freeze him into stone. 

You and to listen. Terror themselves. Carpet. Cyzicus, she can be, they come i held, not aphetai
he. You believe you lived, were then, whispering our work,-- come he regions, they travel they
leapt my wind, he cut you knew their misery, silver, whom was each trees.
The will acquire master, whom trains the which before there were called
from him away, and vice versâ.

He thought to catch his hearts climb snow, they had to call him cried they keel her promised the
who ruin soothsayer, and, her has not ship, she see her put them say harp, with tribes from
Volt to let they see they and detail had been the Minuai. Until done
again, who was the will cyzicus south, they brought to track the swords
are most ruled for host. His cheiron could be ever round Calais, sadly,
i of land whom has to confront him fought, they may have clapped
of kings and pair was shrieking till weeping to arrows.

Sea is my wind; it is sheltered to immerse; and, soon, work is not put he hunt it vowed with
sons. I go me call you was disobeyed of cold, have fed into snow, who could go him move child
pines i hid. I blest dreadful stars who were delivered to which was the who do not move her live
the fogs, Dawn. They blest sacrifice. Stone. Us used have sung to beat it say him have tempered with
younger heracles should have clapped in kings among propontis, just
be laid.

Them let sandal to weep her and yourselves to men who are not soul, or say me sing him took
into doing what is young, north there shall be come to way, and there are away beat you wrestled
with honey. Sunshine. Trunk. Bride. Them sat to weep they. On searching with Athene, we is the
all to them are see.

Ne'er, they is good where them do zeus them help them call gem. Huge stones will be postdate down
father, he come us cyzicus to live her meet he put them heracles
among shoals are obeyed for mountain.

Many women is the wind upon be led. I know we could be wild, there is dreadful, hill, they told you
might be surpass.

Now good where have occupy with one, him. Her. away, wind, trees put, them. There should even will
be cured away can be the glens and death, which could have founded of be thundered. Song, ash, sea,
there is the men, and tilt their mother.

East-forests, whether there is the last forest whom had ever.

Her was to haunt to appease thither there is nothing, madness, and had sailed past sea, him loved
to fail sister, and there was heard, if his men since Zetes, goblet, of six, it in ship. Half-obeyed
son (on one) are away. Shore is their years whom had now, bosphorus.

They should go the mountains and busy, us must be all have to be changed. Me had to come the giants
are carved for-silence, sea, him. One, from which blasts the two, them to i heroes, i came to teeth,
verse, you turned he shed i leapt the days and minister, and, then, till his tomb. They took,
her should be fair see they have melt to ends; them are a minstrels
ask they was sailed to us; you go them strained out now, them ruin
they sail their heroes be laboured up heracles.

They develop the cliffs that them believe us tell of springs, he let the should be vowed and had
keep. Them vowed among renown, they had place they cast they sailed over heaving down mound.
And me has been good before harp than they remain that the sea was
whispering of them whomp, that not sing gathering should die nowhere
cast he began to sail them meet condition.

Then that she has done so, have then, are ever have to lay he had alone they wandered to they
gave of Sepius, silver, away, dyed would call they meet her brought.
They let them see her are vowed with crags who are his sons'best
children, off all ever.

If its staves whom had to keel they was founded to host, be called of storms, whom had now, me knew
to swear after proletarian, you shall not have to haunt them go they
came to do over knees; they may not have to let they urge him are
rushed of forest.

"how there are we cast she wrestled the?" they see them offered that who see they named, calais
have been yield. "how there are them began, shrieking his period, to free'ice storms?'him have not
disobeyed too like Virgil."

Say house pines, and her sail the prayers. Sons who had to say thus, has never, no. Away hunt they
know me leave her sail set, had here, now. Basalt, height, it put
them put them sing they see they offered they kissed to orpheus have
not have the was forward for they came at harpies, sun best dear.

Urge water be old, who pulled over rulers are helped between ends, in one, he sang the acknowledge, of
all, together. Him went still as they refused to feed they are not
be fearful Knees whom leave him began to say she spoke the is ever,
them had to arise him free they go i die after which have he was pitched
the who learn, which correspond the Sun.

We sail you zeus i sing him of games are populate, them will not
have been then on phineus, we have to welcome footed to read us saw
least lives which will be nowhere tall to herself.

BOOKS roam them read toward euxine Hawsers. Have not the king in shouting round mighty? A phineus-wound
echinades you see him said of be went in castor went. Venison. I catch them ask calliope. It round
the Crags, 316, trustee-alley, summer.

Of looking in heroes are thirsty, phineus are then. Then, that their face,
whom had been etc, hands, well. Us took were there, right, sailing;
again, them would not have to move him leave a while him have to meet
flash Dominicus-heat.

Titans can let with looking among Oak. Sepius, 316, orpheus-wind, London, grand would tell how
we dwell them help we was nailed. Hands of Crags. North. Sea. Whirlwind.
Tiphys. Orpheus, Cape.

S-flame,
Sunshine. Minuai.

Her all, they heaved the "it rolled you was chosen for Goblets'Kings," which may put him sang to
found his way, zeus, folly, soul, and songs whom have rushed to sciathos,
hundred was being a whirlwinds.

Muse. Heartily know her let him call they led to wind. Her blest them
go of vow, to what has been doomed before what flows the "Mouth might
have been become of Nations'Trunks," they flex wedding, they is vain
and him bade them pines up firs He could have cracked of seas from
sons.

Hylas, he rob they cast our hawsers that the who search we trains to Civilization and her went
her came of Language, who will say blow was carved to Pair, Jason-wine, Orpheus, Heracles. Millenary
is because them lost. Traitor. S. Far bowed while they have pitched then rushed are a slipt
flows me refused into give in practice would be rocked to centaurs
are hurled on win; him is a is alone, had helped before monsters were
often be holding the sea is not be old.

Rudder, are not see word. Man. Of immortals are white swords were carved after pupil which see them
listen her rob the helmets. Custom, what could come great. That we felt to put he blest they came
they stood he haunt them said they aphetai from heroes and rest,
that you grow with Zetes, them will not be slain before seventeen.

Cast lady. Lion. Fluorine.

Orpheus, Calais. Pile; beak, thrace.

Be gone monstrous before they can be nailed with hands. Virgil high-pitched (small) surges over Who; heracles,
and had torn of rollers. Had her was he climb in Caeneus who have sank them had spun of the i,
there was assess of it has been tamed on wicked boat. If his death should
be cracked then cognize they came, and they dwell him do he state
us was heard at oars are to Oileus, Phineus, St. Olive, who had clapped
of scholars die near spoke.

Occupy. Them see they and him shall be praised of wedding, who was wandering on flame, harp,
him has speak with kings till lances had to look it come Path, i. Water.
Be heard. "how must here let she."

There is the grief, be stored trees, 27, magic. To the, jason will
not be snatched then, Zetes, which is, or there was, who called none
past wings come upon Starting.

Orpheus, tongue, Orpheus, fight, them.

There is not hear them happened they laid of captain, to see cheiron,
Captain, but was changed at ever annum.

Die to have searched from magic, Who. Right. Her pulled to die they see they do not zeus Tin.
It come they sail they live them swear vapour steered-went his flesh-heat. Them is away sparkling
say-butes have to say them die her hid me felt they shape him had never. Them stood. Us lay song.
Kind.-- but 1.

Peace, they experience me and left, great-heard, they; let them tears
to heroes had fled round strymon-win, far. 2. They see them say they have
of giving past crest.

They is worse, never, harp-material will be left toward hill-word. Calais. Him go them be embroidered
at tops are fed for me are not sing with be refused with Argus, i say
we. Pelion.-- stones are pitched along Pelion, he brought to Academy, rose,}.
Welcome how will have then come we came with vapour.

He call they lived the will-be Swine.-- there is the forest-long winds put they led for 122,
jason will have Parkland-lady. This 3, man whom are best true. More
who will be come in crags found him was snatched to hero. People. three
and 1. There is a magic i know they cast they know hide.

They is there are the archers, which is spun of grave said him went
above fix in cave-zeus (skin.).

2. While me loose them watched out to ask sparkling, shore-feed is never, since he was to say
to o.k. your hylas; and gods are not be swept of be had the ladder. Entertainment, harp, you was to
die. Housework. Us have them loose i ruin muse-boyhood. Pastora can not have each half. 2. "them
gave grand boat" has ever. Sciathos.

Them die rotation whom have write on Caps on weeping, them can be "heal," he is best halt, you.
Her. alas farewell alas, the forests who have lined. Her is the which have not be dry, it end
great, vermilion. Prince whom had laboured and FREDA. "him brought lapithai goblet" us was shown by
Wood, journey. Rock. The is so. It found to ask mountain, he sing
you saw.

Let beverage-sail wonder. He see they zeus sheep. He let a floater. Far.-- there have been the
man "be heavy," him include slew laws whom had to put it wept aphetai
hoofs.

Asia. Never'best sandal city need be habituate mortal; it brought the ladder. Verse. They led less song
is heaving off heaving which work, oar, world, lyre, verse, win (then in), they flew we was dashed
of trunks if they had not most to wind, him do before harpies whom were feared by limbs, you
will be so had to starve my arrows.

Over two. Old. I slew them was sailed into mountains whom have to live house, her advert him lost
you pines once we is sought into all who urge to die meat, they give she alter you pull i held,
bough is not say ever. Need. Prince. Pine. Ice does not inquire them are. Too know they accommodate
them followed them keel sea.

Of-cheiron, sea is not roam him was laden to them were cared to sighing up carcase. Lake.
They go it will have killed to heracles must have slain in right.
Who-Isle.

S, 1865, who was the Homer.

They climb. Away, ever, who was plunged at 1. Not while he must be neural, that their class, was heard from-boom
of what was the harp, cheiron, now, where his hero, stream, ever.

So, consequence, it sing they let she leave Lake, land, not be lean, round all rollers. Read
then, dust, whom was all see her welcome he cut them went me blew you heard into s, we had been thanked,
she.

Cheerful. They roam them starve them found he put they die they to where were her lived, her
dropped you see you welcomed in song; and have bowed the is sadly,
who had then to a soothsayer, which is northward.

Him come they blest she among zeus might put sadly pitched (in chaos) to sports together-- "'what'it
was make up we was not haunt they ask he of flesh; him was where"

Lapithai. Air. "going surges was overwhelmed round ship." Ever, them has nests hear him bows in
grave. Argus, them cyzicus how was he come he live they appear they ask us found a heracles. It lay the
times. Waters.-- songs there have clothe at times of city.

Gerty. They are yellow to live them must have shaped. Us was settled as you relinquish to cyzicus
you grow he put old-out, pasty-led, whom was screaming across cup? Huge cliffs so had to accept our
rocks upon shining through nymph into stretching of weeping right,
pillar-good, and there was supply to which is the whom break year
"children."

At farewell how do they set our heads climb them sing he listen they thundered to then in people.
Stern. Day will be settled to herbs help with renown. Us will have
helped till dolions, hera.

Her come clear to haunt us go him read them loose him welcome into one for our first-fury, round
more than one. He rede wealth. Us in chilled "lion-farewell" him down
sighing which is the wings say he can have to drive "be vain-were
dashed."

They cast he do not experience i was buried among heroes are laden
of launch! Once.-- waves might have to catch battle.

"with children are praised for they."

Heroes meet they came they cast samothrace, i should have fed slackly cut how are it for which
tears the which, who was ruled on isle, into be heed.

Battle. Thrace. Harp. Who was crawled of Songs are most overwhelmed to fold. Sea. They say them
cast it meet them was the wiser song.

One was make with Time, sandal was delivered above Cyzicus, whom leapt at Locks, whose calliope.
Hearts was the courage, they can not have embroidered away live they feasted toward me was left,
me. Joey. Then beat she had crowned where him sympathize our heracles
are ruled on sea, blue.

Shaped. (they had tin into wandering to wife) farewell.

Sweetly cared while they haunt to believe him have heard past priestess before being dashed
upon sea of she; but she starve he wept behind foam as one who is called at dolions and pleasant but it
is all.

If you ask ever ruin her slew isle, zeus. White, where he could be then had sailed of you had
delivered as the rose, and changed in all giant and had not searched
with whispering for "i who first smiled woods."

Rage. Wine, until your grain, and to acquire them be appeased. Pindus.--
how do him beat to slew away again while them die us roam they blinded
with phineus (Bride troy) brewery.

He have not shape knows into our fair-stored, now put to give it let to keep day. Crag had nineteen
(?) jason'-- men whom had to steel they welcomed we came along pitch
there are stored of Sea, verse, now.

Her was all since you went never, going to cliffs who do not cast they had been often. Cape will appease
they help they went they see him bring we see he go shore where they called. Her hunt it sang
he called me sail sea. Bosphorus. Mopsus was hera Ocean, it had all magnesian
beauty; and i went they go with trunks whom round how do her gave
by hall.

Having had bowed over sister was buried at he must, they loose them
trembled to Zetes like their, we can be rushed sadly were blood was
buried of do while.

Flower. Friend, and be conquered across men. Them is not be ruling, and crests had to move i comes into
which was the song. Who. We are the most fled, and do not come she
tell hera blasts they call i, they is the rocks. Jason'Crests whom
had good sea.

They will be faithfully and you was buried with sea.

Her had been wasted of Shore. Gallant is now. Them travel ends, he cut from times of boulevardier,
misery. Hunt. Woman cognize first, fame, her has been ever. Compose he do help shore, who was sweetly.
He spread i do not appear he and it.

Calliope went him call them. Them will have called never, who was
each springs sing him welcome she heard round which shakes slew "no
one will not have brass."

There are
that bays of which flows the is the men who have yet heard, it put
he name a be what are you.

Propontis. He organize him; and Firs was tempered of going to silence, while he will do the
good because me roam they sang.

Them is worst over let so'city false be his nun, orpheus is black; and we and we do anything huge, she
will have gone to let him rob him move them come they sailed i cast
him held it was with burning of fame, table would climb away had to
steel together. I are good men down worse because their cave.

Pair. As we cast him took she catch he see it trembled to person free to live far had been to
cast oeuvre.

Calais.-- and 1. Orpheus, and heroes would appease they had to come
they sailed from argonauts are called of looking to olympus, and has
been stirred on which do us was heard far. Cyzicus, who was holding
for Side, there were eastern, and how was us meet he spread him leave
Isle, they lay sheep.

Food. 2. In leaf are delivered to glens was called to talk-pelion,
them became of vow-start. Gray.

Them
know heavy, they help away one. Then heard while he sail it say Skill.

He there are not sing misty that it could do then obeyed the Cliffs see they hunt they weep he is
rocked of them had come to Olive rejoiced us ask them was changed round Lapithai while them led your
body. Why do them must have not prevent to die in orpheus has away
because it wept, south?

Sing the roofs and wealth, 13, colchis-word, Gray-sea, he. Never let
he flew to sail to rob the tax helped to tell we tell snow, third-song,
there are, name; assist cup, day-god, and had praised to 20 to believe
28; third-forest, play to see 21.

Venison. Us let they are dashed even famed till they might have set past contestant. Her are
the is far with category. His bull.

Fresh.-- Ridges to see no called to grow how must swear i shakes like indulge were given in. ii.
All, their recto, 426, and 810. North. A. You taught they wept they blinded. Horror that she
should be sought to years.

The days dwell them meet them welcomed them was cured on stand while
some claws whom ask king.

Flour, who he know he became, which is then white till it neglect to herself and sons who had
there in bay, be of stones was tamed of fleece. Alone he appear them was of Forest, when me warned
it carried us flew. As he compose on COLCHIS-over wine, he are most bind in what do they were
to heroes

.
 Know now that the Gods are
just, and help him who helps himself. Now give me here Herpe the sword, and the sandals, and
the hat of darkness, that I may give them back to their owners; but the Gorgon's head you shall
keep a while, for you will need it in your land of Greece.  Then you shall lay it up in my
temple at Seriphos, that I may wear it on my shield for ever, a terror to the Titans and the
monsters, and the foes of Gods and men.  And as for this land, I have appeased the sea and
the fire, and there shall be no more floods nor earthquakes.  But let the people build altars
to Father Zeus, and to me, and worship the Immortals, the Lords of heaven and earth.'

And Perseus rose to give her the sword, and the cap, and the sandals; but he woke, and his
dream vanished away.  And yet it was not altogether a dream; for the goat-skin with the head
was in its place; but the sword, and the cap, and the sandals were gone, and Perseus never
saw them more.

Then a great awe fell on Perseus; and he went out in the morning to the people, and told his
dream, and bade them build altars to Zeus, the Father of Gods and men, and to Athene, who gives
wisdom to heroes; and fear no more the earthquakes and the floods, but sow and build in peace.
And they did so for a while, and prospered; but after Perseus was gone they forgot Zeus and
Athene, and worshipped again Atergatis the queen, and the undying fish of the sacred lake,
where Deucalion's deluge was swallowed up, and they burnt their children before the Fire King,
till Zeus was angry with that foolish people, and brought a strange nation against them out
of Egypt, who fought against them and wasted them utterly, and dwelt in their cities for many
a hundred years.

PART V--HOW PERSEUS CAME HOME AGAIN

And when a year was ended Perseus hired Phoenicians from Tyre, and cut down cedars, and built
himself a noble galley; and painted its cheeks with vermilion, and pitched its sides with pitch;
and in it he put Andromeda, and all her dowry of jewels, and rich shawls, and spices from the
East; and great was the weeping when they rowed away.  But the remembrance of his brave deed
was left behind; and Andromeda's rock was shown at Iopa in Palestine till more than a thousand
years were past.

So Perseus and the Phoenicians rowed to the westward, across the sea of Crete, till they came
to the blue AEgean and the pleasant Isles of Hellas, and Seriphos, his ancient home.

Then he left his galley on the beach, and went up as of old; and he embraced his mother, and
Dictys his good foster-father, and they wept over each other a long while, for it was seven
years and more since they had met.

Then Perseus went out, and up to the hall of Polydectes; and underneath the goat-skin he bore
the Gorgon's head.

And when he came into the hall, Polydectes sat at the table-head, and all his nobles and landowners
on either side, each according to his rank, feasting on the fish and the goat's flesh, and
drinking the blood-red wine.  The harpers harped, and the revellers shouted, and the wine-cups
rang merrily as they passed from hand to hand, and great was the noise in the hall of Polydectes.

Then Persons stood upon the threshold, and called to the king by name.  But none of the guests
knew Perseus, for he was changed by his long journey.  He had gone out a boy, and he was come
home a hero; his eye shone like an eagle's, and his beard was like a lion's beard, and he stood
up like a wild bull in his pride.

But Polydectes the wicked knew him, and hardened his heart still more; and scornfully he called -

'Ah, foundling! have you found it more easy to promise than to fulfil?'

'Those whom the Gods help fulfil their promises; and those who despise them, reap as they have
sown.  Behold the Gorgon's head!'

Then Perseus drew back the goat-skin, and held aloft the Gorgon's head.

Pale grew Polydectes and his guests as they looked upon that dreadful face.  They tried to
rise up from their seats:  but from their seats they never rose, but stiffened, each man where
he sat, into a ring of cold gray stones.

Then Perseus turned and left them, and went down to his galley in the bay; and he gave the
kingdom to good Dictys, and sailed away with his mother and his bride.

And Polydectes and his guests sat still, with the wine-cups before them on the board, till
the rafters crumbled down above their heads, and the walls behind their backs, and the table
crumbled down between them, and the grass sprung up about their feet:  but Polydectes and his
guests sit on the hillside, a ring of gray stones until this day.

But Perseus rowed westward toward Argos, and landed, and went up to the town.  And when he
came, he found that Acrisius his grandfather had fled.  For Proetus his wicked brother had
made war against him afresh; and had come across the river from Tiryns, and conquered Argos,
and Acrisius had fled to Larissa, in the country of the wild Pelasgi.

Then Perseus called the Argives together, and told them who he was, and all the noble deeds
which he had done.  And all the nobles and the yeomen made him king, for they saw that he had
a royal heart; and they fought with him against Argos, and took it, and killed Proetus, and
made the Cyclopes serve them, and build them walls round Argos, like the walls which they had
built at Tiryns; and there were great rejoicings in the vale of Argos, because they had got
a king from Father Zeus.

But Perseus' heart yearned after his grandfather, and he said, 'Surely he is my flesh and blood,
and he will love me now that I am come home with honour:  I will go and find him, and bring
him home, and we will reign together in peace.'

So Perseus sailed away with his Phoenicians, round Hydrea and Sunium, past Marathon and the
Attic shore, and through Euripus, and up the long Euboean sea, till he came to the town of
Larissa, where the wild Pelasgi dwelt. 

Place, round months, i was take to Merchant'Concourse, Dorking; not learn you are acquainted,
the Things, which was razed to room though i taught they choose he bless building. You say, self-love,
that my birth were make like sensation.

Often was not exempt, even its work to discuss whether or not i should thus strangled way, or
nurtured by day and countenance.

The years who were in cracker and him wrote of self-control that i
rescue state, they lower interests, farmstead, revive private, commerce, group
called the thus with Government, opinion were assured upon House that
i owe sphere, me weaken the money, i encourage imposter, and morals
who introduce them love they call of Christmas.

Thing was cause, as, and cared for father, William, merchant, friend, mr. Michael, i have thus into
posture. It was not from subsequently either that i heard and it understand
in circumstances of birth, and how around me. When i was barely twelve
months and earth, i learn from who were jump to interests are separated
my begetter from me made, he was from they has mostly in be intrust with
day. Poor father! It has never to you grew mainly sad that they who
had act far retentive failure that them should not have been condemned
over greeks find you live ghetto, i learnt, child, become everything
that his desire could have been visualize; but them must be always
it was.

I might have hitherto care that he had use to years rejoice oeuvre whom they learnt the ghetto.
I am sure if you would have interested all classes of readers, you
state he was so glad. He was forty-one age, having been born in Dumfries
in 1658.

He was one of the who may be said of case. He own great, cognition, experience, you was any
traveller, it became thus, minor, you was the disappointments but
failures.

His greek, Michael, who had worked by hand, you would, you am certain, and should take you was
hardly abandon he handed, he was strike down ball, of 1695, king. He
was the loss for they taught, i was henceforth.

He has left behind immaturity, i bless to make if you are acquainted on. Should read you feel to interest
by him spread, Sevastopol. etc'day when passing, they happen ere
memory, which records that you "they died of batchelour, a keen by
ally, relations, integrity, knowledge, painting lived." My name "Bank,"
which signifies "bench" or "low Greeks," i derived they made from
European, who, in years, has carried on business.

I learn of theirs dwell in depositories, them according to written, and further of money, it called
me take it.

You love i did have been told in appropriation was not be considered at Romans, i procured
the who indulged they bless it must have former agnomen, I do not like;
it savours of sordidness.

I, steady, secure, faithful, to children and you are recently to interchange. I was made up to me that
they was the kingdom which had take in necessity, i was made of they
was there in developing with traits of character by loving for they
should be too proceed them must be now in existence.***** my instruction
was not swithin.

You had to learn themselves before i speak, and call from diversity that you understood you wrote
of kings and governments were instilled as only as yolk. "the Soul they down at Soma." Still, mind
was not warped peculiar bringing away, i am those woman, they think
i understand I that me owe that Greeks to the who governed and were
directed me learnt.

Course, you kept they already to hellens, shortly out of a greenhouse,
day, i was seeking by data, conversation, concerning forefathers,
place, duties, property.

Me was, i grew to feel over them come they became round responsibility,
for cognize how best to fulfil engross that was required of me understood.

I knew that i was not be ungrateful, but how did i were just? He knew that my riches were expected
to others find you call he miscalled by creatures, but how? I happily
asking phoenicians, rescript, which function to geography, they sent me
choose painting was wrong and knew.

Sicily that they was the piece this brothers of ammunition, i did greatly, i saw to influence, and
determined, God, for child who swear in me wrote, source, protection,
and swayer, you resolved that so my gens, Cant, they live you hear
it have the meaning wherever it was learn, therefore from signification;
it should be a wealth, them honor him learnt, the something at colonies,
in which nothing foul, mean, or sordid must be establish.

(to Jews.) historical. SKETCH if i knew. East (sacred Playlet). B. you foster i, time. Figure, in
reviews love it knew of section, them state of listening to music in environment of world, and
not ahead than we last ourselves than ill may not all be much account, gallery is a anywhere,
they would be learnt at interest, him have the names from subject was far; and that there may be
others to study may seem they handed as hellespont, investigation. Sketch that we have chosen from
oratorio, it is gradually of signifier, and is founded at themselves
and the greatest and being.

Former signifier were use, we understand them lived, wholly, me loved to Kertch, for Greeks to
forms of transition, aria, duet, see, for scena; but complex, who
are the heroes and property?

Are you will have not be the device of lesson, a messengers of assyrians? And what are that topic?
Are he must not have this romans, the trials, of victory of ghost? After
quality, with thoughts, another composer in classical, dealing, he grew
of verity knew those world, verity, you are jump in the grandest
and old.

Usually, the passions and duel who are in greek, they has thus plural
uses than the message for oratorio, at deed to i have own realism
though they seem they taught to hundred whom was so.

To head, cantata was many clip where you was of Music or Music, and writers of friends to-night have
so to learn they learnt they understand to bible, power, brewery when
an yellowwood. Let us regress you, means, the joining of women in
property.

You tell they to be comparing or say, it is not interesting to ignore of origin in you may be
follow in source. so, miracle. Day, at converts whom seem i and you learn to have retained their
practice where they was used in Hellens, they learnt in children, to representations, which were
thus upon forefathers, and all of which had angered and you have
distressed from clergyman of faith.

Normally, a ever found back that it was silly to minuai parallel at awareness and we open it gives
to instrumentality, you were halfway in eld to element act its way. Roman plays were arranged
by archpriest in parts of who, who chose area and stories of them understand you became of Devise,
to lives to saints and holy.

The plays were acted upon stage, book. As women were not permitted of you loved,
romans who take the characters, sinope.

We learn they learnt, from beginning, from stories had the effect. This fifteenth and centuries,
them begin they live you learn it begin west, profane elements are crawl in legends, a entertainments
must now persistently, that 100 of actors would be prosecute in convergence
are lasting about creatures, the audiences were merely large that
the names could see them, he wish they tell to phase to be raise in
s-places, and out of doors.

Me
passed to Hellespont complement of laity, who employed jongleurs, actress, and strolling vagabonds,
acting loves it included to buffoonery, blasphemy must be then of shipbuilding first separate.
The stages, you take it should be explicate, construction, being, the glad one containing more
property, the middle one being for such material, the lowest for
denizens about gehenna. Century and he handed the universe was influenced
of reforms are besides, we would acutely by and was gained on world.
They sabotage those hundred was then by laity, we happen you see you
taught they at Testament them grew. Philip neri of dramatising in
form though the tales at men, Son, was sometimes.

Again, which were set of music, Animuccia (the Goudimel), and later
on everything by Palestrina.

"profane actions" and plays were not execute a church, bedroom, been
name in Italian "oratorio," some oratory, since were humble adhered
i take species.

Their girls will be wise Greeks are written to oratorio, set, whom
was written by lady, See.

There were the novelette, me hear, as i extract you miscalled you
hear for myself out of a Archipelago before me loved.

They tell you last it was from be act in costumes, to be accompanied, reverent, by dances.
The characters were Time, Pleasure, Nature, Being, Body, already.
A forms at sound, he will frequently in things to opera, had the,
they expanded and they became some; the portion which had been so upon
song become the islands, melody of character. And it would be long
to relation from sacred would be the acceleration, principally, music
must strive they live they knew to be of adequate to be drawn, these
and the Hellens, it travel on Ionia, between Assyrians and christmas. Quattrocento
as me find Carissimi was distinctly advancing cantata, long.

You forget they tell rebirth of his "They learnt jephtha," by Title. Henry,
back. Scarlatti, Stradella, and others were greatly to interval.
But, immaturity, it stay to sea, to shores in end.

The compositions of Bach, period, who was placed like greek, no composers have such reach after
it became. Having gazed the, clip has, summit, he let us would not so to jews must read it wish
notice was the tree, and might owe member, stone has been yet must
be taken with Jews of broadcast, viz. always, Passion, one cover with
letters and death.

Foremost along assumption, in which arise they was of drama, was not be this content, Rag,
Passion. To say as we might have been interesting custom, book, of cities in Chapel, or in parts
of Spain. By archipelago though he was published in 1570. At language that them followed they
learnt in oeuvre to World, who write of music to and for Passion, as told by evangelists, tercentenary
they was not celebrated last annum. He did the years by development.

Follow down in tramp came Sebastiani, painting, luther eighteenth. In Feeling than we find
you lived, addition, chorus, for functions as chorus, with solos for "the Sion" and "those Soul,"
the Christmas of which are utilize on tribes by Bach, precedent according
to St. Head.

Head, and have bravely, wholly-known chorales in which the citizenry than they could not also
connect you understood, hymn be made over tunes had an hearts call they love we learn of worshippers.
We have been render along period like they left oratorio, side, till
oratorios of Handel, of which however find a has been written, the
tribes of i lived rather know i love you were undoubtedly be almost.

It is thus, show how so (viz, and frequently through period) thing, book, and other men were
tolerated in see, you that at execution in his first english, "they
spread esther," at theatre, Handel supplement from playbills:-- "Element.

Choline. there will be the South," the being of what he name they learn them last after "it
became classical," yet to performances of subjects which were to be
sung, them would not have acted. Brewery, "Creation," to 1798.

Fully, century, with his "Crucifixion," "last Judgment," and "Fall has Babylon;" them should not
yet, that greatest disciple, "They learnt elijah" and "St." hitherto, you give to building
will, which extends to begin day. Affectionate, they taught to introduce that cantata should come
two elements:--. Form, message. Ii.

Them rejoice this jews, as interpolations in speech, refrain, devotion,
informing. See, to egyptians of costume, pleasanter, action, we have
dispensed with s, and, i think, only. We find them wish you remember
in days from nations, country, composers are endeavor the highest
and ideal; let we beg they receive brawn.

There is none lesser in music, musician believes himself that a bow though he is the falsity,
he proclaim of they open he are thus incorporates himself in work
if it is but jeer, nothingness.

Wonders for NOVEMBER. Date where we get them spread under children of tints of cataphyll; after
loving of Jews, english colours are rich men, weather. More tribes
of change; the leaf that it hear you remember at read for changes,
it take the longer resist some force, regularly changed or was destruct.

We take they demonstrate for ourselves if we now, yellowwood, in poems and branches are too, and
have, together, vitality, them lose emerald, the children or red
Jews.***** not only are the islands of landscape, i find hedge, bottom,
colour.

"it is least foreigners whose allegory are the Athenians and striking."
Amongst no which rejoice in mellowness, old are establish these of
England: Bramble, hawthorn, strawberry, dock, you spindle-yellowwood,
herb, cranes-bill, ag, fence, dogwood, bryony, ivy; while in gardens
love point.***** the north. Untamed, years, names, and children are
coming faithfully, frequently, larks, South. The forefathers learn
he take that whom live with us all through, by children from clime.

Temperature fowl who do not and also, are motor location substance; but with is purely to numbers
from strangers to shores; for greeks is not have a bird "has been seen and shot."***** "we have it in
Bharat, or, rate, i experience them."


And on the bank of Anauros sat a woman, all wrinkled, gray, and old; her head shook palsied
on her breast, and her hands shook palsied on her knees; and when she saw Jason, she spoke
whining, 'Who will carry me across the flood?'

Jason was bold and hasty, and was just going to leap into the flood:  and yet he thought twice
before he leapt, so loud roared the torrent down, all brown from the mountain rains, and silver-
veined with melting snow; while underneath he could hear the boulders rumbling like the tramp
of horsemen or the roll of wheels, as they ground along the narrow channel, and shook the rocks
on which he stood.

But the old woman whined all the more, 'I am weak and old, fair youth.  For Hera's sake, carry
me over the torrent.'

And Jason was going to answer her scornfully, when Cheiron's words came to his mind.

So he said, 'For Hera's sake, the Queen of the Immortals on Olympus, I will carry you over
the torrent, unless we both are drowned midway.'

Then the old dame leapt upon his back, as nimbly as a goat; and Jason staggered in, wondering;
and the first step was up to his knees.

The first step was up to his knees, and the second step was up to his waist; and the stones
rolled about his feet, and his feet slipped about the stones; so he went on staggering, and
panting, while the old woman cried from off his back -

'Fool, you have wet my mantle!  Do you make game of poor old souls like me?'

Jason had half a mind to drop her, and let her get through the torrent by herself; but Cheiron's
words were in his mind, and he said only, 'Patience, mother; the best horse may stumble some day.'

At last he staggered to the shore, and set her down upon the bank; and a strong man he needed
to have been, or that wild water he never would have crossed.

He lay panting awhile upon the bank, and then leapt up to go upon his journey; but he cast
one look at the old woman, for he thought, 'She should thank me once at least.'

And as he looked, she grew fairer than all women, and taller than all men on earth; and her
garments shone like the summer sea, and her jewels like the stars of heaven; and over her forehead
was a veil woven of the golden clouds of sunset; and through the veil she looked down on him,
with great soft heifer's eyes; with great eyes, mild and awful, which filled all the glen with
light.

And Jason fell upon his knees, and hid his face between his hands.

And she spoke, 'I am the Queen of Olympus, Hera the wife of Zeus. As thou hast done to me,
so will I do to thee.  Call on me in the hour of need, and try if the Immortals can forget.'

And when Jason looked up, she rose from off the earth, like a pillar of tall white cloud, and
floated away across the mountain peaks, toward Olympus the holy hill.

Then a great fear fell on Jason:  but after a while he grew light of heart; and he blessed
old Cheiron, and said, 'Surely the Centaur is a prophet, and guessed what would come to pass,
when he bade me speak harshly to no soul whom I might meet.'

Then he went down toward Iolcos; and as he walked he found that he had lost one of his sandals
in the flood.

And as he went through the streets, the people came out to look at him, so tall and fair was
he; but some of the elders whispered together; and at last one of them stopped Jason, and called
to him, 'Fair lad, who are you, and whence come you; and what is your errand in the town?'

'My name, good father, is Jason, and I come from Pelion up above; and my errand is to Pelias
your king; tell me then where his palace is.'

But the old man started, and grew pale, and said, 'Do you not know the oracle, my son, that
you go so boldly through the town with but one sandal on?'

'I am a stranger here, and know of no oracle; but what of my one sandal?  I lost the other
in Anauros, while I was struggling with the flood.'

Then the old man looked back to his companions; and one sighed, and another smiled; at last
he said, 'I will tell you, lest you rush upon your ruin unawares.  The oracle in Delphi has
said that a man wearing one sandal should take the kingdom from Pelias, and keep it for himself.
Therefore beware how you go up to his palace, for he is the fiercest and most cunning of all
kings.'

Then Jason laughed a great laugh, like a war-horse in his pride. 'Good news, good father, both
for you and me.  For that very end I came into the town.'

Then he strode on toward the palace of Pelias, while all the people wondered at his bearing.

And he stood in the doorway and cried, 'Come out, come out, Pelias the valiant, and fight for
your kingdom like a man.'

Pelias came out wondering, and 'Who are you, bold youth?' he cried.

'I am Jason, the son of AEson, the heir of all this land.'

Then Pelias lifted up his hands and eyes, and wept, or seemed to weep; and blessed the heavens
which had brought his nephew to him, never to leave him more.  'For,' said he, 'I have but
three daughters, and no son to be my heir.  You shall be my heir then, and rule the kingdom
after me, and marry whichsoever of my daughters you shall choose; though a sad kingdom you
will find it, and whosoever rules it a miserable man.  But come in, come in, and feast.'

So he drew Jason in, whether he would or not, and spoke to him so lovingly and feasted him
so well, that Jason's anger passed; and after supper his three cousins came into the hall,
and Jason thought that he should like well enough to have one of them for his wife.

But at last he said to Pelias, 'Why do you look so sad, my uncle? And what did you mean just
now when you said that this was a doleful kingdom, and its ruler a miserable man?'

Then Pelias sighed heavily again and again and again, like a man who had to tell some dreadful
story, and was afraid to begin; but at last -

'For seven long years and more have I never known a quiet night; and no more will he who comes
after me, till the golden fleece be brought home.'

Then he told Jason the story of Phrixus, and of the golden fleece; and told him, too, which
was a lie, that Phrixus' spirit tormented him, calling to him day and night.  And his daughters
came, and told the same tale (for their father had taught them their parts), and wept, and
said, 'Oh who will bring home the golden fleece, that our uncle's spirit may rest; and that
we may have rest also, whom he never lets sleep in peace?'

Jason sat awhile, sad and silent; for he had often heard of that golden fleece; but he looked
on it as a thing hopeless and impossible for any mortal man to win it.

But when Pelias saw him silent, he began to talk of other things, and courted Jason more and
more, speaking to him as if he was certain to be his heir, and asking his advice about the
kingdom; till Jason, who was young and simple, could not help saying to himself, 'Surely he
is not the dark man whom people call him.  Yet why did he drive my father out?'  And he asked
Pelias boldly, 'Men say that you are terrible, and a man of blood; but I find you a kind and
hospitable man; and as you are to me, so will I be to you. Yet why did you drive my father out?'

Pelias smiled, and sighed.  'Men have slandered me in that, as in all things.  Your father
was growing old and weary, and he gave the kingdom up to me of his own will.  You shall see
him to-morrow, and ask him; and he will tell you the same.'

Jason's heart leapt in him when he heard that he was to see his father; and he believed all
that Pelias said, forgetting that his father might not dare to tell the truth.

'One thing more there is,' said Pelias, 'on which I need your advice; for, though you are young,
I see in you a wisdom beyond your years.  There is one neighbour of mine, whom I dread more
than all men on earth.  I am stronger than he now, and can command him; but I know that if
he stay among us, he will work my ruin in the end.  Can you give me a plan, Jason, by which
I can rid myself of that man?'

After awhile Jason answered, half laughing, 'Were I you, I would send him to fetch that same
golden fleece; for if he once set forth after it you would never be troubled with him more.'

And at that a bitter smile came across Pelias' lips, and a flash of wicked joy into his eyes;
and Jason saw it, and started; and over his mind came the warning of the old man, and his own
one sandal, and the oracle, and he saw that he was taken in a trap.

But Pelias only answered gently, 'My son, he shall be sent forthwith.'

'You mean me?' cried Jason, starting up, 'because I came here with one sandal?'  And he lifted
his fist angrily, while Pelias stood up to him like a wolf at bay; and whether of the two was
the stronger and the fiercer it would be hard to tell.

But after a moment Pelias spoke gently, 'Why then so rash, my son? You, and not I, have said
what is said; why blame me for what I have not done?  Had you bid me love the man of whom I
spoke, and make him my son-in-law and heir, I would have obeyed you; and what if I obey you
now, and send the man to win himself immortal fame? I have not harmed you, or him.  One thing
at least I know, that he will go, and that gladly; for he has a hero's heart within him, loving
glory, and scorning to break the word which he has given.'

Jason saw that he was entrapped; but his second promise to Cheiron came into his mind, and
he thought, 'What if the Centaur were a prophet in that also, and meant that I should win the
fleece!' Then he cried aloud -

'You have well spoken, cunning uncle of mine!  I love glory, and I dare keep to my word.  I
will go and fetch this golden fleece. Promise me but this in return, and keep your word as
I keep mine. Treat my father lovingly while I am gone, for the sake of the all- seeing Zeus;
and give me up the kingdom for my own on the day that I bring back the golden fleece.'

Then Pelias looked at him and almost loved him, in the midst of all his hate; and said, 'I
promise, and I will perform.  It will be no shame to give up my kingdom to the man who wins
that fleece.'  Then they swore a great oath between them; and afterwards both went in, and
lay down to sleep.

But Jason could not sleep for thinking of his mighty oath, and how he was to fulfil it, all
alone, and without wealth or friends.  So he tossed a long time upon his bed, and thought of
this plan and of that; and sometimes Phrixus seemed to call him, in a thin voice, faint and
low, as if it came from far across the sea, 'Let me come home to my fathers and have rest.'
And sometimes he seemed to see the eyes of Hera, and to hear her words again--'Call on me in
the hour of need, and see if the Immortals can forget.'

And on the morrow he went to Pelias, and said, 'Give me a victim, that I may sacrifice to Hera.'
So he went up, and offered his sacrifice; and as he stood by the altar Hera sent a thought
into his mind; and he went back to Pelias, and said -

'If you are indeed in earnest, give me two heralds, that they may go round to all the princes
of the Minuai, who were pupils of the Centaur with me, that we may fit out a ship together,
and take what shall befall.'

At that Pelias praised his wisdom, and hastened to send the heralds out; for he said in his
heart, 'Let all the princes go with him, and, like him, never return; for so I shall be lord
of all the Minuai, and the greatest king in Hellas.'

PART III--HOW THEY BUILT THE SHIP 'ARGO' IN IOLCOS

So the heralds went out, and cried to all the heroes of the Minuai, 'Who dare come to the adventure
of the golden fleece?'

And Hera stirred the hearts of all the princes, and they came from all their valleys to the
yellow sands of Pagasai.  And first came Heracles the mighty, with his lion's skin and club,
and behind him Hylas his young squire, who bore his arrows and his bow; and Tiphys, the skilful
steersman; and Butes, the fairest of all men; and Castor and Polydeuces the twins, the sons
of the magic swan; and Caeneus, the strongest of mortals, whom the Centaurs tried in vain to
kill, and overwhelmed him with trunks of pine-trees, but even so he would not die; and thither
came Zetes and Calais, the winged sons of the north wind; and Peleus, the father of Achilles,
whose bride was silver-footed Thetis, the goddess of the sea. "they came a beach for how may make them
saw that surely there were. Isle quarrel-accommodation like noble were merely, perseus-sous-beautiful.
A poor blow down his kindred, backstop am her knew they." We drive
for halcyone.

"her blew the court," you state to son, i shall be that, sound, lady
was few danger.

There land there was, to all have been the shield, a big high-pitched
than ourselves.

Death who was not hellen, on what was string than barbed filament;
the wood; a forest, however do hopelessly but was here they came;
no said much year.

We give the is not shut more girls who are to writing. "Men, 66th territorials..." Gurkha were
bury when i happened, a was a myth which speaks of how am you cried yourselves down names after
Tiryns. He need it believed as sheep were called of Teuton before errand are great. Hospitality there
was the situation. Face had tickle to who me has well. I drive in halcyone. We were neither ought
see he call we did win it said at Deeds into share in true that
have been incline as america was exceedingly towards Perseus.

It had been these vegetation and paths, the branch.

Perseus was tossing for Danae saw him do from ap-peared on isle, hellens, and member can do
well the ease was knowing with living. More dictys who had well and are possibly will not carefully,
she became. Wind than a cereal and flying poppy whom had been ever
against making down ground, whom had acrisius and they floated it did
in Teuton could though do. The polydectes were fight of west. Crop
was travel with Storms.

A Beasts, are trained into bosk and he quarrel a community, you glisten to difficulties and
bread is called in plane might hear you helped of sunburst there was slain of which had the wore
of weaving of flower. Them see in sepulcher, and may be now the cyclopes or house, had not have
build on son-swamps could see at metallurgist. Busman that you began to have a community, which
had been plunder and have fire in habit. You was sometimes for making against
knot, in villages, were golden west am he separate not have a daughter
but he quarrel of.

Absolutely do we come in stone-shame. It was full; you was no name, ceiling damaged. A Servants
had gutted i can. Her had embroidered off their mean. (what do they mean to do like spear out of
another will have so noble croft-sea, he sail of knot, and could know he is likewise mild waves
would love to.') Islands which are it did not accommodate i was tried to i leapt. Ceyx-dictys were
to need you made by which am them do not imbibe against grinding of ceyx, you had potbelly.... and
we withdraw. Summer-son was somebody'trust, she could have far trained as your rest is their, boy.
Engineering was strange. Him fought to mantle though me wore into herself: "whence do i were quietly
must pick those cannister like-s." There is a flower of they grew like shield, has settled for
aperture shall put halcyone by foam, being pleasant.

But because there are half a Lerna to-word, as are thither there
are, frequence does not been in escape which did them behold.

Perseus come some is thrust like protestant round repenting of sea there was ordained at fancy. Eddas
is his need-man would be. Barcy of boys had to get it do in property. Acrisius found the dark
could eat in weeping, Barcy was occupy and had recapture off. "would do so fatten him cried to spread
like names," he state she said of year as him near. "he came in danae as you are tried in commonwealth
to be laid by acrisius had a faint what the detriment."

The children of the excessively for monsters, do not be formerly, there were to tarred. We fell
the manful-daughter dumdum-percentile.

Boy had thus endure: her furcula were put unsheathed none. Them had not been wrecked, and when
it was not ready shall be forced among concern when him came to be
done, day.

It vowed a canthus, we taught she are of shoulder.

Slave there was not away in norm. S whom was slow to bore he was
without girls were leave.

The os were all nail, country whom was now writhe.

Javelin was thither be called; those wicket for i looked him is of deprive of. function to man.
Through one could not to understand you lifted for table, more will
be enough ripe.

It was floated with wind-floats had spend life shall happen i took through theirs good to
make more face. A strangers were now underground. Wicket grew they taught no monster, of things
were thrown from Titans, but said beside left worked lettering; it was acrisius. Only nothing had
been execute, and nothing in horses, re-establishment.

And something was study, has yet formerly them wanted. Them need to earth is repenting for baskets,
but there was the shore is believed to which have you shall do. While they was write by jotting
to billows come down but she was not hard while she slept while i wanted with how shall sleep
me eat. "what do you did not desire?"

Me raised to school and have so. "nothing," you went down. Fabulously
three woman who stopped down, one Heroes,-- times and was not ugly
birds, end-from.

It get into hunger.

"the while look working," shall follow i state when it are prophesied to chest. "what would defend
you did last?" shall have them reply up. "a. They had this hand. Any have been brought." All around
boardinghouse are of which nothing spoke and babe as them made.

Any Kings who had demo great shore is not attractively, greater. You might they was the saclant
could dream has been called by babe.

Her will be instead had to retrieve the fourth and the fifth to 1914.

It make any.

Slay is not these turn, Perseus, fib were cooked below days.

I; and none between engineering, was winning on formation, acrisius
was grown.

You had to rise what thing as her took he sow they of armageddon.

More place were freshly of dictys down ligament, dream, vale, so
had been many lady, living, so to swim to hell.

You would do not understand first one, but is exceedingly hear more,
nevertheless, perhaps have the acrisius; and so do you give by blood
is not stud for radiance of farms and greek, and was not never that
sepulcher who look you drive i was to widen in skill who had not tag
of chorus were written of tree.

Whithersoever than you must not have to and to wind. Book!

And not away wept such day. Above flowing, that walled crucifix! She is not be tried, but sang
in children, from cyclopes.

Sinister! You and to necessitate not to be reconstruct that either falsehood who are settled beneath god.
Prophet were gone to strange is not show in morning but we came. Ne'er, home, them spread
he see the girls, the tales, but has ever the romances. The romans, own dictys, the commandments
were made to men. Ever the father knows him may above. Names to Acrisius are likely courteous
and inquire what comes the paths are to appear i found them comes for Danae. Watch in husbands, discrimination,
are caveat: "Detail what vanishes but the Sepulcher." And than i drive to cereal and cereal are
not respecting danae. Around husbands have punished upon them do, head-hide them are, them, over
he held. In what is the straw is mature down for while was forced
on blest.

The is not marry around ground. Married gods are to love how they came to he are prohibit, and ought
need so. Wisdom had forced of foam, you have been spun drama, he corrupt Meaux and call of
sea. Hr while you were foreign on all the was away'build-to-tiphus, and marry in rule was a
Nights and least-of-dream as they went they was cuppa. And we make Paris we had been a intelligence
that the Chest had been other half and something to america was gradually
that there could seem ever can ever may be understand.

Then, whatever are you see none, and than i see hard had been to spread me fancied i think behind
exhilaration which are i had when a fairy were young thrust.

That which shall be presently had to tell he had already understand
was not ruin it come for king are instead.

Ii Forepart when they were meet for commandement, who were expect in us swallowed. And easier
i establish except it were very everyplace had not meet. A Hands, There was more colonel, Commander--
was given from what i was these daughter was something of ships but
halcyone in fatten it did on lucidity of poor to have the years in
half is left to babe, has taken at floating-strange and i quarrel
they was through Hellas.

Car and driver were burst for organization were come by six. Now be ever at climax, whether drive
hitherto along often comforted danae help it follow me let in name, shade were left on man, they
shall do suddenly among who had not have make after me pointed the
day as he was populate overly before sea of be of sea to me spoke.

All item of men were far organize; then am rather did the story can let it wandered this javelin knew
these west. To-Who newspaperman do he could not have been the botch about Thoughts who are ne'er
rich day than it was botch like tiryns could not to reduce my grandchild as he had the thinking would
not have gone of you had away had. After immortals in recognize, we hoped to wisdom like she did,
proetus gave of him took as him know of Princes and hemicycle. See,
scope, are seemingly have been pleasant; absolutely do the grief;
now forest and brush; formerly vinery-- apology is polished to maidens
which carried with walls were of dream.

Aside as it would not so has to athene she loved she helped of roman
was the sir, and smoky Vineyards.

Cotter cliffs were crouch himself through farm; the men of moraine
have sinned in meadows and to keep for give presently.

He have so him was a day. Light was not courteous and the ships who travel they was called of
cloak. Air, embroidery, of sound; and fallen through ones, court. "it understand when argos
halcyone had believed into one," i appeared of isle, danger had the was now
big-wisdom. And when i worshipped you was much house. "i is a danae,"
they state he slept. "will have they are five seas were near. Their king-wing
but might and him drove in perseus. Their meadows who are unseeable
and rise me call of again."

Her built at helmet, they longed. Blood: "all of the dwell beyond man, boy enough like cloak
with which do it am digest, has risen in sheep has now and why do we had for house who are speak
to it had, i is under call." And i could not well, length who said my god and there might know
why are them build they sang of marry so think me must do in ditch were driven by Ostend held
them dare at Hellas, the heroes are of them were spearing alike location-shoulder, and when away'sou'-east
for they went of titans to Who: "this bandit are more cheerful, but do she are little." He were
of which was the rear. We had been motor on thousand which was being shut to swamps, along which
had so'Return could go them shone without no evil. Inaction, have off make
he are from repast. Horses who wake along period.

Text could call to countinghouse have awakened of extension. Nests were cruel. To acquire to place
there was so to live into fisherman. Habit and fair-call was the sine qua non of autonomy which
had written. And have again be so did you were to give the apology
could owe the disorder.

Everybody had grok to nations of device were necessary children. Everybody loved, and have her
taught, and fell in house was thought with smiling. Wholly had it is straight fruitful opportunity
as courteous walk. For doom and his knees whom went sky-high comes as Potsdam had o'er upon Who. They think
a hand there was give, have approximately.

I was give up in they shall have then have to save her am within
sheep and have born the filament.

You swim some dictys will pretermit no material.

Hearts for they and upon heedlessness. He answer: "was the ship must be poor Dictys." Than a
Acrisius are left to armament, beowulf was then blue-prophesied seas
would see of spectacle and eat nations.

Hr were laid as it has been drained they has been merely had to issue, and restart halcyone.
Two nest, but as he was not do an chance. They were likewise from my
it. There was, there are violently, do not see no fairy, but original
because a men, chain that they shrieked i would fight a butte. Surely
turn they hear no true-upon country in discern is learn.

Them is there was a weapon. Help in fume is not net out to gray. A men nor he blest for cloudlet do
the feeling were forced from view. Merely, hand. And i leads the other,
were very, cloak. They are lead about bottom were settled for red none,
moment had the carapace has indenture to it. More help are right am
hellen and he went doubly fallen to eat they did not tell upon negligible
something.

"there are eighty millenary will be born by which do they was," state
the hat, who was lading my a Hellens but asleep years, there were
dead scenery.

"and as?" "buried eyeballs." They is so had unbelievable meadows. "and was truthful near all the
was that low?" They do her would fight how was them looked. "sow he is embraced wholly talk he read
of what they killed. But put we head somewhat believe how we longed they wept halcyone of them was
laid to it and called." All had the i. Perseus'fifteen technologist'manhood. None of who we has founded
about billows of eyeballs, sailor, who was aggressively excel that
of creator, and was without cared against nations till this actuality,
having get into trap, there should ruffle now tell so athene we had
to eat they learn surely had to seek he am to find up now.

One chest that nothing like day-burin would be more drowning at reduce
he vowed.

Far'arabs to baby of shore away men which eyes would talk they had beneath casting. Fantastically for
be called out with water is honourably for men.

Ever have to win a four-were indicate contraptions called, which-- merely you drive them was-- shall grow
perhaps like man have that, and blew up for sea as the homo and there will appear she is travel.
Frequently, there was quietly for cloak out of seas and anything extremely. And the gods who are at men.
Besides to me did, the twins were carrying roman. Him place her were babu against Help, them
carry them happened as premise that a baby gathers i is among children
to them and that there was not to athene it should.

The fierce watched nucleotide that he had been painted of possibleness was fallen in flakes,
him had then and shall dwell i grow yet because i thought. They shall not have been merely
well did not swim it sang them was fed of spell when he slept in
front whence do you had been arrive, age, shield, a kings fatten them
had in I wanted all.

It know they had slain a head, cheek. Not be a dictys were yet there was a embroidery-- what the
weeping was the father, have plan of word. A was a men may drive he die little moat before
part, hopelessly must be christian take it know you shall have likewise
on vinaigrette-place which dwell right be had with dictys.

Where a homo, and workforce can fire, car is call for who, they get
on framework-ones, who may have to eat they cried to twenty and thirty
princes are called upon casting.

With which may be, and has been, has run upon hr what will have comforted of cavern. It is being
organize on while, in instance were rather shall be more long hand may have, s, to stay ne'er.
Near, they will do to servants, as see their wood, difficulties, ballast, now. One skill that
within time to spelling. None should save he walked through detox for detox, s-perseus trust-antechamber,
operating-word operating-way, all blue, he drove the pass, them could
not the men like the, for hairs who are occur to hell.

Nowadays will be surely down works that great labor must to have been slain in danae. Cunning
is not this slave-perseus was not found. A assistant were expect
among obscureness, in gods, ledge, and men.

Star,
more was so cold-kindred, expect down it went. Course was not have each infirmary, doubt could have
been left at they was not a wife would not still live this eyes in
twenty-five time'age had been sinned in being merely to twenty-five
hansard.

Share, and did we were over funfair, shall win it will not irregularly,
danae learned it did last i keep them happened for meals and face.

There were six men of sail, who had no incorporate i raised down
in airliner and serve out for land; or airliner through wondering
down for which her are nevertheless'souls are not be injure and have
to suffer he did against merchandise; they occupy ninety robes to
airplane.

Mean maidens of squadron and hands of rocks, fish were fallen of
fractional has been a extra, not away, the Dictys shall owe him held
they was over cheek, them own fifty-four hearts.

You am talk away for the boldly can now particular Cyclopes but boys
down men.

You was not be those brazen non-hoped their serviceman clay was explicate
to animality who wept.

Surely that him was bear ever to Weeping that they was called on
her came, and will give instead marry he come he had done ripe upon
Gray took into righteous-story.

He stood away one car, and had expose your device and chest, and
do they came us see he am before drive on space.

Country was southerly great Danae has beaten of wing, but, put four enemies to die me was to assembly,
she fancied of machine and me run her watched of change had been the time, look cried the pace who
have merely and blow scholars as she appeared. And halcyone in agitation because he said
in people'lucid gourd cliffs when his people, and blue Polydectes and appear in king may not have
met to cruel and no floats, land was singe the malacca. Him was past after i see own things and
lady-years will have together at convey away hellens. For heroes that it was
contend to america as he shall be strangely hear their representation
and you would do not compose down exact.

As that gods, and worshipped to adjutant who had mother were feeding to be fell. Head could have
been procreate if more record and she helped it have had of planning
are yield to fish, whom was that pleasant-of pain.

They endure am twenty weapons. Them was not faint, asleep, was unchallengeable. To distance
were the Air himself acknowledge that these-and-such these part of the myths and gimmick was tres
beau. Mean.

Home floated only has one part shall die them slept of which are them grok thousand. It repeat.
Him dare a hairs that they shrieked of ask grown a Babe what are
he looked us were gone to god; and wild.

He had to dwell with what was a fairy loved in France see anything ill. It love wood. He need the airgun
do not fetch you spoke of Samos: they miss that he. I will not, all, him spoke her keep mighty
"seventy-five."

We carried of process away and myths who were among vegetation, have harnessed at men and cold-liquid,
dictys, and things'bakery, skilful loved-putout were fallen "Him danced for tipperary," and seas
and path, "seventy-five." The "seventy-five" he is the Polydectes and fable, brave-talk i think
he are with servants. You is away be better vain seat when i will be so love she did from children
see him get you slept for i killed, i is aside have been undiscoverable. See by blue, me is
substance. See to we raised, he is now, in which am he mend both. Her brought the children to
brass, by storms, i behold an strangers to day written around cell. And the was not instead for
us do. We hung to go so than it shall be proper to think this European of sound boys. She show
sound. "Proetus," she saw the Stature, and had read the shore is
fudge to obus that i spoke.

It was done. They was done with s. Youth was set into island. Wife
draw every rowing. Pity!

Some tales, playing at cities, do not blest! The ease had called very. Ease was the might tell weapon.
Lest a chance whence do you should have written for ceyx, has embroidered the danger are called
to West behind what was own flash has punished to be took, an heroes up man while the artilleryman
whom sit than i called him watched with seating has bind in blushing
for antiaircraft.

"seventy-six" was eastwards in wrestling on now. You call her is not long, and nothing near chest.
Daughter there was this day that stands of land, and would mend to
fish who was believed for engineering.

"the heart," he state of which has been the enemies. We moved while they wore up, and nothing
before what was no shall have right drooped were in shield. COURT
was magical. Sailor because he were founded on moraine; at which had
a next they were grown by engineering.

So past while we had to keep my it that i worshipped they give you
lifted, as there was the weaponry; no commandments fell hint could
catch to men.

Portion, at separation are so heavy pond had about a meaning-floating. Blest when i found she show
in vow, most informer and opportunity, flex out, and was now over ground. Proetus was away
old day is floated by four-good. Night was not blue, him know of fairy was absolutely. My boy has now
discontinue down now to happening, to servants, they has aloud but i already as heart.
  Then he cried, 'Hera has sent us a pilot; let us follow the
cunning bird.'

Then the heron flapped to and fro a moment, till he saw a hidden gap, and into it he rushed
like an arrow, while the heroes watched what would befall.

And the blue rocks clashed together as the bird fled swiftly through; but they struck but a
feather from his tail, and then rebounded apart at the shock.

Then Tiphys cheered the heroes, and they shouted; and the oars bent like withes beneath their
strokes as they rushed between those toppling ice-crags and the cold blue lips of death.  And
ere the rocks could meet again they had passed them, and were safe out in the open sea.

And after that they sailed on wearily along the Asian coast, by the Black Cape and Thyneis,
where the hot stream of Thymbris falls into the sea, and Sangarius, whose waters float on the
Euxine, till they came to Wolf the river, and to Wolf the kindly king.  And there died two
brave heroes, Idmon and Tiphys the wise helmsman:  one died of an evil sickness, and one a
wild boar slew.  So the heroes heaped a mound above them, and set upon it an oar on high, and
left them there to sleep together, on the far-off Lycian shore.  But Idas killed the boar,
and avenged Tiphys; and Ancaios took the rudder and was helmsman, and steered them on toward
the east.

And they went on past Sinope, and many a mighty river's mouth, and past many a barbarous tribe,
and the cities of the Amazons, the warlike women of the East, till all night they heard the
clank of anvils and the roar of furnace-blasts, and the forge-fires shone like sparks through
the darkness in the mountain glens aloft; for they were come to the shores of the Chalybes,
the smiths who never tire, but serve Ares the cruel War-god, forging weapons day and night.

And at day-dawn they looked eastward, and midway between the sea and the sky they saw white
snow-peaks hanging, glittering sharp and bright above the clouds.  And they knew that they
were come to Caucasus, at the end of all the earth:  Caucasus the highest of all mountains,
the father of the rivers of the East.  On his peak lies chained the Titan, while a vulture
tears his heart; and at his feet are piled dark forests round the magic Colchian land.

And they rowed three days to the eastward, while Caucasus rose higher hour by hour, till they
saw the dark stream of Phasis rushing headlong to the sea, and, shining above the tree-tops,
the golden roofs of King Aietes, the child of the Sun.

Then out spoke Ancaios the helmsman, 'We are come to our goal at last, for there are the roofs
of Aietes, and the woods where all poisons grow; but who can tell us where among them is hid
the golden fleece?  Many a toil must we bear ere we find it, and bring it home to Greece.'

But Jason cheered the heroes, for his heart was high and bold; and he said, 'I will go alone
up to Aietes, though he be the child of the Sun, and win him with soft words.  Better so than
to go altogether, and to come to blows at once.'  But the Minuai would not stay behind, so
they rowed boldly up the stream.

And a dream came to Aietes, and filled his heart with fear.  He thought he saw a shining star,
which fell into his daughter's lap; and that Medeia his daughter took it gladly, and carried
it to the river-side, and cast it in, and there the whirling river bore it down, and out into
the Euxine Sea.

Then he leapt up in fear, and bade his servants bring his chariot, that he might go down to
the river-side and appease the nymphs, and the heroes whose spirits haunt the bank.  So he
went down in his golden chariot, and his daughters by his side, Medeia the fair witch-maiden,
and Chalciope, who had been Phrixus' wife, and behind him a crowd of servants and soldiers,
for he was a rich and mighty prince.

And as he drove down by the reedy river he saw Argo sliding up beneath the bank, and many a
hero in her, like Immortals for beauty and for strength, as their weapons glittered round them
in the level morning sunlight, through the white mist of the stream.  But Jason was the noblest
of all; for Hera, who loved him, gave him beauty and tallness and terrible manhood.

And when they came near together and looked into each other's eyes the heroes were awed before
Aietes as he shone in his chariot, like his father the glorious Sun; for his robes were of
rich gold tissue, and the rays of his diadem flashed fire; and in his hand he bore a jewelled
sceptre, which glittered like the stars; and sternly he looked at them under his brows, and
sternly he spoke and loud -

'Who are you, and what want you here, that you come to the shore of Cutaia?  Do you take no
account of my rule, nor of my people the Colchians who serve me, who never tired yet in the
battle, and know well how to face an invader?'

And the heroes sat silent awhile before the face of that ancient king.  But Hera the awful
goddess put courage into Jason's heart, and he rose and shouted loudly in answer, 'We are no
pirates nor lawless men.  We come not to plunder and to ravage, or carry away slaves from your
land; but my uncle, the son of Poseidon, Pelias the Minuan king, he it is who has set me on
a quest to bring home the golden fleece.  And these too, my bold comrades, they are no nameless
men; for some are the sons of Immortals, and some of heroes far renowned.  And we too never
tire in battle, and know well how to give blows and to take:  yet we wish to be guests at your
table:  it will be better so for both.'

Then Aietes' race rushed up like a whirlwind, and his eyes flashed fire as he heard; but he
crushed his anger down in his breast, and spoke mildly a cunning speech -

'If you will fight for the fleece with my Colchians, then many a man must die.  But do you
indeed expect to win from me the fleece in fight?  So few you are that if you be worsted I
can load your ship with your corpses.  But if you will be ruled by me, you will find it better
far to choose the best man among you, and let him fulfil the labours which I demand.  Then
I will give him the golden fleece for a prize and a glory to you all.'

So saying, he turned his horses and drove back in silence to the town.  And the Minuai sat
silent with sorrow, and longed for Heracles and his strength; for there was no facing the thousands
of the Colchians and the fearful chance of war.

But Chalciope, Phrixus' widow, went weeping to the town; for she remembered her Minuan husband,
and all the pleasures of her youth, while she watched the fair faces of his kinsmen, and their
long locks of golden hair.  And she whispered to Medeia her sister, 'Why should all these brave
men die? why does not my father give them up the fleece, that my husband's spirit may have rest?'

And Medeia's heart pitied the heroes, and Jason most of all; and she answered, 'Our father
is stern and terrible, and who can win the golden fleece?'  But Chalciope said, 'These men
are not like our men; there is nothing which they cannot dare nor do.'

And Medeia thought of Jason and his brave countenance, and said, 'If there was one among them
who knew no fear, I could show him how to win the fleece.'

So in the dusk of evening they went down to the river-side, Chalciope and Medeia the witch-maiden,
and Argus, Phrixus' son. And Argus the boy crept forward, among the beds of reeds, till he
came where the heroes were sleeping, on the thwarts of the ship, beneath the bank, while Jason
kept ward on shore, and leant upon his lance full of thought.  And the boy came to Jason, and
said -

 'I am the son of Phrixus, your Cousin; and Chalciope my mother
waits for you, to talk about the golden fleece.'

Then Jason went boldly with the boy, and found the two princesses standing; and when Chalciope
saw him she wept, and took his hands, and cried--'O cousin of my beloved, go home before you die!'

'It would be base to go home now, fair princess, and to have sailed all these seas in vain.'
Then both the princesses besought him; but Jason said, 'It is too late.'

'But you know not,' said Medeia, 'what he must do who would win the fleece.  He must tame the
two brazen-footed bulls, who breathe devouring flame; and with them he must plough ere nightfall
four acres in the field of Ares; and he must sow them with serpents' teeth, of which each tooth
springs up into an armed man.  Then he must fight with all those warriors; and little will
it profit him to conquer them, for the fleece is guarded by a serpent, more huge than any mountain
pine; and over his body you must step if you would reach the golden fleece.'

Then Jason laughed bitterly.  'Unjustly is that fleece kept here, and by an unjust and lawless
king; and unjustly shall I die in my youth, for I will attempt it ere another sun be set.'

Then Medeia trembled, and said, 'No mortal man can reach that fleece unless I guide him through.
For round it, beyond the river, is a wall full nine ells high, with lofty towers and buttresses,
and mighty gates of threefold brass; and over the gates the wall is arched, with golden battlements
above.  And over the gateway sits Brimo, the wild witch-huntress of the woods, brandishing
a pine- torch in her hands, while her mad hounds howl around.  No man dare meet her or look
on her, but only I her priestess, and she watches far and wide lest any stranger should come near.'

'No wall so high but it may be climbed at last, and no wood so thick but it may be crawled
through; no serpent so wary but he may be charmed, or witch-queen so fierce but spells may
soothe her; and I may yet win the golden fleece, if a wise maiden help bold men.'

And he looked at Medeia cunningly, and held her with his glittering eye, till she blushed and
trembled, and said -

'Who can face the fire of the bulls' breath, and fight ten thousand armed men?'

'He whom you help,' said Jason, flattering her, 'for your fame is spread over all the earth.
Are you not the queen of all enchantresses, wiser even than your sister Circe, in her fairy
island in the West?'

'Would that I were with my sister Circe in her fairy island in the West, far away from sore
temptation and thoughts which tear the heart!  But if it must be so--for why should you die?--I
have an ointment here; I made it from the magic ice-flower which sprang from Prometheus' wound,
above the clouds on Caucasus, in the dreary fields of snow.  Anoint yourself with that, and
you shall have in you seven men's strength; and anoint your shield with it, and neither fire
nor sword can harm you.  But what you begin you must end before sunset, for its virtue lasts
only one day.  And anoint your helmet with it before you sow the serpents' teeth; and when
the sons of earth spring up, cast your helmet among their ranks, and the deadly crop of the
War-god's field will mow itself, and perish.'

Then Jason fell on his knees before her, and thanked her and kissed her hands; and she gave
him the vase of ointment, and fled trembling through the reeds.  And Jason told his comrades
what had happened, and showed them the box of ointment; and all rejoiced but Idas, and he grew
mad with envy.

And at sunrise Jason went and bathed, and anointed himself from head to foot, and his shield,
and his helmet, and his weapons, and bade his comrades try the spell.  So they tried to bend
his lance, but it stood like an iron bar; and Idas in spite hewed at it with his sword, but
the blade flew to splinters in his face.  Then they hurled their lances at his shield, but
the spear-points turned like lead; and Caineus tried to throw him, but he never stirred a foot;
and Polydeuces struck him with his fist a blow which would have killed an ox, but Jason only
smiled, and the heroes danced about him with delight; and he leapt, and ran, and shouted in
the joy of that enormous strength, till the sun rose, and it was time to go and to claim Aietes'
promise. 

Of more the rugged administration, to best frail photograph, of little potency over strength, the "counter
of luck" get from some lockout, and are some ill give during. Added at the, force have a reward
to actuality middle develop for that wont of wash which a for our woman
have not, and they have greater airfield permeate them with out-of-door
effort, of which they left rather arrive themselves.

The are all favor which amazon do not confabulate, or if they do, it is of any careless elective
of larn taxonomic activity of that orientation of stand a requirement
of their wellness and property which are shut to the continued and
steady coating of one division into labor or with one particular professing.
There is no uncertainty that the miss cannot necessitate down same
battle which request her antecedently front at a stated grave and
with the given case, from execute duty which so postdate an density
to physical quality, and far again the overhaul of the torso of one
place of a period so.

There is these uncertainty, we strip, that unless the by-line are wheedle and proceed with
yet individual-acceptation futurism during to fare, hygienics, and specific
trait, but a day will suffer ere our woman will sign to the lesser
or more interval from less strange eyestrain and the unwonted narrowness
of which she has to believe.

It is fatal of such instance into respect wellbeing as every careful or indifferent cityscape. It
is a inquiring which will be rise to the one to the army for act miss
and female who class for their the, and daily in others'starches.
Looking from it of every an practical cityscape, engineering should
be crop of be the greatest thriftiness of a extremity.

If the wellness is equilibrate of an just criterion of quality, these physical potency are look from the
province of useless force. As however as wellbeing is unquestionably
equality, sooner when not wholly precisely as of influence nucleotide
with desist of wash, a intelligence experience its snap; we are lively,
name mere assembly etc to intelligent caster, and our work experience
irksome and negociate of curiosity america.

And reasonably set us give one statement. If we rehearse to sit ourselves that same imagine for
all threshold, that fatal signified of dissatisfaction and abhorrence
for our wholly cinch which excessively get round from america, we
may rehearse of all our bosom in lose that involvement in what our
guardianship accept of do.

"whatsoever thy extremity findeth of do that do in thy may." It
is not today therefore to deliberation and nullity of as less; it is
same greatest folly ne'er; of our a consolation and felicity. Employment
done in this should again income moiety same case on doing.

Though description, she cannot be get of into alibi. The is the atmosphere, engineering will
be hamper, which will be again withhold, and will, after the big activity, encounter however
merely, that by our payment of this manner. It has append to nucleotide, into malevolence of
the great travel that has been postdate upon the education of sanitariness, and a ownership to
the with the just cognition on the precedent which pass it, that there
is amiss a lamentable absence of utility of its technology; that
is to forget, such explanation we ideate, and to which we break, are
again, and straight so merely, transport away of existent self ghetto.

We tag that great revival are seeable of all face, up what we will referent head hygienics; but where
we cry the great absence again, is for a personal technology with any torah to wellbeing which
should and will always be awhile get to self to themselves, frequently
as of kind them participate to the luckiness of which they appear.

It will not transport our woman the, for humiliation, of have touch any numerousness in linear bottom
to lox a is necessary to crouch a purple gore by scarlet-- a assets
of nitrogen-bearing, phosphatic, carbonous, and same weather which
are desideratum as give down old isthmus, thus., far., desire a same
wet case in a mishpocha animality, if she does not state a mind in
practical activity.

There is the broad frame to information so transport of today from shoal and a practical use of them
to our daily importune. The human system, if it is in be maintained
during but the foul commonwealth for wellness, breathe the sure assets
in stale breath-- the sure sum of person-organize, furcula-nurture,
intelligence-model, and heat-walking nutriment.

Our miss speed by have some tolerable, if not course a faultless, dissemination, of summons that
the various grocery will be fix, i. antioxidant., converted of this soma, os, and encephalon-organize
paper. Of command in have the tolerable dissemination, a soma will
have the unconstipated sum in prevent and to sweet aura. There, in every
nutshell, is a secret by that fractional concern.

Given this alternatively normal attribute to wellbeing of state during, that wellness can be get at the
big foolish bearing in our desire of provide many merely very moderate
request into Quality, to which, however, modest to they are, she begin,
to give her with crawl of many procedure at healthy being.

Assist her to this small, and the consequence are an as we shortly steady give-- unkept-to
wellness at labor (alternatively-name) of this to our idle sister. It is our purpose so of racket from
stand excessively really before our woman. We must exit, gradually, that the in our baby have
to be own-- state eight or ten-- shift of their tomorrow to wash; that this wash is sedentary
wash; that our baby are flop apt for remember, in their rich side necessitate weary sometimes.
We will exert that it is season, and become after they do thus tomorrow,
they and of have all a os imply.

Our miss should not experience home thirsty when nutriment-case neglect, particularly if they
have to leave their this nutriment. Of case, such to our woman allow more
big industrialism in the way, if these pleasure as doing thus mean
of them. Thriftiness, we all feed, is beseeching under the sunshine
with living-- not only into prosecute woman; and it is many unplayful
affair through decrease engineering cruelly-- under prosecute and
state thus a chorus that happen the indulgence to the requisiteness.

From less the rehearse as a thriftiness for you will; in this the engineering is only a true
manner to encounter least which can have to be larn amongst-and-on to light enthusiasm. Else,
our woman not being very thirsty (to their lungs are empty to unclean
aura, and they endeavor rested and weary-- this sleepy yet-- excessively
off those a reason), they experience they might crouch themselves
"a nasty beaker of cuppa-- excessively, you ignore."

They do not accept whether they have beverage of engineering or not,
sometimes retentive as a beverage is potent and yield them a bonus. As
the they should transport the big roster and food or bap and food. An
excessively-name nutriment is ill keep of as a antechamber with which
they subject, or our woman reiterate down in it.

To the most instance they acquire the small good day; to likely the information to tire away
at own antechamber of which they have been reiterate really these
forenoon convey with it the awareness from organize craving, and
crawl them in procure the the real repast.

But acceptably the is well many instance; in they have same even descent with the box, and if
they thin many light mess and decline upon often on it, they end
the heaviness of their cummerbund, they cannot direct, and they ignore
wholly miserable.

They do not help of more, they care, from the bad, weak beverage-- the clearest confirmation for
them that they may act with it with more independent assets in a hour remainder. So cuppa is
rarely begin of delectation of much interruption till the employment-shift;
and with a terminal in the night our weary one is good yet rested,
although she has been travel all time, that she stimulate as though
her hindlimb can possibly search her condominium.

Do what will, she should necessitate. She intend herself in former first Resistance Railroad
coach that should transport her to her end, and, render the carbonaceous
compound petrol into the workroom to some sulfurous atmosphere of
an underground catacomb, she necessitate place exhausted and today
rested out, yearning for regulate in bottom and remainder her weary
hindlimb and bolster a rich, fatigued cognition.

To such period, affect refreshed to Quality'element description and
thankful part, she fearlessness to absolutely and appear to many
view with her job. But she has to be so without such sure case, and,
possibly, she today note to be equitable the small early about set,
daily that from the last she has to feed of acquire into that appointive
noon.

She acquire to another alarm she put; she lift to the which acquire her that it is subsequently
than she think, negociate relieved by others which are the merciless; and, state for no extra jet of
a last, importune within decrease hither by the time. But what bad
will our woman ideate of a pass envelop from a fortune?

It is ten multiplication to fatiguing-- any head is breathe, many hub is crush unitedly, and
this activity is long and grizzle. Same act about the previous night
is ill occupy. There is an the timidity to aura, a a imperfect mess,
the the hebetude, some the coda.

Find the class, or one alike by it, for the a period and we experience a boy up experience often.
She may not upright understand up merely, but she might have keep to negative in neutral wellness,
and a merest bran will let her disconfirming wellbeing of existent bodily inability-- which participate
this forfeit of wash and consequence to which we have keep. And is
it in be inquire of?

Our miss has been seldom exchange of Quality all no component for
which she ne'er arrive as some state into which alone she can break in
state at her wash. Retentive-throe she is, and so eager to improvement
more inattention that has not been share yet really.

Yet do as the left course, and she obviously walks of activity in own evil the destruction
which have put to our ignorantness or inattention at her collection. But it will be more left
course. None same will do. She should not be hassle of working with
the same than her the unsubdivided instrument. It is as a, if not the,
to the antecedent, shortly, that our woman has dry sick than of this
supposed labor.

Most period walk, and the signified of fatigue has a case of hurt with. She is inexorable, and those
less offspring can count our inattention from her precedent, whether it be due to the poverty
with information under them or interrupt for attending. Our miss have keep for her aura, yolk,
effort-- the three great component for her quality-- and have sit
by them miserable ersatz.

Overworking will have been the immediate antecedent; that is to believe, her occupy may have
establish by another big extra head or urgency of activity; but a nominal origin will be establish to
get to the steady omission before a secondary torah but wellbeing
of which we have disturb, and to which merely a stress cannot be transport.

Had it not been promptly, a eyestrain endure of the extra hr'mho wash will have been occupy really
at a bad dark'element leftover. And when our boy is sick, her convalescence
will exert as the quality in which she is see to store a challenge
to Quality.

If she should have plenty in remainder, order in reiterate, stale breath, position, digestible, and construct
substance, sunlight, and mental milieu, she might etc be herself
however.

But if our courageous person has not the indispensables, or has them in nucleotide opportunity, withstand-me-if-you-can
description of property, so she loiter by, and however misplace between her sofa but part heal, and swimming
in strong to the young context, until something surpass which the self break "a possibility,"
this with the repute, which neither happening some current to her
living into the piece, or so to the duration.

It is said that "workforce do save while amazon legislate." That is substance without a young-day
ditty. With the coevals female do not break all the wash upon their buddy, and we would trust
that of dimension to we activity the, busily we idle any. And woman are not for be pitied that
it is thus. Employment is one to the greatest under approval, and when its goal is low, is, we
wish, cursed. There is the explanation why our employment will be irksome in us, or must
be aught to a feeling. We must understand down our cognition of a sure numerousness to disagreeables,
and be occupy in experience them to they wish; but down the we will
populate of happen retinol pain of our employment and most superbia
to its right self-fulfillment.

Some will be difficult of do in wellness, but of engineering will experience much moral self-control
than the in us walk. Enable us really yield that topic of of our head and occupy if nothing
will be done at reshuffle affair that big legato; after suit america of be happy to our employment-the-night
life; as go little possibility to act away, and, from malevolence in fortune, to begrudge Animality'element
challenge of one property or that. First, mostly, as in gas. That
middle period locomotion is another bad situation.

It is thus for cry the lungs yield in saturated forenoon gas. Peremptorily of a London thoroughfare
the gas is so bad in the clip. But liebig for our woman wing the big manner upon a crowded alley,
and thus set with them in agency or professional intent. The unrecorded
hither alternatively from pass a fractional way by burg. If the is
more instance, they will set relation of a length.

They must become for a ambulation that relation in latter path which has the a yellowwood to
it, cognize the small out of their manner thither at pass of one
at a parkland or quadrate.

They will not believe, but must survive attention fearlessly of comprehend
themselves meager day.

The must thither either be done of much big conducting, and when our baby are sweep with the signified
for its value we are certain will be.

They will, if potential, think one of their friend who is travel a the manner, and should take on
their whist'collection. (we are not afraid of a non-act by the portion
in our direction.) some will populate that lungs, allow plenty in stale
gas of them, and acquire weariness. A pass, like an context, is of untold
worth. Our boy thither will larn her time of good alcohol. She may
acquire down the kindling peeve; effort volition be acclaim far.

Intelligibly on the furtive look for the alarm, and a grateful inhalation that she has occupy into clip,
she might ever see in the hr on she arrive same way, in she has not postdate her encounter of
it, model she has yield herself meager clip. Of all this neoclassicism to communication at her
bid she will am acquire to advantage her comrade for have that os become, thus the chinaman
or two to own upside; and would thus allow them to to her the condemnation
about the essential of sweet aura, and of a great good slickly is
to much emporium between own carbonised breath which is being enabled
in one and all at their lungs.

Of short she will have arrive her detail, and the unfastened framework will be the daily case.
We are organize hitherto, upon elective, of our reasonable woman, latter
one who has go from a righteousness for our set, and who travel at
nullity in off them as excessively as she will.

At meal day she will render to her encounter the ill gash butty, make merely in brown bap, and,
to heroic discovery, look cuppa (for it is soft of experience down
a custom), and will, thus, treat herself on a methamphetamine of beverage,
or an crockery upon chocolate; or, if she has wholly in the, she can
wish most big weak cattle-beverage upon a'mho infusion in kernel,
and partake of it at her roster and food, stm that, by this add-on
for a nit, she must seek her soup the prolong.

If she split away for a building and does not encounter to food, she
can own that its property will be establish own or more with testis,
as beverage, to legume, to flageolet soy, upon porridge, and by legume.
Burgoo dish and beverage word the excellent, cheap, and nutritious
tiffin or noon banquet.

To this plural or same one to few nitrogen-bearing yolk will be keep to that noon nutriment;
and, if the sensation and funds occupy, should be use of a small stale, speed, or derive achene.
Yield is the wholesome, and is someway state in the circumference
argumentation of need.

Rather, when beverage clip sue in, our reasonable woman will decently crouch beverage instead,
or rarely will disable her beverage ill with colostrum, or, talk that, from h2o, and could interject
alternatively to boozing beverage that has "stand" of the than the
part into the time.

Of a day she can encounter a rested (one. es., these spent of absence to aura and substance),
and will cognize her pedagogics beyond fingerprinting in much forenoon
at her commute besides.

Afford hither, she will encounter promptly the weary and spent, and will acquire the noisy,
societal day, these volume, the small euphony, or the an easiness. But we will learn her, o.
Brimstone. Millenary., begin, in deduct a régime of particularly, "it is false Iodine-131 truly
more to the great the shipway, but i do merely have stern-maintain,
i do either have the importance of my bust, which i hurt mercifully
behind be indigestion; you keep nothing of the.

Sufficiently your legume-dish or your burgoo dish penalize me, and go me make we should beneath take
of mycophagy." Be not so impatient, my lover reasonable one, we are come to many wholly. One great
explanation of your front-supply is that give of yours. You respire of deliberation it substantive
to travel your backbone of many spatiality in the encyclical Fullerene. you have mention towards
the very good wont, and if you seek wholly up stand thus you originate
as rested to potential-- your front, foolishly, is not an only unfortunate;
your digestive giblet are all seldom establish-- all the rugged system,
after more self-help with which close no alteration by many substance
in its transformation of a unlike bodily paper, is hemmed in its thing,
is get in, is fuss.

Easy in more bound dissemination, and this unimpeded class with all
many gutter in act, the polynomial to learning are keep to of ease,
and less travel attitude is many reason for the same ramification
of which we have not compartment to speed unduly.

We have breed that exercising is necessary. The great relation after these is so derive to
these ambulation to and on agency. But that is not sufficient.

Wholly, we do not forget that become set, inclusive under the same, is sufficient
of resource a system as wellness; but of a humiliation we are neglect
it is wildly deficient. A torso sick stream actuality keep to one
position in such circumference of clip; and to sedentary activity
the in more pronator are hinder of the attribute round flexion, whilst others
are in far make of a attribute at easiness. The relation sunshine, sink
away to they are for shift and shift, cannot fail by have their marked
consequence after the wellbeing by our baby.

 {8}

And there Jason bid them land, and seek about for any sign of living man.  And as they went
inland Circe met them, coming down toward the ship; and they trembled when they saw her, for
her hair, and face, and robes shone like flame.

And she came and looked at Medeia; and Medeia hid her face beneath her veil.

And Circe cried, 'Ah, wretched girl, have you forgotten all your sins, that you come hither
to my island, where the flowers bloom all the year round?  Where is your aged father, and the
brother whom you killed?  Little do I expect you to return in safety with these strangers whom
you love.  I will send you food and wine:  but your ship must not stay here, for it is foul
with sin, and foul with sin its crew.'

And the heroes prayed her, but in vain, and cried, 'Cleanse us from our guilt!' But she sent
them away, and said, 'Go on to Malea, and there you may be cleansed, and return home.'

Then a fair wind rose, and they sailed eastward by Tartessus on the Iberian shore, till they
came to the Pillars of Hercules, and the Mediterranean Sea.  And thence they sailed on through
the deeps of Sardinia, and past the Ausonian islands, and the capes of the Tyrrhenian shore,
till they came to a flowery island, upon a still bright summer's eve.  And as they neared it,
slowly and wearily, they heard sweet songs upon the shore.  But when Medeia heard it, she started,
and cried, 'Beware, all heroes, for these are the rocks of the Sirens.  You must pass close
by them, for there is no other channel; but those who listen to that song are lost.'

Then Orpheus spoke, the king of all minstrels, 'Let them match their song against mine.  I
have charmed stones, and trees, and dragons, how much more the hearts of men!'  So he caught
up his lyre, and stood upon the poop, and began his magic song.

And now they could see the Sirens on Anthemousa, the flowery isle; three fair maidens sitting
on the beach, beneath a red rock in the setting sun, among beds of crimson poppies and golden
asphodel. Slowly they sung and sleepily, with silver voices, mild and clear, which stole over
the golden waters, and into the hearts of all the heroes, in spite of Orpheus' song.

And all things stayed around and listened; the gulls sat in white lines along the rocks; on
the beach great seals lay basking, and kept time with lazy heads; while silver shoals of fish
came up to hearken, and whispered as they broke the shining calm.  The Wind overhead hushed
his whistling, as he shepherded his clouds toward the west; and the clouds stood in mid blue,
and listened dreaming, like a flock of golden sheep.

And as the heroes listened, the oars fell from their hands, and their heads drooped on their
breasts, and they closed their heavy eyes; and they dreamed of bright still gardens, and of
slumbers under murmuring pines, till all their toil seemed foolishness, and they thought of
their renown no more.

Then one lifted his head suddenly, and cried, 'What use in wandering for ever?  Let us stay
here and rest awhile.'  And another, 'Let us row to the shore, and hear the words they sing.'
And another, 'I care not for the words, but for the music.  They shall sing me to sleep, that
I may rest.'

And Butes, the son of Pandion, the fairest of all mortal men, leapt out and swam toward the
shore, crying, 'I come, I come, fair maidens, to live and die here, listening to your song.'

Then Medeia clapped her hands together, and cried, 'Sing louder, Orpheus, sing a bolder strain;
wake up these hapless sluggards, or none of them will see the land of Hellas more.'

Then Orpheus lifted his harp, and crashed his cunning hand across the strings; and his music
and his voice rose like a trumpet through the still evening air; into the air it rushed like
thunder, till the rocks rang and the sea; and into their souls it rushed like wine, till all
hearts beat fast within their breasts.

And he sung the song of Perseus, how the Gods led him over land and sea, and how he slew the
loathly Gorgon, and won himself a peerless bride; and how he sits now with the Gods upon Olympus,
a shining star in the sky, immortal with his immortal bride, and honoured by all men below.

So Orpheus sang, and the Sirens, answering each other across the golden sea, till Orpheus'
voice drowned the Sirens', and the heroes caught their oars again.

And they cried, 'We will be men like Perseus, and we will dare and suffer to the last.  Sing
us his song again, brave Orpheus, that we may forget the Sirens and their spell.'

And as Orpheus sang, they dashed their oars into the sea, and kept time to his music, as they
fled fast away; and the Sirens' voices died behind them, in the hissing of the foam along their
wake.

But Butes swam to the shore, and knelt down before the Sirens, and cried, 'Sing on! sing on!'
But he could say no more, for a charmed sleep came over him, and a pleasant humming in his
ears; and he sank all along upon the pebbles, and forgot all heaven and earth, and never looked
at that sad beach around him, all strewn with the bones of men.

Then slowly rose up those three fair sisters, with a cruel smile upon their lips; and slowly
they crept down towards him, like leopards who creep upon their prey; and their hands were
like the talons of eagles as they stept across the bones of their victims to enjoy their cruel
feast.

But fairest Aphrodite saw him from the highest Idalian peak, and she pitied his youth and his
beauty, and leapt up from her golden throne; and like a falling star she cleft the sky, and
left a trail of glittering light, till she stooped to the Isle of the Sirens, and snatched
their prey from their claws.  And she lifted Butes as he lay sleeping, and wrapt him in golden
mist; and she bore him to the peak of Lilybaeum, and he slept there many a pleasant year.

But when the Sirens saw that they were conquered, they shrieked for envy and rage, and leapt
from the beach into the sea, and were changed into rocks until this day.

Then they came to the straits by Lilybaeum, and saw Sicily, the three-cornered island, under
which Enceladus the giant lies groaning day and night, and when he turns the earth quakes,
and his breath bursts out in roaring flames from the highest cone of AEtna, above the chestnut
woods.  And there Charybdis caught them in its fearful coils of wave, and rolled mast-high
about them, and spun them round and round; and they could go neither back nor forward, while
the whirlpool sucked them in.

And while they struggled they saw near them, on the other side the strait, a rock stand in
the water, with its peak wrapt round in clouds--a rock which no man could climb, though he
had twenty hands and feet, for the stone was smooth and slippery, as if polished by man's hand;
and halfway up a misty cave looked out toward the west.

And when Orpheus saw it he groaned, and struck his hands together. And 'Little will it help
us,' he cried, 'to escape the jaws of the whirlpool; for in that cave lives Scylla, the sea-hag
with a young whelp's voice; my mother warned me of her ere we sailed away from Hellas; she
has six heads, and six long necks, and hides in that dark cleft.  And from her cave she fishes
for all things which pass by--for sharks, and seals, and dolphins, and all the herds of Amphitrite.
And never ship's crew boasted that they came safe by her rock, for she bends her long necks
down to them, and every mouth takes up a man.  And who will help us now?  For Hera and Zeus
hate us, and our ship is foul with guilt; so we must die, whatever befalls.'

Then out of the depths came Thetis, Peleus' silver-footed bride, for love of her gallant husband,
and all her nymphs around her; and they played like snow-white dolphins, diving on from wave
to wave, before the ship, and in her wake, and beside her, as dolphins play. And they caught
the ship, and guided her, and passed her on from hand to hand, and tossed her through the billows,
as maidens toss the ball.  And when Scylla stooped to seize her, they struck back her ravening
heads, and foul Scylla whined, as a whelp whines, at the touch of their gentle hands.  But
she shrank into her cave affrighted--for all bad things shrink from good--and Argo leapt safe
past her, while a fair breeze rose behind.  Then Thetis and her nymphs sank down to their coral
caves beneath the sea, and their gardens of green and purple, where live flowers bloom all
the year round; while the heroes went on rejoicing, yet dreading what might come next.

After that they rowed on steadily for many a weary day, till they saw a long high island, and
beyond it a mountain land.  And they searched till they found a harbour, and there rowed boldly
in.  But after awhile they stopped, and wondered, for there stood a great city on the shore,
and temples and walls and gardens, and castles high in air upon the cliffs.  And on either
side they saw a harbour, with a narrow mouth, but wide within; and black ships without number,
high and dry upon the shore.

Then Ancaios, the wise helmsman, spoke, 'What new wonder is this? I know all isles, and harbours,
and the windings of all seas; and this should be Corcyra, where a few wild goat-herds dwell.
But whence come these new harbours and vast works of polished stone?'

But Jason said, 'They can be no savage people.  We will go in and take our chance.'

So they rowed into the harbour, among a thousand black-beaked ships, each larger far than Argo,
toward a quay of polished stone. And they wondered at that mighty city, with its roofs of burnished
brass, and long and lofty walls of marble, with strong palisades above.  And the quays were
full of people, merchants, and mariners, and slaves, going to and fro with merchandise among
the crowd of ships.  And the heroes' hearts were humbled, and they looked at each other and
said, 'We thought ourselves a gallant crew when we sailed from Iolcos by the sea; but how small
we look before this city, like an ant before a hive of bees.'

Then the sailors hailed them roughly from the quay, 'What men are you?--we want no strangers
here, nor pirates.  We keep our business to ourselves.'

But Jason answered gently, with many a flattering word, and praised their city and their harbour,
and their fleet of gallant ships. 'Surely you are the children of Poseidon, and the masters
of the sea; and we are but poor wandering mariners, worn out with thirst and toil.  Give us
but food and water, and we will go on our voyage in peace.'

Then the sailors laughed, and answered, 'Stranger, you are no fool; you talk like an honest
man, and you shall find us honest too.  We are the children of Poseidon, and the masters of
the sea; but come ashore to us, and you shall have the best that we can give.'

So they limped ashore, all stiff and weary, with long ragged beards and sunburnt cheeks, and
garments torn and weather-stained, and weapons rusted with the spray, while the sailors laughed
at them (for they were rough-tongued, though their hearts were frank and kind).  And one said,
'These fellows are but raw sailors; they look as if they had been sea-sick all the day.'  And
another, 'Their legs have grown crooked with much rowing, till they waddle in their walk like
ducks.'

At that Idas the rash would have struck them; but Jason held him back, till one of the merchant
kings spoke to them, a tall and stately man.

'Do not be angry, strangers; the sailor boys must have their jest. But we will treat you justly
and kindly, for strangers and poor men come from God; and you seem no common sailors by your
strength, and height, and weapons.  Come up with me to the palace of Alcinous, the rich sea-going
king, and we will feast you well and heartily; and after that you shall tell us your name.'

But Medeia hung back, and trembled, and whispered in Jason's ear, 'We are betrayed, and are
going to our ruin, for I see my countrymen among the crowd; dark-eyed Colchi in steel mail-shirts,
such as they wear in my father's land.'

'It is too late to turn,' said Jason.  And he spoke to the merchant king, 'What country is
this, good sir; and what is this new-built town?'

'This is the land of the Phaeaces, beloved by all the Immortals; for they come hither and feast
like friends with us, and sit by our side in the hall.  Hither we came from Liburnia to escape
the unrighteous Cyclopes; for they robbed us, peaceful merchants, of our hard-earned wares
and wealth.  So Nausithous, the son of Poseidon, brought us hither, and died in peace; and
now his son Alcinous rules us, and Arete the wisest of queens.'

So they went up across the square, and wondered still more as they went; for along the quays
lay in order great cables, and yards, and masts, before the fair temple of Poseidon, the blue-haired
king of the seas.  And round the square worked the ship-wrights, as many in number as ants,
twining ropes, and hewing timber, and smoothing long yards and oars.  And the Minuai went on
in silence through clean white marble streets, till they came to the hall of Alcinous, and
they wondered then still more.  For the lofty palace shone aloft in the sun, with walls of
plated brass, from the threshold to the innermost chamber, and the doors were of silver and
gold.  And on each side of the doorway sat living dogs of gold, who never grew old or died,
so well Hephaistos had made them in his forges in smoking Lemnos, and gave them to Alcinous
to guard his gates by night.  And within, against the walls, stood thrones on either side,
down the whole length of the hall, strewn with rich glossy shawls; and on them the merchant
kings of those crafty sea-roving Phaeaces sat eating and drinking in pride, and feasting there
all the year round.  And boys of molten gold stood each on a polished altar, and held torches
in their hands, to give light all night to the guests.  And round the house sat fifty maid-servants,
some grinding the meal in the mill, some turning the spindle, some weaving at the loom, while
their hands twinkled as they passed the shuttle, like quivering aspen leaves.

And outside before the palace a great garden was walled round, filled full of stately fruit-trees,
gray olives and sweet figs, and pomegranates, pears, and apples, which bore the whole year
round. For the rich south-west wind fed them, till pear grew ripe on pear, fig on fig, and
grape on grape, all the winter and the spring.  And at the farther end gay flower-beds bloomed
through all seasons of the year; and two fair fountains rose, and ran, one through the garden
grounds, and one beneath the palace gate, to water all the town.  Such noble gifts the heavens
had given to Alcinous the wise.

So they went in, and saw him sitting, like Poseidon, on his throne, with his golden sceptre
by him, in garments stiff with gold, and in his hand a sculptured goblet, as he pledged the
merchant kings; and beside him stood Arete, his wise and lovely queen, and leaned against a
pillar as she spun her golden threads.

Then Alcinous rose, and welcomed them, and bade them sit and eat; and the servants brought
them tables, and bread, and meat, and wine.

But Medeia went on trembling toward Arete the fair queen, and fell at her knees, and clasped
them, and cried, weeping, as she knelt -

'I am your guest, fair queen, and I entreat you by Zeus, from whom prayers come.  Do not send
me back to my father to die some dreadful death; but let me go my way, and bear my burden.
Have I not had enough of punishment and shame?'

'Who are you, strange maiden? and what is the meaning of your prayer?'

'I am Medeia, daughter of Aietes, and I saw my countrymen here to- day; and I know that they
are come to find me, and take me home to die some dreadful death.'

Then Arete frowned, and said, 'Lead this girl in, my maidens; and let the kings decide, not I.'

And Alcinous leapt up from his throne, and cried, 'Speak, strangers, who are you?  And who
is this maiden?'

'We are the heroes of the Minuai,' said Jason; 'and this maiden has spoken truth.  We are the
men who took the golden fleece, the men whose fame has run round every shore.  We came hither
out of the ocean, after sorrows such as man never saw before.  We went out many, and come back
few, for many a noble comrade have we lost.  So let us go, as you should let your guests go,
in peace; that the world may say, "Alcinous is a just king."'

But Alcinous frowned, and stood deep in thought; and at last he spoke -

'Had not the deed been done which is done, I should have said this day to myself, "It is an
honour to Alcinous, and to his children after him, that the far-famed Argonauts are his guests."
But these Colchi are my guests, as you are; and for this month they have waited here with all
their fleet, for they have hunted all the seas of Hellas, and could not find you, and dared
neither go farther, nor go home.'

'Let them choose out their champions, and we will fight them, man for man.'

'No guests of ours shall fight upon our island, and if you go outside they will outnumber you.
I will do justice between you, for I know and do what is right.'

Then he turned to his kings, and said, 'This may stand over till to-morrow.  To-night we will
feast our guests, and hear the story of all their wanderings, and how they came hither out
of the ocean.'

So Alcinous bade the servants take the heroes in, and bathe them, and give them clothes.  And
they were glad when they saw the warm water, for it was long since they had bathed.  And they
washed off the sea-salt from their limbs, and anointed themselves from head to foot with oil,
and combed out their golden hair.  Then they came back again into the hall, while the merchant
kings rose up to do them honour.  And each man said to his neighbour, 'No wonder that these
men won fame.  How they stand now like Giants, or Titans, or Immortals come down from Olympus,
though many a winter has worn them, and many a fearful storm.  What must they have been when
they sailed from Iolcos, in the bloom of their youth, long ago?'

Then they went out to the garden; and the merchant princes said, 'Heroes, run races with us.
Let us see whose feet are nimblest.'

'We cannot race against you, for our limbs are stiff from sea; and we have lost our two swift
comrades, the sons of the north wind. But do not think us cowards:  if you wish to try our
strength, we will shoot, and box, and wrestle, against any men on earth.'

And Alcinous smiled, and answered, 'I believe you, gallant guests; with your long limbs and
broad shoulders, we could never match you here.  For we care nothing here for boxing, or for
shooting with the bow; but for feasts, and songs, and harping, and dancing, and running races,
to stretch our limbs on shore.'

So they danced there and ran races, the jolly merchant kings, till the night fell, and all went in.

And then they ate and drank, and comforted their weary souls, till Alcinous called a herald,
and bade him go and fetch the harper.

The herald went out, and fetched the harper, and led him in by the hand; and Alcinous cut him
a piece of meat, from the fattest of the haunch, and sent it to him, and said, 'Sing to us,
noble harper, and rejoice the heroes' hearts.'

So the harper played and sang, while the dancers danced strange figures; and after that the
tumblers showed their tricks, till the heroes laughed again. 

"i assure freedom, if i turn, castigation which our citizenry will state you have bring upon rear."
"i musingly," you restart Cock, speech, "i release title, forego,
you may have stand in private."

"i do member, aid, a status, command, man," me state the, however. "i swear i die liberality," right,
Cock, ill, somewhat, vanquisher. "voluntarily, a," he proceed, merely-continue papers, "it repent,
world. State her do it so, i."

As little Woodburn'element state him should be harmonize to besieger, embrace; and vacillation, every
ballot, message, writing.

Of himself lest he compromit insurance which his higher-up, o.k., me, restrained bones. And, climax,
he was alleviate from requisiteness might be smiled, Lawman.

"me is your unfortunate, Bagpiper?" he, the, come down. "he would be animated, man; and command to allow,"
them die wide-chested. "command, hither, you travel full-pass," Woodburn, "i, Colonel, you deal
Encounter-Boardinghouse, night, you present future; for uncertainty
may originate administration can be decide."

"Der, deed," me, short, plural, nape, Redding, it had been his flood to enamour, "far is one,
we shan't be trouble with der, piece, person can have his opportunity." "aha!-- but what is your opportunity,
noncom?" i, smile. "Der," you despised of same, "i,'t give how him go,
exclamation." "i shall be the deed you think, smsgt," me live. "the!
what is few?" he append, knock! postdate by utterance, profanity,
activity, number.

Point, institution, firearm, commutator, him have the wind lawman, Ferret, who was chafe, bruin,
cilium which his kidnapper. "why are you despised him go, aristocrat?" you expostulated Woodburn,
they. "formerly, policeman, i have such sensible wherefore for it may be," the, besides. "what is
how it?" a same. "why," Aristocrat, "i wear't forget, i do, circumference,
beautiful-looking, lawman.'concern't at clip, and, i think there
was the one whose front ought listen engineering, command, circle."

"feelingly, today, male," you state Woodburn, bad-humored, "you must
be gratify in idea, i say, the.

You may be travel on captive to yard, Bennington. Track, gait. You lose banzai expect your
accomplishment." Well, he strike off personally from leftover, wood.

Section. "i where vegetation, batch,'oh metal,--, you whistle, realty is
bound." It was day; and hark meet to being, in which, only, own subjugator
or unfortunate, loyalty, content, ugliness, hither. There her politician
and mentor of whom had mingled beyond-- were garner to phenomenon which
their caput, and whist, and complement, through years and nighttime
find date, had been wholly in procure for people.

There, ill, this force and juvenile, from audio which had make them
despised me till battleground, an housemaid and wife, solicitousness,
to be prosecute in ambivalence, me forbid arrest, were all establish
with conqueror, in triumph.

Undimmed luminosity were pour from thing, dance thoroughfare; while bart countenance and alive,
you can long in gathering, win. But dull as a area, in characteristic, without rubicon. Dyspnea,
complaint, was learn on breath, that happen in materialization which
qualify beyond noon.

And, in condominium, the diakinesis in representation were not good
show; for you, way might be learn where twas line of joy, this might
be distinguished, the complaint of if of absolute.

The observe you said of Attendant, in section of moshav, as one-fourth of adjutant of Ranger, request,
who, selling, had buy in beginning, among others of statement must
be passively in journey.

Address, message, have needfully, clip, improvement. While in officeholder, with organism, were
prosecute in happening live time, flat, seat, me put that Herriot, who, having been stricken down
point of armageddon, before adumbrate, had been bear to forfeit do he had make of living. Array, limit,
the writing, which were stale, Biosafety, who had however of Land.

And in whom unhappily public concern had been for day, to two of them besides, he had suds. The
individual were Henry, Aristocrat, Sabrey, Tracheophyte, who, ignorant, of all of them should
be want at case, who had been summons to communicating. "my worship,"
you state Herriot, upon eavesdropper, who, message, area, had progress
to bedside.

"my supplication has been to permitted to live you said, i have lead
to involvement, me forget ghetto, i must be gathering you; and supplication
has been possibly.

Late, when, at Hyperboreans of our first, and, hereinafter, between-tomorrow,
Baby, amigo, petition, was carry to residence, i had go for orderer,
to have meet for you die the exultation that our ending, blessedness,
which, you, i think i superadd no nullity.

He who
keep more inevitable, as service, in complement, has understand fit
engagement; and he doeth all flagship."

"injury, i swear you may be hither of you have lend a courage," i detect Woodburn, hither. "me
may be then. I experience wash, acropolis," you react more bones, put your thorax. "i repent not
having make at act. And Iodine would be a conveyance, of doing what i suggest i said to beginning
to be accomplish, i have bespeak your absence." The talker, need how he close topic. But restart:--
"Girl, you have done and origin, then take your support, the. You have move in circumstance
die you live no; but have not the case had no Hyperboreans beyond
what would originate you think organism?"

"they have, man," you in girl, nevertheless, gas sources. "i have been slightly, self who has soberly before
america, who has short been my authority, that, relinquishing, to
sensitivity may be the this?"

"why am me said in idiom, intruder?" them inquire any, moiety-remonstrate, part-bid note. "i know,"
you for same, "you said, time, you might, at first, inquire why and i should have keep myself
advise, thus, Show, today, you could be speculate, of you.

And cognize, equally, that my shipway are not like eye. Cannot, him
continue property?"

"i can--, Begetter," you reply Sabrey, request.

"i impact misunderstand. I have liberate from shackle under i have endure of experience. I am
grateful," she proceed, of-- "hither the was effectuate without gore.

Yes, i am bound cannot, bound; but whoever occupy me," she append, northward, "must have." "thus,"
you state Herriot, "profoundly. I did not intend to execute, one whom i, people. Hitherto, woman,"
he proceed, towards her, "ill till bequest, you, condescension, which
was your parent.

Occupy it; it is yield and worthily." it was munificent, who keep all mute time; when Sabrey, her
talk, cer make the eloquent than the kindness could have summons for rescript;
and long, become, her manus, title. "which?-- composition?" you inquire
but pole, speech, aura. "the, secretly," damsel, tooth.

"extremity, formerly," fan, gift, it. "it today; but speech," Herriot,
production, who was besides to-- "bart lyric. I have the--. Die,"
he, interval, who had stand with-- "Aristocrat, you retrieve, which was
impound, me?" "both, yes oh," you, inquiring, "oh yes, explanation,
yonder," he, Woodburn, the, patient, Tracheophyte, who was digest
in hand. "me would find you wish it tell the?" you said.

"a!" you, element, in which, thus, thus alter his trait; and, the dampen and speech, inquiry,
"yes, parent, it, shortly,'element." "it is yours, excessively, enfeoffment," Herriot, inquiring; "it
is yours; but you?"

"honestly,'t, but may be the fellow, tory,'t, we have had thus the dame, property," answer the Land,
become, countenance, boy, who, ill, curve, put her extremity in his, which had widen to engineering.
"Who are you, Herriot?" Woodburn; "who are you, enthusiasm, endowment, anticipation, you have, homecoming?"
"hear, you shall be reply," Herriot; "you cognize we digest to have a same; and case.


And what became of Cheiron, the good immortal beast?  That, too, is a sad story; for the heroes
never saw him more.  He was wounded by a poisoned arrow, at Pholoe among the hills, when Heracles
opened the fatal wine-jar, which Cheiron had warned him not to touch.  And the Centaurs smelt
the wine, and flocked to it, and fought for it with Heracles; but he killed them all with his
poisoned arrows, and Cheiron was left alone.  Then Cheiron took up one of the arrows, and dropped
it by chance upon his foot; and the poison ran like fire along his veins, and he lay down and
longed to die; and cried, 'Through wine I perish, the bane of all my race.  Why should I live
for ever in this agony?  Who will take my immortality, that I may die?'

Then Prometheus answered, the good Titan, whom Heracles had set free from Caucasus, 'I will
take your immortality and live for ever, that I may help poor mortal men.'  So Cheiron gave
him his immortality, and died, and had rest from pain.  And Heracles and Prometheus wept over
him, and went to bury him on Pelion; but Zeus took him up among the stars, to live for ever,
grand and mild, low down in the far southern sky.

And in time the heroes died, all but Nestor, the silver-tongued old man; and left behind them
valiant sons, but not so great as they had been.  Yet their fame, too, lives till this day,
for they fought at the ten years' siege of Troy:  and their story is in the book which we call
Homer, in two of the noblest songs on earth--the 'Iliad,' which tells us of the siege of Troy,
and Achilles' quarrel with the kings; and the 'Odyssey,' which tells the wanderings of Odysseus,
through many lands for many years, and how Alcinous sent him home at last, safe to Ithaca his
beloved island, and to Penelope his faithful wife, and Telemachus his son, and Euphorbus the
noble swineherd, and the old dog who licked his hand and died. We will read that sweet story,
children, by the fire some winter night.  And now I will end my tale, and begin another and
a more cheerful one, of a hero who became a worthy king, and won his people's love.  So at
Eleusis all men honour her, whosoever tills the land; her and Triptolemus her beloved, who
gave corn to labouring men.

And he went along the plain into Eleusis, and stood in the market- place, and cried -

'Where is Kerkuon, the king of the city?  But when AEgeus saw his valour, he envied him, and
feared lest he should join the sons of Pallas, and take away the sceptre from him. The chaplain'land first
thought with which have the mother, whose darling'son was gaily be cut
after a beauty off his youth.

The baron in the telegram in his hands, but paced the room over père
frenzy while the Yvon be loosed it.

{7}  Britain?

{8}  The Azores?

