THE FALL
   III.  THE RUNAWAY
    IV.  THE OX-CART
     V.  THE HUNCHBACK
    VI.  THE SILVER PIECE
   VIX.  THE WANDERER
  VIII.  THE RESCUE
    IX.  THE ANIMAL KINGDOM
     X.  THE HERMIT
    XI.  THE PUPIL
   XII.  THE BEAU
  XIII.  A FOREST RAMBLE
   XIV.  THE WOLF-BROTHER
    XV.  THE GREEN STRANGER
   XVI.  THE HUNT
  XVII.  THE MESSENGER
 XVIII.  THE CARRIER PIGEON
   XIX. THE JOURNEY
    XX. THE ARRIVAL
   XXI. THE PALACE
  XXII. THE PRINCE'S CHAMBER
 XXIII. THE CURE
  XXIV. THE KING
   XXV. THE FETE
  XXVI. THE TALISMAN
        CONCLUSION

ILLUSTRATIONS

 THE THREE TUMBLERS
 GIGI RUNS AWAY
 HAVE YOU GOT MY BOY?
 A QUAINT PAIR OF WANDERERS
 THE CIRCLE OF ANIMALS WATCHED HIM
 JOHN TALKED WITH THEM
 YOU SHALL NOT KILL MY FRIEND THE BEAR
 THE KING SENDS FOR YOU
 A STRANGE COMPANY
 JOHN WAS PROTECTED BY POWERFUL FRIENDS
 HE STROKED THE SOFT BALL OF FUR
 I WISH I COULD DO IT MYSELF
 JOHN URGED THE CLUMSY FELLOW TO DANCE
 TO ME, MY BROTHERS!
 THE KING AND PRINCESS CAME TO VISIT HIM

JOHN OF THE WOODS

I

THE TUMBLERS

It was late of a beautiful afternoon in May.  In the hedges outside the village roses were
blossoming, yellow and white.  Overhead the larks were singing their happiest songs, because
the sky was so blue.  But nearer the village the birds were silent, marveling at the strange
noises which echoed up and down the narrow, crooked streets.

"Tom-tom; tom-tom; tom-tom"; the hollow thud of a little drum sounded from the market-place.
Boys and girls began to run thither, crying to one another:--

"The Tumblers!  The Tumblers have come.  Hurry, oh, hurry!"

Three little brothers, Beppo, Giovanni, and Paolo, who had been poking about the market at
their mother's heels, pricked up their ears and scurried eagerly after the other children.

Jostling one another good-naturedly, the crowd surged up to the market-place, which stood upon
a little hill.  In the middle was a stone fountain, whence the whole village was wont to draw
all the water it needed.  In those long-ago days folk were more sparing in the use of water
than they are to-day, especially for washing.  Perhaps we should not be so clean, if we had
to bring every bucket of water that we used from the City Square! 

Didn't you feel queer, at all?

"Fred squinted above his smoking cup."

Well, I am never strong for getting up before the sun. The world looks unfurnished. When I
first lit the fire and had a square look at you, I thought I'd got the wrong girl. Pale, grim-- you
were a sight!

"Thea leaned back into the shadow of the rock room and warmed her hands
over the coals."

It was dismal enough. How warm these walls are, all the way round; and your breakfast is so good.
I'm all right now, Fred.

"" Yes, you're all right now. "Fred lit a cigarette and looked at her critically as her head emerged
into the sun again." You get up every morning just a little bit handsomer than you were the
day before. I'd love you just as much if you were not turning into one of the loveliest women
I've ever seen; but you are, and that's a fact to be reckoned with.

"He watched her across the thin line of smoke he blew from his lips." What are you going to do with
all that beauty and all that talent, Miss Kronborg?

"She turned away to the fire again." I don't know what you're talking about, "she muttered with
an awkwardness which did not conceal her pleasure.

Ottenburg laughed softly." Oh, yes, you do! Nobody better! You're a close one, but you give yourself
away sometimes, like everybody else.

Do you know, I've decided that you never do a single thing without an ulterior motive. "He threw
away his cigarette, took out his tobacco-pouch and began to fill
his pipe."

You ride and fence and walk and climb, but I know that all the while you're getting somewhere
in your mind. All these things are instruments; and I, too, am an instrument. "He looked up in
time to intercept a quick, startled glance from Thea." Oh, I don't mind, "he chuckled;" not
a bit. Every woman, every interesting woman, has ulterior motives, many of'em less creditable
than yours. It's your constancy that amuses me. You must have been doing it ever since you were
two feet high.

"Thea looked slowly up at her companion's good-humored face. His eyes, sometimes too restless and
sympathetic in town, had grown steadier and clearer in the open air. His short curly beard
and yellow hair had reddened in the sun and wind. The pleasant vigor of his person was always
delightful to her, something to signal to and laugh with in a world of negative people. With
Fred she was never becalmed. There was always life in the air, always something coming and going,
a rhythm of feeling and action,-- stronger than the natural accord
of youth.

As she looked at him, leaning against the sunny wall, she felt a desire to be frank with him.
She was not willfully holding anything back. But, on the other hand, she could not force things
that held themselves back." Yes, it was like that when I was little,
"she said at last."

I had to be close, as you call it, or go under. But I didn't know I had been like that since you
came. I've had nothing to be close about. I haven't thought about anything but having a good time
with you. I've just drifted.

"Fred blew a trail of smoke out into the breeze and looked knowing." Yes, you drift like a rifle
ball, my dear. It's your-- your direction that I like best of all. Most fellows wouldn't, you
know. I'm unusual.

"They both laughed, but Thea frowned questioningly." Why wouldn't most fellows? Other fellows
have liked me.

"" Yes, serious fellows. You told me yourself they were all old, or solemn. But jolly fellows
want to be the whole target. They would say you were all brain and muscle; that you have no
feeling.

"She glanced at him sidewise." Oh, they would, would they?

"" Of course they would, "Fred continued blandly." Jolly fellows have no imagination. They want
to be the animating force. When they are not around, they want a girl to be-- extinct, "he waved
his hand." Old fellows like Mr. Nathanmeyer understand your kind; but among the young ones, you
are rather lucky to have found me. Even I wasn't always so wise.

I've had my time of thinking it would not bore me to be the Apollo
of a homey flat, and I've paid out a trifle to learn better.

All those things get very tedious unless they are hooked up with
an idea of some sort.

It's because we DON'T come out here only to look at each other and
drink coffee that it's so pleasant to-- look at each other.

"Fred drew on his pipe for a while, studying Thea's abstraction.

She was staring up at the far wall of the canyon with a troubled expression that drew her eyes
narrow and her mouth hard. Her hands lay in her lap, one over the other, the fingers interlacing."
Suppose, "Fred came out at length,--" suppose I were to offer you what most of the young men
I know would offer a girl they'd been sitting up nights about: a
comfortable flat in Chicago, a summer camp up in the woods, musical
evenings, and a family to bring up.

Would it look attractive to you?

"Thea sat up straight and stared at him in alarm, glared into his
eyes."

Perfectly hideous! "she exclaimed.

Fred dropped back against the old stonework and laughed deep in his chest." Well, don't be frightened.
I won't offer them.

You're not a nest-building bird. You know I always liked your song,'Me for the jolt of the breakers!'I
understand.

"She rose impatiently and walked to the edge of the cliff." It's not that so much. It's waking up every
morning with the feeling that your life is your own, and your strength is your own, and your talent
is your own; that you're all there, and there's no sag in you.

"She stood for a moment as if she were tortured by uncertainty, then turned suddenly back to him."
Don't talk about these things any more now, "she entreated."

It isn't that I want to keep anything from you. The trouble is that I've got nothing to keep-- except
(you know as well as I) that feeling. I told you about it in Chicago
once.

But it always makes me unhappy to talk about it. It will spoil the day. Will you go for a climb
with me? "She held out her hands with a smile so eager that it made Ottenburg feel how much
she needed to get away from herself.

He sprang up and caught the hands she put out so cordially, and stood swinging them back and forth."
I won't tease you. A word's enough to me. But I love it, all the
same.

Understand? "He pressed her hands and dropped them." Now, where are
you going to drag me?

"" I want you to drag me. Over there, to the other houses.

They are more interesting than these.

"She pointed across the gorge to the row of white houses in the other cliff." The trail is broken
away, but I got up there once.

It's possible. You have to go to the bottom of the canyon, cross the creek, and then go up
hand-over-hand.

"Ottenburg, lounging against the sunny wall, his hands in the pockets
of his jacket, looked across at the distant dwellings."

It's an awful climb, "he sighed," when I could be perfectly happy here with my pipe. However-- "He
took up his stick and hat and followed Thea down the water trail."

Do you climb this path every day? You surely earn your bath. I went down and had a look at your
pool the other afternoon. Neat place, with all those little cottonwoods.
Must be very becoming.

"" Think
so? "Thea said over her shoulder, as she swung round a turn."

Yes, and so do you, evidently.

I'm becoming expert at reading your meaning in your back.

I'm behind you so much on these single-foot trails.

You don't wear stays, do you?

"" Not here.

"" I wouldn't, anywhere, if I were you. They will make you less elastic. The side muscles get flabby.
If you go in for opera, there's a fortune in a flexible body.

Most of the German singers are clumsy, even when they're well set up.

"Thea switched a PINON branch back at him." Oh, I'll never get fat!
That I can promise you.

"Fred smiled, looking after her." Keep that promise, no matter how many others you break, "he
drawled.

The upward climb, after they had crossed the stream, was at first
a breathless scramble through underbrush.

When they reached the big boulders, Ottenburg went first because he had the longer leg-reach,
and gave Thea a hand when the step was quite beyond her, swinging her up until she could get
a foothold. At last they reached a little platform among the rocks, with only a hundred feet
of jagged, sloping wall between them and the cliff-houses.

Ottenburg lay down under a pine tree and declared that he was going to have a pipe before he
went any farther." It's a good thing to know when to stop, Thea,
"he said meaningly."

I'm not going to stop now until I get there, "Thea insisted." I'll
go on alone.

"Fred settled his shoulder against the tree-trunk." Go on if you like, but I'm here to enjoy
myself. If you meet a rattler on the way, have it out with him.

"She hesitated, fanning herself with her felt hat."

I never have met one.

"" There's reasoning for you, "Fred murmured languidly.

Thea turned away resolutely and began to go up the wall, using an irregular cleft in the rock
for a path.

The cliff, which looked almost perpendicular from the bottom, was really made up of ledges and
boulders, and behind these she soon disappeared. For a long while Fred smoked with half-closed
eyes, smiling to himself now and again. Occasionally he lifted an eyebrow as he heard the rattle
of small stones among the rocks above." In a temper, "he concluded;" do her good. "Then he subsided
into warm drowsiness and listened to the locusts in the yuccas, and the tap-tap of the old woodpecker
that was never weary of assaulting the big pine.

Fred had finished his pipe and was wondering whether he wanted another,
when he heard a call from the cliff far above him.

Looking up, he saw Thea standing on the edge of a projecting crag. She waved to him and threw her
arm over her head, as if she were snapping her fingers in the air.

As he saw her there between the sky and the gulf, with that great wash of air and the morning light about
her, Fred recalled the brilliant figure at Mrs. Nathanmeyer's. Thea was one of those people who
emerge, unexpectedly, larger than we are accustomed to see them. Even at this distance one got
the impression of muscular energy and audacity,-- a kind of brilliancy
of motion,-- of a personality that carried across big spaces and expanded
among big things.

Lying still, with his hands under his head, Ottenburg rhetorically
addressed the figure in the air."

You are the sort that used to run wild in Germany, dressed in their
hair and a piece of skin.

Soldiers caught'em in nets. Old Nathanmeyer, "he mused," would like a peep at her now. Knowing
old fellow. Always buying those Zorn etchings of peasant girls bathing. No sag in them either.
Must be the cold climate.

"He sat up." She'll begin to pitch rocks on me if I don't move. "In response to another impatient
gesture from the crag, he rose and began swinging slowly up the trail.

It was the afternoon of that long day.

Thea was lying on a blanket in the door of her rock house.

She and Ottenburg had come back from their climb and had lunch, and he had gone off for a
nap in one of the cliff-houses farther down the path. He was sleeping
peacefully, his coat under his head and his face turned toward the
wall.

Thea, too, was drowsy, and lay looking through halfclosed eyes up
at the blazing blue arch over the rim of the canyon.

She was thinking of nothing at all. Her mind, like her body, was
full of warmth, lassitude, physical content.

Suddenly an eagle, tawny and of great size, sailed over the cleft in which she lay, across the arch
of sky.

He dropped for a moment into the gulf between the walls, then wheeled, and mounted until his plumage
was so steeped in light that he looked like a golden bird. He swept on, following the course of
the canyon a little way and then disappearing beyond the rim. Thea sprang
to her feet as if she had been thrown up from the rock by volcanic
action.

She stood rigid on the edge of the stone shelf, straining her eyes after that strong, tawny flight.
O eagle of eagles! Endeavor, achievement, desire, glorious striving
of human art!

From a cleft in the heart of the world she saluted it... It had come all the way; when men lived in
caves, it was there.

A vanished race; but along the trails, in the stream, under the spreading
cactus, there still glittered in the sun the bits of their frail clay
vessels, fragments of their desire.

VII FROM the day of Fred's arrival, he and Thea were unceasingly active. They took long rides
into the Navajo pine forests, bought turquoises and silver bracelets from the wandering Indian herdsmen,
and rode twenty miles to Flagstaff upon the slightest pretext. Thea
had never felt this pleasant excitement about any man before, and
she found herself trying very hard to please young Ottenburg.

She was never tired, never dull.

There was a zest about waking up in the morning and dressing, about walking, riding, even about
sleep. One morning when Thea came out from her room at seven o'clock,
she found Henry and Fred on the porch, looking up at the sky. The
day was already hot and there was no breeze.

The sun was shining, but heavy brown clouds were hanging in the west, like the smoke of a forest
fire. She and Fred had meant to ride to Flagstaff that morning, but Biltmer advised against
it, foretelling a storm. After breakfast they lingered about the house,
waiting for the weather to make up its mind.

Fred had brought his guitar, and as they had the dining-room to themselves,
he made Thea go over some songs with him.

They got interested and kept it up until Mrs. Biltmer came to set the table for dinner. Ottenburg
knew some of the Mexican things Spanish Johnny used to sing. Thea had never before happened to tell
him about Spanish Johnny, and he seemed more interested in Johnny
than in Dr. Archie or Wunsch.

After dinner they were too restless to endure the ranch house any longer, and ran away to the
canyon to practice with single-sticks. Fred carried a slicker and a sweater, and he made Thea
wear one of the rubber hats that hung in Biltmer's gun-room. As they crossed the pasture land
the clumsy slicker kept catching in the lacings of his leggings." Why don't
you drop that thing?

"Thea asked." I won't mind a shower. I've been wet before. "" No use taking chances. "From the
canyon they were unable to watch the sky, since only a strip of the
zenith was visible.

The flat ledge about the watch-tower was the only level spot large enough for single-stick exercise,
and they were still practicing there when, at about four o'clock,
a tremendous roll of thunder echoed between the cliffs and the atmosphere
suddenly became thick.

Fred thrust the sticks in a cleft in the rock." We're in for it, Thea. Better make for your
cave where there are blankets.

"He caught her elbow and hurried her along the path before the cliff-houses.

They
made the half-mile at a quick trot, and as they ran the rocks and
the sky and the air between the cliffs turned a turbid green, like
the color in a moss agate.

When they reached the blanketed rock room, they looked at each other
and laughed.

Their faces had taken on a greenish pallor.

Thea's hair, even, was green." Dark as pitch in here, "Fred exclaimed
as they hurried over the old rock doorstep."

But it's warm. The rocks hold the heat. It's going to be terribly
cold outside, all right. "He was interrupted by a deafening peal of thunder."
Lord, what an echo! Lucky you don't mind. It's worth watching out there.
We needn't come in yet. "The green light grew murkier and murkier.

The smaller vegetation was blotted out. The yuccas, the cedars, and PINONS stood dark and rigid,
like bronze. The swallows flew up with sharp, terrified twitterings.
Even the quaking asps were still.

While Fred and Thea watched from the doorway, the light changed to
purple. Clouds of dark vapor, like chlorine gas, began to float down
from the head of the canyon and hung between them and the cliff-houses
in the opposite wall.

Before they knew it, the wall itself had disappeared. The air was positively
venomous-looking, and grew colder every minute.

The thunder seemed to crash against one cliff, then against the other,
and to go shrieking off into the inner canyon.

The moment the rain broke, it beat the vapors down. In the gulf before them the water fell in
spouts, and dashed from the high cliffs overhead. It tore aspens and chokecherry bushes out of the ground
and left the yuccas hanging by their tough roots.

Only the little cedars stood black and unmoved in the torrents that fell from so far above.
The rock chamber was full of fine spray from the streams of water
that shot over the doorway.

Thea crept to the back wall and rolled herself in a blanket, and
Fred threw the heavier blankets over her.

The wool of the Navajo sheep was soon kindled by the warmth of her body, and was impenetrable to
dampness.

Her hair, where it hung below the rubber hat, gathered the moisture like a sponge. Fred put on
the slicker, tied the sweater about his neck, and settled himself
cross-legged beside her.

The chamber was so dark that, although he could see the outline of her head and shoulders, he
could not see her face. He struck a wax match to light his pipe.

As he sheltered it between his hands, it sizzled and sputtered, throwing a yellow flicker over
Thea and her blankets."

You look like a gypsy, "he said as he dropped the match." Any one you'd rather be shut up with
than me? No? Sure about that?

"" I think I am. Aren't you cold? "" Not especially. "Fred smoked in silence, listening to the
roar of the water outside." We may not get away from here right away, "he remarked." I shan't
mind. Shall you? "He laughed grimly and pulled on his pipe."

Do you know where you're at, Miss Thea Kronborg? "he said at last." You've got me going pretty
hard, I suppose you know. I've had a lot of sweethearts, but I've
never been so much-- engrossed before.

What are you going to do about it? "He heard nothing from the blankets."
Are you going to play fair, or is it about my cue to cut away?

"" I'll play fair. I don't see why you want to go. "" What do you
want me around for?-- to play with?

"Thea struggled up among the blankets." I want you for everything.
I don't know whether I'm what people call in love with you or not.

In Moonstone that meant sitting in a hammock with somebody. I don't want to sit in a hammock with
you, but I want to do almost everything else.

Oh, hundreds of things! "" If I run away, will you go with me? ""
I don't know. I'll have to think about that.

Maybe I would. "She freed herself from her wrappings and stood up." It's not raining so hard
now. Hadn't we better start this minute?

It will be night before we get to Biltmer's. "Fred struck another match." It's seven. I don't
know how much of the path may be washed away.

I don't even know whether I ought to let you try it without a lantern.

"Thea went to the doorway and looked out." There's nothing else to
do. The sweater and the slicker will keep me dry, and this will be
my chance to find out whether these shoes are really water-tight.

They cost a week's salary.

"She retreated to the back of
the cave." It's getting blacker every minute. "Ottenburg took a brandy
flask from his coat pocket." Better have some of this before we start.
Can you take it without water? "Thea lifted it obediently to her lips.
She put on the sweater and Fred helped her to get the clumsy slicker
on over it. He buttoned it and fastened the high collar. She could
feel that his hands were hurried and clumsy.

The coat was too big, and he took off his necktie and belted it in
at the waist.

While
she tucked her hair more securely under the rubber hat he stood in
front of her, between her and the gray doorway, without moving."

Are you ready to go? "she
asked carelessly." If you are, "he spoke quietly, without moving,
except to bend his head forward a little. Thea laughed and put her
hands on his shoulders." You know how to handle me, don't you? "she
whispered. For the first time, she kissed him without constraint or
embarrassment."

Thea, Thea, Thea!

"Fred whispered her
name three times, shaking her a little as if to waken her. It was too
dark to see, but he could feel that she was smiling. When she kissed him
she had not hidden her face on his shoulder,-- she had risen a little
on her toes, and stood straight and free.

In that
moment when he came close to her actual personality, he felt in her
the same expansion that he had noticed at Mrs. Nathanmeyer's. She became
freer and stronger under impulses.

When she rose to meet him like that, he felt her
flash into everything that she had ever suggested to him, as if she
filled out her own shadow. She pushed him away and shot past him out
into the rain." Now for it, Fred, "she called back exultantly. The
rain was pouring steadily down through the dying gray twilight, and
muddy streams were spouting and foaming over the cliff.

Fred caught her
and held her back." Keep behind me, Thea. I don't know about the path.
It may be gone altogether.

Can't tell what there is
under this water. "But the path was older than the white man's Arizona.
  But there was little about these sun-browned,
black-eyed youngsters to suggest the slender, fair-haired Gigi.

Tonio peered into the cart.  He even thrust his long, lean hand into the straw that covered
the floor, and felt about the corners, while the boys wriggled away from his touch like eels
from a landing-net.  Gigi held his breath.  But Mother Margherita would not tamely endure all this.

"Get along, you vermin!" she cried, striking at his hands as he approached the forward end
of the cart. Perkins, not content with laurels already won, got under weigh after dinner, and
steamed up to Fort Powell, taking that work in rear. The shots from the Chickasaw destroyed
the water-tanks, and Captain Anderson reported that, believing it to be impossible to drive the
ironclad from its position, and fearing that a shell from the Chickasaw would explode the magazine,
he decided to save his command and blow up the fort, which was done
that night at 10.30.

In the afternoon, the Chickasaw had seized a barge loaded with stores, from under the guns of
Fort Powell, and towed it to the fleet.

The next afternoon, the ever-ready and alert Chickasaw, under her
indefatigable commander, went down to Fort Gaines and shelled that
work until dusk with such telling effect, that, coupled with the fact
that the landforce under General Granger, investing its rear, was
now ready to open fire in conjunction with the fleet, the rebel commander
capitulated the next morning.

Morgan was now the only remaining work of the outer line of Mobile's defences to be "possessed and
occupied," and General Granger, after throwing a sufficient garrison into Gaines, transferred
his army and siege-train to the other side of the bay, and landing
at Navy Cove, some four miles from Morgan, began its investment.

While this was going on, the Chickasaw was not idle, but continually
using her guns at one point and another, with occasional exchanges
of shotted compliments with the rams and batteries across the obstructions
in Dog River, forming the inner line of defence of the city, some
four miles distant.

On the twenty-second of August, the approaches having been completed,
the land and naval forces opened a terrific fire on devoted Morgan,
and continued it throughout the day with such effect that General
Page, commanding the garrison, struck his colors and surrendered the
next day.

The Chickasaw was as conspicuous in the bombardment as she had been in all her work since entering
the bay.

It was not in Perkins's temperament to be otherwise, and said an eye-witness at the time: "It
was a glorious sight to see the gallant Perkins in the Chickasaw, nearly all the morning almost
touching the wharf, and pouring in his terrible missiles, two at a time, making bricks and mortar
fly in all directions, then moving ahead or astern a little to get
a fresh place.

He stayed there till nearly noon, when he hauled off to cool his guns and give his men some
refreshment. In the afternoon, he took his ship in again, and turret after turret was emptied
at the poor fort."

Perkins sent home the flag that had flown over the fort during the bombardment he obtained
it in this wise: "The sailors from this ship," said he, "hauled down
the flag, and one of them seized it and hid it in his bosom; there
was not much left of it; it was riddled and torn.

He brought it to me, declaring that no one had a right to it but the captain of the Chickasaw. I
hardly knew what to do about it, but the man seemed so earnest I
could not refuse to take it from him."

The bay was now sealed to blockade runners, and Mobile, measured as to its commercial importance
to the Confederacy, might as well have been located among the mountains
of northern Alabama as on the Gulf; and owing to strategic reasons,
operations for its immediate reduction came to a halt.

But on the twenty-seventh of March, 1865, the land and naval forces began a joint movement
against the defences surrounding the city, and on the twelfth of
April the Union forces were in full possession.

In these last operations, which cost the loss of two light draught
ironclads, a gunboat, and several other smaller vessels by torpedoes,
we may know that the Chickasaw was never in the background.

In July, Perkins was relieved from the command and ordered home.

He had volunteered for the Mobile fight but had been detained on
board the Chickasaw nearly thirteen months.

On his arrival home, he was overwhelmed with congratulations upon
his gallantry and achievements in Mobile Bay; but his friends felt
indignant that no promotion had followed them, believing that at least
the thirty numbers authorized by statute, "for eminent and conspicuous
conduct in battle," could not be reasonably denied him.

But he would not work personally toward that end, nor pull political wires to attain it. With him,
the promotion must come unasked or not at all. It never came, and others disputed, with unblushing
effrontery, the laurels he had won. Not only that, but he has seen, as well as others, those
who did the least service during the war, given recognition and place over those who "bore the
heat and burden of the day," during those four years so momentous
in the annals of the Republic.

The following winter he was stationed at New Orleans, in charge of ironclads, and in May, 1866,
was ordered as executive officer of the Lackawanna, for a cruise
of three years in the North Pacific.

The "piping times of peace" had come, and officers who had had important commands, now had to
take a step back to the regular duties of their grade. Returning from the Pacific in the early
spring of 1869, he was ordered to the Boston Navy Yard on ordnance duty, and in March, 1871, received
his commission as commander.

Two months later, he was selected to command the storeship Relief, to carry provisions to the
suffering French of the Franco-German war. On his return, after a lapse of six months, he resumed
his duties at the Boston yard, until appointed lighthouse inspector
of the Boston district, which position he held until January, 1876.

Meanwhile he had taken to himself a wife, having, in 1870, married
Miss Anna Minot Weld, daughter of Mr. William F. Weld, of Boston.

The issue of the marriage has been one child, a daughter, born in
1877.

From March, 1877, until May, 1879, he was in command of the United States steamer Ashuelot on
the Asiatic station, making a most interesting cruise, and having, for a time, the pleasure
of General Grant's company on board, as a guest.

Since his return from that cruise he has been on "waiting orders,"
varied by occasional duty as member of courts-martial, boards of examination,
and the like.

In March, 1882, he was promoted to a post-captaincy, as the grade of captain in the navy was
styled in the olden time, which grade corresponds with that of colonel
in the army.

Captain Perkins has a house in Boston, where he makes his home in winter, but nothing has ever
weakened his affection for the old Granite State, and nothing delights him more, when possible
to do so, than to put behind him the whirl and distraction of the city for the quiet enjoyment
of the fresh, exhilarating air, unpretentious, wholesome life, and substantial ways that await
him among his dear native hills.

In glancing over the "Portraits for Posterity," the writer notes the
conspicuous absence of naval representation among the "counterfeit
presentments" that adorn the walls of the Capitol at Concord and the
halls of Dartmouth, and ventures to suggest to Governor Prescott,
the distinguished and indefatigable collector of most of the pictures,
that portraits of Thornton of the Kearsarge, and Perkins of the Cayuga
and Chickasaw, might fittingly be given place among those who, in
the varied walks of life, have lent distinction and added lustre to
the Province and State of New Hampshire from Colonial times to this.

Let not the men of the sea be forgotten!***** FROM THE WHITE HORSE
TO LITTLE RHODY.

BY CHARLES M. BARROWS.

Were other means lacking, the progress of the human race might be
pretty accurately gauged by its modes of locomotion.

On such a basis of classification there might be a pedestrian period,
a pilgrim period, a saddle period, a road-wain period, a stage-coach
period, and a railway period.

Relatively considered, each mode of travel thus indicated would be an index of the necessities and
activity of the times. The nomadic peoples dwelt in a leisurely world, and were content to go a-foot;
their wants were simple, their aspirations temperate; subsistence
for themselves and their flocks was their great care, and only when
the grass withered and the stream dried up did they set forth in quest
of fresh pasturage.

At length, however, the dull-thoughted tribular chieftain became curious to know what lay beyond
the narrow horizon of his wilderness, and men bound on the sandal,
girded up their loins, grasped staff, and beat paths up and down the
valleys, trudging behind an ass or a pack-horse that carried their
impedimenta.

Another advance, and the man who drove his beast before him found that the creature was able to
carry both his pack and himself; and training soon enabled the animal to mend his pace and
transport his master rapidly across long stretches of waste country. Another period elapsed, and
ambitious man discovered that, by clearing a passage for wheels,
the load could be shifted from the back of the beast to a wagon drawn
behind him; thus carriages came into use, and the race went bowling
along the great highway of progress at a wonderful rate.

Then vehicles began to be improved, and the restless brain of the
inventor contrived a stage-coach for the convenience of those who had
no private carriages or did not care to use them; though rude at first,
it soon came to be luxurious, with thorough braces, upholstery, and
glass windows.

But even this noisy vehicle, that abridged distance and brought far cities near together, outgrew
its usefulness and gave way to its rival, the steam-car, which could hurry men through the
land as on the wings of a tornado. And now the same race, which in the morning of the world was
content to wander four or five miles between sun and sun, and had no wish to go faster, can scarcely
abide the slowness of a palace-car sliding over a mile of steel rail each minute, and General
Meigs is importuning the Legislature for leave to construct a railway on which trains shall run
at three times that speed. It would be too much to ask this hurrying, restless, nineteenth-century
world to retrace its way by rail and turnpike, saddle and sandal,
back to the slow patriarch, who kept his youth a hundred years, and
in all that time might not have traveled as far as a suburban gentleman
of to-day does in going once from his home to his place of business
in Boston.

It might halt long enough, however, to enjoy a view of the stage-coach in which its grandfathers
got on so rapidly, rumbling before a cloud of dust over the straight pike that used to connect
the metropolis with some lesser city. Such a highway was the Norfolk and Bristol Turnpike, the
grand avenue of public travel between Boston and Providence, and one link of the continuous
thoroughfare connecting New England with New York and Washington.
It was opened during the years of intense activity that marked the infancy
of the nation, and it had a distinct corporate existence and history,
like the railroad that ruined it, and was owned and operated by a
stock company.

Though the entire road was not fifty miles in length, the original enterprise contemplated only
a section thereof, which, in accordance with an act of incorporation passed by the State Legislature
in 1802, was built from the court-house in Dedham, the shire town of Norfolk County, to the
north precinct meeting-house in Attleborough, then a small border town
of Bristol County.

The members of the original corporation that held the franchise of the road were Fisher Ames, James
Richardson, and Timothy Gay, Jr., of Dedham; Timothy Whitney and John Whiting, of Roxbury; Eliphalet
Slack, Samuel S. Blackinton, William Blackinton, Israel Hatch, Elijah
Daggett, and Joseph Holmes, of Attleborough; Ephraim Starkweather,
Oliver Wilkinson, and Ozias Wilkinson, of Pawtucket, Rhode Island.

They were all enterprising business men in their day, well known throughout
Eastern Massachusetts, and the undertaking for which they combined
seemed as vast to the rural denizens of the towns through which it
passed as did the Pacific Railroad enterprise to capitalists twenty
years ago.

To the surprise of the honest farmers, who considered the crooked county roads good enough for them,
it made almost a straight line from one terminus to the other, and was laid out four rods in width--
a reckless waste of land-- as a preventive against snow blockades in winter Instead of following the
windings of valley and stream as other roads did, this pike mounted directly over all interposing
hills, in accordance with the most approved theories of civil engineers of that day; and where sections
of those old thoroughfares still remain intact, it is amusing to observe at what steep, straight
grades they were made to climb the most abrupt ascent, curving neither
to the right nor to the left in merciful consideration for the horses.

But it must not be supposed that public stage-coach travel on the route here indicated began
with the opening of the Norfolk and Bristol Turnpike. The first conveyance of the kind started on
its devious way over the poor county roads from Boston to Providence
in 1767; and the quaint Jedediah Morse records that twelve years later
the "intercourse of the country barely required two stages and twelve
horses on this line"; but the same authority states that in 1797
twenty stages and one hundred horses were employed, and that the number
of different stages leaving Boston during the week was twenty.

The first stage-coach that passed over this new turnpike was driven by William Hodges, familiarly
called "Bill," a famous Jehu, whose exploits with rein and whip,
being really of a high order of merit, were graphically set forth to any
passenger who shared the box with him, after Bill's spirits had been
raised and his tongue limbered with the requisite number of "nippers";
and the increased comfort and rapidity of the journey were so clearly
apparent, that the line was soon after extended to connect the capitals
of the Bay State and Little Rhody.

In those days there was but one way to drive out of Boston, and that a narrow one known as
the "Neck," beyond which was Roxbury. Across this isthmus all northward, westward, and southward-bound
vehicles must pass, in leaving or entering the city. The narrowest
place was at the present intersection of Dover Street with Washington,
or, as it was then called, Orange, Street. In ante-bellum times this
was the southern limit of the city, and here a gate stood, which opened
on to a causeway that crossed the "salt marish," which at high tide was covered
by the water. To this gateway, then, the turnpike was extended from Dedham
court-house; and when the work was finished a coach, starting from the
White Horse Tavern in Boston, which stood near the site of the Adams
House, just opened by Messrs. Hall and Whipple, bowled along "a smooth
and easy highway" to the bank of the Providence River, making the
long journey within the incredibly short space of six consecutive
hours, when the wheeling was good.

This great work, which was talked about years before it was undertaken, and then required years
to finish, was a triumph of road-building, in which both owners and
contractors took a pardonable pride; and to those familiar with the
region through which it passed, the course will be sufficiently indicated
by noting here and there a way-mark.

On leaving Boston Neck it followed the already well-graded road through the Highlands, to a
point near the present station of the Boston and Providence Railroad corporation in Roxbury,
thence through West Roxbury to Dedham, and on through Norwood to East Walpole; it left the
central village of Walpole a mile or so to the west, keeping near the Sharon line, struck into
the westerly edge of Foxborough to a point called the Four Corners,
then through Shepardville in Wrentham to North Attleborough, Attleborough
"City," Pawtucket, and Providence.

A large portion of the road is still kept in repair, so that one might take a carriage and trace
the route through its entire length. To support such an expensive turnpike it was necessary to levy
a tax on those who made use of it, and to that end several toll-gates were established, at which passengers
were compelled to halt and pay their lawful reckoning. These gates
were located at Roxbury, Dedham, East Walpole, Foxborough Four Corners,
North Attleborough, and Pawtucket; and so great was the patronage
of the road, that the annual income derived from these sources afforded
the stockholders a handsome net dividend.

With the disuse of stage-coaches has perished that public convenience, the country tavern, an
institution with which the modern hotel has little in common. It was suited to the needs and tastes
of a former generation, and to a time, it may be, "When men lived in a grander way, With ampler hospitality."
But no hotel of the present day, with its showy furnishings and glitter,
its gongs and bell-calls, its multitude of obsequious waiters, gauging
their attention by your clothes, will bear comparison with the old-time
tavern for homelike comfort and hearty good service.

The guest, on his arrival, tired and hungry, was not put off with the cold recognition of
a clerk who simply wrote after his name the number of his room, and then with averted face said:
"Waiter, show this gentleman to number ninety-seven." On climbing out of the stage-coach, he
was sure to see mine host, a fat, jolly man, who greeted him, whether
friend or stranger, with a bow of genuine welcome, relieved him of
his hand-luggage, ushered him in before the open fire of the bar-room,
and actually asked what he would have for supper. Nor did this personal
interest cease as soon as the guest had been comfortably bestowed; for
the landlord was sure to have some pleasant words with him in the
course of the evening, and to make him feel, ere he went to rest,
that, by coming at that particular time, he had conferred on the host
or some other guest a special favor, so that he retired in the best
of humor with himself.

Such inns of entertainment were to be found in every considerable New England town a hundred years
ago, and each bore some special reputation for general hospitality, the cordiality of its landlord,
or the excellence of its table or liquors. Wherever a stage line was established, a good country tavern,
every few miles along the route, became a necessity. It nourished on the patronage that the coach
brought to its door; its kitchen and barns afforded a ready market
for the produce of the farmers, and it was a grand centre for news and
the idlers of the village. The Norfolk and Bristol Turnpike was fortunate
in its taverns, which were accounted among the best in the State, from
the White Horse, whence every stage-coach took its departure, to
the last one met with on the very borders of the land of Roger Williams. There
was the Billings Tavern in Roxbury, where it was considered quite
the proper thing for outward-bound passengers to alight and get something
to fortify them against the fatigues of the journey, especially if
the weather were extremely cold or extremely warm.

The next tavern on the line was widely known as Bride's, and later as Gay's, in Dedham, a place
where all who took the early coach out of the city delighted to stop
and breakfast.

Here was to be found one of the best tables on the line, and tradition has it that Bill Hodges,
who, by the way, must have been a competent judge, pronounced Bride's old Medford rum the finest
he had ever tasted. In the palmy days of stage-coach travel, it was no uncommon thing for a hundred
persons to breakfast at this inn before resuming their journey to Providence. It was here that
President John Adams usually took the coach when he set out for Washington, being first driven to
that point from Quincy in his own private carriage.

There was a small public house at South Dedham, now Norwood, which was
but little patronized, and the next tavern of note was Polley's, at
East Walpole, which had the name of furnishing the best board to
be found between Boston and New York, and there all the travel on
the road stopped to dinner.

It was also a convenient point for taking up passengers from many
adjacent towns, whence mail-carriages converged toward the common
centre, and scores of private teams were driven with small parcels
or other commissions for the stage; for it must be borne in mind that
the driver exercised the functions of an expressman, or common carrier,
and was entrusted with a variety of messages and valuables to deliver
along the route, the fees for such service being usually regarded
as his rightful perquisites.

Shepard's Tavern in Foxborough was a customary stopping-place; but
the next grand halt, after leaving Polley's, was made at Hatch's,
in North Attleborough.

Here the approach of each stage was announced by the winding of a horn,
and the driver was wont to swing his long lash with a flourish around
the sweaty flanks of his leaders in a way to assure them that he meant
business, then give his wheel horses an encouraging cut, and dash
up before the famous hostelry at a breakneck speed that said to the
small boys, Get out of the way! and caused the stock loafers, who
always assembled on the piazza at the first blast of the horn, to
envy the skill that could thus handle a whip, and guide, with apparent
ease, the most mettlesome four-in-hand.

Historically considered, no other tavern on the line possessed so much of antiquarian interest
as Hatch's. It occupied the site of an old garrison built and occupied by John Woodcock, the famous
Indian fighter, as a stronghold against the attacks of his red foes. He went thither from the
Providence Plantation about the middle of the seventeenth century, when the town was an unbroken
wilderness in the northern part of the Rehoboth North Purchase, so called, took up his abode
and reared his family in lonely solitude within the close stockades
he planted around his home.

The first house that went by the name of Hatch's Tavern was built upon this old garrison, which,
indeed, formed a part of its very walls, and not until the proprietor found it necessary to
erect a new and larger house, when the turnpike was opened, did the last vestiges of the Woodcock
stronghold disappear. The landlord of this inn, Colonel Israel Hatch, was also a man of importance
in his time, who enjoyed an enviable reputation for military achievements,
and was very prominent in public affairs.

At no point on the line was the traveler surer of a larger hospitality or a heartier welcome than
was extended by Colonel Hatch, though its best room, which was reserved
for visitors of note, might not have contained the veritable inscription
ascribed to Major Molineaux:--  And for three days
the great dog lay on guard by his side.  The Hermit went softly to and fro, taking tender care
of the boy and giving him medicine made from wonderful herbs which he had found in the woods.
Often he knelt in a corner of the hut, before a rude wooden Cross, and said prayers; this seemed
to give him strength for his work and hope for its result.  So that when he rose, his face
would be bright and happy.

This was he doing the third morning when Gigi awoke, feeling better. The ache was gone from
his limbs and the dizziness from his head.  He awoke with a long sigh, and for the first time
since he lay down on the Hermit's pallet he looked around him with interest.  At first he did
not know where he was.

The hut was small and bare.  In one corner was a cupboard where the Hermit kept his scanty
supply of food and the medicines which he distilled.  Against the wall was a bench, beside
a table made of a tree-stump, and on the table lay a great black book.  Opposite the bed was
the Cross of wood fastened to the wall, and below it the good Hermit knelt with bowed head.
Gigi wondered what he was doing.  He himself knew no prayers.

Gigi's eyes wandered to the door, which stood open.  On the sill the cat and her kittens were
playing.  Outside he could catch a glimpse of various animals frisking about the dooryard.
Birds sang merrily in the trees overhead and in the bushes just outside the window.  The raven
hopped into the doorway and stood looking saucily at Gigi, with head on one side.  It was all
so peaceful, so quiet, so different from anything which Gigi had known, that he thought it
must be a dream.  He sighed again, and turned over, stretching out his arm.  In doing so he
touched the hairy neck of Brutus, who was still sleeping by his bed.  Instantly the dog sprang
up and began to lick the boy's face.  At the same moment, with a pious gesture, the Hermit
also rose and came toward the cot, smiling kindly.

"You are better, my son?" he asked, laying a cool hand upon Gigi's forehead.  "Ah, yes!  You
will soon be quite yourself."

Gigi stared up at him contentedly.  "Who are you?" he asked.  He had never been taught manners,
and he could no longer hide his curiosity.

"I am a Hermit," answered the old man.  "I live here alone with my animals, as you see.  I
pass the days in prayer and meditation, studying the Lord's Holy Book and the living works
of His hands."

"Why do you live away from men?" asked Gigi again.

The Hermit's face grew sad.

"Men are wicked and cruel, child," he said.  "Men hurt and kill one another.  They love to
slay the innocent animals for sport.  In their kingdoms is no love.  I have made myself here
an animal kingdom, where all is love and peace."

"Do all animals know you?" asked Gigi, wondering.

"With time I can make friends with them all," said the Hermit, smiling. "One has but to love
and understand and be patient.  See!"

He gave a peculiar call. She was scornful of everything,-- which became her eyebrows. Her face was mobile
and discontented, her eyes quick and black. There was a sort of smouldering fire about her,
young Ottenburg thought. She entertained him prodigiously.

After luncheon Miss Beers said she was going uptown to be fitted, and that she would go alone
because her aunt made her nervous. When Fred held her coat for her, she murmured, "Thank you,
Alphonse," as if she were addressing the waiter.

As she stepped into a hansom, with a long stretch of thin silk stocking, she said negligently,
over her fur collar, "Better let me take you along and drop you somewhere."

He sprang in after her, and she told the driver to go to the Park.

It was a bright winter day, and bitterly cold. Miss Beers asked Fred to tell her about the game at
New Haven, and when he did so paid no attention to what he said.

She sank back into the hansom and held her muff before her face, lowering it occasionally to
utter laconic remarks about the people in the carriages they passed, interrupting Fred's narrative
in a disconcerting manner.

As they entered the Park he happened to glance under her wide black hat at her black eyes and hair-- the
muff hid everything else-- and discovered that she was crying.

To his solicitous inquiry she replied that it "was enough to make you damp, to go and try
on dresses to marry a man you weren't keen about."

Further explanations followed. She had thought she was "perfectly cracked" about Brisbane,
until she met Fred at the Holland House three days ago. Then she knew she would scratch Brisbane's
eyes out if she married him.

What was she going to do?

Fred told the driver to keep going. What did she want to do? Well, she didn't know. One had
to marry somebody, after all the machinery had been put in motion.

Perhaps she might as well scratch Brisbane as anybody else; for scratch she would, if she didn't
get what she wanted.

Of course, Fred agreed, one had to marry somebody. And certainly this girl beat anything he had
ever been up against before. Again he told the driver to go ahead. Did she mean that she would
think of marrying him, by any chance? Of course she did, Alphonse. Hadn't he seen that all
over her face three days ago? If he hadn't, he was a snowball.

By this time Fred was beginning to feel sorry for the driver. Miss Beers, however, was compassionless.
After a few more turns, Fred suggested tea at the Casino. He was very cold himself, and remembering
the shining silk hose and pumps, he wondered that the girl was not
frozen.

As they got out of the hansom, he slipped the driver a bill and told him to have something
hot while he waited.

At the tea-table, in a snug glass enclosure, with the steam sputtering in the pipes beside
them and a brilliant winter sunset without, they developed their plan. Miss Beers had with her
plenty of money, destined for tradesmen, which she was quite willing
to divert into other channels-- the first excitement of buying a trousseau
had worn off, anyway.

It was very much like any other shopping. Fred had his allowance and a few hundred he had won
on the game. She would meet him to-morrow morning at the Jersey ferry.

They could take one of the west-bound Pennsylvania trains and go-- anywhere,
some place where the laws weren't too fussy.-- Fred had not even thought
about the laws!-- It would be all right with her father; he knew Fred's
family.

Now that they were engaged, she thought she would like to drive a little more. They were jerked about
in the cab for another hour through the deserted Park. Miss Beers, having removed her hat,
reclined upon Fred's shoulder.

The next morning they left Jersey City by the latest fast train out. They had some misadventures,
crossed several States before they found a justice obliging enough
to marry two persons whose names automatically instigated inquiry.

The bride's family were rather pleased with her originality; besides, any one of the Ottenburg
boys was clearly a better match than young Brisbane. With Otto Ottenburg, however, the affair went down
hard, and to his wife, the once proud Katarina Furst, such a disappointment
was almost unbearable.

Her sons had always been clay in her hands, and now the GELIEBTER
SOHN had escaped her.

Beers, the packer, gave his daughter a house in St. Louis, and Fred
went into his father's business.

At the end of a year, he was mutely appealing to his mother for sympathy. At the end of two,
he was drinking and in open rebellion. He had learned to detest his wife. Her wastefulness
and cruelty revolted him.

The ignorance and the fatuous conceit which lay behind her grimacing mask of slang and ridicule humiliated
him so deeply that he became absolutely reckless. Her grace was only an uneasy wriggle, her
audacity was the result of insolence and envy, and her wit was restless spite. As her personal
mannerisms grew more and more odious to him, he began to dull his perceptions with champagne. He
had it for tea, he drank it with dinner, and during the evening he took enough to insure that
he would be well insulated when he got home. This behavior spread alarm among his friends. It
was scandalous, and it did not occur among brewers.

He was violating the NOBLESSE OBLIGE of his guild. His father and his father's partners looked
alarmed.

When Fred's mother went to him and with clasped hands entreated an explanation, he told her
that the only trouble was that he couldn't hold enough wine to make life endurable, so he was
going to get out from under and enlist in the navy.

He didn't want anything but the shirt on his back and clean salt air. His mother could look
out; he was going to make a scandal.

Mrs. Otto Ottenburg went to Kansas City to see Mr. Beers, and had the satisfaction of telling
him that he had brought up his daughter like a savage, EINE UNGEBILDETE. All the Ottenburgs and
all the Beers, and many of their friends, were drawn into the quarrel. It was to public opinion,
however and not to his mother's activities, that Fred owed his partial escape from bondage. The
cosmopolitan brewing world of St. Louis had conservative standards. The Ottenburgs'friends were
not predisposed in favor of the plunging Kansas City set, and they disliked young Fred's wife
from the day that she was brought among them. They found her ignorant and ill-bred and insufferably
impertinent. When they became aware of how matters were going between
her and Fred, they omitted no opportunity to snub her.

Young Fred had always been popular, and St. Louis people took up his cause with warmth. Even
the younger men, among whom Mrs. Fred tried to draft a following, at first avoided and then ignored
her. Her defeat was so conspicuous, her life became such a desert, that she at last consented
to accept the house in Santa Barbara which Mrs. Otto Ottenburg had
long owned and cherished.

This villa, with its luxuriant gardens, was the price of Fred's furlough. His mother was only
too glad to offer it in his behalf. As soon as his wife was established in California, Fred
was transferred from St. Louis to Chicago.

A divorce was the one thing Edith would never, never, give him. She told him so, and she told
his family so, and her father stood behind her. She would enter into no arrangement that might
eventually lead to divorce. She had insulted her husband before guests and servants, had scratched
his face, thrown hand-mirrors and hairbrushes and nail-scissors at him often enough, but she knew
that Fred was hardly the fellow who would go into court and offer
that sort of evidence.

In her behavior with other men she was discreet.

After Fred went to Chicago, his mother visited him often, and dropped a word to her old friends
there, who were already kindly disposed toward the young man. They gossiped as little as was compatible
with the interest they felt, undertook to make life agreeable for
Fred, and told his story only where they felt it would do good: to
girls who seemed to find the young brewer attractive.

So far, he had behaved well, and had kept out of entanglements.

Since he was transferred to Chicago, Fred had been abroad several times, and had fallen more and
more into the way of going about among young artists,-- people with whom personal relations
were incidental. With women, and even girls, who had careers to follow, a young man might
have pleasant friendships without being regarded as a prospective suitor or lover. Among artists
his position was not irregular, because with them his marriageableness
was not an issue.

His tastes, his enthusiasm, and his agreeable personality made him
welcome.

With Thea Kronborg he had allowed himself more liberty than he usually did in his friendships
or gallantries with young artists, because she seemed to him distinctly not the marrying kind.
She impressed him as equipped to be an artist, and to be nothing else; already directed, concentrated,
formed as to mental habit. He was generous and sympathetic, and she was lonely and needed friendship;
needed cheerfulness.

She had not much power of reaching out toward useful people or useful
experiences, did not see opportunities.

She had no tact about going after good positions or enlisting the interest of influential persons.
She antagonized people rather than conciliated them. He discovered at once that she had a merry
side, a robust humor that was deep and hearty, like her laugh, but it slept most of the time
under her own doubts and the dullness of her life.

She had not what is called a "sense of humor." That is, she had no intellectual humor; no power
to enjoy the absurdities of people, no relish of their pretentiousness and inconsistencies-- which
only depressed her. But her joviality, Fred felt, was an asset, and ought to be developed. He discovered
that she was more receptive and more effective under a pleasant stimulus than she was under
the gray grind which she considered her salvation.

She was still Methodist enough to believe that if a thing were hard and irksome, it must be good
for her. And yet, whatever she did well was spontaneous. Under the least glow of excitement, as
at Mrs. Nathanmeyer's, he had seen the apprehensive, frowning drudge of Bowers's studio flash
into a resourceful and consciously beautiful woman.

His interest in Thea was serious, almost from the first, and so sincere that he felt no distrust
of himself.

He believed that he knew a great deal more about her possibilities
than Bowers knew, and he liked to think that he had given her a stronger
hold on life.

She had never seen herself or known herself as she did at Mrs. Nathanmeyer's musical evenings.
She had been a different girl ever since. He had not anticipated that she would grow more fond
of him than his immediate usefulness warranted.

He thought he knew the ways of artists, and, as he said, she must have been "at it from her cradle."
He had imagined, perhaps, but never really believed, that he would
find her waiting for him sometime as he found her waiting on the day
he reached the Biltmer ranch.

Once he found her so-- well, he did not pretend to be anything more or less than a reasonably well-intentioned
young man. A lovesick girl or a flirtatious woman he could have handled easily enough. But a
personality like that, unconsciously revealing itself for the first time under the exaltation
of a personal feeling,-- what could one do but watch it? As he used to say to himself, in reckless
moments back there in the canyon, "You can't put out a sunrise."

He had to watch it, and then he had to share it.

Besides, was he really going to do her any harm? The Lord knew he
would marry her if he could!

Marriage would be an incident, not an end with her; he was sure of that. If it were not he,
it would be some one else; some one who would be a weight about her neck, probably; who would
hold her back and beat her down and divert her from the first plunge for which he felt she
was gathering all her energies. He meant to help her, and he could
not think of another man who would.

He went over his unmarried friends, East and West, and he could not think of one who would know
what she was driving at-- or care.

The clever ones were selfish, the kindly ones were stupid.

"Damn it, if she's going to fall in love with somebody, it had better
be me than any of the others-- of the sort she'd find.

Get her tied up with some conceited ass who'd try to make her over,
train her like a puppy!

Give one of'em a big nature like that, and he'd be horrified. He wouldn't show his face in
the clubs until he'd gone after her and combed her down to conform
to some fool idea in his own head-- put there by some other woman,
too, his first sweetheart or his grandmother or a maiden aunt.

At least, I understand her. I know what she needs and where she's bound, and I mean to see that
she has a fighting chance."

His own conduct looked crooked, he admitted; but he asked himself whether, between men and women,
all ways were not more or less crooked.

He believed those which are called straight were the most dangerous of all. They seemed to
him, for the most part, to lie between windowless stone walls, and
their rectitude had been achieved at the expense of light and air.

In their unquestioned regularity lurked every sort of human cruelty
and meanness, and every kind of humiliation and suffering.

He would rather have any woman he cared for wounded than crushed. He would deceive her not
once, he told himself fiercely, but a hundred times, to keep her
free.

When Fred went back to the observation car at one o'clock, after the
luncheon call, it was empty, and he found Thea alone on the platform.

She put out her hand, and met his eyes.

"It's as I said. Things have closed behind me. I can't go back, so I am going on-- to Mexico?"
She lifted her face with an eager, questioning smile.

Fred met it with a sinking heart. Had he really hoped she would give him another answer? He would
have given pretty much anything-- But there, that did no good.

He could give only what he had. Things were never complete in this world; you had to snatch at
them as they came or go without. Nobody could look into her face and draw back, nobody who
had any courage. She had courage enough for anything-- look at her
mouth and chin and eyes!

Where did it come from, that light? How could a face, a familiar face, become so the picture
of hope, be painted with the very colors of youth's exaltation? She was right; she was not one
of those who draw back. Some people get on by avoiding dangers, others
by riding through them.

They
stood by the railing looking back at the sand levels, both feeling
that the train was steaming ahead very fast.

Fred's mind was a confusion of images and ideas. Only two things were clear to him: the force
of her determination, and the belief that, handicapped as he was, he could do better by her
than another man would do. He knew he would always remember her, standing there with that expectant,
forward-looking smile, enough to turn the future into summer.

PART V. DR. ARCHIE'S VENTURE I DR. HOWARD ARCHIE had come down to
Denver for a meeting of the stockholders in the San Felipe silver
mine.

It was not absolutely necessary for him to come, but he had no very
pressing cases at home.

Winter was closing down in Moonstone, and he dreaded the dullness of it. On the 10th day of January,
therefore, he was registered at the Brown Palace Hotel.

On the morning of the 11th he came down to breakfast to find the streets
white and the air thick with snow.

A wild northwester was blowing down from the mountains, one of those
beautiful storms that wrap Denver in dry, furry snow, and make the
city a loadstone to thousands of men in the mountains and on the
plains.

The brakemen out on their box-cars, the miners up in their diggings, the lonely homesteaders in the
sand hills of Yucca and Kit Carson Counties, begin to think of Denver,
muffled in snow, full of food and drink and good cheer, and to yearn
for her with that admiration which makes her, more than other American
cities, an object of sentiment.

Howard Archie was glad he had got in before the storm came. He felt as cheerful as if he had
received a legacy that morning, and he greeted the clerk with even
greater friendliness than usual when he stopped at the desk for his
mail.

In the dining-room he found several old friends seated here and there
before substantial breakfasts: cattlemen and mining engineers from
odd corners of the State, all looking fresh and well pleased with
themselves. He had a word with one and another before he sat down at
the little table by a window, where the Austrian head waiter stood
attentively behind a chair.

After his breakfast was put before him, the doctor began to run over
his letters.

There was one directed in Thea Kronborg's handwriting, forwarded from Moonstone. He saw with astonishment,
as he put another lump of sugar into his cup, that this letter bore a New York postmark. He had
known that Thea was in Mexico, traveling with some Chicago people,
but New York, to a Denver man, seems much farther away than Mexico
City.

He put the letter behind his plate, upright against the stem of his water goblet, and looked at it thoughtfully
while he drank his second cup of coffee. He had been a little anxious
about Thea; she had not written to him for a long while.

As he never got good coffee at home, the doctor always drank three cups for breakfast when he
was in Denver. Oscar knew just when to bring him a second pot, fresh and smoking. "And more cream,
Oscar, please. You know I like lots of cream," the doctor murmured, as he opened the square envelope,
marked in the upper right-hand corner, "Everett House, Union Square." The text of the letter
was as follows:-- DEAR DOCTOR ARCHIE:-- I have not written to you for a long time, but it has not
been unintentional. I could not write you frankly, and so I would not write at all. I can be
frank with you now, but not by letter. It is a great deal to ask, but I wonder if you could
come to New York to help me out?


The tiny queer noises all about, which once, before he knew the kingdom of the forest, had
frightened him so much, now filled John with the keenest joy.  Often he paused and listened
eagerly.  He liked to feel that he was surrounded everywhere by little brothers, seen and unseen.
With a word to Brutus, which made the dog lie down and keep perfectly quiet, John would steal
forward softly and peer through a screen of bushes, or into a treetop, and watch the housekeeping
of some shy brother beast or bird.  Once he flung himself flat on the ground, and lay for a
long time eagerly watching the antics of a beetle.  A little later, with Brutus patiently beside
him, he sat cross-legged for ten minutes, waiting to see how a certain big yellow spider would
spin her web between two branches of a rose-bush.

They wandered on and on.  A great golden butterfly rose before them from a bed of lilies, and
together he and Brutus ran after it; not to capture and kill it, oh no! for to John the wonder
of the flower with wings lay in the life which gave it power to move about and pay calls upon
the other blossoms that must be always stay-at-homes.  John chased it gaily, as one brother
plays with another.  And when it lighted on a rose-bush or a yellow broom-flower, or poised
on a swaying blade of grass, he crept up and admired its lovely colors without touching the
fragile thing.  But at last, as if suddenly remembering an errand which it had forgotten, the
butterfly soared quickly up and away over the treetops and out of sight.

"Good-by, little brother!" called John after it.  "I wish I could fly as you do and look down
upon the kingdom of the forest!  Then indeed I would learn all the secrets of our friends up
in the treetops there, who hide their nests so selfishly.  Oh, I should so love to see all
the little baby birds!  To be sure, some that I have seen in the ground-nests are ugly enough.
Oh, the big mouths of them!  Oh, the bald skins and prickly pin-feathers!  Ha! ha!"  John laughed
so heartily that Brutus came running up to see what the joke was. My God! have you ever, for
one moment, been at anything else?

"Thea did not answer him, and clearly she had not heard him. She was watching something out in the thin
light of the false spring and its treacherously soft air.

Fred waited a moment." Are you going to dine with your friend to-night?

"" Yes. He has never been in New York before. He wants to go about.
Where shall I tell him to go?

"" Wouldn't
it be a better plan, since you wish me to meet him, for you both to dine with me? It would
seem only natural and friendly.

You'll have to live up a little to his notion of us. "Thea seemed to consider the suggestion
favorably." If you wish him to be easy in his mind, "Fred went on," that would help. I think, myself,
that we are rather nice together. Put on one of the new dresses you got down there, and let
him see how lovely you can be. You owe him some pleasure, after all
the trouble he has taken.

"Thea
laughed, and seemed to find the idea exciting and pleasant."

Oh, very well! I'll do my best. Only don't wear a dress coat, please. He hasn't one, and he's
nervous about it.

"Fred looked at his watch." Your monument up there is fast. I'll be here with a cab at eight. I'm
anxious to meet him. You've given me the strangest idea of his callow
innocence and aged indifference.

"She
shook her head." No, he's none of that. He's very good, and he won't admit things. I love him
for it. Now, as I look back on it, I see that I've always, even when
I was little, shielded him.

"As
she laughed, Fred caught the bright spark in her eye that he knew
so well, and held it for a happy instant.

Then he blew her a kiss with his finger-tips and fled.

IV AT nine o'clock that evening our three friends were seated in
the balcony of a French restaurant, much gayer and more intimate than
any that exists in New York to-day.

This old restaurant was built by a lover of pleasure, who knew that
to dine gayly human beings must have the reassurance of certain limitations
of space and of a certain definite style; that the walls must be
near enough to suggest shelter, the ceiling high enough to give the
chandeliers a setting.

The place was crowded with the kind of people who dine late and well, and Dr. Archie, as he watched
the animated groups in the long room below the balcony, found this much the most festive scene
he had ever looked out upon. He said to himself, in a jovial mood somewhat sustained by the cheer of the
board, that this evening alone was worth his long journey. He followed attentively the orchestra,
ensconced at the farther end of the balcony, and told Thea it made him feel" quite musical "to
recognize"

The Invitation to the Dance "or" The Blue Danube, "and that he could remember just what kind
of day it was when he heard her practicing them at home, and lingered at the gate to listen.
For the first few moments, when he was introduced to young Ottenburg
in the parlor of the Everett House, the doctor had been awkward and unbending.
But Fred, as his father had often observed," was not a good mixer for
nothing. "He had brought Dr. Archie around during the short cab ride,
and in an hour they had become old friends.

From the moment when the doctor lifted his glass and, looking consciously
at Thea, said," To your success, "Fred liked him. He felt his quality;
understood his courage in some directions and what Thea called his
timidity in others, his unspent and miraculously preserved youthfulness.

Men could never impose upon the doctor, he guessed, but women always could. Fred liked, too, the
doctor's manner with Thea, his bashful admiration and the little
hesitancy by which he betrayed his consciousness of the change in
her.

It was just this change that, at present, interested Fred more than anything
else.

That, he felt, was his" created value, "and it was his best chance for any peace of mind. If that
were not real, obvious to an old friend like Archie, then he cut a very poor figure, indeed. Fred got a
good deal, too, out of their talk about Moonstone. From her questions and the doctor's answers
he was able to form some conception of the little world that was almost the measure of Thea's
experience, the one bit of the human drama that she had followed with sympathy and understanding.
As the two ran over the list of their friends, the mere sound of
a name seemed to recall volumes to each of them, to indicate mines
of knowledge and observation they had in common.

At some names they laughed delightedly, at some indulgently and even
tenderly."

You two young people must come out to Moonstone when Thea gets back, "the doctor said hospitably."
Oh, we shall! "Fred caught it up." I'm keen to know all these people.
It is very tantalizing to hear only their names. "" Would they interest
an outsider very much, do you think, Dr. Archie?

"Thea leaned toward him." Isn't it only because we've known them since I was little? "The doctor
glanced at her deferentially. Fred had noticed that he seemed a little
afraid to look at her squarely-- perhaps a trifle embarrassed by
a mode of dress to which he was unaccustomed."

Well, you are practically an outsider yourself, Thea, now, "he observed
smiling."

Oh, I know, "he went on quickly in response to her gesture of protest,--"

I know
you don't change toward your old friends, but you can see us all from a distance now. It's all to
your advantage that you can still take your old interest, isn't it,
Mr. Ottenburg?

"" That's exactly one of her advantages, Dr. Archie. Nobody can ever take that away from her,
and none of us who came later can ever hope to rival Moonstone in
the impression we make.

Her scale of values will always be the Moonstone scale. And, with an artist, that IS an advantage.
"Fred nodded. Dr. Archie looked at him seriously." You mean it keeps them from getting affected?
"" Yes; keeps them from getting off the track generally. "While the waiter
filled the glasses, Fred pointed out to Thea a big black French barytone
who was eating anchovies by their tails at one of the tables below,
and the doctor looked about and studied his fellow diners."

Do you know, Mr. Ottenburg, "he said deeply," these people all look happier to me than our
Western people do. Is it simply good manners on their part, or do they
get more out of life?

"Fred laughed to Thea above the glass he had just lifted." Some of them
are getting a good deal out of it now, doctor.

This is the hour when bench-joy brightens. "Thea chuckled and darted him a quick glance." Benchjoy!
Where did you get that slang? "" That happens to be very old slang, my dear. Older than Moonstone or
the sovereign State of Colorado. Our old friend Mr. Nathanmeyer could tell us why it happens to
hit you.

"He leaned forward and touched Thea's wrist," See that fur coat just
coming in, Thea.

It's D'Albert. He's just back from his Western tour.

Fine head, hasn't he? "" To go back, "said Dr. Archie;" I insist that people do look happier
here. I've noticed it even on the street, and especially in the hotels. "Fred turned to him cheerfully."
New York people live a good deal in the fourth dimension, Dr. Archie.

It's that you notice in their faces. "The doctor was interested." The fourth dimension, "he repeated
slowly;" and is that slang, too? "" No, "-- Fred shook his head,--"
that's merely a figure.

I mean that life is not quite so personal here as it is in your part
of the world.

People are more taken up by hobbies, interests that are less subject to reverses than their
personal affairs.

If you're interested in Thea's voice, for instance, or in voices
in general, that interest is just the same, even if your mining stocks
go down.

"The doctor looked at him narrowly."

You think that's about the principal difference between country people and city people, don't
you? "Fred was a little disconcerted at being followed up so resolutely, and he attempted to
dismiss it with a pleasantry." I've never thought much about it, doctor. But I should say,
on the spur of the moment, that that is one of the principal differences
between people anywhere.

It's the consolation of fellows like me who don't accomplish much. The
fourth dimension is not good for business, but we think we have a
better time.

"Dr. Archie leaned back in his chair. His heavy shoulders were contemplative."

And she, "he said slowly;" should you say that she is one of the kind you refer to? "He inclined his head
toward the shimmer of the pale-green dress beside him.

Thea was leaning, just then, over the balcony rail, her head in the
light from the chandeliers below."

Never, never!
"Fred protested." She's as hard-headed as the worst of you-- with a difference. "The doctor sighed."
Yes, with a difference; something that makes a good many revolutions to the second. When she
was little I used to feel her head to try to locate it. "Fred laughed." Did you, though? So
you were on the track of it? Oh, it's there! We can't get round it,
miss, "as Thea looked back inquiringly."

Dr. Archie, there's a fellow townsman of yours I feel a real kinship for. "He pressed a cigar upon
Dr. Archie and struck a match for him."

Tell me about Spanish Johnny. "The doctor smiled benignantly through the first waves of smoke."
Well, Johnny's an old patient of mine, and he's an old admirer of
Thea's. She was born a cosmopolitan, and I expect she learned a good
deal from Johnny when she used to run away and go to Mexican Town.

We thought it a queer freak then. "The doctor launched into a long story, in which he was often eagerly
interrupted or joyously confirmed by Thea, who was drinking her coffee and forcing open the petals
of the roses with an ardent and rather rude hand.

Fred settled down into enjoying his comprehension of his guests. Thea, watching Dr. Archie and
interested in his presentation, was unconsciously impersonating her suave, gold-tinted friend.
It was delightful to see her so radiant and responsive again.

She had kept her promise about looking her best; when one could so easily get together the colors
of an apple branch in early spring, that was not hard to do.

Even Dr. Archie felt, each time he looked at her, a fresh consciousness.

He recognized
the fine texture of her mother's skin, with the difference that, when she reached across the
table to give him a bunch of grapes, her arm was not only white,
but somehow a little dazzling.

She seemed to him taller, and freer in all her movements. She had now a way of taking a deep breath
when she was interested, that made her seem very strong, somehow, and brought her at one quite overpoweringly.
If he seemed shy, it was not that he was intimidated by her worldly
clothes, but that her greater positiveness, her whole augmented self,
made him feel that his accustomed manner toward her was inadequate.

Fred, on his part, was reflecting that the awkward position in which
he had placed her would not confine or chafe her long.

She looked about at other people, at other women, curiously. She was not quite sure of herself,
but she was not in the least afraid or apologetic. She seemed to sit there
on the edge, emerging from one world into another, taking her bearings,
getting an idea of the concerted movement about her, but with absolute
self-confidence.

So far from shrinking, she expanded.

The mere kindly effort to please Dr. Archie was enough to bring her
out. There was much talk of aurae at that time, and Fred mused that every
beautiful, every compellingly beautiful woman, had an aura, whether
other people did or no. There was, certainly, about the woman he
had brought up from Mexico, such an emanation.

She existed in more space than she occupied by measurement. The enveloping air about her head
and shoulders was subsidized-- was more moving than she herself, for in it lived the awakenings,
all the first sweetness that life kills in people. One felt in her such a wealth of JUGENDZEIT, all
those flowers of the mind and the blood that bloom and perish by the myriad in the few exhaustless
years when the imagination first kindles. It was in watching her as she emerged like this, in being
near and not too near, that one got, for a moment, so much that one had
lost; among other legendary things the legendary theme of the absolutely
magical power of a beautiful woman.

After they had left Thea at her hotel, Dr. Archie admitted to Fred, as they walked up Broadway
through the rapidly chilling air, that once before he had seen their young friend flash up
into a more potent self, but in a darker mood.

It was in his office one night, when she was at home the summer before last." And then I
got the idea, "he added simply," that she would not live like other people: that, for better or
worse, she had uncommon gifts.

"" Oh, we'll see that it's for better, you and I, "Fred reassured him." Won't you come up to
my hotel with me? I think we ought to have a long talk. "" Yes, indeed, "said Dr. Archie gratefully;"
I think we ought. "V THEA was to sail on Tuesday, at noon, and on Saturday
Fred Ottenburg arranged for her passage, while she and Dr. Archie
went shopping.

With rugs and sea-clothes she was already provided; Fred had got everything of that sort she needed
for the voyage up from Vera Cruz. On Sunday afternoon Thea went to see the Harsanyis. When she
returned to her hotel, she found a note from Ottenburg, saying that
he had called and would come again to-morrow.

On Monday morning, while she was at breakfast, Fred came in.

She knew by his hurried, distracted air as he entered the dining-room that something had gone wrong.
He had just got a telegram from home. His mother had been thrown from
her carriage and hurt; a concussion of some sort, and she was unconscious.
He was leaving for St. Louis that night on the eleven o'clock train.

He had a great deal to attend to during the day. He would come that evening, if he might, and stay
with her until train time, while she was doing her packing. Scarcely
waiting for her consent, he hurried away. All day Thea was somewhat
cast down.

She was sorry for Fred, and she missed the feeling that she was the one person in his mind. He
had scarcely looked at her when they exchanged words at the breakfast-table. She felt as if she
were set aside, and she did not seem so important even to herself
as she had yesterday. Certainly, she reflected, it was high time that
she began to take care of herself again. Dr. Archie came for dinner,
but she sent him away early, telling him that she would be ready
to go to the boat with him at half-past ten the next morning.

When she went upstairs, she looked gloomily at the open trunk in her
sitting-room, and at the trays piled on the sofa. She stood at the
window and watched a quiet snowstorm spending itself over the city. More
than anything else, falling snow always made her think of Moonstone;
of the Kohlers'garden, of Thor's sled, of dressing by lamplight and
starting off to school before the paths were broken.

When Fred came, he looked tired, and he took her hand almost without seeing
her."

I'm so sorry, Fred. Have you had any more word? "" She was still unconscious
at four this afternoon. It doesn't look very encouraging.

"He approached the fire and warmed his hands.

He seemed to have contracted, and he had not at all his habitual
ease of manner."

Poor mother! "he exclaimed;" nothing like this should have happened
to her.

She has so much pride of person.

She's not at all an old woman, you know. She's never got beyond vigorous
and rather dashing middle age.

"He turned abruptly to Thea and for the first time really looked at her." How badly things come
out! She'd have liked you for a daughter-in-law. Oh, you'd have fought like the devil, but you'd
have respected each other. "He sank into a chair and thrust his
feet out to the fire."

Still, "he went on thoughtfully, seeming to address the ceiling," it might have been bad for you.
Our big German houses, our good German cooking-- you might have got
lost in the upholstery.

That substantial comfort might take the temper out of you, dull your
edge.

Yes, "he sighed," I guess you were meant for the jolt of the breakers. "" I guess I'll get plenty of jolt,
"Thea murmured, turning to her trunk." I'm rather glad I'm not staying over until to-morrow, "Fred
reflected."

I think it's easier for me to glide out like this. I feel now as if everything were rather casual,
anyhow. A thing like that dulls one's feelings.

"Thea, standing by her trunk, made no reply. Presently he shook himself and rose." Want me to put those
trays in for you? "" No, thank you. I'm not ready for them yet. "Fred strolled over to the sofa, lifted a scarf
from one of the trays and stood abstractedly drawing it through his fingers." You've been so
kind these last few days, Thea, that I began to hope you might soften a little; that you might ask
me to come over and see you this summer. "" If you thought that, you were mistaken, "she said
slowly." I've hardened, if anything.

But I shan't carry any grudge away with me, if you mean that. "He dropped the scarf." And there's
nothing-- nothing at all you'll let me do? "" Yes, there is one thing, and it's a good deal to ask.
If I get knocked out, or never get on, I'd like you to see that Dr. Archie gets his money
back. I'm taking three thousand dollars of his. "" Why, of course I shall.
You may dismiss that from your mind.

How fussy you are about money, Thea. You make such a point of it. "He
turned sharply and walked to the windows.

Thea sat down in the chair he had quitted."

It's only poor people who feel that way about money, and who are
really honest, "she said gravely."

Sometimes I think that to be really honest, you must have been so poor that you've been tempted
to steal. "" To what? "" To steal.

I used to be, when I first went to Chicago and saw all the things in the big stores there. Never anything
big, but little things, the kind I'd never seen before and could never afford. I did take something
once, before I knew it.

"Fred came toward her. For the first time she had his whole attention, in the degree to which she was
accustomed to having it." Did you? What was it? "he asked with interest."
A sachet. A little blue silk bag of orris-root powder.

There was a whole counterful of them, marked down to fifty cents. I'd never seen any before, and they
seemed irresistible. I took one up and wandered about the store with it. Nobody seemed to notice,
so I carried it off. "Fred laughed." Crazy child!

Why, your things always smell of orris; is it a penance? "" No, I love it. But I saw that the
firm didn't lose anything by me.

I went back and bought it there whenever I had a quarter to spend.

I got a lot to take to Arizona. I made it up to them. "" I'll bet you did!
"Fred took her hand." Why didn't I find you that first winter? I'd
have loved you just as you came! "Thea shook her head." No, you wouldn't,
but you might have found me amusing.

The Harsanyis said yesterday afternoon that I wore such
a funny cape and that my shoes always squeaked. They think I've improved.

I told
them it was your doing if I had, and then they looked scared.

"" Did you sing for Harsanyi?
"" Yes. He thinks I've improved there, too. He said nice things to
me. Oh, he was very nice! He agrees with you about my going to Lehmann,
if she'll take me. But the animal, like
the dogs, obeyed the Hermit's will rather than the King's.

"No witchcraft," said the Hermit, still guarding the deer with his upraised staff.  "It is
the Lord's will.  You, who have ever disobeyed His holy word, perhaps know not how dear to
Him were the birds and beasts.  His first companions.  His childhood friends.  And to this
day, for He Himself hath said it, not a sparrow falleth without His knowledge and pity.  O
wicked man!  How then can you delight to kill?"

The King gazed at the Hermit like one in a dream.  "How dare you say such things to me, your
King?" he said at last.

"You are no king of mine, thank God!" said the Hermit.  "I am an exile. I am of no land.  This
forest is my domain, my animal kingdom.  Depart, I beg, without more bloodshed.  O King, already
in time past the hunt has cost you dear.  Will you not take heed lest the Lord punish you further
for your sins?"

The King turned pale.  "This is certainly witchcraft!" he muttered. "What know you of the past?"
he cried, almost as if against his will.

"I know much," said the Hermit calmly.  "I know that hunting cost the life of your eldest son.
Will you not heed that warning, lest more ill befall?"

There was a stir among the nobles, and John saw the young man with whom he had wrestled a short
time before spur his horse forward to the King's side.  His face was black and angry.

"Sire--father," he said.  "Will you not end this parley and slay them all?  I would have a
hand in it for the sake of that young cub there!" and he shook his fist toward John. He lay unconscious
all day. Ray Kennedy stayed with him till two o'clock in the afternoon,
when he had to go out on his run.

It was the first time he had ever been inside the Kohlers'house, and he was so much impressed
by Napoleon that the piece-picture formed a new bond between him
and Thea.

Dr. Archie went back at six o'clock, and found Mrs. Kohler and Spanish
Johnny with Wunsch, who was in a high fever, muttering and groaning.

"There ought to be some one here to look after him to-night, Mrs. Kohler," he said. "I'm on a
confinement case, and I can't be here, but there ought to be somebody.
He may get violent."

Mrs.
Kohler insisted that she could always do anything with Wunsch, but
the doctor shook his head and Spanish Johnny grinned.

He said he would stay. The doctor laughed at him. "Ten fellows like you couldn't hold him, Spanish,
if he got obstreperous; an Irishman would have his hands full. Guess I'd better put the soft
pedal on him." He pulled out his hypodermic.

Spanish Johnny stayed, however, and the Kohlers went to bed. At about two o'clock in the morning
Wunsch rose from his ignominious cot. Johnny, who was dozing on the lounge, awoke to find the
German standing in the middle of the room in his undershirt and drawers, his arms bare, his
heavy body seeming twice its natural girth.

His face was snarling and savage, and his eyes were crazy. He had risen to avenge himself, to
wipe out his shame, to destroy his enemy. One look was enough for Johnny. Wunsch raised a chair
threateningly, and Johnny, with the lightness of a PICADOR, darted
under the missile and out of the open window.

He shot across the gully to get help, meanwhile leaving the Kohlers
to their fate.

Fritz, upstairs, heard the chair crash upon the stove.

Then he heard doors opening and shutting, and some one stumbling about in the shrubbery of
the garden. He and Paulina sat up in bed and held a consultation. Fritz slipped from under the
covers, and going cautiously over to the window, poked out his head.

Then he rushed to the door and bolted it.

"MEIN GOTT, Paulina," he gasped, "he has the axe, he will kill us!"

"The dresser," cried Mrs. Kohler; "push the dresser before the door. ACH, if you had your rabbit
gun, now!"

"It is in the barn," said Fritz sadly.

"It would do no good; he would not be afraid of anything now.

Stay you in the bed, Paulina."

The dresser had lost its casters years ago, but he managed to drag it in front of the door.
"He is in the garden. He makes nothing. He will get sick again, may-be."

Fritz went back to bed and his wife pulled the quilt over him and made him lie down. They heard
stumbling in the garden again, then a smash of glass.

"ACH, DAS MISTBEET!" gasped Paulina, hearing her hotbed shivered. "The poor soul, Fritz, he
will cut himself. ACH! what is that?" They both sat up in bed. "WIEDER!
ACH, What is he doing?"

The
noise came steadily, a sound of chopping. Paulina tore off her night-cap. "DIE BAUME, DIE
BAUME! He is cutting our trees, Fritz!" Before her husband could prevent her, she had sprung
from the bed and rushed to the window. "DER TAUBENSCHLAG! GERECHTER HIMMEL, he is chopping
the dove-house down!"

Fritz reached her side before she had got her breath again, and poked his head out beside hers.
There, in the faint starlight, they saw a bulky man, barefoot, half
dressed, chopping away at the white post that formed the pedestal
of the dove-house.

The startled pigeons were croaking and flying about his head, even beating their wings in his
face, so that he struck at them furiously with the axe. In a few seconds there was a crash, and
Wunsch had actually felled the dove-house.

"Oh, if only it is not the trees next!" prayed Paulina. "The dove-house you can make new again,
but not DIE BAUME."

They watched breathlessly. In the garden below Wunsch stood in the attitude of a woodman, contemplating
the fallen cote. Suddenly he threw the axe over his shoulder and went out of the front gate toward
the town.

"The poor soul, he will meet his death!" Mrs. Kohler wailed. She ran back to her feather bed and
hid her face in the pillow.

Fritz kept watch at the window.

"No, no, Paulina," he called presently; "I see lanterns coming.

Johnny must have gone for somebody. Yes, four lanterns, coming along the gulch. They stop; they
must have seen him already. Now they are under the hill and I cannot see them, but I think
they have him. They will bring him back.

I must dress and go down." He caught his trousers and began pulling them on by the window. "Yes,
here they come, half a dozen men.

And they have tied him with a rope, Paulina!"

"ACH, the poor man! To be led like a cow," groaned Mrs. Kohler. "Oh,
it is good that he has no wife!"

She was reproaching herself for nagging Fritz when he drank himself into foolish pleasantry
or mild sulks, and felt that she had never before appreciated her
blessings.

Wunsch was in bed for ten days, during which time he was gossiped about and even preached about
in Moonstone. The Baptist preacher took a shot at the fallen man from his pulpit, Mrs. Livery
Johnson nodding approvingly from her pew.

The mothers of Wunsch's pupils sent him notes informing him that their daughters would discontinue
their music-lessons.

The old maid who had rented him her piano sent the town dray for
her contaminated instrument, and ever afterward declared that Wunsch
had ruined its tone and scarred its glossy finish.

The Kohlers were unremitting in their kindness to their friend. Mrs. Kohler made him soups
and broths without stint, and Fritz repaired the dove-house and mounted it on a new post,
lest it might be a sad reminder.

As soon as Wunsch was strong enough to sit about in his slippers and wadded jacket, he told Fritz
to bring him some stout thread from the shop. When Fritz asked what he was going to sew, he produced
the tattered score of "Orpheus" and said he would like to fix it up for a little present. Fritz
carried it over to the shop and stitched it into pasteboards, covered with dark suiting-cloth. Over
the stitches he glued a strip of thin red leather which he got from his friend, the harness-maker.
After Paulina had cleaned the pages with fresh bread, Wunsch was amazed to see what a fine book
he had. It opened stiffly, but that was no matter.

Sitting in the arbor one morning, under the ripe grapes and the brown, curling leaves, with
a pen and ink on the bench beside him and the Gluck score on his knee, Wunsch pondered for a long
while.

Several times he dipped the pen in the ink, and then put it back again in the cigar box in which
Mrs. Kohler kept her writing utensils.

His thoughts wandered over a wide territory; over many countries and many years. There was no
order or logical sequence in his ideas. Pictures came and went without reason. Faces, mountains,
rivers, autumn days in other vineyards far away. He thought of a FUSZREISE he had made through the
Hartz Mountains in his student days; of the innkeeper's pretty daughter who had lighted his
pipe for him in the garden one summer evening, of the woods above Wiesbaden, haymakers on an
island in the river.

The roundhouse whistle woke him from his reveries.

Ah, yes, he was in Moonstone, Colorado. He frowned for a moment and
looked at the book on his knee.

He had thought of a great many appropriate things to write in it, but suddenly he rejected
all of them, opened the book, and at the top of the much-engraved
title-page he wrote rapidly in purple ink:-- EINST, O WUNDER!-- A.
WUNSCH.

MOONSTONE, COLO. SEPTEMBER 30, 18-- Nobody in Moonstone ever found
what Wunsch's first name was.

That
"A" may have stood for Adam, or August, or even Amadeus; he got very
angry if any one asked him.

He remained A. Wunsch to the end of his chapter there.

When he presented this score to Thea, he told her that in ten years she would either know what
the inscription meant, or she would not have the least idea, in which
case it would not matter.

When Wunsch began to pack his trunk, both the Kohlers were very unhappy. He said he was coming
back some day, but that for the present, since he had lost all his pupils,
it would be better for him to try some "new town." Mrs. Kohler darned
and mended all his clothes, and gave him two new shirts she had made
for Fritz.

Fritz made him a new pair of trousers and would have made him an overcoat but for the fact that overcoats
were so easy to pawn. Wunsch would not go across the ravine to the town
until he went to take the morning train for Denver.

He said that after he got to Denver he would "look around." He left
Moonstone one bright October morning, without telling any one good-bye.

He bought his ticket and went directly into the smoking-car. When the train was beginning to pull
out, he heard his name called frantically, and looking out of the
window he saw Thea Kronborg standing on the siding, bareheaded and
panting.

Some boys had brought word to school that they saw Wunsch's trunk going over to the station,
and Thea had run away from school.

She was at the end of the station platform, her hair in two braids,
her blue gingham dress wet to the knees because she had run across
lots through the weeds.

It had rained during the night, and the tall sunflowers behind her were fresh and shining. "Good-bye,
Herr Wunsch, good-bye!" she called waving to him. He thrust his head out at the car window and
called back, "LEBEN SIE WOHL, LEBEN SIE WOHL, MEIN KIND!" He watched her until the train swept
around the curve beyond the roundhouse, and then sank back into his
seat, muttering, "She had been running.

Ah, she will run a long way; they cannot stop her!" What was it about the child that one believed
in? Was it her dogged industry, so unusual in this free-and-easy
country?

Was it her imagination? More likely it was because she had both imagination
and a stubborn will, curiously balancing and interpenetrating each
other.

There was
something unconscious and unawakened about her, that tempted curiosity.

She had a kind of seriousness that he had not met with in a pupil before. She hated difficult things,
and yet she could never pass one by. They seemed to challenge her; she had no peace until she mastered
them. She had the power to make a great effort, to lift a weight heavier than herself. Wunsch
hoped he would always remember her as she stood by the track, looking
up at him; her broad eager face, so fair in color, with its high cheek-bones,
yellow eyebrows and greenishhazel eyes.

It was a face full of light and energy, of the unquestioning hopefulness of first youth. Yes, she
was like a flower full of sun, but not the soft German flowers of his childhood. He had it now, the
comparison he had absently reached for before: she was like the yellow prickly pear blossoms
that open there in the desert; thornier and sturdier than the maiden flowers he remembered;
not so sweet, but wonderful.

That night Mrs. Kohler brushed away many a tear as she got supper and set the table for two. When
they sat down, Fritz was more silent than usual.

People who have lived long together need a third at table: they know each other's thoughts so
well that they have nothing left to say. Mrs. Kohler stirred and stirred
her coffee and clattered the spoon, but she had no heart for her supper. She
felt, for the first time in years, that she was tired of her own
cooking.

She looked across the glass lamp at her husband and asked him if the butcher
liked his new overcoat, and whether he had got the shoulders right
in a ready-made suit he was patching over for Ray Kennedy.

After supper Fritz offered to wipe the dishes for her, but she told him to go about his business,
and not to act as if she were sick or getting helpless. When her work in the kitchen was all done,
she went out to cover the oleanders against frost, and to take a last look at her chickens.
As she came back from the hen-house she stopped by one of the linden
trees and stood resting her hand on the trunk.

He would never come back, the poor man; she knew that. He would drift on from new town to new
town, from catastrophe to catastrophe. He would hardly find a good home for himself again. He
would die at last in some rough place, and be buried in the desert or on the wild prairie, far
enough from any linden tree! Fritz, smoking his pipe on the kitchen
doorstep, watched his Paulina and guessed her thoughts.

He, too, was sorry to lose his friend. But Fritz was getting old; he had lived a long while and
had learned to lose without struggle. XIV "Mother," said Peter Kronborg to his wife one morning
about two weeks after Wunsch's departure, "how would you like to drive
out to Copper Hole with me to-day?"

Mrs. Kronborg said she thought she would enjoy the drive. She put on
her gray cashmere dress and gold watch and chain, as befitted a minister's
wife, and while her husband was dressing she packed a black oilcloth
satchel with such clothing as she and Thor would need overnight.

Copper Hole was a settlement fifteen miles northwest of Moonstone where Mr. Kronborg preached
every Friday evening.

There was a big spring there and a creek and a few irrigating ditches. It was a community of
discouraged agriculturists who had disastrously experimented with dry farming. Mr. Kronborg
always drove out one day and back the next, spending the night with one of his parishioners. Often,
when the weather was fine, his wife accompanied him. To-day they set out from home after the midday
meal, leaving Tillie in charge of the house.

Mrs. Kronborg's maternal feeling was always garnered up in the baby, whoever the baby happened
to be. If she had the baby with her, the others could look out for themselves. Thor, of course,
was not, accurately speaking, a baby any longer.

In the matter of nourishment he was quite independent of his mother,
though this independence had not been won without a struggle.

Thor was conservative in all things, and the whole family had anguished with him when he was being
weaned.

Being the youngest, he was still the baby for Mrs. Kronborg, though he was nearly four years
old and sat up boldly on her lap this afternoon, holding on to the
ends of the lines and shouting "'mup,'mup, horsey." His father watched
him affectionately and hummed hymn tunes in the jovial way that was
sometimes such a trial to Thea.

Mrs. Kronborg was enjoying the sunshine and the brilliant sky and
all the faintly marked features of the dazzling, monotonous landscape.

She had a rather unusual capacity for getting the flavor of places and of people. Although she
was so enmeshed in family cares most of the time, she could emerge serene when she was away from them.
For a mother of seven, she had a singularly unprejudiced point of view. She was, moreover, a
fatalist, and as she did not attempt to direct things beyond her control, she found a good deal
of time to enjoy the ways of man and nature.

When they were well upon their road, out where the first lean pasture lands began and the sand
grass made a faint showing between the sagebrushes, Mr. Kronborg
dropped his tune and turned to his wife.

"Mother, I've been thinking about something." "I guessed you had. What is it?" She shifted Thor to
her left knee, where he would be more out of the way. "Well, it's about Thea. Mr. Follansbee
came to my study at the church the other day and said they would
like to have their two girls take lessons of Thea.

Then I sounded Miss Meyers" (Miss Meyers was the organist in Mr. Kronborg's church) "and she said
there was a good deal of talk about whether Thea wouldn't take over
Wunsch's pupils.

She said if Thea stopped school she wouldn't wonder if she could get pretty much all Wunsch's
class. People think Thea knows about all Wunsch could teach." Mrs.
Kronborg looked thoughtful.

"Do you think we ought to take her out of school so young?" "She is young, but next year would be
her last year anyway.

She's far along for her age. And she can't learn much under the principal we've got now, can she?"
"No, I'm afraid she can't," his wife admitted. "She frets a good deal and says that man always
has to look in the back of the book for the answers. She hates all that diagramming they have
to do, and I think myself it's a waste of time." Mr. Kronborg settled himself back into the
seat and slowed the mare to a walk.

"You see, it occurs to me that we might raise Thea's prices, so it would be worth her while. Seventy-five
cents for hour lessons, fifty cents for half-hour lessons.

If she
got, say two thirds of Wunsch's class, that would bring her in upwards
of ten dollars a week. Better pay than teaching a country school, and
there would be more work in vacation than in winter. Steady work twelve
months in the year; that's an advantage.

And she'd be living at home, with
no expenses." "There'd be talk if you raised her prices," said Mrs.
Kronborg dubiously.

"At first there would. But Thea is so much the best musician in
town that they'd all come into line after a while. A good many people
in Moonstone have been making money lately, and have bought new pianos.
There were ten new pianos shipped in here from Denver in the last year.
People ain't going to let them stand idle; too much money invested.
I believe Thea can have as many scholars as she can handle, if we set
her up a little." "How set her up, do you mean?" Mrs. Kronborg felt
a certain reluctance about accepting this plan, though she had not
yet had time to think out her reasons.

"Well, I've been thinking for some time we could
make good use of another room.

  But such happens
not.  He lies passive and dazed.  He seems not to care whether he lives or dies.  He never
speaks nor smiles, only looks sometimes at me as if he wanted to ask me something.  The doctors
say that he is slowly dying.

"And now, John," concluded the Hermit's letter, "now comes the reason for these long, tedious
words to you.  I have done my utmost, but I am powerless.  Will you come?  Will you try what
your own skill and youth may do?  It may be your mission in life to save this lad who tried
to kill you.  I know that if he could but once smile, he would get well. Therein lies your
power.  Come, as quickly as you may.  Bring with you our animal friends who cannot be left
behind.  Brutus will lead you to the village, and thence you must find your way to the Capital.
And one word more: if you find yourself in trouble or need, show the silver talisman which
you wear about your neck, and I think all will be well. Remember my teachings, John, and come
as soon as may be."

When John had finished the letter, he stood for a moment quite dazed. He was to leave this
place where all was peace and happiness, and go back among men whom he feared!  He was to go
to the very King whose name he shuddered to remember,--the King who had killed his brother
and that holy man John with his little son!  He was to do all this for the sake of the enemy
who had hunted the bear, who had injured the gentle deer, who had aimed to take John's own
life!  He grew sick at the thought.  Yet,--it was the Hermit himself who summoned him.  And
he remembered the good man's teachings.

"How I can help I know not," sighed John, "but I must go!"  He laid his head upon the feathers
of the carrier pigeon and shed some bitter tears.  Then, placing the bird gently on the tree
beside him, he straightened himself bravely.  "I will go!" he said.  "I will go joyfully, as
one should who hopes to be worthy to bear the name of John."

Just then Brutus came sauntering from the hut, shaking himself lazily after his nap.

"Ho, Brutus!" called John, snapping his fingers.  "Shall we go on a journey together, you and
I?  Shall we take these little friends on a wonderful pilgrimage?  And will you be my guide,
as you were once before, good Brutus?"

The dog seemed to understand.  He pricked up his ears, and leaped up to John's shoulders with
a joyous bark.  Then, rushing to the edge of the wood, he looked back, inviting John to follow. 

Some singers take it fast there-- think it sounds more impassioned. That's one way! "She sniffed,
and Fred shot a mirthful glance at Archie.

Her boastfulness would have been childish in a schoolboy. In the light of what she had done,
of the strain they had lived through during the last two hours, it made one laugh,-- almost cry.
She went on, robustly:" And I didn't feel my dinner, really, Fred.

I am hungry again, I'm ashamed to say,-- and I forgot to order anything
at my hotel.

"Fred put his hand on the door." Where to? You must have food.

"" Do you know any quiet place, where I won't be stared at?

I've still got make-up on.

"" I do. Nice English chop-house on Forty-fourth Street. Nobody there at night but theater people
after the show, and a few bachelors. "He opened the door and spoke
to the driver.

As the car turned, Thea reached across to the front seat and drew Dr. Archie's handkerchief out of
his breast pocket."

This comes to me naturally, "she said, rubbing her cheeks and eyebrows." When I was little I
always loved your handkerchiefs because they were silk and smelled of Cologne water. I think
they must have been the only really clean handkerchiefs in Moonstone. You were always wiping my
face with them, when you met me out in the dust, I remember. Did
I never have any?

"" I think you'd nearly always used yours up on your baby brother.

"Thea sighed."

Yes, Thor had such a way of getting messy. You say he's a good chauffeur? "She closed her
eyes for a moment as if they were tired.

Suddenly she looked up." Isn't it funny, how we travel in circles? Here you are, still getting
me clean, and Fred is still feeding me.

I would have died of starvation at that boarding-house on Indiana Avenue if he hadn't taken
me out to the Buckingham and filled me up once in a while.

What a cavern I was to fill, too. The waiters used to look astonished. I'm still singing on
that food.

"Fred alighted and gave Thea his arm as they crossed the icy sidewalk.

They were taken upstairs in an antiquated lift and found the cheerful chop-room half full of
supper parties. An English company playing at the Empire had just
come in.

The waiters, in red waistcoats, were hurrying about. Fred got a table at the back of the room,
in a corner, and urged his waiter to get the oysters on at once."

Takes a few minutes to open them, sir, "the man expostulated."

Yes, but make it as few as possible, and bring the lady's first. Then grilled chops with kidneys,
and salad.

"Thea began eating celery stalks at once, from the base to the foliage." Necker said something
nice to me tonight. You might have thought the management would say something, but not they.
"She looked at Fred from under her blackened lashes."

It WAS a stunt, to jump in and sing that second act without rehearsal.
It doesn't sing itself.

"Ottenburg
was watching her brilliant eyes and her face.

She was much handsomer than she had been early in the evening. Excitement of this sort enriched
her. It was only under such excitement, he reflected, that she was entirely illuminated, or wholly
present. At other times there was something a little cold and empty, like a big room with no people
in it.

Even in her most genial moods there was a shadow of restlessness, as if she were waiting for
something and were exercising the virtue of patience. During dinner she had been as kind as
she knew how to be, to him and to Archie, and had given them as much
of herself as she could.

But, clearly, she knew only one way of being really kind, from the
core of her heart out; and there was but one way in which she could
give herself to people largely and gladly, spontaneously.

Even as a girl she had been at her best in vigorous effort, he remembered; physical effort, when
there was no other kind at hand.

She could be expansive only in explosions. Old Nathanmeyer had seen it. In the very first song
Fred had ever heard her sing, she had unconsciously declared it.

Thea Kronborg turned suddenly from her talk with Archie and peered
suspiciously into the corner where Ottenburg sat with folded arms,
observing her."

What's the matter with you, Fred? I'm afraid of you when you're quiet,-- fortunately you almost
never are. What are you thinking about?

"" I was wondering how you got right with the orchestra so quickly, there at first. I had a flash
of terror, "he replied easily.

She bolted her last oyster and ducked her head." So had I! I don't know how I did catch it.
Desperation, I suppose; same way the Indian babies swim when they're
thrown into the river.

I HAD to. Now it's over, I'm glad I had to. I learned a whole lot
to-night.

"Archie, who usually felt that it behooved him to be silent during such discussions, was encouraged
by her geniality to venture," I don't see how you can learn anything
in such a turmoil; or how you can keep your mind on it, for that
matter.

"Thea glanced about the room and suddenly put her hand up to her
hair."

Mercy, I've no hat on! Why didn't you tell me? And I seem to be wearing a rumpled dinner dress,
with all this paint on my face! I must look like something you picked up on Second Avenue. I hope
there are no Colorado reformers about, Dr. Archie.

What a dreadful old pair these people must be thinking you!

Well, I had to eat. "She sniffed the savor of the grill as the waiter uncovered it." Yes, draught
beer, please. No, thank you, Fred, NO champagne.-- To go back to your
question, Dr. Archie, you can believe I keep my mind on it.

That's the whole trick, in so far as stage experience goes; keeping
right there every second.

If I think of anything else for a flash, I'm gone, done for. But at the same time, one can take
things in-- with another part of your brain, maybe. It's different from what you get in study, more practical
and conclusive. There are some things you learn best in calm, and some in storm. You learn the delivery
of a part only before an audience. "" Heaven help us, "gasped Ottenburg."
Weren't you hungry, though!

It's beautiful to see you eat. "" Glad you like it.

Of course I'm hungry. Are you staying over for'Rheingold'Friday afternoon?
""

My dear
Thea, "-- Fred lit a cigarette,--" I'm a serious business man now.
I have to sell beer.

I'm
due in Chicago on Wednesday. I'd come back to hear you, but FRICKA is not an alluring part. ""
Then you've never heard it well done. "She spoke up hotly." Fat German
woman scolding her husband, eh?

That's not my idea. Wait till you hear my FRICKA.

It's a beautiful part. "Thea leaned forward on the table and touched Archie's arm." You remember,
Dr. Archie, how my mother always wore her hair, parted in the middle and done low on her neck behind,
so you got the shape of her head and such a calm, white forehead? I wear mine like that for
FRICKA. A little more coronet effect, built up a little higher at the sides, but the idea's the
same. I think you'll notice it. "She turned to Ottenburg reproachfully:" It's noble music, Fred,
from the first measure. There's nothing lovelier than the WONNIGER HAUSRATH. It's all such comprehensive
sort of music-- fateful. Of course, FRICKA KNOWS, "Thea ended quietly. Fred
sighed."

There, you've spoiled my itinerary. Now I'll have to come back, of
course.

Archie,
you'd better get busy about seats to-morrow. "" I can get you box seats, somewhere. I know nobody
here, and I never ask for any.

"Thea began hunting among her wraps." Oh, how funny! I've only these short woolen gloves, and
no sleeves. Put on my coat first. Those English people can't make out where you got your lady,
she's so made up of contradictions. "She rose laughing and plunged her arms into the coat Dr. Archie
held for her. As she settled herself into it and buttoned it under her chin, she gave him an
old signal with her eyelid." I'd like to sing another part to-night. This is the sort of evening I
fancy, when there's something to do. Let me see: I have to sing in'Trovatore'Wednesday night,
and there are rehearsals for the'Ring'every day this week. Consider me dead until Saturday,
Dr. Archie. I invite you both to dine with me on Saturday night, the day after'Rheingold.'And
Fred must leave early, for I want to talk to you alone. You've been here nearly a week, and I haven't
had a serious word with you. TAK FOR MAD, Fred, as the Norwegians say. "VIII THE" Ring of the
Niebelungs "was to be given at the Metropolitan on four successive
Friday afternoons.

After the first of these performances, Fred Ottenburg went home with
Landry for tea.

Landry was one of the few public entertainers who own real estate
in New York.

He lived in a little three-story brick house on Jane Street, in Greenwich
Village, which had been left to him by the same aunt who paid for
his musical education.

Landry was born, and spent the first fifteen years of his life, on a
rocky Connecticut farm not far from Cos Cob.

His father was an ignorant, violent man, a bungling farmer and a brutal husband. The farmhouse, dilapidated
and damp, stood in a hollow beside a marshy pond. Oliver had worked hard while he lived at
home, although he was never clean or warm in winter and had wretched
food all the year round.

His spare, dry figure, his prominent larynx, and the peculiar red of his face and hands belonged
to the choreboy he had never outgrown.

It was as if the farm, knowing he would escape from it as early as he could, had ground its mark
on him deep.

When he was fifteen Oliver ran away and went to live with his Catholic aunt, on Jane Street,
whom his mother was never allowed to visit.

The priest of St. Joseph's Parish discovered that he had a voice. Landry had an affection for the house
on Jane Street, where he had first learned what cleanliness and order
and courtesy were.

When his aunt died he had the place done over, got an Irish housekeeper, and lived there with
a great many beautiful things he had collected.

His living expenses were never large, but he could not restrain himself from buying graceful and
useless objects. He was a collector for much the same reason that he was a Catholic, and he
was a Catholic chiefly because his father used to sit in the kitchen
and read aloud to his hired men disgusting" exposures "of the Roman
Church, enjoying equally the hideous stories and the outrage to his
wife's feelings.

At first Landry bought books; then rugs, drawings, china. He had a beautiful collection of old French
and Spanish fans.

He kept them in an escritoire he had brought from Spain, but there were
always a few of them lying about in his sitting-room.

While Landry and his guest were waiting for the tea to be brought, Ottenburg
took up one of these fans from the low marble mantel-shelf and opened
it in the firelight.

One side was painted with a pearly sky and floating clouds. On the
other was a formal garden where an elegant shepherdess with a mask
and crook was fleeing on high heels from a satin-coated shepherd."
You ought not to keep these things about, like this, Oliver. The dust
from your grate must get at them.

"" It does, but I get them to enjoy them, not to have them. They're pleasant to glance at
and to play with at odd times like this, when one is waiting for
tea or something.

"Fred smiled. The idea of Landry stretched out before his fire playing
with his fans, amused him.

Mrs. McGinnis brought the tea and put it before the hearth: old teacups
that were velvety to the touch and a pot-bellied silver cream pitcher
of an Early Georgian pattern, which was always brought, though Landry
took rum.

Fred drank his tea walking about, examining Landry's sumptuous writing-table
in the alcove and the Boucher drawing in red chalk over the mantel."

I don't see how you can stand this place without a heroine. It would give me a raging thirst for
gallantries. "Landry was helping himself to a second cup of tea."

Works quite the other way with me. It consoles me for the lack of her. It's just feminine enough
to be pleasant to return to.

Not any more tea? Then sit down and play for me. I'm always playing for other people, and I never
have a chance to sit here quietly and listen. "Ottenburg opened
the piano and began softly to boom forth the shadowy introduction
to the opera they had just heard."

Will that do? "he asked jokingly." I can't seem to get it out of my head. "" Oh, excellently! Thea
told me it was quite wonderful, the way you can do Wagner scores on the piano. So few people
can give one any idea of the music. Go ahead, as long as you like. I can smoke, too. "Landry flattened
himself out on his cushions and abandoned himself to ease with the
circumstance of one who has never grown quite accustomed to ease.

Ottenburg played on, as he happened to remember. He understood now why Thea
wished him to hear her in" Rheingold.

"It had been clear to him as soon as FRICKA rose from sleep and looked out over the young world,
stretching one white arm toward the new Gotterburg shining on the
heights."

WOTAN! GEMAHL! ERWACHE! "She was pure Scandinavian, this FRICKA:" Swedish summer "! he remembered
old Mr. Nathanmeyer's phrase. She had wished him to see her because she had a distinct kind
of loveliness for this part, a shining beauty like the light of sunset
on distant sails.

She seemed to take on the look of immortal loveliness, the youth
of the golden apples, the shining body and the shining mind.

FRICKA had
been a jealous spouse to him for so long that he had forgot she meant wisdom before she meant
domestic order, and that, in any event, she was always a goddess.
The FRICKA of that afternoon was so clear and sunny, so nobly conceived,
that she made a whole atmosphere about herself and quite redeemed
from shabbiness the helplessness and unscrupulousness of the gods.

Her reproaches to WOTAN were the pleadings of a tempered mind, a consistent sense of beauty. In
the long silences of her part, her shining presence was a visible
complement to the discussion of the orchestra.

As the themes which were to help in weaving the drama to its end first came vaguely upon the
ear, one saw their import and tendency in the face of this clearest-visioned
of the gods.

In the scene between FRICKA and WOTAN, Ottenburg stopped." I can't seem to get the voices, in there.
"Landry chuckled." Don't try. I know it well enough. I expect I've been over that with her a thousand
times. I was playing for her almost every day when she was first working on it. When she begins
with a part she's hard to work with: so slow you'd think she was stupid if you didn't know her.
Of course she blames it all on her accompanist. It goes on like that for weeks sometimes.
This did. She kept shaking her head and staring and looking gloomy.
All at once, she got her line-- it usually comes suddenly, after
stretches of not getting anywhere at all-- and after that it kept
changing and clearing.

As she worked her voice into it, it got more and more of that'gold'quality
that makes her FRICKA so different. "Fred began FRICKA'S first aria
again."

It's certainly different. Curious how she does it. Such a beautiful idea,
out of a part that's always been so ungrateful. She's a lovely thing,
but she was never so beautiful as that, really.

Nobody is. "He repeated the loveliest phrase." How does she manage it, Landry? You've worked with
her. "Landry drew cherishingly on the last cigarette he meant to permit himself before singing."
Oh, it's a question of a big personality-- and all that goes with it.
Brains, of course. Imagination, of course.

But the important thing is that she was born full of color, with a rich personality. That's a gift
of the gods, like a fine nose.

You have it, or you haven't. Against it, intelligence and musicianship
and habits of industry don't count at all. Singers are a conventional
race. When Thea was studying in Berlin the other girls were mortally
afraid of her.

She has a pretty rough hand with women, dull ones, and she could
be rude, too!

The girls used to call her DIE WOLFIN.

"Fred thrust his hands into his pockets and leaned back against the piano." Of course, even
a stupid woman could get effects with such machinery: such a voice
and body and face.

But they couldn't possibly belong to a stupid woman, could they? "Landry shook his head." It's personality;
that's as near as you can come to it.

That's what constitutes real equipment. What she does is interesting because she does it. Even
the things she discards are suggestive.

I regret some of them. Her conceptions are colored in so many different ways. You've heard her ELIZABETH?
Wonderful, isn't it? She was working on that part years ago when her mother was ill. I could
see her anxiety and grief getting more and more into the part.

The last act is heart-breaking.

It's as homely as a country prayer meeting: might be any lonely woman
getting ready to die.

It's full of the thing every plain creature finds out for himself, but that never gets written
down. It's unconscious memory, maybe; inherited memory, like folk-music.
I call it personality.

"Fred laughed, and turning to the piano began coaxing the FRICKA
music again."

Call it anything you like, my boy. I have a name for it myself, but I shan't tell you. "He looked
over his shoulder at Landry, stretched out by the fire." You have a great time watching her, don't
you? "" Oh, yes! "replied Landry simply." I'm not interested in much that
goes on in New York.

Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll have to dress. "He rose with a reluctant sigh." Can I get you anything?
Some whiskey? "" Thank you, no. I'll amuse myself here. I don't often get a chance at a good piano
when I'm away from home. You haven't had this one long, have you? Action's a bit stiff. I say, "he stopped
Landry in the doorway," has Thea ever been down here? "Landry turned
back." Yes.

She came several times when I had erysipelas. I was a nice mess, with two nurses. She brought down
some inside window-boxes, planted with crocuses and things. Very cheering, only I couldn't see
them or her. "" Didn't she like your place? ""

She thought she did, but I fancy it was a good deal cluttered up for her taste. I could hear
her pacing about like something in a cage. She pushed the piano back against the wall and the
chairs into corners, and she broke my amber elephant.

"Landry took a yellow object some four inches high from one of his low bookcases." You can see
where his leg is glued on,-- a souvenir.

Yes, he's lemon amber, very fine. "Landry disappeared behind the
curtains and in a moment Fred heard the wheeze of an atomizer.

He put the amber elephant on the piano beside him and seemed to get a great deal of amusement out
of the beast. IX WHEN Archie and Ottenburg dined with Thea on Saturday evening, they were served
downstairs in the hotel dining-room, but they were to have their coffee in her own apartment. As they
were going up in the elevator after dinner, Fred turned suddenly
to Thea."

And why, please, did you break Landry's amber elephant? "She looked guilty and began to laugh." Hasn't
he got over that yet? I didn't really mean to break it. I was perhaps careless. His things are
so over-petted that I was tempted to be careless with a lot of them.

"" How can you be so heartless, when they're all he has in the world?

"" He has me. I'm a great deal of diversion for him; all he needs. There, "she said as she opened the
door into her own hall," I shouldn't have said that before the elevator boy. "" Even an elevator
boy couldn't make a scandal about Oliver.

He's such a catnip man. "Dr. Archie laughed, but Thea, who seemed suddenly to have thought
of something annoying, repeated blankly," Catnip man? "" Yes, he lives on catnip, and rum
tea. But he's not the only one.

You are like an eccentric old woman I know in Boston, who goes about in the spring feeding
catnip to street cats. You dispense it to a lot of fellows. Your pull seems to be more with men
than with women, you know; with seasoned men, about my age, or older.

Even on Friday afternoon I kept running into them, old boys I hadn't
seen for years, thin at the part and thick at the girth, until I stood
still in the draft and held my hair on.

They're always there; I hear them talking about you in the smoking room. Probably we don't get to
the point of apprehending anything good until we're about forty.

Then, in the light of what is going, and of what, God help us! is coming, we arrive at understanding.
"" I don't see why people go to the opera, anyway,-- serious people. "She spoke discontentedly."
I suppose they get something, or think they do. Here's the coffee. There, please, "she
directed the waiter. Going to the table she began to pour the coffee,
standing. She wore a white dress trimmed with crystals which had
rattled a good deal during dinner, as all her movements had been
impatient and nervous, and she had twisted the dark velvet rose at
her girdle until it looked rumpled and weary.

She poured the coffee as if it were a ceremony in which she did not
believe."

Can you make anything of Fred's nonsense, Dr. Archie?
"she asked, as he came to take his cup. Fred approached her." My nonsense
is all right. The same brand has gone with you before. It's you who
won't be jollied. What's the matter? You have something on your mind.
"" I've a good deal. Too much to be an agreeable hostess.

"She turned
quickly away from the coffee and sat down on the piano bench, facing
the two men." For one thing, there's a change in the cast for Friday
afternoon. They're going to let me sing SIEGLINDE.

"Her
frown did not conceal the pleasure with which she made this announcement."

Are
you going to keep us dangling about here forever, Thea? Archie and I
are supposed to have other things to do. "Fred looked at her with an
excitement quite as apparent as her own."

Here I've been ready to sing SIEGLINDE
for two years, kept in torment, and now it comes off within two weeks,
just when I want to be seeing something of Dr. Archie.

I don't know
what their plans are down there. After Friday they may let me cool
for several weeks, and they may rush me.

I suppose it depends somewhat
on how things go Friday afternoon. "

Descending from the throne with tottering steps, for the King had grown a feeble old man, he
led the way from the great hall.  Behind him came the doctor and the Hermit.  John followed,
with the animals in his arms and close about his heels.

So they came to the door of a room in one wing of the palace.

XXII

THE PRINCE'S CHAMBER

At the door the King paused and turned back to the little company which followed him.

"You may enter," he said, "and try your skill on the Prince, who is near to death.  If you
cure him, I will give you whatsoever reward you may demand.  But see that you do not fail!"
The King's voice was full of menace.  "Enter, in the name of whatever magic you use."

"In the name of love we come," said the Hermit gently; "and in the name of love we shall do
our best for your son, O King.  Enter softly, John. You must do without me now.  Leave our
larger, clumsier friends outside with me."

Softly John tiptoed over the sill, carrying the kittens in his arms, with the dove on his shoulder,
and the white cat following behind.

In the centre of the room was a couch, hung with a splendid canopy of purple and gold.  Beneath
a purple coverlet fringed with gold lay the Prince, white as the lace of the pillow on which
his black curls rested.  His eyes were closed, and he looked still and lifeless.  The hand
which lay outside on the purple velvet was as white and transparent as the hand of a marble statue.

On one side of his bed sat a doctor in a black velvet gown, and several attendants stood about
with long faces and tired eyes.  On the other side of the couch a little girl crouched on a
low stool.  She was a pale, pretty little thing, younger than John, and her dress of brilliant
red made her sad, dark eyes look all the more sorrowful as she gazed at John wistfully.  It
was Clare, the Prince's only sister.

As they entered the room the King made a sign to the doctor, who shook his head sadly.  The
King crossed to the bed and bent down over his son, touching the cold face. She had come to Chicago
to be with it, and it had deserted her, leaving in its place a painful longing, an unresigned
despair.

Harsanyi knew that his interesting pupil-- "the savage blonde," one
of his male students called her-- was sometimes very unhappy.

He saw in her discontent a curious definition of character.

He would have said that a girl with so much musical feeling, so intelligent, with good training
of eye and hand, would, when thus suddenly introduced to the great
literature of the piano, have found boundless happiness.

But he soon learned that she was not able to forget her own poverty in the richness of the world
he opened to her.

Often when he played to her, her face was the picture of restless misery. She would sit crouching
forward, her elbows on her knees, her brows drawn together and her gray-green eyes smaller than
ever, reduced to mere pin-points of cold, piercing light.

Sometimes, while she listened, she would swallow hard, two or three times, and look nervously
from left to right, drawing her shoulders together. "Exactly," he thought, "as if she were being
watched, or as if she were naked and heard some one coming."

On the other hand, when she came several times to see Mrs. Harsanyi
and the two babies, she was like a little girl, jolly and gay and
eager to play with the children, who loved her.

The little daughter, Tanya, liked to touch Miss Kronborg's yellow hair and pat it, saying,
"Dolly, dolly," because it was of a color much oftener seen on dolls than on people. But if Harsanyi
opened the piano and sat down to play, Miss Kronborg gradually drew away from the children,
retreated to a corner and became sullen or troubled.

Mrs. Harsanyi noticed this, also, and thought it very strange behavior.

Another thing that puzzled Harsanyi was Thea's apparent lack of curiosity. Several times he offered
to give her tickets to concerts, but she said she was too tired or that it "knocked her out to
be up late." Harsanyi did not know that she was singing in a choir, and had often to sing at
funerals, neither did he realize how much her work with him stirred
her and exhausted her.

Once, just as she was leaving his studio, he called her back and told her he could give her
some tickets that had been sent him for Emma Juch that evening. Thea fingered the black wool
on the edge of her plush cape and replied, "Oh, thank you, Mr. Harsanyi, but I have to wash my
hair to-night."

Mrs. Harsanyi liked Miss Kronborg thoroughly. She saw in her the making of a pupil who would
reflect credit upon Harsanyi. She felt that the girl could be made to look strikingly handsome,
and that she had the kind of personality which takes hold of audiences. Moreover, Miss Kronborg
was not in the least sentimental about her husband.

Sometimes from the show pupils one had to endure a good deal. "I like that girl," she used to
say, when Harsanyi told her of one of Thea's GAUCHERIES. "She doesn't sigh every time the wind
blows. With her one swallow doesn't make a summer."

Thea told them very little about herself. She was not naturally communicative,
and she found it hard to feel confidence in new people. She did not
know why, but she could not talk to Harsanyi as she could to Dr. Archie,
or to Johnny and Mrs. Tellamantez. Presently the Prince's other hand stole out from under the coverlet.
He drew the kitten feebly to his face and rubbed his cheek against the silky fur, and he smiled!

The doctor turned to the King.  "He will live," he said.  "It must be magic!"

"He lives!  My son lives!" cried the King, bending over the Prince in a transport.

The Prince opened his eyes and looked at him, and a change came upon his face.  The smile faded,
and he closed his eyes wearily.

"Your Majesty," said John, speaking gently, "if you will allow me to give the Prince a healing
draught which I myself have made from life-giving herbs, I think now he will sleep and waken
refreshed."

"Do as you will!" cried the King.  "Whatever you wish shall be done in the palace.  Whatever
you ask shall be given."

With a word and a gentle touch John roused the Prince, who swallowed the draught which the
boy gave him.  "Now let us leave him to sleep," said John.

But when they would have removed the cat and kittens, a cloud came over the Prince's face,
and his hand wandered feebly, as if craving the touch of the silky fur.

"We will leave them here," said John.  "They are what he needs."

"Oh, let me stay too!" cried the little Princess, with shining eyes.

And across the room she and John smiled at each other, as he nodded, saying, "Yes, O King,
I pray that you will let the little maid stay."

So they withdrew from the chamber, and left the Prince to dream with his new friends sleeping
about him, and the little sister with her head upon the pillow at his side.  And all night
long he slept like a baby with a smile upon his face.

The Prince's cure had begun.

XXIII

THE CURE

There was wonder and excitement in the palace, for the news of John's success had been told
from mouth to mouth.  The King ordered the Hermit's chains to be removed, and he and his pupil
were treated with utmost honor. "Don't you believe it, mother. Thea is not the marrying kind.
I've watched'em.

Anna will marry before long and make a good wife, but I don't see Thea bringing up a family.
She's got a good deal of her mother in her, but she hasn't got all. She's too peppery and too fond
of having her own way. Then she's always got to be ahead in everything. That kind make good church-workers
and missionaries and school teachers, but they don't make good wives. They fret all their energy
away, like colts, and get cut on the wire."

Mrs. Kronborg laughed. "Give me the graham crackers I put in your
pocket for Thor.

He's hungry. You're a funny man, Peter.

A body wouldn't think, to hear you, you was talking about your own daughters. I guess you see
through'em. Still, even if Thea ain't apt to have children of her own, I don't know as that's
a good reason why she should wear herself out on other people's."

"That's just the point, mother.

A girl with all that energy has got to do something, same as a boy,
to keep her out of mischief.

If you don't want her to marry Ray, let her do something to make
herself independent."

"Well, I'm not against it. It might be the best thing for her. I wish I felt sure she wouldn't
worry. She takes things hard. She nearly cried herself sick about
Wunsch's going away.

She's the smartest child of'em all, Peter, by a long ways."

Peter Kronborg smiled. "There you go, Anna. That's you all over again. Now, I have no favorites;
they all have their good points. But you," with a twinkle, "always
did go in for brains."

Mrs. Kronborg chuckled as she wiped the cracker crumbs from Thor's
chin and fists.

"Well, you're mighty conceited, Peter! But I don't know as I ever regretted it. I prefer having
a family of my own to fussing with other folks'children, that's the
truth."

Before the Kronborgs reached Copper Hole, Thea's destiny was pretty
well mapped out for her.

Mr. Kronborg was always delighted to have an excuse for enlarging
the house.

Mrs. Kronborg was quite right in her conjecture that there would be unfriendly comment in Moonstone
when Thea raised her prices for music-lessons.

People said she was getting too conceited for anything.

Mrs. Livery Johnson put on a new bonnet and paid up all her back calls to have the pleasure
of announcing in each parlor she entered that her daughters, at least,
would "never pay professional prices to Thea Kronborg."

Thea raised no objection to quitting school. She was now in the "high room," as it was called, in
next to the highest class, and was studying geometry and beginning Caesar. She no longer recited
her lessons to the teacher she liked, but to the Principal, a man who belonged, like Mrs. Livery
Johnson, to the camp of Thea's natural enemies. He taught school because he was too lazy to work
among grown-up people, and he made an easy job of it.

He got out of real work by inventing useless activities for his pupils, such as the "tree-diagramming
system."

Thea had spent hours making trees out of "Thanatopsis," Hamlet's soliloquy, Cato on "Immortality."
She agonized under this waste of time, and was only too glad to accept her father's offer of
liberty.

So Thea left school the first of November. By the first of January she had eight one-hour pupils
and ten half-hour pupils, and there would be more in the summer. She spent her earnings generously.
She bought a new Brussels carpet for the parlor, and a rifle for Gunner and Axel, and an imitation
tiger-skin coat and cap for Thor.

She enjoyed being able to add to the family possessions, and thought Thor looked quite as handsome
in his spots as the rich children she had seen in Denver. Thor was most complacent in his
conspicuous apparel. He could walk anywhere by this time-- though he always preferred to sit,
or to be pulled in his cart. He was a blissfully lazy child, and had a number of long, dull
plays, such as making nests for his china duck and waiting for her to lay him an egg. Thea
thought him very intelligent, and she was proud that he was so big
and burly.

She found him restful, loved to hear him call her "sitter," and really liked his companionship,
especially when she was tired.

On Saturday, for instance, when she taught from nine in the morning until five in the afternoon,
she liked to get off in a corner with Thor after supper, away from
all the bathing and dressing and joking and talking that went on in
the house, and ask him about his duck, or hear him tell one of his
rambling stories.

XV By the time Thea's fifteenth birthday came round, she was established
as a music teacher in Moonstone.

The new room had been added to the house early in the spring, and Thea had been giving her
lessons there since the middle of May. She liked the personal independence which was accorded her
as a wage-earner. The family questioned her comings and goings very little. She could go buggy-riding
with Ray Kennedy, for instance, without taking Gunner or Axel. She
could go to Spanish Johnny's and sing part songs with the Mexicans,
and nobody objected.

Thea was still under the first excitement of teaching, and was terribly
in earnest about it.

If a pupil did not get on well, she fumed and fretted. She counted until
she was hoarse.

She listened to scales in her sleep. Wunsch had taught only one pupil seriously, but Thea taught
twenty. The duller they were, the more furiously she poked and prodded them. With the little
girls she was nearly always patient, but with pupils older than herself, she sometimes lost
her temper. One of her mistakes was to let herself in for a calling-down from Mrs. Livery Johnson.
That lady appeared at the Kronborgs'one morning and announced that she would
allow no girl to stamp her foot at her daughter Grace.

She added that Thea's bad manners with the older girls were being talked about all over town,
and that if her temper did not speedily improve she would lose all her advanced pupils. Thea was
frightened. She felt she could never bear the disgrace, if such a thing happened. Besides,
what would her father say, after he had gone to the expense of building an addition to the house?
Mrs. Johnson demanded an apology to Grace. Thea said she was willing to make it. Mrs. Johnson
said that hereafter, since she had taken lessons of the best piano
teacher in Grinnell, Iowa, she herself would decide what pieces Grace
should study.

Thea readily consented to that, and Mrs. Johnson rustled away to tell a neighbor woman that Thea
Kronborg could be meek enough when you went at her right. Thea was telling Ray about this unpleasant
encounter as they were driving out to the sand hills the next Sunday. "She was stuffing you,
all right, Thee," Ray reassured her. "There's no general dissatisfaction
among your scholars.

She just wanted to get in a knock. I talked to the piano tuner the last time he was here, and
he said all the people he tuned for expressed themselves very favorably
about your teaching.

I wish you didn't take so much pains with them, myself." "But I have to, Ray. They're all so dumb.
They've got no ambition," Thea exclaimed irritably.

"Jenny Smiley is the only one who isn't stupid. She can read pretty well, and she has such good
hands. But she don't care a rap about it. She has no pride." Ray's face was full of complacent satisfaction
as he glanced sidewise at Thea, but she was looking off intently into the mirage, at one of those
mammoth cattle that are nearly always reflected there.

"Do you find it easier to teach in your new room?" he asked. "Yes; I'm not interrupted so much.
Of course, if I ever happen to want to practice at night, that's always the night Anna chooses
to go to bed early." "It's a darned shame, Thee, you didn't cop that
room for yourself.

I'm sore at the PADRE about that. He ought to give you that room. You
could fix it up so pretty." "I didn't want it, honest I didn't. Father
would have let me have it. I like my own room better.

Somehow I can think better in a little room.

Besides, up there I am away from everybody, and I can read as late as I please and nobody nags
me." "A growing girl needs lots of sleep," Ray providently remarked.

Thea moved restlessly on the buggy cushions. "They need other things more," she muttered. "Oh,
I forgot. I brought something to show you.

Look here, it came on my birthday.

Wasn't it nice of him to remember?"

She took from her pocket a postcard, bent in the middle and folded, and handed it to Ray. On
it was a white dove, perched on a wreath of very blue forget-me-nots,
and "Birthday Greetings" in gold letters.

Under this was written, "From A. Wunsch."

Ray turned the card over, examined the postmark, and then began to laugh. "Concord, Kansas. He
has my sympathy!" "Why, is that a poor town?" "It's the jumping-off place, no town at all. Some
houses dumped down in the middle of a cornfield. You get lost in the corn. Not even a saloon
to keep things going; sell whiskey without a license at the butcher
shop, beer on ice with the liver and beefsteak.

I wouldn't stay there over Sunday for a ten-dollar bill." "Oh, dear! What do you suppose he's doing
there? Maybe he just stopped off there a few days to tune pianos,"
Thea suggested hopefully.

Ray gave her back the card. "He's headed in the wrong direction.

What does he want to get back into a grass country for?

Now, there are lots of good live towns down on the Santa Fe, and
everybody down there is musical.

He could always get a job playing in saloons if he was dead broke. I've figured out that I've got
no years of my life to waste in a Methodist country where they raise
pork."

"We must stop on our way back and show this card to Mrs. Kohler. She misses him so." "By the way,
Thee, I hear the old woman goes to church every Sunday to hear you
sing.

Fritz
tells me he has to wait till two o'clock for his Sunday dinner these
days.

The church people ought to give you credit for that, when they go
for you."

Thea shook her head and spoke in a tone of resignation.

"They'll always go for me, just as they did for Wunsch.

It wasn't because he drank they went for him; not really. It was
something else."

"You want to salt your money down, Thee, and go to Chicago and take some lessons. Then you come
back, and wear a long feather and high heels and put on a few airs,
and that'll fix'em.

That's what they like." "I'll never have money enough to go to Chicago.

Mother meant to lend me some, I think, but now they've got hard times back in Nebraska, and her farm
don't bring her in anything. Takes all the tenant can raise to pay
the taxes.

Don't let's talk about that. You promised to tell me about the play
you went to see in Denver."

Any one would have liked to hear Ray's simple and clear account of the performance he had seen
at the Tabor Grand Opera House-- Maggie Mitchell in LITTLE BAREFOOT--
and any one would have liked to watch his kind face.

Ray
looked his best out of doors, when his thick red hands were covered
by gloves, and the dull red of his sunburned face somehow seemed
right in the light and wind.

He looked better, too, with his hat on; his hair was thin and dry, with no particular color or
character, "regular Willy-boy hair," as he himself described it.

His eyes were pale beside the reddish bronze of his skin. They had the faded look often seen in
the eyes of men who have lived much in the sun and wind and who have been accustomed to train
their vision upon distant objects.

Ray realized that Thea's life was dull and exacting, and that she
missed Wunsch.

He knew she worked hard, that she put up with a great many little annoyances, and that her duties
as a teacher separated her more than ever from the boys and girls of her own age. He did everything
he could to provide recreation for her. He brought her candy and magazines and pineapples-- of
which she was very fond-- from Denver, and kept his eyes and ears
open for anything that might interest her.

He was, of course, living for Thea. He had thought it all out carefully
and had made up his mind just when he would speak to her. When she
was seventeen, then he would tell her his plan and ask her to marry
him.

He would be willing to wait two, or even three years, until she was twenty, if she thought best. By
that time he would surely have got in on something: copper, oil,
gold, silver, sheep,-- something.

Meanwhile, it was pleasure enough to feel that she depended on him more and more, that she leaned
upon his steady kindness. He never broke faith with himself about
her; he never hinted to her of his hopes for the future, never suggested
that she might be more intimately confidential with him, or talked
to her of the thing he thought about so constantly.

He had the chivalry which is perhaps the proudest possession of his race. He had never embarrassed
her by so much as a glance. Sometimes, when they drove out to the
sand hills, he let his left arm lie along the back of the buggy seat,
but it never came any nearer to Thea than that, never touched her.

He often turned to her a face full of pride, and frank admiration, but
his glance was never so intimate or so penetrating as Dr. Archie's.
His blue eyes were clear and shallow, friendly, uninquiring.

He rested Thea because he was so different; because, though he often told her interesting
things, he never set lively fancies going in her head; because he never misunderstood her, and
because he never, by any chance, for a single instant, understood
her!

Yes, with Ray she was safe; by him she would never be discovered! XVI The pleasantest experience
Thea had that summer was a trip that she and her mother made to Denver in Ray Kennedy's caboose.
Mrs. Kronborg had been looking forward to this excursion for a long while, but as Ray never
knew at what hour his freight would leave Moonstone, it was difficult to arrange. The call-boy was
as likely to summon him to start on his run at twelve o'clock midnight
as at twelve o'clock noon.

The first week in June started out with all the scheduled trains running on time, and a light
freight business. Tuesday evening Ray, after consulting with the dispatcher,
stopped at the Kronborgs'front gate to tell Mrs. Kronborg-- who was
helping Tillie water the flowers-- that if she and Thea could be at
the depot at eight o'clock the next morning, he thought he could promise
them a pleasant ride and get them into Denver before nine o'clock
in the evening.

Mrs. Kronborg told him cheerfully, across the fence, that she would
"take him up on it," and Ray hurried back to the yards to scrub out his
car. The one complaint Ray's brakemen had to make of him was that
he was too fussy about his caboose.

His former brakeman had asked to be transferred because, he said, "Kennedy was as fussy about
his car as an old maid about her bird-cage." Joe Giddy, who was braking
with Ray now, called him "the bride," because he kept the caboose
and bunks so clean.

It was properly the brakeman's business to keep the car clean, but
when Ray got back to the depot, Giddy was nowhere to be found.

Muttering that all his brakemen seemed to consider him "easy," Ray
went down to his car alone.

He built a fire in the stove and put water on to heat while he got into his overalls and jumper.
Then he set to work with a scrubbing-brush and plenty of soap and "cleaner." He scrubbed the
floor and seats, blacked the stove, put clean sheets on the bunks,
and then began to demolish Giddy's picture gallery.

Ray found that his brakemen were likely to have what he termed "a taste for the nude in art,"
and Giddy was no exception.

Ray took down half a dozen girls in tights and ballet skirts,-- premiums for cigarette coupons,-- and
some racy calendars advertising saloons and sporting clubs, which
had cost Giddy both time and trouble; he even removed Giddy's particular
pet, a naked girl lying on a couch with her knee carelessly poised
in the air.

Underneath the picture was printed the title, "The Odalisque." Giddy was under the happy delusion
that this title meant something wicked,-- there was a wicked look about the consonants,--
but Ray, of course, had looked it up, and Giddy was indebted to the dictionary for the privilege of
keeping his lady.

If "odalisque" had been what Ray called an objectionable word, he would have thrown the picture
out in the first place.

Ray even took down a picture of Mrs. Langtry in evening dress, because it was entitled the "Jersey
Lily," and because there was a small head of Edward VII, then Prince of Wales, in one corner.
Albert Edward's conduct was a popular subject of discussion among railroad men in those days,
and as Ray pulled the tacks out of this lithograph he felt more indignant
with the English than ever.

He deposited all these pictures under the mattress of Giddy's bunk, and stood admiring his clean car
in the lamplight; the walls now exhibited only a wheatfield, advertising
agricultural implements, a map of Colorado, and some pictures of race-horses
and hunting-dogs.

At this moment Giddy, freshly shaved and shampooed, his shirt shining with the highest polish
known to Chinese laundrymen, his straw hat tipped over his right eye, thrust his head in at the
door. "What in hell--" he brought out furiously. His good humored, sunburned face seemed fairly
to swell with amazement and anger. "That's all right, Giddy," Ray called in a conciliatory tone.
"Nothing injured. I'll put'em all up again as I found'em. Going to take some ladies down in the
car to-morrow." Giddy scowled.

He did not dispute the propriety of Ray's measures, if there were to be ladies on board, but he felt
injured. "I suppose you'll expect me to behave like a Y. M. C. A. secretary," he growled.
"I can't do my work and serve tea at the same time." "No need to have a tea-party," said Ray
with determined cheerfulness. "Mrs. Kronborg will bring the lunch, and
it will be a darned good one."

Giddy lounged against the car, holding his cigar between two thick fingers. "Then I guess she'll
get it," he observed knowingly. "I don't think your musical friend is much on the grub-box.
Has to keep her hands white to tickle the ivories." Giddy had nothing against Thea, but he felt
cantankerous and wanted to get a rise out of Kennedy. "Every man to his own job," Ray replied
agreeably, pulling his white shirt on over his head. Giddy emitted smoke disdainfully. "I suppose
so. The man that gets her will have to wear an apron and bake the pancakes. Well, some men like
to mess about the kitchen." He paused, but Ray was intent on getting
into his clothes as quickly as possible. Giddy thought he could go a
little further.

"Of course, I don't dispute your right to haul women in this car if you want to; but personally,
so far as I'm concerned, I'd a good deal rather drink a can of tomatoes and do without the women AND
their lunch. I was never much enslaved to hard-boiled eggs, anyhow." "You'll eat'em to-morrow, all
the same." Ray's tone had a steely glitter as he jumped out of the car,
and Giddy stood aside to let him pass. He knew that Kennedy's next reply
would be delivered by hand.

He had once seen Ray beat up a nasty fellow for insulting a Mexican woman who helped about the
grub-car in the work train, and his fists had worked like two steel
hammers.

Giddy wasn't looking for trouble. At
eight o'clock the next morning Ray greeted his ladies and helped them
into the car. Giddy had put on a clean shirt and yellow pig-skin
gloves and was whistling his best.

He considered
Kennedy a fluke as a ladies'man, and if there was to be a party, the
honors had to be done by some one who wasn't a blacksmith at small-talk.
Giddy had, as Ray sarcastically admitted, "a local reputation as a jollier,"
and he was fluent in gallant speeches of a not too-veiled nature.

He insisted that Thea should take
his seat in the cupola, opposite Ray's, where she could look out over
the country.

  "It is the animals," he thought.  "It must
be the animals that they are so eager to see."

John walked along, smiling into the faces which met his kindly, and the brown spot on his eyelid
gave him the mischievous look which always made folk laugh.  It was amid a ripple of good-natured
laughter that he and his pets made their way to the platform which had been erected in front
of the palace.  Here on a high seat sat the King, and beside him the Prince, with a flush of
pleasure on his thin cheeks.  Gaily dressed lords and ladies stood about the throne. "Yes; the Scandinavians
are apt to have that, too. She can't go to Germany, I suppose?"

"Not now, at any rate. She is poor."

Thomas frowned again "I don't
think Bowers a really first-rate man. He's too petty to be really
first-rate; in his nature, I mean.  John
smiled at her, when he bowed low to the people on the platform.  And the little maid answered
with a flash of affection; but her face was very pale, and her hand trembled on the Hermit's
shoulder. 

"I must say you choose your company! You always had that streak in you, Thea. We all hoped
that going away would improve you. Of course, it reflects on father when you are scarcely
polite to the nice people here and make up to the rowdies."

"Oh, it's my singing with the Mexicans you object to?" Thea put down a tray full of dishes.
"Well, I like to sing over there, and I don't like to over here. I'll sing for them any time
they ask me to. They know something about what I'm doing. They're
a talented people."

"Talented!" Anna made the word sound like escaping steam. "I suppose you think it's smart to
come home and throw that at your family!"

Thea picked up the tray. By this time she was as white as the Sunday tablecloth. "Well," she replied
in a cold, even tone, "I'll have to throw it at them sooner or later.

It's just a question of when, and it might as well be now as any time." She carried the tray
blindly into the kitchen.

Tillie, who was always listening and looking out for her, took the dishes from her with a furtive,
frightened glance at her stony face. Thea went slowly up the back stairs to her loft. Her legs
seemed as heavy as lead as she climbed the stairs, and she felt as if everything inside her
had solidified and grown hard.

After shutting her door and locking it, she sat down on the edge of her bed. This place had always
been her refuge, but there was a hostility in the house now which
this door could not shut out.

This would be her last summer in that room. Its services were over; its time was done. She rose
and put her hand on the low ceiling. Two tears ran down her cheeks, as if they came from ice
that melted slowly. She was not ready to leave her little shell. She was being pulled out too
soon.

She would never be able to think anywhere else as well as here.

She would never sleep so well or have such dreams in any other bed; even last night, such sweet,
breathless dreams-- Thea hid her face in the pillow.

Wherever she went she would like to take that little bed with her. When she went away from
it for good, she would leave something that she could never recover; memories of pleasant excitement,
of happy adventures in her mind; of warm sleep on howling winter
nights, and joyous awakenings on summer mornings.

There were certain dreams that might refuse to come to her at all
except in a little morning cave, facing the sun-- where they came to
her so powerfully, where they beat a triumph in her!

The room was hot as an oven. The sun was beating fiercely on the shingles behind the board ceiling.
She undressed, and before she threw herself upon her bed in her chemise,
she frowned at herself for a long while in her looking-glass.

Yes, she and It must fight it out together. The thing that looked at her out of her own eyes was
the only friend she could count on. Oh, she would make these people sorry enough! There would
come a time when they would want to make it up with her.

But, never again! She had no little vanities, only one big one, and
she would never forgive.

Her mother was all right, but her mother was a part of the family,
and she was not.

In the nature of things, her mother had to be on both sides. Thea
felt that she had been betrayed.

A truce had been broken behind her back. She had never had much individual affection for any of
her brothers except Thor, but she had never been disloyal, never
felt scorn or held grudges.

As a little girl she had always been good friends with Gunner and
Axel, whenever she had time to play. Even before she got her own room,
when they were all sleeping and dressing together, like little cubs,
and breakfasting in the kitchen, she had led an absorbing personal
life of her own. But she had a cub loyalty to the other cubs.  John bowed and turned to the
King, waiting to hear his pleasure.  But instead of the speech which every one expected, they
saw the King gazing down into the crowd before him, and on his lips was a malicious smile. Nothing
in it that I particularly want; and a man's not effective in politics
unless he wants something for himself, and wants it hard.

I can reach my ends by straighter roads.

There are plenty of things to keep me busy.

We haven't begun to develop our resources in this State; we haven't had a look in on them yet.
That's the only thing that isn't fake-- making men and machines go, and actually turning out
a product.

"The doctor poured himself some white cordial and looked over the little glass into the fire with
an expression which led Ottenburg to believe that he was getting
at something in his own mind.

Fred lit a cigarette and let his friend grope for his idea."

My boys, here, "Archie went on," have got me rather interested in Japan. Think I'll go out there
in the spring, and come back the other way, through Siberia.

I've always wanted to go to Russia. "His eyes still hunted for something in his big fireplace.
With a slow turn of his head he brought them back to his guest and fixed them upon him." Just
now, I'm thinking of running on to New York for a few weeks, "he
ended abruptly.

Ottenburg lifted his chin." Ah! "he exclaimed, as if he began to see Archie's drift." Shall you
see Thea?

"" Yes. "The doctor replenished his cordial glass." In fact, I suspect I am going exactly
TO see her. I'm getting stale on things here, Fred.

Best people in the world and always doing things for me. I'm fond of them, too, but I've been
with them too much.

I'm getting ill-tempered, and the first thing I know I'll be hurting
people's feelings.

I snapped Mrs. Dandridge up over the telephone this afternoon when she asked me to go out to
Colorado Springs on Sunday to meet some English people who are staying
at the Antlers.

Very nice of her to want me, and I was as sour as if she'd been trying to work me for something.
I've got to get out for a while, to save my reputation.

"To this explanation Ottenburg had not paid much attention.

He seemed to be looking at a fixed point: the yellow glass eyes of a fine wildcat over one of
the bookcases." You've never heard her at all, have you? "he asked reflectively." Curious, when
this is her second season in New York.

"" I was going on last March.

Had everything arranged. And then old Cap Harris thought he could
drive his car and me through a lamp-post and I was laid up with a
compound fracture for two months. So I didn't get to see Thea.

"Ottenburg
studied the red end of his cigarette attentively." She might have
come out to see you. I remember you covered the distance like a streak
when she wanted you.

"Archie moved uneasily." Oh, she couldn't do
that. She had to get back to Vienna to work on some new parts for
this year. She sailed two days after the New York season closed. "

"Seize him!" commanded the King.  "Seize them both!  Off with them to prison!"

The guards stepped forward, unwillingly enough.  But at that moment John drew himself up. 
His eyes flashed; he grasped in both hands the staff over which he had made the wolf leap,
and braced himself for defense.

"They shall not take me!" he cried.  "I will not go with them.  I will die sooner.  To me,
my brothers!" and he gave a shrill, peculiar cry by which he and the Hermit were wont to call
their pets. 

The young and energetic members of the congregation came only once or twice a year, "to keep people
from talking." The usual Wednesday night gathering was made up of old women, with perhaps six
or eight old men, and a few sickly girls who had not much interest in life; two of them, indeed,
were already preparing to die. Thea accepted the mournfulness of the prayer-meetings as a kind
of spiritual discipline, like funerals. She always read late after she went home and felt
a stronger wish than usual to live and to be happy.

The meetings were conducted in the Sunday-School room, where there were wooden chairs instead of
pews; an old map of Palestine hung on the wall, and the bracket lamps gave out only a dim light.
The old women sat motionless as Indians in their shawls and bonnets; some of them wore long black
mourning veils. The old men drooped in their chairs. Every back,
every face, every head said "resignation."

Often there were long silences, when you could hear nothing but the crackling of the soft coal
in the stove and the muffled cough of one of the sick girls.

There was one nice old lady,-- tall, erect, self-respecting, with
a delicate white face and a soft voice.

She never whined, and what she said was always cheerful, though she spoke so nervously that Thea
knew she dreaded getting up, and that she made a real sacrifice to,
as she said, "testify to the goodness of her Saviour."

She was the mother of the girl who coughed, and Thea used to wonder
how she explained things to herself.

There was, indeed, only one woman who talked because she was, as Mr. Kronborg said, "tonguey." The
others were somehow impressive. They told about the sweet thoughts that came to them while
they were at their work; how, amid their household tasks, they were
suddenly lifted by the sense of a divine Presence.

Sometimes they told of their first conversion, of how in their youth that higher Power had made
itself known to them. Old Mr. Carsen, the carpenter, who gave his services as janitor to the
church, used often to tell how, when he was a young man and a scoffer, bent on the destruction
of both body and soul, his Saviour had come to him in the Michigan
woods and had stood, it seemed to him, beside the tree he was felling;
and how he dropped his axe and knelt in prayer "to Him who died for
us upon the tree."

Thea always wanted to ask him more about it; about his mysterious wickedness, and about the
vision.

Sometimes the old people would ask for prayers for their absent children.
  If there be more to say, tell it," he commanded
the mountebanks. 

Without the help of this sister-in-law, Tillie Kronborg, Mrs. Kronborg's
life would have been a hard one.

Mrs. Kronborg often reminded Anna that "no hired help would ever
have taken the same interest."

Mr. Kronborg came of a poorer stock than his wife; from a lowly, ignorant family that had lived
in a poor part of Sweden. His great-grandfather had gone to Norway to work as a farm laborer
and had married a Norwegian girl.

This strain of Norwegian blood came out somewhere in each generation of the Kronborgs. The
intemperance of one of Peter Kronborg's uncles, and the religious
mania of another, had been alike charged to the Norwegian grandmother.

Both Peter Kronborg and his sister Tillie were more like the Norwegian root of the family than
like the Swedish, and this same Norwegian strain was strong in Thea, though in her it took a
very different character.

Tillie was a queer, addle-pated thing, as flighty as a girl at thirty-five, and overweeningly
fond of gay clothes-- which taste, as Mrs. Kronborg philosophically
said, did nobody any harm.

Tillie was always cheerful, and her tongue was still for scarcely a minute during the day.
She had been cruelly overworked on her father's Minnesota farm when she was a young girl, and
she had never been so happy as she was now; had never before, as
she said, had such social advantages.

She thought her brother the most important man in Moonstone. She never missed a church service,
and, much to the embarrassment of the children, she always "spoke
a piece" at the Sunday-School concerts.

She had a complete set of "Standard Recitations," which she conned on Sundays. This morning,
when Thea and her two younger brothers sat down to breakfast, Tillie
was remonstrating with Gunner because he had not learned a recitation
assigned to him for George Washington Day at school.

The unmemorized text lay heavily on Gunner's conscience as he attacked
his buckwheat cakes and sausage.

He knew that Tillie was in the right, and that "when the day came
he would be ashamed of himself."

"I
don't care," he muttered, stirring his coffee; "they oughtn't to make boys speak. It's all right
for girls. They like to show off."

"No showing off about it. Boys ought to like to speak up for their country. And what was the
use of your father buying you a new suit, if you're not going to
take part in anything?"

"That was for Sunday-School. I'd rather wear my old one, anyhow. Why didn't they give the piece
to Thea?" Gunner grumbled.

Tillie was turning buckwheat cakes at the griddle. "Thea can play and sing, she don't need to
speak. But you've got to know how to do something, Gunner, that you have. What are you going
to do when you git big and want to git into society, if you can't
do nothing?

Everybody'll say,'Can you sing? Can you play? Can you speak? Then git right out of society.'An'that's
what they'll say to you, Mr. Gunner."

Gunner and Alex grinned at Anna, who was preparing her mother's breakfast.

They never made fun of Tillie, but they understood well enough that there were subjects upon which
her ideas were rather foolish. When Tillie struck the shallows, Thea was usually prompt in turning
the conversation.

"Will you and Axel let me have your sled at recess?" she asked.

"All the time?" asked Gunner dubiously.

"I'll work your examples for you to-night, if you do."

"Oh, all right. There'll be a lot of'em."

"I don't mind, I can work'em
fast. How about yours, Axel?"

Axel was a fat little boy of seven,
with pretty, lazy blue eyes. "I don't care," he murmured, buttering
his last buckwheat cake without ambition; "too much trouble to copy'em
down. Jenny Smiley'll let me have hers."

The boys were to pull
Thea to school on their sled, as the snow was deep. The three set
off together. Anna was now in the high school, and she no longer went
with the family party, but walked to school with some of the older
girls who were her friends, and wore a hat, not a hood like Thea.

IV "And it was Summer, beautiful Summer!"

Those
were the closing words of Thea's favorite fairy tale, and she thought
of them as she ran out into the world one Saturday morning in May,
her music book under her arm. She was going to the Kohlers'to take her
lesson, but she was in no hurry.  And there I made
a home for them, a kingdom of my own, with Brutus for my prime minister.  And there, after
many years, you came to find me, my dear son!  It was a miracle!"

Now the Prince came forward and laid his hand timidly on John's shoulder.  "John," he said,
"now you know how less than ever you have reason to love the rulers of this land.  But oh,
John!  I beg you to forgive us.  Be my brother, John; and if you can forget, let me be your
friend!"

"My brother and friend!" cried John; and the two hugged each other affectionately, while Brutus
leaped up and licked the face first of one, then of the other, and the other animals frisked
joyously. 

She always liked his sturdy matter-of-factness. Boys ought to be like
that, she thought.

When they reached the depot, Mr. Kronborg paced the platform somewhat
ceremoniously with his daughter.

Any member of his flock would have gathered that he was giving her good counsel about meeting the
temptations of the world. He did, indeed, begin to admonish her not to forget that talents come
from our Heavenly Father and are to be used for his glory, but he cut his remarks short and looked
at his watch. He believed that Thea was a religious girl, but when she looked at him with that intent,
that passionately inquiring gaze which used to move even Wunsch, Mr. Kronborg suddenly felt his
eloquence fail. Thea was like her mother, he reflected; you couldn't put much sentiment across
with her. As a usual thing, he liked girls to be a little more responsive. He liked them to blush
at his compliments; as Mrs. Kronborg candidly said, "Father could be very soft with the girls."
But this morning he was thinking that hard-headedness was a reassuring quality in a daughter
who was going to Chicago alone.

Mr. Kronborg believed that big cities were places where people went to lose their identity and
to be wicked. He himself, when he was a student at the Seminary-- he coughed and opened his
watch again. He knew, of course, that a great deal of business went on in Chicago, that there
was an active Board of Trade, and that hogs and cattle were slaughtered
there. His wife sent me word this morning, and I said I'd go over to see him to-night.
He's an old chum of yours, isn't he?

"" Oh, I'm glad. She's been crying her eyes out. When did he come?

"" Last night, on Number Six. Paid his fare, they tell me. Too sick to beat it. There'll come
a time when that boy won't get back, I'm afraid. Come around to my office about eight o'clock,-- and
you needn't bring that!

"Thor seemed to understand that he had been
insulted, for he scowled and began to kick the side of the wagon,
shouting," Go-go, go-go! "Thea leaned forward and grabbed the wagon
tongue. Dr. Archie stepped in front of her and blocked the way." Why
don't you make him wait? What do you let him boss you like that for?
"  With the silver
Cross on his bosom, the strange, merry smile ever on his face, and a kind word always on his
lips, John ministered to all who needed him; and he went far and wide to find them. "Well, I
think that's a dirty Mexican way to keep house; so there!"

Johnny shrugged his shoulders. "Perhaps," he muttered. A Mexican learns to dive below insults or soar
above them, after he crosses the border.

By this time the south wall of the amphitheater cast a narrow shelf
of shadow, and the party withdrew to this refuge.

Ray and Johnny began to talk about the Grand Canyon and Death Valley, two places much shrouded
in mystery in those days, and Thea listened intently. Mrs. Tellamantez took out her drawn-work
and pinned it to her knee. Ray could talk well about the large part
of the continent over which he had been knocked about, and Johnny
was appreciative.

"You been all over, pretty near. Like a Spanish
boy," he commented respectfully.  And the deer, the fox, the squirrel,
the rabbits, and the birds were always glad to see them. 

After they had made houses for themselves, the next thing was to house the precious water. He
explained to her how all their customs and ceremonies and their religion went back to water. The
men provided the food, but water was the care of the women. 

Tillie said she wanted Thea to have a ball dress "above all things." She bought a fashion book
especially devoted to evening clothes and looked hungrily over the colored plates, picking
out costumes that would be becoming to "a blonde."

