As we sat there, awed a little by this presence, the clouds were gathering from various quarters
and drifting towards us. We could watch the process of thunder-storms and the manufacture of
tempests. I have often noticed on other high mountains how the clouds, forming like genii released
from the earth, mount into the upper air, and in masses of torn fragments of mist hurry across
the sky as to a rendezvous of witches. This was a different display. These clouds came slowly
sailing from the distant horizon, like ships on an aerial voyage. Some were below us, some
on our level; they were all in well-defined, distinct masses, molten silver on deck, below
trailing rain, and attended on earth by gigantic shadows that moved with them. This strange
fleet of battle-ships, drifted by the shifting currents, was maneuvering for an engagement.
One after another, as they came into range about our peak of observation, they opened fire.
Sharp flashes of lightning darted from one to the other; a jet of flame from one leaped across
the interval and was buried in the bosom of its adversary; and at every discharge the boom
of great guns echoed through the mountains. It was something more than a royal salute to the
tomb of the mortal at our feet, for the masses of cloud were rent in the fray, at every discharge
the rain was precipitated in increasing torrents, and soon the vast hulks were trailing torn
fragments and wreaths of mist, like the shot-away shrouds and sails of ships in battle. Gradually,
from this long-range practice with single guns and exchange of broadsides, they drifted into
closer conflict, rushed together, and we lost sight of the individual combatants in the general
tumult of this aerial war.

We had barely twenty minutes for our observations, when it was time to go; and had scarcely
left the peak when the clouds enveloped it. We hastened down under the threatening sky to the
saddles and the luncheon. Just off from the summit, amid the rocks, is a complete arbor, or
tunnel, of rhododendrons. This cavernous place a Western writer has made the scene of a desperate
encounter between Big Tom and a catamount, or American panther, which had been caught in a
trap and dragged it there, pursued by Wilson. It is an exceedingly graphic narrative, and is
enlivened by the statement that Big Tom had the night before drunk up all the whisky of the
party which had spent the night on the summit. Now Big Tom assured us that the whisky part
of the story was an invention; he was not (which is true) in the habit of using it; if he ever
did take any, it might be a drop on Mitchell; in fact, when he inquired if we had a flask,
he remarked that a taste of it would do him good then and there. We regretted the lack of it
in our baggage. But what inclined Big Tom to discredit the Western writer's story altogether
was the fact that he never in his life had had a difficulty with a catamount, and never had
seen one in these mountains.

