The retreat of the French, enabled the enemy to turn his whole force upon the Swedes in Bohemia.
Gustavus Wrangel, no unworthy successor of Banner and Torstensohn, had, in 1646, been appointed
Commander-in-chief of the Swedish army, which, besides Koenigsmark's flying corps and the numerous
garrisons disposed throughout the empire, amounted to about 8,000 horse, and 15,000 foot. 
The Archduke, after reinforcing his army, which already amounted to 24,000 men, with twelve
Bavarian regiments of cavalry, and eighteen regiments of infantry, moved against Wrangel, in
the hope of being able to overwhelm him by his superior force before Koenigsmark could join
him, or the French effect a diversion in his favour.  Wrangel, however, did not await him,
but hastened through Upper Saxony to the Weser, where he took Hoester and Paderborn.  From
thence he marched into Hesse, in order to join Turenne, and at his camp at Wetzlar, was joined
by the flying corps of Koenigsmark.  But Turenne, fettered by the instructions of Mazarin,
who had seen with jealousy the warlike prowess and increasing power of the Swedes, excused
himself on the plea of a pressing necessity to defend the frontier of France on the side of
the Netherlands, in consequence of the Flemings having failed to make the promised diversion.
But as Wrangel continued to press his just demand, and a longer opposition might have excited
distrust on the part of the Swedes, or induce them to conclude a private treaty with Austria,
Turenne at last obtained the wished for permission to join the Swedish army.

The junction took place at Giessen, and they now felt themselves strong enough to meet the
enemy.  The latter had followed the Swedes into Hesse, in order to intercept their commissariat,
and to prevent their union with Turenne.  In both designs they had been unsuccessful; and the
Imperialists now saw themselves cut off from the Maine, and exposed to great scarcity and want
from the loss of their magazines.  Wrangel took advantage of their weakness, to execute a plan
by which he hoped to give a new turn to the war.  He, too, had adopted the maxim of his predecessor,
to carry the war into the Austrian States.  But discouraged by the ill success of Torstensohn's
enterprise, he hoped to gain his end with more certainty by another way.  He determined to
follow the course of the Danube, and to break into the Austrian territories through the midst
of Bavaria.  A similar design had been formerly conceived by Gustavus Adolphus, which he had
been prevented carrying into effect by the approach of Wallenstein's army, and the danger of
Saxony.  Duke Bernard moving in his footsteps, and more fortunate than Gustavus, had spread
his victorious banners between the Iser and the Inn; but the near approach of the enemy, vastly
superior in force, obliged him to halt in his victorious career, and lead back his troops.
Wrangel now hoped to accomplish the object in which his predecessors had failed, the more so,
as the Imperial and Bavarian army was far in his rear upon the Lahn, and could only reach Bavaria
by a long march through Franconia and the Upper Palatinate.  He moved hastily upon the Danube,
defeated a Bavarian corps near Donauwerth, and passed that river, as well as the Lech, unopposed.
But by wasting his time in the unsuccessful siege of Augsburg, he gave opportunity to the Imperialists,
not only to relieve that city, but also to repulse him as far as Lauingen.  No sooner, however,
had they turned towards Suabia, with a view to remove the war from Bavaria, than, seizing the
opportunity, he repassed the Lech, and guarded the passage of it against the Imperialists themselves.
Bavaria now lay open and defenceless before him; the French and Swedes quickly overran it;
and the soldiery indemnified themselves for all dangers by frightful outrages, robberies, and
extortions.  The arrival of the Imperial troops, who at last succeeded in passing the Lech
at Thierhaupten, only increased the misery of this country, which friend and foe indiscriminately
plundered.

And now, for the first time during the whole course of this war, the courage of Maximilian,
which for eight-and-twenty years had stood unshaken amidst fearful dangers, began to waver.
Ferdinand II., his school-companion at Ingoldstadt, and the friend of his youth, was no more;
and with the death of his friend and benefactor, the strong tie was dissolved which had linked
the Elector to the House of Austria.  To the father, habit, inclination, and gratitude had
attached him; the son was a stranger to his heart, and political interests alone could preserve
his fidelity to the latter prince.

Accordingly, the motives which the artifices of France now put in operation, in order to detach
him from the Austrian alliance, and to induce him to lay down his arms, were drawn entirely
from political considerations.  It was not without a selfish object that Mazarin had so far
overcome his jealousy of the growing power of the Swedes, as to allow the French to accompany
them into Bavaria.  His intention was to expose Bavaria to all the horrors of war, in the hope
that the persevering fortitude of Maximilian might be subdued by necessity and despair, and
the Emperor deprived of his first and last ally. Brandenburg had, under its great sovereign,
embraced the neutrality; Saxony had been forced to accede to it; the war with France prevented
the Spaniards from taking any part in that of Germany; the peace with Sweden had removed Denmark
from the theatre of war; and Poland had been disarmed by a long truce.  If they could succeed
in detaching the Elector of Bavaria also from the Austrian alliance, the Emperor would be without
a friend in Germany and left to the mercy of the allied powers.

Ferdinand III.  saw his danger, and left no means untried to avert it. But the Elector of Bavaria
was unfortunately led to believe that the Spaniards alone were disinclined to peace, and that
nothing, but Spanish influence, had induced the Emperor so long to resist a cessation of hostilities.
Maximilian detested the Spaniards, and could never forgive their having opposed his application
for the Palatine Electorate.  Could it then be supposed that, in order to gratify this hated
power, he would see his people sacrificed, his country laid waste, and himself ruined, when,
by a cessation of hostilities, he could at once emancipate himself from all these distresses,
procure for his people the repose of which they stood so much in need, and perhaps accelerate
the arrival of a general peace? All doubts disappeared; and, convinced of the necessity of
this step, he thought he should sufficiently discharge his obligations to the Emperor, if he
invited him also to share in the benefit of the truce.

The deputies of the three crowns, and of Bavaria, met at Ulm, to adjust the conditions.  But
it was soon evident, from the instructions of the Austrian ambassadors that it was not the
intention of the Emperor to second the conclusion of a truce, but if possible to prevent it.
It was obviously necessary to make the terms acceptable to the Swedes, who had the advantage,
and had more to hope than to fear from the continuance of the war.  They were the conquerors;
and yet the Emperor presumed to dictate to them.  In the first transports of their indignation,
the Swedish ambassadors were on the point of leaving the congress, and the French were obliged
to have recourse to threats in order to detain them.

