"From the sixth day of December, 1819, until January 4, 1859, a period of thirty-nine years,
the sessions of the Senate were held in the present Supreme Court room.  This was, indeed,
the arena of high debate.  When, in any age, or in any country, has there been gathered, within
so small compass, so much of human greatness? Even to suggest the great questions here discussed
and determined, would be to write a history of that eventful period.  It was, indeed, the coming
together of the master spirits of the second generation of American statesmen.  Here were Macon
and Crawford, Benton, Randolph, Cass, Bell, Houston, Preston, Buchanan, Seward, Chase, Crittenden,
Sumner, Choate, Everett, Breese, Trumbull, Fessenden, Douglas, Clay, Calhoun, Webster, and
others scarcely less illustrious. Within the walls of that little chamber was heard the wondrous
debate between Hayne and Webster.  There began the fierce conflict of antagonistic ideas touching
the respective powers of the State and of the Nation--a conflict which, transferred to a different
theatre, found final solution only in the bloody arbitrament of arms.

"For more than a third of a century the sessions of the Senate have been held in the magnificent
chamber of the north wing of the Capitol.  Of the procession of sixty-two Senators that, preceded
by the Vice-President, Mr. Breckenridge, entered the Chamber for the first time, on the fourth
day of January, 1859, but four survive; not one remains in public life.  It is, indeed, now
a procession of shadows.

"When the foundation-stone of this Capitol was laid, our Republic was in its infancy, and self-government
yet an untried experiment.  It is a proud reflection to-day that time has proved the true arbiter,
and that the capacity of a free and intelligent people to govern themselves by written constitution
and laws, of their own making, is no longer an experiment.  The crucial test of a century of
unparalleled material prosperity has been safely endured.

"In 1793 there was no city west of the Alleghanies.  To-day a single city on Lake Michigan
contains a population of a little less than one-half of the Republic at the time of the first
inauguration of Washington.  States have been carved out of the wilderness, and our great rivers,
whose silence met no break on their pathway to the sea, are now the arteries of our interior
trade, and bear upon their bosoms a commerce which surpasses a hundred-fold that of the entire
country a century ago.

"From fifteen States and four millions of people, we have grown to fifty States and Territories,
and sixty-seven millions of people; from an area of eight hundred and five thousand, to an
area of three million, six hundred thousand square miles; from a narrow strip along the Atlantic
seaboard, to an unbroken possession from ocean to ocean.  How marvellous the increase in our
national wealth!  In 1793, our imports amounted to thirty-one million, and our exports to twenty-six
million dollars.  Now our imports are eight hundred and forty-seven million, and our exports
one billion and thirty million dollars.  Thirty-three million tons of freight are carried on
our Great Lakes, whose only burden then was the Indian's canoe. Then our national wealth was
inconsiderable; now our assessed valuation amounts to the enormous sum of twenty-four billion,
six hundred and fifty million dollars.  Then trade and travel were dependent upon beasts of
burden and on sailing vessels; now steam and electricity do our bidding, railroads cover the
land, boats burden the waters, the telegraph reaches every city and hamlet; distance is annihilated,
and

  "'Civilization, on her luminous wings,
  Soars, Phoenix-like, to Jove.'

"In the presence of this wondrous fulfillment of predicted greatness, prophecy looks out upon
the future and stands dumb.

"When this corner-stone was laid, France, then in the throes of a revolution, had just declared
war against Great Britain--a war in which all Europe eventually became involved.  Within a
century of that hour, in the capital of France, there convened an international court, its
presiding officer an eminent citizen of the French Republic, its members representatives of
sovereign European States, its object the peaceable adjustment of controversies between Great
Britain and the United States.

"Was it Richelieu who said, 'Take away the sword; States can be saved without it'?

"In no part of our mechanism of government was the wisdom of our fathers more strikingly displayed
than in the division of power into the three great departments--legislative, executive, and
judicial.  In an equal degree was that wisdom manifested by the division of Congress into a
Senate and a House of Representatives. Upon the Senate the Constitution has devolved important
functions other than those of a merely legislative character.  Coequal with the House in matters
of legislation, it is, in addition, the advisory body of the President in appointments to office,
and in treating with foreign nations.  The mode of election, together with the long term of
service, unquestionably fosters a spirit of conservatism in the Senate.  Before no human tribunal
come for determination issues of weightier moment. It were idle to doubt that problems yet
lie in our pathway as a nation, as difficult of solution as any that in times past have tried
the courage or tested the wisdom of our fathers.

"And may our fathers' God, 'from out of whose hand the centuries fall like grains of sand,'
continue to the American people, throughout all the ages, the prosperity and blessings which
He has given to us in the past."

XXXV COLUMBUS MONUMENT IN CENTRAL PARK

FITNESS OF NEW YORK AS THE SITE FOR THE STATUE--VAST IMPORTANCE OF THE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA--COLUMBUS'S
HUMILITY AND HIS TRUST IN GOD --THE STATUE UNVEILED--CONCLUDING WORDS OF MR. DEPEW'S ORATION.

Facing the statue of Shakespeare in Central Park, New York, is that of Christopher Columbus.
It was unveiled with appropriate ceremonies. General James Grant Wilson presided; Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe read her beautiful poem, "The Mariner's Dream," and the oration was delivered by
the Hon. Chauncey Depew.  Upon this occasion I spoke as follows:

"This hour will live in history.  Central Park, beautiful and magnificent, is the fitting place
for the statue of Columbus. It is well that to the City of New York, the metropolis of the
continent, should have fallen the grateful task of portraying to the millions of all the coming
ages the features of the man who, despite obstacles and dangers, marked out the pathway to
the New World.

"The name and fame of Columbus belong exclusively to no age or country.  They are the enduring
heritage of all people.  Your President has truly said:  'In all the transactions of history,
there is no act which, for vastness and performance, can be compared to the discovery of the
continent of America.'  In the modest words of the great navigator, he 'only opened the gates';
and lo! there came in the builders of a new and mighty nation.

"It is said that in Venice there is sacredly preserved a letter written by Columbus a few hours
before he sailed from Palos.  With reverent expression of trust in God, humbly, but with unfaltering
faith, he spoke of his proposed voyage to that famous land.  He builded better than he knew.
His dream, while a suppliant in the outer chambers of kings, and while keeping lonely vigil
on the deep, was the discovery of a new pathway to the Indies.  Yet who can doubt that to his
prophetic soul was then foreshadowed something of that famous land with the warp and woof of
whose history, tradition, and song, his name and fame are linked for all time?  Was it Mr.
Winthrop who said of Columbus and his compeers:  'They were the pioneers in the march to independence;
the precursors in the only progress of freedom which was to have no backward steps.'

"Is it too much to say of this man that among the world's benefactors a greater than he hath
not appeared?  What page in our history tells of deeds so fraught with blessings to the generations
of men as the discovery of America?  Columbus added a continent to the map of the world.

"I will detain you no longer.  Your eyes will now behold this splendid work of art.  It is
well that its approaches are firm and broad, for along this pathway, with the rolling centuries,
will come, as pilgrims to a shrine, the myriads of all lands to behold this statue of Columbus,
this enduring monument of the gratitude of a great city, of a great nation."

As the last words were spoken, I leaned over and grasped the rope fastened to the flag that
enveloped the statue.  The flag parted on either side and was removed by the attendants.  The
statue stood revealed in all its beauty under the shade of the great elms of the Mall.

Mr. Depew concluded his eloquent oration with the following words:

"We are here to erect this statue to his memory because of the unnumbered blessings to America
and to the people of every race and clime which have followed his discovery.  His genius and
faith gave succeeding generations the opportunity for life and liberty. We, the heirs of all
the ages, in the plenitude of our enjoyments, and the prodigality of the favors showered upon
us, hail Columbus our benefactor."

XXXVI A PLATFORM NOT DANGEROUS TO STAND UPON

A CITIZEN WHO LONGED TO BE A MEMBER OF THE MISSOURI LEGISLATURE--A COMMITTEE APPOINTED BY A
MEETING OF HIS FRIENDS--DIFFICULTY IN ARRANGING THE PLATFORM--THE RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY.

The builders of political platforms, which uniformly "point with pride" and "view with alarm,"
may possibly glean a valuable suggestion from the following incident related by Governor Knott.
In the county in the good State of Missouri in which his fortune was cast for a while, there
lived and flourished, in the ante-bellum days, one Solomon P. Rodes, whose earnest and long-continued
yearning was to be a member of the State Legislature.  So intense, indeed, had this feeling
become in the mind of Solomon, that he at length openly declared that he "would rather go to
the Missouri Legislater, than to be the Czar of Roosky."  And in passing, it may here be safely
admitted that even a wiser man than Solomon might make this declaration in these early years
of the twentieth century.

Following the example of greater men than himself when aspiring to public office, Mr. Rodes
called a meeting of his party friends in his precinct, to the end that his modest "boom" might
be successfully launched.  After the accustomed organization had been effected, a committee
of five, of which our aspirant was chairman, was duly appointed to prepare and present appropriate
resolutions. The committee at once retired for consultation, to a log in the rear of the schoolhouse,
leaving the convention in session.  No rattling orator being present to arouse the enthusiasm
so essential to patient waiting, the little assemblage, wearied by the delay, at length despatched
a messenger to expedite, if possible, the labors of the committee.  The messenger found the
committee in a condition far otherwise than encouraging.  The resolutions had failed to materialize,
and the chairman, seated upon the log, with pencil in hand, and gazing pensively upon a blank
leaf before him, seemed the very picture of despair.  Upon a second admonition from the unreasonably
impatient meeting, that adjournment would immediately take place unless the resolutions were
reported, the committee hastily concluded its labors and, preceded by the chairman with document
in hand, solemnly returned to the place of assembly.

The resolutions, two in number, and unanimously and with great enthusiasm promptly adopted,
were in words and figures as follows, to-wit:

"(1) Resolv that in the declaration of independence and likewise also in the constitution of
the united states, we recognize a able and well ritten document, and that we are tetotually
oppose to the repeal of airy one of the aforesaid instruments of riting. Resolv:

"(2) that in our fellow-townsman, Solomon P. Rodes, we view a onest man and hereby annominate
him for the legislater."

XXXVII ANECDOTES OF GOVERNOR OGLESBY

OGLESBY'S GREATNESS IN DISCUSSING QUESTIONS CONNECTED WITH THE REBELLION--HIS WORK IN THE MEXICAN
AND CIVIL WARS--HE VISITS THE ORIENT--FAILS TO FIND OUT WHO BUILT THE PYRAMIDS.

Few men have enjoyed a greater degree of popularity than did the late Governor Oglesby of Illinois.
He was whole-souled, genial, and at all times the most delightful of companions.  He stood
in the front rank of campaign orators when slavery, rebellion, war, and reconstruction were
the stirring questions of the hour.  In the discussion of these once vital issues, with the
entire State for an audience, he was without a peer.  But when they were relegated to the domain
of history and succeeded by tariff, finance, and other commonplace, everyday questions, the
Governor felt greatly hampered.  In a large degree Othello's occupation was gone. Cold facts,
statistics, figures running up into the millions, gave little opportunity for the play of his
wonderful imagination.

In his second race for Governor, in a speech at Bloomington, he said, in a deprecatory tone:
"These Democrats undertake to discuss the financial question.  They oughtn't to do that.  They
can't possibly understand it.  The Lord's truth is, fellow-citizens, it is about all we Republicans
can do to understand that question!"

He was a gallant soldier in the Mexican and in the great Civil War, and in the latter achieved
distinction as a commanding officer. With Weldon, Ewing, McNulta, Fifer, Rowell, and others
as listeners, he once graphically described the first battle in which he was engaged.  Turning
to his old-time comrade, McNulta, he said:  "There is one supreme moment in the experience
of a soldier that is absolutely ecstatic!"  "That," quickly replied McNulta, "is the very moment
when he gets into battle."

"No, damn it," said Oglesby, "it is the very moment he gets out!"

In his early manhood, Oglesby spent some years abroad.  His pilgrimage extended even to Egypt,
up the Nile, and to the Holy Land.

Few persons at the time having visited the Orient, Oglesby's descriptions of the wonders of
the far-off countries were listened to with the deepest interest.  With both memory and imagination
in their prime, it can easily be believed that those wonders of the Orient lost nothing by
his description.  Soon after his return he lectured in Bloomington.  The audience were delighted,
especially with his description of the Pyramids.

None of us had ever before seen or heard a man who had actually, with his own eyes, beheld
these wonders of the ages.  Near the close of his lecture, and just after he had suggested
the probability of Abraham and Sarah having taken in the Pyramids on their wedding trip, some
one in the audience inquired;

"Who built the Pyramids?"

"Oh, damn it," quickly replied the  orator, "I don't know who built them; I asked everybody
I saw in Egypt and none of them knew!"

For much that is of interest in the career of Governor Oglesby I am indebted to his honored
successor in office, my neighbor and friend, Hon. Joseph W. Fifer--than whom the country has
had no braver soldier and the State no abler Chief Executive.

XXXVIII THE ONE ENEMY

CALEB CUSHING'S POLITICAL CAREER--HIS GREAT AMBITION A SEAT UPON THE SUPREME BENCH--HIS APPOINTMENT
THERETO--HIS ONE ENEMY DEFEATS HIS CONFIRMATION.

"He who has a thousand friends has not a friend to spare, And he who has one enemy will meet
him everywhere."

The truth of the above couplet has rarely had more forcible illustration than in the case of
the late Caleb Cushing of Massachusetts.  In politics he was successively Whig, Democrat, and
Republican.  During his first political affiliation, he was a Representative in Congress; in
the second a member of Pierce's Cabinet; and in the third a Minister abroad.  He was an eminent
lawyer, and for a term ably discharged the duties of Attorney-General of the United States.
His one ambition was a seat upon the Supreme Bench.

This was at length gratified by his appointment as Chief Justice of the Great Court.  Unfortunately
he had, years before, given mortal offence to Aaron A. Sargent, then recently admitted to the
bar.  The latter soon after moved to California, and became in time a Senator from that State.

When the appointment of Cushing came before the Senate for confirmation, his one enemy was
there.  The appointee had long since forgotten the young lawyer he had once treated so rudely,
but he had not been forgotten.  The hour of revenge had now come. After a protracted and bitter
struggle, Sargent, of the same political affiliation as Cushing, succeeded in defeating the
confirmation by a single vote.  The political sensation of the hour was the Senator's prompt
message to his defeated enemy:

  "Time at last sets all things even;
  And if we do but watch the hour,
  There never yet was human power
  Which could evade, if unforgiven,
  The patient search and vigil long,
  Of him who treasures up a wrong."

XXXIX CONTRASTS OF TIMES

TRAVELLING IN 1845 COMPARED WITH THAT OF THE PRESENT DAY.

While I was Assistant Postmaster-General, Senator Whittihorne, of Tennessee, called at the
Department to see me on official business.  Seated at a window overlooking the Capitol, he
remarked that the chords of memory were touched as he entered the room; that when barely of
age, he occupied for a time a desk as a clerk just where he was seated.

He then told me that at the time of the Presidential election in 1844 he was a law student
in the office of Mr. Polk, and by his invitation came on with him to Washington.  The journey
of the President-elect, from Nashville to Washington, was in February, 1845, just prior to
his inauguration.  He was accompanied by the members of his immediate family, his law student
Mr. Whittihorne, and the Hon. Cave Johnson, who was soon to hold a position in his Cabinet.
The journey to Washington, as Senator Whittihorne told me, was of two weeks' duration:  first,
by steamboat on the Cumberland and the Ohio to Pittsburg; thence by stage coach to the national
Capitol.

At the time mentioned, railroads scarcely had an existence south of the Ohio and west of the
Alleghanies; and save the single wire from Washington to Baltimore, no telegraph line had been
constructed.

How striking the commentary, alike upon human accomplishment, and upon opportunity under our
free institutions, is here presented! The wearisome and hazardous journey of half a month by
steamboat and stage coach had been succeeded by one in palace car of a day and a night of comparative
ease and safety, and the clerk had risen from a humble place in the Department to that of Senator
from one of the great States in the Union.

XL ENDORSING THE ADMINISTRATION

DIFFICULTY EXPERIENCED BY DEMOCRATIC MEMBERS IN PROCURING APPOINTMENTS FOR THEIR CONSTITUENTS--A
NEW MEMBER THREATENS TO FRAME RESOLUTIONS OF CONDEMNATION--HE DOES THE VERY OPPOSITE--AN EXPLANATORY
ANECDOTE.

The Democratic members of the forty-ninth Congress who yet survive will probably recall something
of the difficulty they experienced in procuring for aspiring constituents prompt appointments
to positions of honor, trust, and profit, under the then lately inaugurated administration.
An earnest desire was felt, and vehemently expressed at times, by those who had been long excluded
from everything that savored of Federal recognition, for sweeping changes all along the line.

A new member of the House, from one of the border States, believing that his grievances were
far too heavy to be meekly borne, made open declaration of war, and asserted with great confidence
and with the free use of words nowhere to be found in "Little Helps to Youthful Beginners,"
that at the approaching Democratic convention of his State, resolutions of condemnation of
no uncertain sound would be adopted.  Some conciliatory observations, which I ventured to offer,
were treated with scorn, and the irate member, still breathing out threatenings, hastily turned
his footsteps homeward.

A few mornings later, I was agreeably surprised to find in The Post a telegram to the effect
that upon the assembling of the convention aforementioned, the honorable gentleman above designated,
securing prompt recognition from the chair, had, under a suspension of the rules, secured the
unanimous adoption of a resolution enthusiastically and unconditionally endorsing every act,
past, present, and to come, of the national Democratic administration.

Upon the return of the member to Washington, I expressed to him my surprise at a conversion
which, in suddenness and power, had possibly but one parallel in either sacred or profane history.
Closing his near eye, he said:

"Look here!  I can illustrate my position about this matter by relating a little incident I
witnessed near the close of the war. Just as I was leaving an old ferry-boat in which I had
crossed the Tennessee River, my attention was attracted to a canoe near by in which were seated
two fishermen, both negroes, one a very old man and the other a small boy.  Suddenly the canoe
capsized and they were both dumped in the deep water.  The boy was an expert swimmer and was
in no danger.  Not so with the old man; he sank immediately, and it certainly seemed that his
fishing days were over.  The boy, however, with a pluck and skill that did him great credit,
instantly dived to the bottom of the river, and with great difficulty and much personal peril
finally succeeded in landing the old man upon the shore.

"Approaching the heroic youth, as he was wringing the water from his own garments, I inquired,

"'Your father, is he?'

"'No, sir,' was the quick reply, 'he ain't my father.'

"'Your grandfather, then?'

"'No, sir, he ain't my grandfather nuther, he ain't no kin to me, I tell you.'

"'Earnestly expressing my surprise at his having imperilled his own life to save a man who
was no kin to him, the boy replied,'

"'You see, dis was de way of it boss; de ole man, he had de bait!"

XLI ANECDOTES ABOUT LINCOLN

LINCOLN'S TROUBLE WITH THREE EMANCIPATION ENTHUSIASTS--A SCHOOLBOY'S TROUBLE WITH SHADRACH,
MESHACH, AND ABEDNEGO--PRETTY WELL OFF WITH A FORTUNE OF FIFTEEN THOUSAND DOLLARS--LINCOLN
REBUKES SOME RICH MEN WHO DEMAND A GUNBOAT FOR THE PROTECTION OF NEW YORK.

The Hon. John B. Henderson, now of Washington City, but during the war and the early reconstruction
period a distinguished Union Senator from Missouri, relates the following incident of Mr. Lincoln.
During the gloomy period of 1862, late one Sunday afternoon he called upon the President and
found his alone in his library. After some moments Mr. Lincoln, apparently much depressed,
stated in substance:  "They are making every effort, Henderson, to induce me to issue a Proclamation
of Emancipation.  Sumner and Wilson and Stevens are constantly urging me, but I don't think
it best now; do you think so, Henderson?"  To which the latter promptly replied that he did
not think so; that such a measure, under existing conditions, would, in his judgment, be ill-advised
and possibly disastrous.  "Just what I think," said the President, "but they are constantly
coming and urging me, sometimes alone, sometimes in couples, and sometimes all three together,
but constantly pressing me."  With that he walked across the room to a window and looked out
upon the Avenue.  Sure enough, Wilson, Stevens, and Sumner were seen approaching the Executive
Mansion.  Calling his visitor to the window and pointing to the approaching figures, in a tone
expressing something of that wondrous sense of humor that no burden or disaster could wholly
dispel, he said, "Henderson, did you ever attend an old field school?"  Henderson replied that
he did.

"So did I," said the President; "what little education I ever got in early life was in that
way.  I attended an old field school in Indiana, where our only reading-book was the Bible.
One day we were standing up reading the account of the three Hebrew children in the fiery furnace.
A little tow-headed fellow who stood beside me had the verse with the unpronounceable names;
he mangled up Shadrach and Meshach woefully, and finally went all to pieces on Abednego.  Smarting
under the blows which, in accordance with the old-time custom, promptly followed his delinquency,
the little fellow sobbed aloud.  The reading, however, went round, each boy in the class reading
his verse in turn.  The sobbing at length ceased, and the tow-headed boy gazed intently upon
the verses ahead.

"Suddenly he gave a pitiful yell, at which the school-master demanded:

"'What is the matter with you now?'

"'Look there,' said the boy, pointing to the next verse, 'there comes them same damn three
fellows again!'"

As indicating the slight concern Mr. Lincoln had about money-making, as well as the significance
of the expression "well-off" half a century or so ago, the following conversation, related
by Judge Weldon, is in point.

At the opening of the De Witt Circuit Court in May, 1859, just a year before his first nomination
for the Presidency, Mr. Lincoln was present, unattended for possibly the first time by his
life-long friend, Major John T. Stuart.  Upon inquiry from Weldon as to whether Stuart was
coming, Lincoln replied, "No, Stuart told me that he would not be here this term."

Weldon then remarked, "I suppose the Major has gotten to be pretty well off and doesn't have
to attend all the courts in the Circuit."

"Yes," replied Lincoln, "Stuart is pretty well to do, pretty well to do."

"How much is the Major probably worth, Mr. Lincoln?"  asked Mr. Weldon.

"Well," replied the latter, after a moment's thought, "I don't know exactly; Stuart is pretty
well off; I suppose he must be worth about fifteen thousand dollars."

Another incident characteristic of Mr. Lincoln, was related by his friend Judge Weldon.

During the gloomiest period of the war, and while our seaboard cities were in constant apprehension
of attack, a delegation of business men from New York visited Washington for the purpose of
having a gunboat secured for the defence of their city.  At their request, Judge Weldon accompanied
them to the Executive Mansion and introduced them to the President.  The spokesman of the delegation,
after depicting at length and in somewhat pompous manner, the dangers that threatened the great
metropolis, took occasion, in manner at once conclusive, to state that he spoke with authority,
that the gentlemen represented property aggregating in value many hundreds of millions of dollars.
At this, Mr. Lincoln interposing impatiently, and in a manner never to be forgotten, said:

"It seems to me, gentlemen, that if I were as rich as you say you are, and as badly scared
as you appear to be, I would, in this hour of my country's distress, just buy that gunboat myself!"

XLII THE FIRST LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY IN AMERICA

FAR-REACHING EFFECTS OF THE FOUNDING OF THE VIRGINIA HOUSE OF BURGESSES--VIRGINIA'S GIFT OF
TERRITORY TO THE GOVERNMENT--KASKASKIA CAPTURED FROM THE BRITISH--JAMESTOWN THE SCENE OF THE
FIRST BRITISH COLONY--THE BEGINNINGS OF COLONIAL SELF-GOVERNMENT--SALUTARY LAWS MADE--POCAHONTAS--GOVERNMENT
BY CHARTER--DESPOTISM OF JAMES I--MACAULAY ON THE STUART DYNASTY--THE THIRTEEN ORIGINAL COLONIES--
UNJUST TAXATION--PROGRESS OF REPUBLICAN PRINCIPLES--VIRGINIA NOTABLE FOR HER STATESMEN.

On the thirtieth of July, 1907, at the Jamestown Exposition, was celebrated the anniversary
of the assembling of the House of Burgesses of Virginia, the first legislative body to assemble
upon the Western continent.  The meeting was presided over by the present Speaker of the Virginia
House of Burgesses, and by invitation of the President of the Exposition addresses were made
by ex-speakers Carlisle, Keifer, and myself.

My address was as follows:

"We have assembled upon historic ground.  We celebrate to-day a masterful historic event. 
Other anniversaries, sacredly observed, have their deep meaning; no one, however, is fraught
with profounder significance than this.

"The management of the great Exposition did well to set apart this thirtieth of July to commemorate
the coming together at Jamestown of the first legislative assembly in the New World.  The assembling
of the representatives of the people upon the eventful day two hundred and eighty-six years
ago--of which this is the anniversary --marked an epoch which, in far-reaching consequences,
scarcely finds a parallel in history.  It was the initial step in the series of stupendous
events which found their culmination in the Bill of Rights, the Declaration of Independence,
and the formulation of the Federal Constitution.

"From my home, a thousand miles to the westward, in the great valley of the Mississippi, I
come at your bidding to bear part in the exercises of this day.  Not as a stranger, an alien
to your blood, but as your countryman, your fellow-citizen, I gladly lift my voice in this
great assemblage.  And when were the words, 'fellow-citizens,' of deeper significance as suggestive
of a more glorious past then to-day, as we gather upon this hallowed spot to commemorate one
of the grandest events of which history has any record?

"And truly, an Illinoisan is no stranger within the confines of 'the Old Dominion.' You have
not forgotten, we cannot forget, that the territory now embraced in five magnificent commonwealths
bordering upon the Ohio and the Mississippi, was at a crucial period of our history the generous
gift of Virginia to the general Government,--a gift that in splendid statesmanship and in far-reaching
consequence has no counterpart; one which at the pivotal moment made possible the ratification
of the Articles of Confederation--the sure forecast of 'the more perfect Union' yet to follow.
Illinois, the greatest of the commonwealths to which I have alluded, can never forget that
it was a Virginian, George Rogers Clark, who, in the darkest days of the Revolution, led the
expedition--'worthy of mention,' as was said by John Randolph, 'with that of Hannibal in Italy,'--by
which the ancient capital, Kaskaskia, was captured, the British flag deposed, and Illinois
taken possession of in the name of the commonwealth whose Governor, Patrick Henry, had authorized
the masterful conquest.  Nor can it be forgotten that the deed of cession by which Illinois
became part and parcel of the general Government, bears--as commissioners upon the part of
Virginia--the honored names of Arthur Lee, James Monroe, and Thomas Jefferson.  Is it to be
wondered at, that a magnificent Illinois building adorns the grounds of the Jamestown Exposition,--and
that Illinois hearts everywhere beat in unison with yours in the celebration of one of the
epoch-marking days of all the ages?

"The time is propitious for setting history aright.  This exposition will not have been in
vain if the fact be crystallized into history yet to be written, that the first settlement
by English-speaking people--just three centuries ago--upon this continent, was at Jamestown.
And that here self-government--in its crude form but none the less self-government--had its
historical beginning.  Truly has it been said by an eminent writer of your own State, that
prior to December, 1620, 'the colony of Virginia had become so firmly established and self-government
in precisely the same form which existed up to the Revolution throughout the English colonies
had taken such firm root thereon, that it was beginning to affect not only the people but the
Government of Great Britain.'  In the old church at Jamestown, on July 30, 1619, was held the
first legislative assembly of the New World--the historical House of Burgesses.  It consisted
of twenty-two members, and its constituencies were the several plantations of the colony. 
A speaker was elected, the session opened with prayer, and the oath of supremacy duly taken.
The Governor and Council occupied the front seats, and the members of the body, in accordance
with the custom of the British Parliament, wore their hats during the session.

"This General Assembly convened in response to a summons issued by Sir George Yeardley, the
recently appointed Governor of the colony. Hitherto the colony had been governed by the London
Council; the real life of Virginia dates from the arrival of Yeardley, bringing with him from
England 'commissions and instructions for the better establishing of a commonwealth.'

"The centuries roll back, and before us, in solemn session, is the first assembly upon this
continent of the chosen representatives of the people.  It were impossible to overstate its
deep import to the struggling colony, or its far-reaching consequence to States yet unborn.
In this little assemblage of twenty-two burgesses, the Legislatures of nearly fifty commonwealths
to-day and of the Congress with its representatives from all the States of 'an indestructible
union' find their historical beginning.  The words of Bancroft in this connection are worthy
of remembrance:  'A perpetual interest attaches to this first elective body that ever assembled
in the Western world, representing the people of Virginia and making laws for their government
more than a year before the Mayflower with the Pilgrims left the harbor of Southampton, and
while Virginia was still the only British colony on the continent of America.'

"It is to us to-day a matter of profound gratitude that these the earliest American lawgivers
were eminently worthy their high vocation.  While confounding, in some degree, the separate
functions of government, as abstractly defined at a later day by Montesquieu, and eventually
put in concrete form in our fundamental laws, State and Federal--it is none the less true that
these first legislators clearly discerned their inherent rights as a part of the English-speaking
race.  More important still, a perusal of the brief records they have left, impresses the conviction
that they were no strangers to the underlying fact that the people are the true source of political
power, the evidence whereof is to be found in the scant records of their proceedings--a priceless
heritage of all future generations. And first--and fundamental in all legislative assemblies--they
asserted the absolute right to determine as to the election and qualification of members. 
Grants of land were asked, not only for the planters, but for their wives, 'as equally important
parts of the colony.'  It was wisely provided that of the natives 'the most towardly boys in
wit and the graces' should be educated and set apart to the work of converting the Indians
to the Christian religion; stringent penalties were attached to idleness, gambling, and drunkenness;
excess in apparel was prohibited by heavy taxation; encouragement was given to agriculture
in all its known forms; while conceding 'the commission of privileges' brought over by the
new Governor as their fundamental law, yet with the liberty-guarding instinct of their race
they kept the way open for seeking redress, 'in case they should find aught not perfectly squaring
with the state of the colony.'  No less important were the enactments regulating the dealings
of the colonists with the Indians.  Yet to be mentioned, and of transcendent importance, was
the claim of the burgesses 'to allow or disallow,' at their own good pleasure, all orders of
the court of the London Company.  And deeply significant was the declaration of these representatives
of three centuries ago, that their enactments were instantly to be put in force, without waiting
for their ratification in England.  And not to be forgotten is the stupendous fact that while
the battle with the untamed forces of nature was yet waging, and conflict with savage foe of
constant recurrence, these legislators provided for the maintenance of public worship, and
took the initial steps for the establishment of an institution of learning.  It is not too
much to say that the hour that witnessed these enactments witnessed the triumph of the popular
over the court party; in no unimportant sense, the first triumph of the American colonists
over kingly prerogative. Looking through the mists of the mighty past, Mr. Speaker, to the
House of Burgesses, over which your first predecessor presided, would it be out of place to
apply to that assemblage the historic words spoken of one of a later period:  'Nobles by the
right of an earlier creation, and priests by the imposition of a mightier hand'?

"Did the occasion permit, it would be of wondrous interest to linger for a time with these,
the earliest colonies in this, the cradle of American civilization; to know something of their
daily life, their hopes and ambitions, their struggles and triumphs; something of their ceaseless
vigil and of the perils that environed them; to recall stirring incidents and heroic achievements;
to catch a gleam of a spirit of self-sacrifice and devotion which in all the annals of men
scarcely finds a parallel.  It would be of curious interest to watch the parade and pomp of
governors and councils of royal appointment in attempted representation of a pageantry familiar
to the Old World, but which was to have no permanent abiding place in the New.  Governors and
their subordinates--though bearing the royal commission, yet in rare instances to be classed
only as bad or indifferent--pass in long procession before us into the dim shadows. But out
of the mists of this long past, two figures emerge that have for us an abiding interest, John
Smith and Pocahontas--names that have place not alone in romance and song, but upon the pages
of veritable history.

"Colonial governors strutted their brief hour upon the stage and have long passed to oblivion;
but Smith, the intrepid soldier, the ever-present friend and counsellor of the early colonists,
their stalwart protector--alike against the bullet of the savage and the mandate of official
power--will not pass from remembrance so long as heroic deeds are counted worthy of enduring
record among men.

"With dark background of rude cabin and wigwam, of scantily appointed plantation, and of far-stretching
forest--with its mysterious voices and manifold perils--there passes before us the lovely form
of the beautiful Indian maiden, the daughter and pride of the renowned native chieftain.  So
long as courage and fidelity arouse sympathy and admiration, so long will the thrilling legend
of Pocahontas touch responsive chords in human hearts.  Its glamour is upon the early pages
of colonial history; her witchery lingers upon stream and forest, and the firm earth upon which
we tread seems to have been hallowed by her footsteps.

"A name that sheds lustre upon the earliest pages of our Colonial history is that of Sir Edwin
Sandys.  Under his courageous leadership, what was known as the Virginia or Liberal party in
the London Company obtained a signal triumph over that of the court.  The result was the formal
grant to the colony guaranteeing free government by written charter.  Its declared purpose
was to secure 'the greatest comfort and benefit to the people and the prevention of injustice,
grievances, and oppression.'  It provided for full legislative authority in the Assembly, and
was with some modifications the model of the systems subsequently introduced into the other
English colonies.

"By this charter, representative government and trial by jury became recognized rights in the
New World.  Upon this charter, as has been truly said, 'Virginia erected the superstructure
of her liberties.'

"The coming of this charter marked an epoch in the history of the Jamestown colony, and set
the pace for English-speaking settlements yet in the future.

"It was in very truth the first step in the direction of the establishment of the great Republic
which was to be the enduring beacon-light of self-governing people in all future ages.

"To a full appreciation of the supreme significance of the mighty event we to-day celebrate
and its results--now constituting so inspiring a chapter of history--some account must be taken
of conditions then existing in the mother country.  While obtaining the guarantee of a large
measure of self-government for the New World, Sir Edwin Sandys and his co-patriots were unable
to secure that which even savored of liberal administration in the Old.  James--the first of
the Stuart Dynasty--was upon the English throne.  In narrow, selfish state-craft his is possibly
in the long list of sovereigns without a rival. The exercise and maintenance of royal prerogative
was with him the 'be all and end all' of government, and, abetted by the sycophants about him,
he unwittingly laid the train of inexorable events that were to culminate in the execution
of one and the banishment of another of his line.  His claim was that of absolute power, and
during a reign of twenty-two years--extending from the death of Queen Elizabeth to the year
1625--he was the unrelenting foe of whatever pertained to freedom in religion or in government.
His apparent indifference to the execution of his mother--the ill-fated Mary, Queen of Scots--and
his condemnation of the illustrious Sir Walter Raleigh to the scaffold, are alone sufficient
to render the memory of this monarch forever infamous.  It is a marvel, indeed, that with James
the First upon the throne, and popular freedom in such a low state throughout his immediate
realm, that so large a measure of liberty should have been conceded to the distant colony.
The achievement is the enduring evidence of unsurpassed courage in the men in whose immediate
keeping were the early fortunes of the Virginia colony, and sheds unfading lustre upon their
memories.

"Nor can it be forgotten that from the masterful hour that witnessed the assembling of the
first House of Burgesses until the abdication of James the Second, the welfare of the Virginia
colony was in large measure in the iron grasp of stern antagonists to all that pertained to
liberty of conscience and to popular rule.  Whatever there was of progress during the seventy
years--barring the brief period of the Commonwealth--that immediately preceded the historic
English Revolution, and the crowning of William and Mary, was despite the untiring hostility
of the Stuart Dynasty.  During this period the lives of Englishmen at home were as the dust
in the balance.  It witnessed the very heyday of the infamous Star Chamber.  With the passing
years, a continuing tide of emigration was setting in from the Old to the New World.  Additional
settlements had sprung into being, and the Plantation in its distinctive sense had given way
to the Colony, to be succeeded yet later by the State.  The glory of Jamestown had measurably
departed, and to Williamsburg, and yet later to the now splendid city upon the James, had been
transferred the seat of Virginia authority.  New England, despite natural obstacles and constant
peril, was surely working out her large place in history. Puritan, Quaker, Dutchman, Cavalier,
Scotch-Irish, and Huguenot --'building better than they knew'--had established permanent habitations
from Plymouth Rock to Savannah.  Brave men from the early fringe of settlements upon the Atlantic--regardless
of obstacle and danger--had pushed their way westward, and laid the sure foundations of future
commonwealths.  From New Hampshire to Georgia, thirteen English-speaking colonies, with a population
aggregating near two millions, had attained to a large measure of the dignity of distinctive
States.  Their allegiance, meanwhile, to the mother country had been unfaltering, and in her
fierce struggle with France for the mastery of the continent, America had sealed her loyalty
with the best blood of her sons.

"The successors to the first House of Burgesses had learned well the lessons gleaned from the
scant pages of their earliest history. Attempts to tax the unrepresented colonies soon encountered
concerted hostility.  'No taxation without representation' became the universal slogan.  The
words spoken in the British Parliament by Barre--worthy comrade of the gallant Wolfe on the
Heights of Abraham--near a century and a half after the event we now celebrate, will quicken
the pulse of all coming generations of American patriots.  Said he:

"'Your oppressions planted them in America.

"Had it been given to the Virginia--the American--legislators whose memories we honor this
day, 'to look into the seeds of time,' what mighty events, with the rolling years and centuries,
would have passed before their visions.  They would have seen the colony they had planted in
the wilderness, day by day strengthening its cords, enlarging its borders, and with firm tread
advancing steadily to recognized place among the nations.  They would have beheld the savage
foe--giving way before the inexorable advance of the hated 'pale face'--sadly retreating toward
the ever-receding western verge of civilization.  It would have been theirs to witness the
symbols of French and Spanish authority disappear forever from mainland and island of the New
World.  Following the sun a thousand miles toward his setting, their eyes would have been gladdened
by the great river flowing unvexed from northern lake to southern sea through a mighty realm
that knew no allegiance other than to the government that here had its feeble beginning.  They
would--near a century and a half later than the meeting of the first House of Burgesses--have
beheld their descendants listening in rapt attention to the impassioned denunciation by Patrick
Henry of the tyranny of the royal successor of James the First; the thirteen colonies arming
for the seven years' struggle with the most powerful of nations; the presentation, by a Virginian,
in the wondrous assemblage at Philadelphia of the Declaration of Independence; under the matchless
leadership of a Virginian yet more illustrious than Jefferson, the Colonial army, with decimated
ranks and tattered standards, would have passed in review--all past suffering, sacrifice, humiliation,
and defeat forgotten in the hour of splendid triumph. Yet later, and in the great convention
over which Washington presided, and in which Madison was the chief factor, they would have
witnessed the deathless principles of the historic Declaration crystallized into the Federal
compact, which was destined forever to hold States and people in fraternal union.  They would
have seen a gallant people of the Old World--catching inspiration from the New--casting off
the oppression of centuries and, through baptism of blood, fashioning a Republic upon that
whose liberties they had so signally aided to establish.  Yet later, and not France alone,
but Mexico and States extending far to the southward, substituting for monarchical rule that
of the people under written Constitutions modeled after that of the great American Republic.
And yet more marvellous, in Great Britain the divine right of kings an exploded dogma; the
royal successor to the Stuarts and George the Third only a ceremonial figurehead in government;
the House of Lords in its death struggle; all real political power centred in the Commons,
and England--though still under the guise of monarchy--essentially a republic.

"And what a grand factor Virginia has been in all that pertains to human government in this
Western world during the past three centuries.  From the pen of one of her illustrious sons,
George Mason, came the 'Bill of Rights'--now in its essentials embedded by the early amendments
into our Federal Constitution; from that of another, not alone the great Declaration, but the
statutes securing for his own State religious freedom, and the abolition of primogeniture--the
detested legacy of British ancestors.  His sword returned to its scabbard with the achievement
of the independence of the colonies, and the mission of Washington was yet but half accomplished.
To garner up the fruits of successful revolution by ensuring stable government was the task
demanding the loftiest statesmanship.  The five years immediately succeeding our first treaty
of peace with Great Britain have been truly defined, 'our period of greatest peril.'  It was
fortunate, indeed, that Washington was called to preside over the historic convention of '87,
and that his spirit--a yearning for an indissoluble union of the States-- permeated all its
deliberations.  Fortunate, indeed, that in its councils was his colleague and friend, the constructive
statesman, James Madison.  Inseparably associated for all time with the formulation and interpretation
of the great covenant are the names of two illustrious Virginians--for all the ages illustrious
Americans --Madison, the father, and Marshall, the expounder of the Constitution.

"It remained to another son of this first commonwealth, from the high place to which he had
been chosen, to enunciate in trenchant words, at a crucial moment, a national policy which,
under the designation of 'the Monroe doctrine,' has been the common faith of three generations
of his countrymen and is to remain the enduring bar to the establishment of monarchial government
upon this western hemisphere.

"Four decades later, at the striking of the hour that noted the inevitable 'breaking with the
past,' it remained to still another illustrious successor of Jefferson--alike of Virginian
ancestry, and born within her original domain--by authoritative proclamation to liberate a
race, and thereby, for all time, to give enlarged and grander meaning to our imperishable declaration
of human rights.

"My countrymen, the little settlement planted just three centuries ago near the spot upon which
we have to-day assembled has under divine guidance grown into a mighty nation.  Eighty millions
of people, proud of local traditions and achievements, yet looking beyond the mere confines
of their distinctive commonwealths, find their chief glory in being citizens of the great Republic.
The mantle of peace is over our own land, and our accredited representatives in the world's
conference, at this auspicious hour, are outlining a policy that looks to the establishment
of enduring peace among all the nations.  To-day, inspired by the sublime lessons of the event
we celebrate and with hearts of gratitude to God for all he hath vouchsafed to our fathers
and to us in the past, let us take courage, and turn our faces hopefully, reverently, trustingly
to the future."

XLIII A NEW DAY ADDED TO THE CALENDAR

THE HIGH CHARACTER OF STERLING MORTON AS A MAN AND A PUBLIC SERVANT --HONORED BY CLEVELAND--ORIGINATOR
OF ARBOR DAY.

I recall with pleasure years of close personal friendship with J. Sterling Morton.  He was
a gentleman of lofty character and recognized ability.  Much of his life was given to the public
service.  As Secretary of Agriculture he was in close touch with President Cleveland during
his last official term.

At the dedication of the monument erected to his memory at his home, Nebraska City, October
28, 1905, I spoke as follows:

"I count it high privilege to speak a few words upon an occasion so fraught with interest to
this State, and to the entire country. I gladly bear my humble tribute to the man whom I honored
in life, and whose memory I cherish.  A manlier man than Sterling Morton, one more thoughtful,
kind, considerate, self-reliant, hopeful, I have not known.  Truly--

  'A man he seemed, of cheerful yesterdays,
  And confident to-morrows.'

Of few men could it more truly be said, 'He took counsel ever of his courage--never of his
fears.'  With firm convictions upon pending vital issues, he did not shrink from the conflict.
His antagonist he met in the open.  In the words of Lord Brougham, 'His weapons were ever those
of the warrior--never of the assassin.'

"This, is indeed no ordinary occasion.  Here and now, we unveil a monument erected in honor
of the memory of one who, alike in private life and in public station, illustrated the noblest
characteristics of the American citizen.  Something of his life and achievements we have heard
with profound interest from the lips of the chosen orator of this great occasion, ex-President
Cleveland --one indeed eminently fitted for the task.  The orator was worthy the subject; the
subject--honoring the memory of one of the benefactors of his age--worthy the orator.

"In all the relations of life, the man whose memory we honor this day was worthy the emulation
of the young men who succeed him upon the stage of the world.  With clear brain and clean hands
he ably and faithfully administered high public trusts.  He was in the loftiest sense worthy
the personal and official association of the eminent Chief Magistrate at whose Council Board
he sat, and whose confidence he fully shared.

"Fortune, indeed, came with both hands full to Nebraska, when J. Sterling Morton, in early
manhood, selected this struggling frontier State for his home.  How well, and with what large
interest, he repaid Nebraska for a confidence that knew no abatement, this noble monument is
the enduring witness.

"Under his guiding hand, a new day was added to the calendar.  The glory is his of having called
Arbor Day into being.  Touched by his magic wand, millions of trees now beautify and adorn
this magnificent State.  It is no mere figure of speech to say that the wilderness--by transition
almost miraculous--has become a garden, the desolate places been made to blossom as the rose.
'Tree-planting day' is now one of the sacred days of this commonwealth.  Henceforth, upon its
annual recurrence, ordinary avocations are to be suspended, and this day wholly set apart to
pursuits which tend to beautify the home, make glorious the landscape, and gladden the hearts
of all the people.  Inseparably associated in all the coming years with this day and its memories
will be the name of J. Sterling Morton.  That he was its inspiration, is his abiding fame.

"In other times, monuments have been erected to men whose chief distinction was, that desolation
and human slaughter had marked their pathways.  The hour has struck, and a new era dawned.
The monument we now unveil is to one whose name brings no thoughts of decimated ranks, or of
desolated provinces, no memories of beleaguered cities, of starving peoples, or of orphans'
tears.  In all the years, it will be associated with glorious peace.  Peace, 'that hath her
victories no less renowned than war'; peace, in whose train are happy homes, songs of rejoicing,
the glad laughter of children, the planting of trees, and the golden harvest.

  'Soft peace she brings; wherever she arrives,
  She builds our quiet as she forms our lives;
  Lays the rough paths of peevish nature even,
  And opens in each heart a little heaven.'"

XLIV A MOUNTAIN COLLEGE

SUCH INSTITUTIONS VALUABLE FOR MOULDING CHARACTER--MR. SCOTT BOTH HONORABLE AND PRUDENT IN
BUSINESS--HIS GREATNESS AS AN AGRICULTURIST--HIS AVOIDANCE OF PUBLIC LIFE--HIS SOCIAL AND DOMESTIC
VIRTUES--DEPENDENCE OF THE NATION ON THE CHARACTER OF ITS LITERARY INSTITUTIONS.

In 1895, Mrs. Julia Green Scott, of Bloomington, Illinois, established a college in the mountains
of Kentucky in honor of the memory of her husband.  He was a native of Kentucky, and the institution
bears his honored name.

Upon the occasion of the dedication I spoke as follows:

"The dedication of the Matthew T. Scott, Jr., Collegiate Institute marks an important epoch
in the history of central eastern Kentucky. It cannot be doubted that this institution will
be potent for good in moulding the character and fitting the youth of this and succeeding generations
for the important duties that pertain to citizenship in a great Republic.  Is it too much to
believe that this may be reckoned as one of the many agencies in this land, that in the outstretched
years will inspire our youth with yet higher ideals of duties that await them in life?  Would
that the words I now repeat of one of England's great statesmen could be indelibly impressed
upon the memory of all who may hereafter pass out from these walls: 'Be inspired with the belief
that life is a great and noble calling; not a mean and grovelling thing that we are to shuffle
through as we can, but an elevated and lofty destiny.'

"It is eminently fitting to this occasion, that I recall something of the man whose honored
name has been appropriately given to this institution.  And yet, I am not unmindful of the
fact that if in life he would shrink from public mention of his name, or of aught associated
with it in the way of benefactions.  He was a native of Kentucky--born in Fayette County, February
4, 1828.  His father, of the same name, was an honored citizen of Lexington, and for many years
the leading banker of the State.  The son inherited the high sense of personal honor, and the
splendid capacity for business, that for a lifetime so eminently characterized his father.
A graduate of Centre College at the age of eighteen, his fortunes were soon cast in Central
Illinois, where his remaining years were spent, and where his ashes now repose.  During his
early residence in Illinois Mr. Scott realized--as few men did fully at that day --the marvellous
prosperity that surely awaited the development of the resources of that great State.  It was
the day of golden opportunity for the man of wise forecast.  His investments were timely; his
business methods all upon the highest plane.  He became in time a large landed proprietor,
and stood in the van of the advanced agriculturists of his day.  He formulated enduring systems
of tilling the soil, and making sure the munificent reward of labor wisely bestowed upon this,
the primal calling of man.  His methods were in large measure adopted by others, and have proved
no unimportant factor in the development and prosperity of the great agricultural interests
of the State.

"Mr. Scott was in the largest sense a man of affairs.  He was ever the safe counsellor in the
many business enterprises of which he was the founder.  It were scant praise to say he was
possessed of the highest integrity.  His was indeed an integrity that could know no temptation.
Faithful to every obligation, he was incapable of an ignoble act.  He was eminently a just
man, possessing in a marked degree the sturdy characteristics of his Scotch-Irish ancestors.
His principle in action was:

  'For justice all place a temple,
  And all season Summer.'

"He was in no sense a self-seeker.  Deeply interested in public affairs, and having the courage
of his convictions upon the exciting questions of the day, he was never a candidate for public
office. Declining the nomination tendered him by his party for Congress, he chose the quiet
of home rather than the turmoil of public life. In the advocacy, however, of what he believed
to be for the public weal, 'he took counsel ever of his courage, never of his fears.'  That
he possessed the ability to have acquitted himself with honor in responsible positions of public
trust, no one who knew him could doubt.

"Courteous to all with whom he came in contact, he was the highest type of the old-school gentleman.
He exemplified in his daily life the truth of the poet's words:

  'That best portion of a good man's life,
  His little, nameless, unremembered acts
  Of kindness and of love.'

"No man ever had a loftier appreciation of what was due to woman. There was in very truth a
relish of old-time chivalry in his bearing in the presence of ladies.  He was never happier
than when surrounded by children, by whom he was ever trusted and loved.

"No higher tribute could be paid him than by the words spoken with equal truth of another:
'With him the assured guardian of my children, I could have pillowed my head in peace.'

"Holding steadily, and without reservation, to the Presbyterian faith of his fathers, he was
none the less imbued with a true catholic spirit, and gave where needed, liberally of his abundance.
He was deeply touched by every tale of human sorrow,

  'His hand open as day to melting charity.'

"I may be pardoned for adding that Mr. Scott was supremely happy in his domestic ties.  Blessed
in all who gathered about his hearthstone, his cup of happiness was full to overflowing.  All
who crossed his threshold felt that they were indeed in the sunshine of the perfect home. 
He sleeps in the beautiful cemetery near the city he loved, his grave covered with flowers
by those to whom in life he had been a benefactor and friend.  To those to whom his toils and
cares were given, to kindred and friends, his memory will ever be a precious heritage.  Truly,

  'the just
  Keeps something of his glory, in his dust.'

"I know of no words more fitting with which to close this poor tribute to the man I honored
and loved, than those of Dr. Craig in his beautiful eulogy upon the Rev. Dr. Lewis W. Green,
father of Mrs. Julia G. Scott, the noble and gifted woman whose generosity has made possible
the founding of the Institution we now dedicate:

"'Society at large felt the impress of his noble character, his polished breeding, and his
widespread beneficence.  His determination to excel, and that by means of faithful diligence
and laborious applications, should arouse our young men to like fidelity to their increasing
opportunities.  He was the most unselfish of men, the most affectionate of friends, the humblest
of Christians.  He owed much to the soil from which he sprang.  He repaid that much, and with
large interest.'

"The Institution we now dedicate is just upon the threshold of what we trust will prove an
abundantly useful and honorable career. And while we may not 'look into the seeds of time and
say which grain will grow and which will not,' yet we may well believe that under judicious
management, already assured, this will prove a potent agency in the great work of education.

"In this connection the words of a former President of Transylvania University, and of Centre
College, Dr. Green, possess to-day as deep significance as when uttered almost a half-century ago:

"'But it may be truly said, that no domestic instruction, however wise, no political institution,
however free, no social organization, however perfect, no discoveries of science, however rapid
or sublime, no activity of the press--pouring forth with prolific abundance its multitudinous
publications--no accumulation of ancient learning in stately libraries, no one, nor all of
these together, can supersede the education of the school; nay, all of them derive their noblest
elements and highest life from the instruction of the living teacher.  The intelligence of
families, the wisdom of Governments, the freedom of nations, the progress of science itself,
and of all our useful arts, is measured by the condition and character of our literary institutions.
. . . It is from such as these, that the world's great men have sprung.  It is from the deep,
granite foundations of society that the materials are gathered to rear a superstructure of
massive grandeur and enduring strength. The God of nature has scattered broadcast over all
our land and our mountain heights, in our secluded valleys, and in many a forest home, the
choicest elements of genius; invaluable means of intellectual wealth, the noblest treasures
of the State.'

"The hour has struck, and the Matthew T. Scott, Jr., Collegiate Institution enters now upon
its sacred mission.

"May we not believe that here will be realized in full fruition the fond hopes of those who
have given it being? that as the years come and go, there will pass out from its walls those
who by diligent application are fitted for the responsible duties that await them in life,
well equipped, it may be, to acquit themselves with honor, in the high places of school, of
church, or of State?"

XLV DEDICATION OF A NATIONAL PARK

CHICKAMAUGA NATIONAL PARK DEDICATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS--THE SURVIVORS OF THE GREAT BATTLE NOW
BUT FEW--THE REAL CONSECRATION WAS ACCOMPLISHED BY THE HEROES OF THE FIGHT.

The Chickamauga National Park was by act of Congress dedicated September 19, 1895.  Senators
Palmer, of Illinois, and Gordon, of Georgia, were the orators of the occasion.  The immense
audience assembled included the Governors of twenty States and committees of both Houses of
Congress.  I presided on the occasion, and delivered the following address:

"I am honored by being called to preside over the ceremonies of this day.  By solemn decree
of the representatives of the American people, this magnificent Park, with its wondrous associations
and memories, is now to be dedicated for all time to national and patriotic purposes.

"This is the fitting hour for the august ceremonies we now inaugurate. To-day, by act of the
Congress of the United States, the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park is forever
set apart from all common uses, solemnly dedicated for all the ages to all the American people.

"The day is auspicious.  It notes the anniversary of one of the greatest battles known to history.
Here, in the dread tribunal of last resort, valor contended against valor.  Here brave men
struggled and died for the right, 'as God gave them to see the right.'

"Thirty-two years have passed, and the few survivors of that masterful day--victors and vanquished
alike--again meet upon this memorable field.  Alas, the splendid armies which rendezvoused
there are now little more than a procession of shadows.

  "'On fame's eternal camping-ground,
  Their silent tents are spread.'

"Our eyes now behold the sublime spectacle of the honored survivors of the great battle coming
together upon these heights once more. They meet, not in deadly conflict, but as brothers,
under one flag, fellow-citizens of a common country, all grateful to God, that in the supreme
struggle, the Government of our fathers--our common heritage--was triumphant, and that to all
the coming generations of our countrymen, it will remain 'an indivisible union of indestructible
States.'

"Our dedication to-day is but a ceremony.

XLVI A BAR MEETING STILL IN SESSION

APPOINTMENT OF A COMMITTEE TO FORMULATE RULES FOR COURT PROCEDURE-- SOME MEMBERS AGREE TO VOTE
DOWN THE MOTION TO ADJOURN--THE MOTION REJECTED THREE TIMES--INDIGNATION OF THE PRESIDENT.

A Bar meeting recalled by the mention of Mr. Ingersoll would be worth while if it could only
be described as it actually occurred.

At the opening of the December term of the Circuit Court in Woodford in the year of grace 'fifty-nine,
John Clark, Esq., announced that a meeting of the Bar would be held at the courthouse at "early
candle-lighting" on that very evening, for the purpose of formulating rules to be presented
to the Court for its government during the term.

At the appointed hour, the lawyers, "home and foreign," being promptly in attendance and the
court-room crowded, an organization was duly effected by the election of Colonel Shope, an
able and dignified barrister of the old school, as President.  As undisputed spokesman of the
occasion, Mr. Clark, at once moved the appointment of a committee of five to prepare the aforementioned
rules.  The motion prevailing, nem. con., in accordance with the time-honored usage, the mover
of the resolution was duly appointed Chairman, with Ingersoll, Shaw, Ewing, and the chronicler
of these important events as his coadjutors.  Upon the retirement of the committee, the rules
already prepared by Clark were read and promptly approved, and that gentleman instructed to
present them to the Bar meeting --then in patient waiting.

As the recognized parliamentarian of the occasion--with the proposed rules in safe keeping--was
in the van, upon the return to the court-room Ingersoll quietly proposed to his three untitled
associates that, after the adoption of the resolutions, we should vote down Clark's motion
to adjourn and thereby remain all night in session.  In approved form, and with a dignity that
would have done no discredit to a high-church bishop, the rules were read off by the Chairman
and agreed to without a dissenting voice.

After a brief silence, Mr. Clark arose and said:  "Mr. President, if there is no further business
before this meeting, I move we do now adjourn."  The motion was duly seconded by Welcome P.
Brown, who had been Probate Judge of McLean County far back in the thirties, and postmaster
of the struggling village of Bloomington when Jackson was President.  President Shope promptly
arose and in the blandest possible terms submitted:  "Gentlemen of the Bar, all who are in
favor of the motion to adjourn will please say, Aye."  Clark, Brown, and a half-a-dozen others
at once voted, "Aye."  "Those opposed to the motion to adjourn will please say, No," was the
alternative then submitted by the impartial presiding officer.  Ingersoll, his confederates,
and a sufficient contingent won over quietly voted, "No." "The motion is lost," observed the
President, resuming his seat. "What is the further pleasure of the meeting?"  The silence of
the grave for a time prevailed.  Ingersoll and his followers deporting themselves with a solemnity
well befitting an occasion for prayer. Again arising, the chairman of the committee--in a voice
less rotund than before--said:  "Well, Mr. President, if there is no further business before
this meeting, I move we do now adjourn."  Duly seconded, the motion was again put, Clark and
half a dozen others voting as before.  "Those opposed," remarked the President-- in tones perceptibly
less conciliatory than an hour earlier--"will say, No."  The scarcely audible, but none the
less effective "no" prevailed, the leader meanwhile giving no sign and apparently rapt as if
unravelling the mysteries beyond the veil.

A silence that could be felt now in very truth fell upon the meeting in the old courthouse
assembled.  Even the bystanders seemed impressed that something far out of the ordinary was
happening.

Receiving little in the way of encouragement, the Chairman of the late committee, as he dubiously
looked around upon the forms of the silent majority--each of whom sat apparently buried in
thought that touched the very depths,--again and for the last time addressed the presiding officer:

  "Mr. President, I move that we adjourn."

Conclusions being again tried in wonted parliamentary form between the opposing forces, with
like result as before, the venerable president,--by way of prelude first giving full vent to
an exclamation nowhere to be found in the Methodist "book of discipline,"--at once indignantly
vacated the chair, and literally shook the dust of the court-room from his feet.  The others
"stood not upon the order of their going," and although fifty years have come and gone, that
identical Bar meeting in the old courthouse at Metamora is still in session,--never having
been officially adjourned even to this day.

XLVII THE HAYNE-WEBSTER DEBATE RECALLED

THE PUBLIC CAREER OF LYMAN TRUMBULL--HE HEARS CALHOUN MAKE A MASTERLY SPEECH IN HIS OWN DEFENCE--TARIFF
LAW THE SUBJECT OF DISCUSSION --MR. HAYNE'S REPLY.

Ex-Senator Lyman Trumbull called upon me at the Vice-President's Chamber a few months before
his death.  It was upon the occasion of his last visit to Washington.  He pointed out to me
with much interest the seat he had occupied for many years in the Senate. The Senators to whom
I introduced him had all come in since his day.  His associates in that chamber, with three
or four exceptions, had passed beyond the veil.

The public career of Mr. Trumbull began nearly two-thirds of a century ago.  He was distinguished
as a judge, and later as an able and active participant in exciting debates in the Senate,
extending from the repeal of the Missouri Compromise to the impeachment of President Johnson.
He was a member when the sessions of the Senate were held in the old chamber, and Cass, Crittenden,
Douglas, Tombs, and Jefferson Davis were among his early official associates. As Chairman of
the Judiciary Committee he had reported the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States.

In the course of my conversation with him upon the occasion first mentioned, I inquired whether
he had ever met either Webster, Clay, or Calhoun.  He replied that it was a matter of deep
regret to him that he had never seen either Clay or Webster, but that he had in his early manhood
heard a masterful speech from Mr. Calhoun. Mr. Trumbull had then just been graduated from an
eastern college; and on his way to Greenville, Georgia, to take charge of a school, he spent
a few days in Charleston, South Carolina.  This was in 1833, and the speech of Mr. Calhoun
was in vindication of his course in the Senate in voting for the Compromise Bill of Mr. Clay,
which provided for the gradual reduction of the tariff.  The alleged injustice of the tariff
law then in force had been the prime cause of the "nullification" excitement precipitated by
South Carolina at that eventful period.  The proclamation of President Jackson, it will be
remembered, proved the death-blow, and the nullification excitement soon thereafter subsided.
Mr. Trumbull told me that he distinctly recalled John C. Calhoun, his commanding presence and
splendid argument, as he addressed the large assemblage.  As a clear-brained logician--whose
statement alone was almost unanswerable argument--he thought Mr. Calhoun unsurpassed by any
statesman our country had known.  Mr. Trumbull added that at the close of Mr. Calhoun's speech
before mentioned, amid great enthusiasm, "Hayne! Hayne!" was heard from every part of the vast
assemblage. For an hour or more he then listened spell-bound to Robert Y. Hayne, the formidable
antagonist even of Webster in a debate now historic. Mr. Trumbull said that of the two generations
of public men he had heard, he had never listened to one more eloquent than Hayne.

XLVIII IN THE HIGHLANDS

THE WRITER THE GUEST OF A GENTLEMAN IN THE SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS-- DUNSTAFFNAGE CASTLE--IONA AND
SAINT COLUMBA--SENATOR BECK AND MR. SMITH BOTH DEVOTEES OF BURNS.

During a sojourn of some weeks on the western coast of Scotland, I was the guest for a time
of Mr. Stewart, the head of what remained of a once powerful clan in the Highlands.  My host
was a distinguished member of the London Bar, but spent his Summers at the home of his ancestors
a few miles out from Alpin.  Here, in as romantic a locality as is known even to the Highlands,
with his kindred about him he enjoyed a full measure of repose from the distracting cares of
the great metropolis.  At the time of my visit his brother, an officer of the British army,
just returned from India, was with him.  Both gentlemen wore kilts for the time; and all the
appointments of the house were reminders of bygone centuries when border warfare was in full
flower, forays upon the Lowlands of constant occurrence, and the principle of the clans in action,

  "Let him take who has the power
  And let him hold who can."

At the bountifully furnished board of my Highland host there was much "upon the plain highway
of talk" I will not soon forget.  And then, with the gathering shadows in the ancestral hall,
with the rude weapons of past generations hanging upon every wall, and the stirring strains
of the bagpipe coming from the distance, it was worth while to listen to the Highland legends
that had been handed down from sire to son.

Not far away was the old castle of Dunstaffnage, which in its prime had been the scene of innumerable
tournaments and battles that have added many pages to Scottish annals.  Within the enclosure
of the old castle sleeps the dust of long ago kings--the veritable grave of Macbeth being readily
pointed out to inquiring travellers.

The conversation around the hearthstone of my host turned to the famous island of the Inner
Hebrides, Iona, with its wonderful history reaching back to the sixth century.  The ruins of
the old monastery, built fourteen hundred years ago by the fugitive Saint, Columba, are well
worth visiting.  The dust of the early kings of Norway, Ireland, and Scotland rest within these
ancient walls, and it is gratifying to know that here even the ill-fated Duncan

  "After life's fitful fever sleeps well."

It would have been passing strange, with host and guests all of Scottish lineage, if there
had been no mention of Robbie Burns, for in old Scotia, whether in palace or hovel, the one
subject that never tires is the "ploughman poet of Ayr."  A little incident of slightly American
relish which I related the evening of my departure needed no "surgical operation" to find appropriate
lodgment.

Senator Beck of Kentucky was a Scotchman.  He was in the highest sense a typical Scotchman--lacking
nothing, either of the brawn, brain, or brogue, of the most gifted of that race.  It is needless
to say he was a lover of Burns.  From "Tam O'Shanter" to "Mary in Heaven," all were safely
garnered in his memory--to be rolled out in rich, melodious measure at the opportune moment.
The close friend and associate of Senator Beck, when the cares of State were for a time in
abeyance, and the fishing season at its best, was "old Smith," superintendent of the Botanical
Gardens, also a Scotchman, and likewise in intense degree a devotee of Burns.  The bond of
union between the man of flowers and the Kentucky statesman was complete.

Now, it so fell out that a newly elected member of the House, from the Green River district,
one day called upon his distinguished colleague of the Senate, and requested a note of introduction
to the superintendent of the Botanical Gardens, as he wished to procure some flowers to send
a lady constituent then in the city.  "Certainly, certainly," replied the ever-obliging statesman:
"I will give you a line to old Smith."  Just as the delighted member was departing with the
letter in hand, Senator Beck remarked, in his peculiarly snappy Scotch accent, "Now, Tom, if
you will only tell old Smith that you are a great admirer of his countryman, Robbie Burns,
he will give you all the flowers in the conservatory."  The member, who knew as little of Burns
as he did of the "thirty-nine articles," departed in high feather.

Almost immediately thereafter, presenting his letter, he was received with great cordiality
by the superintendent and assured that any request of Senator Beck would be cheerfully granted.
Just as he was reaching out for the fragrant bouquet the superintendent was graciously presenting,
the closing words of the Senator were indistinctly recalled, and in a manner indicating no
small measure of self-confidence, the member remarked, "By the way, Mr. Smith, I am a great
admirer of your countryman, Jimmy Burns."  "Jimmy Burns!  Jimmy Burns!  Jimmy Burns!" exclaimed
the overwhelmingly indignant Scotchman, "Jimmy Burns!  Depart instantly, sir!"

The member from Green River district departed as bidden, taking no thought of the flowers;
delighted--as he often asservated--to have escaped even with his life.

XLIX ANECDOTES OF LAWYERS

JUDGE BALDWIN'S BOOK, "THE FLUSH TIMES"--DEFENDANT'S COUNSEL ASKS ONE QUESTION TOO MANY--CIRCUMSTANTIAL
EVIDENCE AGAINST A CARD-PLAYER --JOHN RANDOLPH'S REVENGE--HORACE GREELEY NOT A MINISTER OF
THE GOSPEL--A CANDIDATE'S QUALIFICATIONS FOR SCHOOL-TEACHING--THE AUTHOR OF "DON'T YOU REMEMBER
SWEET ALICE, BEN BOLT?"--A CANDIDATE'S POSITION WITH REGARD TO THE MAINE LAW--GOVERNOR TILDEN'S
POPULARITY --MR. TRAVERS MISSES A PORTRAIT--A CANDIDATE FOR HOLY ORDERS TELLS A BIBLE STORY.

No better place can be found for studying that most interesting of all subjects, Man, than
in our courts of justice.  Indeed, what a readable book that would be which related the best
things which have occurred at the bar!

Judge Baldwin conferred an inestimable blessing upon our profession when he wrote "The Flush
Times," a book that will hold a place in our literature as long as there is a lawyer left on
earth. To two generations of our craft this book has furnished agreeable and delightful entertainment.
To the practitioner "shattered with the contentions of the great hall," its pages have been
as refreshing as the oasis to the travel-stained pilgrim.

The late Justice Field, long his associate upon the supreme bench of California, told me that
Judge Baldwin was one of the most genial and delightful men he had ever known, and certainly
he must have been to have written "Cave Burton," "My First Appearance at the Bar," "A Hung
Court," and "Ovid Bolus, Esq., Attorney-at-law and Solicitor in Chancery."

Almost every Bar has some tradition or incident worth preserving --something in the way of
brilliant witticisms or repartee that should not be wholly lost.  Of the race of old-time lawyers--of
which Mr. Lincoln was the splendid type--but few remain.  Of the survivors, I know of no better
representative than Proctor Knott of Kentucky.  The possessor of ability of the highest order,
and of splendid attainments as well, he is of all men the best story-teller this country of
ours has known.  Among his delighted auditors in and out of Congress have been men from every
section and of exalted public station.  For some of the incidents to be related I am indebted
to Governor Knott.  The obligation would be much greater if the stories could be retold in
manner and form as in the days gone by, and upon occasions never to be forgotten when they
fell from his own lips.

If, however, even fairly well I might garner up and hand down some of the experiences of the
generation of lawyers now passing, I would feel that I had, in some humble measure, discharged
that obligation that Lord Bacon says, "every man owes to his profession."

ONE QUESTION TOO MANY

What lawyer has not, at some time, in the trial of a case asked just one question too many?
I know of nothing better along that line of inquiry than the following related by Governor
Knott. He was attending the Circuit Court in one of the Green River counties in Kentucky, when
the case of the "Commonwealth versus William Jenkins" was called for trial.  The aforesaid
William was under indictment for having bitten off the ear of the prosecuting witness. Fairly
strong but by no means conclusive testimony against the defendant had been given when the State
"rested."

A lawyer of the old school, who still carried his green bag into Court, and who never wearied
of telling of his conflicts at the bar with Grundy, Holt, and Ben Hardin, in their palmiest
days, was retained for the defence.  His chief witness was Squire Barnhouse, who lived over
on the "Rolling Fork."  He was the magistrate for his precinct, deacon in the church, and the
recognized oracle for the neighborhood.  Upon direct examination, in the case at bar, he testified
that "he knowed the defendant William Jenkins; had knowed him thirty year or more; knowed his
father and mother afore him."  Inquired of then as to the general reputation of the defendant,
as to his being "a peaceable and law-abiding citizen," he was found to be all that could be
reasonably desired.

Squire Barnhouse was then asked whether he was present at the Caney Fork muster, where it was
alleged that the defendant had bitten off the ear of the prosecuting witness.  It turned out
that he was present.  Further questioned as to whether he had paid particular attention to
the fight, he replied that he did; that he "had never seed Billy in a fout before, and he had
a kind of family pride in seein' how he would handle himself."  Further questioned as to whether
he saw the defendant bite off the ear of the prosecuting witness he replied, "No, sir, nothin'
uv the kind, nothin' uv the kind." This was followed by the inquiry as to whether his opportunities
were such that he would most probably have seen it, if it had occurred. "In course I would,
in course I would," was the emphatic reply.

The witness was here turned over to the Commonwealth's attorney, who declined to cross-examine,
and Squire Barnhouse was in the act of leaving the stand when in an evil hour it occurred to
defendant's counsel to ask one question more.

"By the way, Squire, just one more question, just where you stand; now I understood you to
say"--repeating the answers already given; "now just this question, did you see anything occur
while the fight was going on, or after it was over, that would lead you to believe that this
defendant had bitten off the ear of the prosecuting witness?"

The Squire, half down the witness stand, answered, "No, sir, nothing uv the kind," then, slowly
and thoughtfully, "nothing uv the kind." A moment's pause.  "Well, since you mention it, I
do remember that just as Billy rizened up offen him the last time, I seed him spit out a piece
of ear, but whose ear it was, I don't pertend to know."

CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE

In the good County of Scotland, in the State of Missouri, back in the ante-bellum days there
lived one Solomon Davis, whose chronic horror was card-playing.  The evils of this life were
in his judgment largely to be attributed to this terrible habit.  It was his belief that if
the Grand Jury would only take hold of the matter in the right spirit, a stop could be put
to the "nefarious habit of card-playing, which was ruining the morals of so many young men
in Scotland County."  This was the burden of his discourse in and out of season.  His ardent
desire that he himself should be called on the Grand Jury to the accomplishment of the end
mentioned was at length gratified.  At a certain term of court he was not only summoned upon
the Grand Jury, but duly appointed its foreman.

"And now, Squire," continued Ben, "I can give you the name of a gentleman who doesn't play
himself, but is always around where playing is going on, and he can tell you who plays, where
they play, how much is bet, and all about it."

Delighted at this apparently providential revelation, the Squire had a subpoena forthwith issued
for the witness mentioned, one Ranzey Sniffle, a half-witted fellow who had never taken or
expected to take a part in the game himself, but whose cup of happiness was full to the brim
when, in return for punching up the fires, mixing the drinks, and snuffing the candle, he was
permitted to see the play actually going on.

Trembling with apprehension at the dread summons to appear before the "Grand Inquest"--if it
had been three centuries earlier at Saragossa it could scarcely have appeared more alarming--the
witness was ushered into the immediate presence of the awful tribunal over which Squire Davis
was now presiding.  After taking the customary oath, and telling his name, age, and where he
lived, Mr. Sniffle was questioned by the foreman as to his personal knowledge of any game or
games of cards being played for money, or any valuable thing, within one year last past, within
the said County of Scotland, and solemnly warned, if he had any such knowledge, to proceed
in his own way, and tell all about it; to tell when and where it was, who were present, and
what amount, if any, was bet.

Recovering himself a little by this time, the witness began:

"The last time I seed them playin', Squire, was at Levi Myers's sto'; they sot in about sundown
last Saturday night, and never loosened their grip until Monday mornin' about daylight."

"Now, Mr. Sniffle," interrupted the Squire with great dignity, "will you proceed in your own
way, to give to the gentlemen of this Grand Jury the names of the persons who were thus engaged
not only in violating the statute law of Missouri, but in violating the law of God by desecrating
the holy Sabbath?"

"Well, Squire," continued the witness, slowly counting off on his fingers, "thar was Levi Myers,
Sammy Hocum, Moss Johnson, Josiah Davis,"--"Suspend, Mr. Sniffle, suspend," commanded the Squire
with great indignation, and turning to his official associates, he continued, "I am aware,
gentlemen of the Grand Jury, that my son Josiah is sometimes present when cards are being played,
but he assures me on his honor as a gentleman, that he never takes part, and doesn't even know
one card from another.  Now, Mr. Witness, do you undertake, under the solemn sanction of an
oath, to say that my son Josiah was engaged in the game?  By the way, Mr. Sniffle, do you understand
the nature of an oath?"

"No, Squire," slowly replied the witness, "I dun know as I do."

"Don't you know what will become of you, Ranze, if you swear to a lie?" quickly asked a juryman
from a back seat.

"Yas, in course, if I swar to a lie, they'll send me to the penitentiary, and then I'll go
to hell afterwards," replied Mr. Sniffle.

The competency of the witness thus appearing, the foreman proceeded:

"Now, Mr. Sniffle, do you, under the solemn sanction of an oath, undertake to say that my son
Josiah was engaged in that game?"

"I dun know as I adzackly understand the meanin' of bein' engaged in the game; but I seed Josiah
a-dealin' the papes, when his time come to fling a card he flung it, and uv'ry now and then,
he rech out and drug in the chicerokum.  I dun know as I adzackly understand 'bout bein' engaged
in the game, but if that were bein' engaged, then Josiah were engaged!"

JOHN RANDOLPH OF ROANOKE

Seldom have more significant words been uttered than those of John Randolph of Roanoke, when
told that a certain man had been denouncing him.  "Denouncing me," replied Randolph, with astonishment,
"that is strange, I never did him a favor."

The voice of but one John Randolph of Roanoke has mingled in the contentions of the Great Hall.
That was no cause for regret, as for a lifetime he was the dread of political foes and friends
alike.

A colleague from "the valley" probably remembered him well to the last.  That colleague, recently
elected to fill a vacancy caused by the death of a member of long service, signalized his entrance
into the House by an unprovoked attack upon Mr. Randolph.  The latter, from his seat near by,
listened with apparent unconcern to the fierce personal assault.  To the surprise of all, no
immediate reply was made to the speech, and the new member flattered himself, no doubt, that
the "grim sage" was for once completely unhorsed.

A few days later, however, Randolph, while discussing a bill of local importance, casually
remarked:  "This bill, Mr. Speaker, lost its ablest advocate in the death of my lamented colleague,
whose seat is still vacant!"

HORACE GREELEY

It will be remembered that the will of Stephen Girard of Philadelphia, after a splendid bequest
for the establishment of the great University which bears his name, provided that no minister
of the Gospel should ever be permitted to enter the grounds of the institution.

It so happened upon a time, that Horace Greeley, wearing white hat and cravat, and with his
ministerial cast of countenance well in evidence, sauntered up to the gate of the Girard institution
and was about to enter.  He was instantly stopped by the keeper, who bluntly told him that
he could not enter.

"What the hell is the reason I can't?" demanded Greeley.

"Oh!  I beg your pardon," apologized the astonished gate-keeper, "walk right in, sir; you can."

PATRIOTIC TO THE CORE

Judge Allen of southern Illinois, a leading member of Congress a half-century ago, during a
recent address to the old settlers of McLean County related an incident of early days on the
Wabash. Population was sparse, and the common school was yet far in the future.  The teacher
who could read, write, and "cipher" to the "single rule of three" was well equipped for his
noble calling. Lamentable failures upon the part of aspirants to attain even the modest standard
indicated, were by no means of rare occurrence.

Back in the thirties, an individual of by no means prepossessing appearance presented himself
to Judge Allen's father, the Magistrate, Ruling Elder, and ex-officio school director for his
precinct, and asked permission "to keep school."  Being interrogated as to what branches he
could teach, the three R's--readin', 'ritin', and 'rithmetic--were, with apparent confidence,
at once put in nomination.

"Have you ever taught geography and English grammar?"  was the next inquiry.

With a much less confident tone, as he had probably never heard of either, he replied:

"I have teached geography some, but as for English grammar, I wouldn't 'low one of 'em to come
into my school-house.  'Merican grammar is good enough for me!"

"SWEET ALICE, BEN BOLT"

A touching scene occurred in the House of Representatives a number of years ago, when an aged
member from New Jersey arose, and for the first time addressed the Speaker.  All eyes were
turned in his direction as he stood calmly awaiting recognition.  He was tall, spare, and erect.
His venerable appearance and kindly expression, coupled with most courteous manners, at once
commanded attention. As in husky tones he again said, "Mr. Speaker!" there came from the farthest
end of the Great Hall in a whisper but distinctly heard by all, the word, "Sweet Alice, Ben
Bolt."  A moment later, and from the floor and gallery many voices blended in the familiar
refrain, "Don't you remember sweet Alice Ben Bolt?"

The ovation which immediately followed was such as is rarely witnessed in the Great Hall. 
Business was suspended for the moment, and the hand of the new member warmly grasped by the
chosen representatives of all parties and sections.  It was an inspiring tribute, one worthily
bestowed.  The member was Thomas Dunn English, author of the little poem, sung in palace and
cottage, which has found its way into all languages, and touched all hearts.

THE MAINE LAW

The mention of the "Maine Law" recalls a little episode that occurred in the early days in
the good county of McLean.  One Duncan--no kinsman to him who had been

  "So clear in his great office"--

was again a candidate for the Legislature.  The temperance question, in some of its many phases,
was then giving much trouble to aspirants to public place.  In the midst of his opening speech
at the old courthouse, the candidate was interrupted by one of the inquisitive men who always
appear when least wanted, with the question: "Mr. Duncan, are you in favor of the Maine Law?"
"Yes, yes," quickly replied the candidate, "I am coming to that very soon." Shying off to the
tariff, the improvement of Western rivers, and the necessity of rigid economy in all public
expenditures, our candidate was about to close when the same troublesome inquiry, "Mr. Duncan,
are you in favor of the Maine Law?"  again greeted his unwilling ears.  "Oh, yes," exclaimed
the orator, in tone and manner indicating much thankfulness.  "I am glad you called my attention
to his subject; I was about to forget it.  My fellow-citizens have a right to know my views
upon all public questions, and I have nothing to conceal.  I have no respect for candidates
who attempt to dodge any of these great questions.  I have given you fully, my views upon the
tariff, upon a general system of internal improvements, and something of my own services in
the past; and now thanking you for your attention, will ----"  "Mr. Duncan, are you in favor
of the Maine Law?" were the words that again escaped the lips of the importunate inquisitor.

Fully appreciating his dilemma--with constituents about equally divided upon the dangerous
question--the candidate at once nerved himself for the answer upon which hung his hopes and
fears and boldly replied;  "Yes, sir, I am in favor of the law, but everlastingly opposed to
its enforcement!"

HOW HE GOT HIS MAJORITY

One of the candidates upon the ticket with Mr. Tilden when he was elected Governor of New York,
was the late William Dorshemer. Judge Maynard told me that he was present in the library of
Mr. Tilden when Dorshemer called, immediately after the full election returns had been received.
Tilden's popularity at the time was very great --growing out of his successful prosecution
of the noted Canal ring,--and resulted in the triumph of the ticket of which he was the head.
Mr. Dorshemer, the Lieutenant-Governor elect, was greatly delighted that his own majority exceeded
that of the more distinguished candidate for the Chief Executive office.  During the conversation,
Dorshemer remarked to Tilden:  "Your majority is only fifty thousand, while mine is fifty-one
thousand, five hundred."  "Yes, yes," quickly remarked Tilden; "you got the fifteen hundred;
I gave you the fifty thousand!"

WILLIAM R. TRAVERS

The generation now passing has known no man of keener wit than the late William R. Travers,
of New York.  An impediment of speech not infrequently gave zest and vim to his words, when
they finally found utterance.  He was for a lifetime steeped in affairs of great concern and
among his associates were prominent factors in the commercial and political world.

On his revisiting Baltimore some years after his removal to New York, an old acquaintance remarked,
"You seem to stutter more in New York than you did here, Mr. Travers."  To this the brief reply
at length came, "Have to--it's a bigger place."

Back in the days when Gould and Fisk were names to conjure with in the mart and on the board;
when railroads and gold mines were but pawns upon the chessboard of "money changers and those
who sold doves"; when "Black Friday" was still fresh in the memories of thousands, this incident
is said to have occurred.

To weightier belongings, Gould and Fisk had added by way of pastime a splendid steamer to ply
between Fall River and New York.  Upon its trial voyage, Travers was the guest of its owners.
The appointments of the vessel were gorgeous in the extreme, and in the large saloon were suspended
life-size portraits of Gould and of Fisk.  After a promenade of an hour in company with the
originals, Travers suddenly paused in front of the portraits, gazed earnestly at each in turn,
and then--with eyes fixed on the intervening space --slowly ejaculated:  "Where's Christ?"

TOLD BY COLONEL W. D. HAYNIE

The following, told with happy effect by Colonel W. D. Haynie of the Chicago Bar, probably
has no parallel in theological literature. A colored brother who felt called upon to preach,
applied to the Bishop of his church for license to exercise the sacred office. The Bishop,
far from being favorably impressed by the appearance of the candidate, earnestly inquired whether
he had read the Bible, and was familiar with appropriate stories to relate, as occasion might
require, to his Sunday school and congregation.  The answer was, "Boss, I has read dat book
from led to led."  In response to the request of the good Bishop that he would repeat a Bible
story, the applicant for Holy Orders began:

"One time dar wus a wicked ole King, an' his name was Ahab; an' he live in Babylon; an' he
wus a mighty warrior; an' one day he wuz marchin' along at de head uv his army fru de streets
of Babylon, an' he seed Bersheby standin' up on de house-top; an' he said to his soldiers,
'Bring me Bersheby fur my wife'; an' day brung him Bersheby fur his wife.  An' ole Ahab he
march a long ways off, and fit a big battle, an' tuk a hull lot of prisoners; an' cum a-marchin'
back fru de streets of Babylon, wid de brass bans a-playin', and de stars an' stripes a-floatin';
an' Bersheby she wuz a-standin' on de house-top, and she holler out,

"'How did you cum out wid' em, old Ahab?'

"An' it make him powerful mad you know, an he say to his soldiers, 'Frow her down to me.' 
And dey frowd her down to him; and den he say, 'Frow her down to me seven times'; and dey frowd
her down seven times; and den he say, 'Frow her down to me seventy times seven times!' and
dey frowed her down to him seventy times seven times; an' po' ole Bersheby, she crawl away
and lay down at de rich man's gate, and de dogs come and lick her wouns, and when dey gevered
he up, dar was 'leven basketfuls left, an' whose wife will she be in de resurrection?"

L OUR NOBLE CALLING

THE LEGAL PROFESSION--TAKEN BY SURPRISE--MISSING THE POINT OF THE JOKE--A REMARKABLE INCIDENT--A
JUDICIAL DECISION ON BAPTISM--A DOUBTFUL COMPLIMENT--STRONG PERSONAL ATTACHMENT--IRISH WIT--ENGLISH
JOKES ABOUT LAWYERS--GREATNESS UNAPPRECIATED--ALL IN HIS WIFE'S NAME--A RETORT BY CURRAN--REMITTING
A FINE--A CASE "ON ALL-FOURS"-- "GOING OUT WITH THE TIDE."

As we well know, lawyers generally entertain an exceedingly exalted opinion of their profession.
Textbooks, opinions of courts, addresses innumerable to graduating students, all bear witness
to the fact that our noble profession is the most honorable of human callings, the safeguard
of society, the palladium of our liberty.

True, some uncharitable layman has suggested:  "Yes, all this, and more, has been said a thousand
times, but always by lawyers."

There are persons yet in life, who, practically at least, hold with Aaron Burr, that "law is
that which is boldly asserted and plausibly maintained," and that lawyers, like the Roman augurs
of old, always smile when they meet one another on the street.  The by no means exalted opinion
of two men as to "our noble profession" will appear from the following.

A few days after Knott was admitted to the bar, he was sitting alone in his office, waiting
for clients, when a one-gallowsed, awkward-looking fellow from the "brush" walked in without
ceremony, dropped into the only vacant chair, and inquired:  "Air you a lawyer, mister?"  Assuming
the manner of one of the regulars, Knott unhesitatingly answered that he was.  "Well," said
the visitor, "I thought I would drap in and git you to fetch a few suits for me." Picking up
his pen with the air of a man with whom suing people was an everyday, matter-of-course sort
of affair, Knott said:  "Who did you wish to sue?"  To which--with a prolonged yawn--the prospective
client drawled out:  "I ain't particular, Mister, I jest thought I'd get you to pick out a
few skerry fellows that would complemise easy!"

The remaining incident is an experience of my own, when, at the age of twenty-two, I had hung
out my sign in the then county-seat of Old Woodford.

My first client had retained me to obtain a divorce because of abandonment during the two years
last past by the sometime partner of his joys and sorrows.  The bill for divorce was duly filed;
but on "the coming in of the answer," a continuance of the suit, for cause shown, was granted
to the defendant.

At an early hour on the morning thereafter, my client called, and I soon discovered he was
in a frame of mind by no means joyous.  The disappointment he expressed at the continuance
of his suit was evidently sincere.  My explanation of the impossibility of preventing it, and
the confident hope I held out that he would certainly get his divorce at the next term, evidently
gave him little relief. He at length intimated a desire to have a confidential talk with me.
I took him into my "private office" (that has a professional sound, but as a matter of fact
my office had but one room, and that was "open as day" to everybody) and assured him that whatever
he said to me would be in the strictest confidence.  Feeling that I was on safe ground, I now
spoke in a lofty tone of the sacred relation existing between counsel and client, and that
any communication he desired to make would be as safe as within his own bosom, "or words to
that effect."  Relieved, apparently, by the atmosphere of profound secrecy that now enveloped
us, he "unfolded himself" to the effect that some years before he had been deeply in love with
an excellent young lady in his neighborhood, but for some trifling cause he could now hardly
explain, he had in a pique suddenly turned his attentions to another to whom he was soon united
in the holy bonds that he was now so anxious to have sundered by the strong arm of the law.

A deeply drawn sigh was here the prelude to the startling revelation, that since his present
sea of troubles had encompassed him about the old flame had been rekindled in his heart.  I
now candidly informed him that I was wholly inexperienced in such matters, but as his counsel
I would take the liberty to advise him of the monstrous impropriety of any visible manifestation
or expression of the newly revived attachment.  This was followed by the comforting assurance
upon my part, however, that when divorced, he would be lawfully entitled to re-enter the matrimonial
lists in such direction, and at whatever gait seemed to him best.  The sigh to which the above
was the prelude, hardly prepared me for the startling revelation that another fellow was now
actually keeping company with the young lady.  My client's feelings here overcame him for a
moment, and he complained bitterly of his hard fate in being "tied up," while the coast was
clear to his competitor.  After a moment of deep study, he expressed the opinion in substance,
that if his rival could only be held in check until the divorce was granted, he was confident
all would be well.

I here told him that this was all beyond my depth, and along a line where it would be impossible
for me to render him any service. Hitching his chair up a little closer, and looking at me
earnestly he said:  "You are a good-looking young fellow, and rather a glib talker, and I will
give you this hundred dollars if you will cut that fellow out until I get my divorce!"  Declining
with some show of indignation, as well as surprise--for I was young then in the practice--I
assured him that his proposal was out of the domain of professional service, and could not
be thought of for a moment.  In a tone indicating deep astonishment, he said:  "Why, I thought
a lawyer would do anything for money!"

"Yes," I replied, "most anything, but this is the exception; and besides, if the young lady
is as beautiful as you say she is, you would be in greater danger from me at the end of your
probation than from the other fellow."  "Oh, Lord, I hadn't thought of that," he exclaimed,
as he pocketed his hundred dollars, picked up his hat, and left my office.

Near the close of the following term of court, as the decree was being signed granting the
divorce aforementioned, I approached my client as he sat solitary in the rear of the court-room,
and earnestly congratulated him upon the fact that he was now free and at liberty to fight
his own battles.  "Yes," he replied, with a groan that touched the heart of the tipstaff near
by, "but it's too late now; she married that other fellow last Thursday."

TAKEN BY SURPRISE

Upon a time, far back, Ballou, of happy memory, was Judge of the Woodford Circuit Court.  A
young lawyer, after diligent preparation and exhaustive argument, confidently submitted his
first case to the tender mercies of the Court.  To his utter dismay, His Honor promptly rendered
a decision adverse to the contention of the youthful barrister.  Deeply humiliated by his defeat,
the latter exclaimed:  "I am astonished at such a decision!"  The admonition of a brother,
to patience, failing to accomplish its charitable purpose, the irate attorney asservated more
excitedly than before, his astonishment at such a decision.  Whereupon the judge ordered the
clerk to enter up a fine of five dollars against the offending attorney for contempt of court.
Silence now reigned supreme, and the victim of judicial wrath sank back into his seat, utterly
dismayed.  The strain of the situation was at length relieved in part by an old lawyer from
the opposite side of the trial table, slowly arising and solemnly remarking:  "Something might
be said, Your Honor, in extenuation of the conduct of my young friend.  It is his first case,
one in which he felt the deepest interest, and upon the successful issue of which, he had founded
his fondest hopes.  I trust Your Honor, upon due reflection, will remit this fine.  It is true,
he has with much vehemence expressed his astonishment at the decision of the Court.  But his
youth and inexperience must surely be taken into account.  Ah, Your Honor, when our young brother
has practised before this court as long as some of us have, he will not be surprised at any
decision Your Honor may make!"

THE POINT OF THE JOKE

Sydney Smith is credited with saying that it required a surgical operation to get a joke into
a Scotchman's head.  And not a bad reply is that of the Scotchman:  "Yes, an English joke."

It is unnecessary, however, to cross the Atlantic in order to find a few well authenticated
cases where the surgical operation would have been required.  The Hon. Samuel H. Treat, United
States Judge of Southern Illinois, was one of the ablest and most upright of judges, and possibly--on
or off the bench--the most solemn-appearing of all of the sons of men.

This little incident was related by Judge Weldon.  Soon after the close of the War, he one
day told Judge Treat a story he had heard upon a recent visit to Washington.  McDougall, formerly
of Illinois, but at that time a Senator from California, had become very dissipated near the
close of his term.  At a late hour one night a policeman on the Avenue found him in an utterly
helpless condition--literally in the gutter.  As the officer was making an ineffectual attempt
to get the unfortunate statesman upon his feet, he inquired:  "Who are you?"  The reply was:
"This morning I was Senator McDougall, but now I am Sewered!"

A few moments later Mr. Hay came into the office and Judge Treat said:  "Hay, Weldon has just
told me a good story about our old friend McDougall.  Mac was in the gutter, and a policeman
asked him who he was, and Mac told him, 'This morning I was Senator McDougall, but now I am
the Hon. William H. Seward!'"

AN INCIDENT

Upon the occasion of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the
City of Bloomington, the oration was delivered by the Hon. James S. Ewing, late Minister to
Belgium. In the course of his address, he related the following incident:

"In the early history of this county, two boys one day went into the old courthouse to hear
a lawsuit tried.  There were assembled eight young lawyers, not all of them engaged in the
trial, but giving strict attention to the proceedings.  It was not a suit of great importance.

"The Court was presided over by Samuel H. Treat, who afterwards became a United States District
Judge and one of the most distinguished lawyers and jurists in the State.

"One of the lawyers was David Davis, first a noted lawyer, then a circuit judge, then a judge
of the Supreme Court of the United States, then a United States Senator and acting President
of the Senate; a citizen of State and national fame whom the people of Bloomington loved and
delighted to honor.

"Another was John T. Stuart, a brilliant lawyer, several times a member of Congress, and one
of the most lovable of men.

"Another one was David B. Campbell, then the prosecuting attorney and afterwards a prominent
lawyer and citizen of Springfield.

"Another was Edward D. Baker, who was afterwards a United State Senator from Oregon; a famous
orator who immortalized himself by his marvellous oration over Senator Broderick.

"Another was James A. McDougall, a brilliant Irishman, afterwards a United States Senator from
the State of California.

"And Abraham Lincoln, who has passed beyond the domain of human praise into the pantheon of
universal history.

"I might add that one of those boys afterwards became the Vice-President of the United States;
and the other is your speaker.

"Speaking to any audience in America, I might say in the world, I doubt if such an incident
could be truthfully related of any other gathering."

A JUDICIAL DECISION ON BAPTISM

It is rarely the case that a Court is called upon to decide questions of a purely theological
character.  Of necessity, however--property interests being involved,--controversies, measurably
of a religious character, sometimes arise for judicial determination.

The case to be mentioned is probably the only one where "baptism"-- the true mode and manner
thereof--has ever come squarely before an American judge.  A man under sentence of death for
murder was awaiting execution in the jail of one of the counties in northern Kentucky.  Under
the ministrations of the pastor of the Baptist Church, the prisoner at length made "the good
confession" and desired to be baptized.  To this end, the faithful pastor applied to the circuit
judge before whom the prisoner had been tried, for permission to have the rite observed in
the Kentucky River near by.  The judge--more deeply versed in "Blackstone" and "Ben Monroe"
than in theological lore--declined to have the prisoner removed from the jail, but gave permission
to have him baptized in the cell.  The physical impossibility of the observance of the solemn
rite in the prisoner's cell was at once explained.  "Certainly," said the judge in reply, "I
know there is no room in there to baptize him that way; but take a bowl of water and sprinkle
him right where he is confined."  "But," earnestly interposed the man of the sacred office,
"our church does not recognize sprinkling as valid baptism. We hold immersion to be the only
Scriptural method."  "Is it possible?" exclaimed the judge, greatly surprised.  "Well, this
Court decides that sprinkling is valid baptism; and I tell you once for all, that that infernal
scoundrel will be sprinkled, or he will be hung without being baptized at all!"

Inasmuch as this decision has never been overruled by a higher court, it stands as the only
judicial determination of the long-controverted question.

A DOUBTFUL COMPLIMENT

Mr. Clark was the leader of the Metamora Bar when I located there-- and so continued.  My first
case, and the compliment of somewhat doubtful significance bestowed upon its termination, came
about in this wise.  I was retained for the plaintiff before Squire Fairchild in a suit involving
the ownership of a calf of the alleged value of seven dollars.  It being my first case, and
having the aforementioned leader as my professional antagonist--and what was of far greater
consequence, a contingent fee of two dollars and a half trembling in the balance--it may well
be supposed that no effort was spared upon my part.  I won the case, of course--what lawyer
ever told about a case that he had not won?

The same evening a little group in the village store were discussing the merits of the case,
and comparing the forensic effort of the new lawyer with that of the old-time leader already
mentioned.  At length one Tobias Wilson, as he slid down from his accustomed perch upon the
counter, significantly observed, "Men, you may say what you please, but for my part, I had
ruther hear Stevenson speak two minutes than to hear old Clark all day!"

STRONG PERSONAL ATTACHMENT

Mr. Clark--whose early advantages had been none of the best--was once counsel for the proponent
in a closely contested will case. The testator, passing by the next of kin, had left his entire
estate to a personal friend, a man not of his own blood.

In attempting to impress upon the jury the reasonableness of this disposition, Clark said:
"This, gentlemen of the jury, is another striking illustration of the power of human friendship.
All history--sacred and profane--is full of instances of strong personal attachments.  Who
can ever forget the undying affection of David and Jonathan, of Damon and Pythias, of Scylla
and Charybdis?"

IRISH WIT

Judge Baldwin has left of record the witty reply of Jo Heyfron, an Irish lawyer, to a Mississippi
judge.  The judge, having rendered a very ridiculous decision in a cause in which Heyfron was
engaged, the latter slowly arose as if to address the Court.  The judge, exceedingly pompous
and a poor lawyer withal, in imperative tone said:  "Take your seat, Mr. Heyfron; you have
practised at this bar long enough to know that when this Court renders a decision, its wisdom
can only be called in question in a higher Court."

"If Your Honor plase," replied Jo in deprecatory tone, "far be it from me to impugn in the
slightest degray the wisdom of Your Honor's decision.  I only designed to rade a few lines
from the book I hold in my hand, in order that Your Honor might parsave how profoundly aignorant
Sir William Blackstone was upon this subject!"

It is difficult, at this day, to realize that such scenes could ever have been enacted in an
English Court, as were not infrequent during the era embracing the celebrated "State Trials."
While one of these was in progress, and Curran in the midst of his argument, the judge contemptuously
turned his back upon the advocate, and began fondling a favorite dog at his side.  The argument
was at once suspended.  "Proceed, sir," were the words which at length broke the stillness
that had fallen upon the vast assemblage.  "Ah!" exclaimed Curran, "I was only waiting for
Your Lordship to conclude your consultation with your learned associate!"

ENGLISH JOKES ABOUT LAWYERS

Possibly the most solemn book in the world, not excepting Burton's "Anatomy of Melancholy,"
or even "Fearne on Contingent Remainders," is an English publication of a half-century or so
ago, entitled "Jokes about Great Lawyers."

Of several hundred alleged jokes, two or three will bear transplanting.

"My Lord," began a somewhat pompous barrister, "it is written the book of nature ----"  "Be
kind enough," interposed Lord Ellenborough, "to give me the page from which you quote."

To the opening remark of an equally pompous barrister:

"My Lord, the unfortunate client for whom I appear ----"  "Proceed sir, proceed," hastily observed
the judge, "so far the court is with you!"

Ellenborough, when at the bar, after protracting his argument to the hour of adjournment, said
that he would conclude when it should suit His Lordship's pleasure to hear him.

The immediate reply was:  "The Court will hear you, sir, to-morrow; but as to the pleasure,
that had long been out of the question."

GREATNESS UNAPPRECIATED

Gibbon has somewhere said, that one of the liveliest pleasures which the pride of man can enjoy
is to reappear in a more splendid condition among those who have known him in his obscurity.

A case in point is a lawyer of prominence in one of the Western States, who soon after his
appointment to a seat in the Cabinet revisited his early home.  Meeting an acquaintance upon
his arrival at the railway station, the visitor, with emotions akin to those described by Gibbon,
ventured to inquire what his old neighbors said when they heard of him being appointed to a
place in the Cabinet.

The unexpected reply was:  "Oh, they didn't say nothin'; they just laughed!"

ALL IN HIS WIFE'S NAME

The late Colonel Lynch was for many years the recognized wit of the Logan County Bar.  His
repeated efforts, upon a time, to collect a judgment against a somewhat slippery debtor, were
unavailing; the claim of the wife of the debtor, to the property attached, in each instance
proving successful.  Immeasurably disgusted at the "unsatisfied" return of the third writ,
the Colonel indignantly exclaimed:  "Yes, and I suppose if he should get religion, he would
hold that, too, in his wife's name!"

A RETORT BY CURRAN

The stinging retort of the Irish advocate Curran is recalled. At the close of his celebrated
encounter with one of the most overbearing of English judges, the latter insultingly remarked
to the somewhat diminutive advocate:  "I could put you in my pocket, sir."  To which, with
the quickness of a lightning flash, Curran retorted:  "If you did, Your Lordship would have
more law in your pocket than you ever had in your head!"

Fiercely indignant, the judge replied:  "Another word, and I will commit you, sir."  To which
Curran fearlessly retorted:  "Do, and it will be the best thing Your Lordship has committed
this term!"

REMITTING A FINE

About every courthouse in the "Blue Grass" still linger traditions of the late Thomas F. Marshall.
For him Nature did well her part. He was a genius if one ever walked this earth.  Tall, erect,
handsome, of commanding presence, and with intellectual endowment such as is rarely vouchsafed
to man, no place seemed beyond his reach. Having in addition the prestige of family, that counted
for much, and being the possessor of inherited wealth, it indeed seemed that to one man "fortune
had come with both of her hands full."  The successor of Clay and Crittenden as Representative
for the Ashland District, a peerless orator upon the hustings, at the bar, and in the Great
Hall, his life went out in sorrow and disappointment.

  "Of all sad words of tongue or pen
  The saddest are these, 'It might have been!'"

His eulogy upon the gifted and lamented Menifee, the tribute of genius to genius, belongs to
the realm of the loftiest eloquence, and seldom have words of deeper pathos been written than
his own obituary --"Poor Tom's a-cold"--by George D. Prentice.

As to why that which seemed so full of promise "turned to ashes upon the lips," the following
will explain.  Meeting his kinsman, the Rev. Dr. Breckenridge, he said:  "Bob, when you and
I graduated, you took to the pulpit and I to the bottle, and I have stuck to my text a good
deal closer than you have to yours!"

Not inaptly has hell been described as "disqualification in the face of opportunity."

Bearing in mind Marshall's invariable habit of not paying his debts, the point of the closing
remark of the judge in the incident to be related will appear.  Marshall was engaged in the
defence of a man charged with murder in a county some distance from his own home.  Failing
repeatedly in his attempt to introduce certain testimony excluded by the Court, he at length
exclaimed:

"It was upon just such rulings as that that Jesus Christ was convicted."

"Mr. Clerk, enter up a fine of ten dollars against Mr. Marshall for contempt of court," was
the prompt response of the judge.

"Well," said Marshall, "this is the first time in a Christian country I have ever heard of
a man being fined for abusing Pontius Pilate!"

"Mr. Clerk," said the judge, with scarcely suppressed indignation, "enter up a fine of twenty-five
dollars against Mr. Marshall for contempt of court, and the further order that he be imprisoned
in the common jail of the county until the fine and costs are paid."

The death-like stillness that fell upon the assemblage was at length broken by Mr. Marshall
arising and gravely addressing the Court.

"If Your Honor please, I am engaged in the trial of an important case, one where human life
may depend upon my efforts.  I have just been fined twenty-five dollars and ordered to be imprisoned
until the fine is paid.  Upon a careful examination of my pockets, I find that I have not that
amount nor any other amount about my person. I am more than one hundred miles from home and
among strangers. In looking over this audience, I find but one familiar face, that of Your
Honor.  I am therefore constrained to request Your Honor, as an old and cherished friend, to
lend me the amount necessary to discharge this fine."

Instantly the judge exclaimed:  "Remit that fine, Mr. Clerk; the State is more able to lose
it than I am."

A CASE "ON ALL-FOURS"

Near two-thirds of a century ago, one of the best-known lawyers in Illinois was Justin Butterfield.
He was one of the most eloquent of the gifted Whig leaders of the State when the list included
such names as Lincoln, Stuart, Hardin, Browning, Baker, and Linder.  He was the earnest champion
of General Zachary Taylor for the Presidency in 1848, and his party devotion was rewarded by
appointment to the commissionership of the General Land Office.  The only appointment for which
Mr. Lincoln was ever an applicant was that given to Butterfield soon after the inauguration
of President Taylor.

Of few lawyers have brighter things ever been told than of Justin Butterfield.  During the
fierce anti-Mormon excitement-- which resulted in the destruction of the Nauvoo Temple and
the expulsion of the Mormons from the State--the "Prophet," Joseph Smith, was placed upon trial
for an alleged felony.  The Hon. Nathaniel Pope was the presiding judge, and Butterfield counsel
for Smith.  A large audience, including many elegantly dressed ladies, was in attendance.

When he arose to address the Court, Butterfield with great dignity began:

"I am profoundly impressed with the solemnity of the situation and the awful responsibility
resting upon me.  I stand in the presence of his Holiness the Pope, surrounded by angels, to
speak in defence of the Lord's anointed Prophet!"

While in active practice, Butterfield was upon one occasion opposing counsel to the Hon. David
A. Smith in the Supreme Court of the State.  The latter had concluded his argument and with
head resting upon the table in front, had fallen asleep while Butterfield was speaking.  A
gleam of sunlight which had found its way through the window opposite, had fallen upon the
very bald head of Smith, causing it to shine with unwonted brilliancy.  Suddenly pausing and
with arm extended toward his sleeping antagonist, Butterfield solemnly observed:

"The light shineth upon the darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not!"

As the Old State Bank was about to expire by reason of limitation, the General Assembly passed
a bill extending its corporate life fifteen years.  In litigation in which Butterfield was
counsel, the legal effect of the Act mentioned being involved, the opposing counsel insisted
that the legal effect of said Act was the creation of a new bank.  Butterfield in reply insisted
that "a new bank had not been created, but simply the life of the old one prolonged. A case
in point, your Honor, precisely 'on all-fours' with this, is the well-authenticated one of
the good Hezekiah when the Lord lengthened out his life fifteen years for meritorious conduct.
Now, sir, did he thereby make a new Hezekiah, or did he leave him just the same old Hezekiah?"

"GOING OUT WITH THE TIDE"

Soldier, lawyer, and wit was Colonel Phil Lee of Kentucky.  When it is borne in mind that he
was of exceedingly small stature the following incident--one he often related--will be appreciated.

Immediately upon attaining his majority he was a candidate for the Legislature.  On election
day he was quietly seated on a barrel in the room where the election for his precinct was being
conducted, when an old Deacon from the Tan Bark settlement came in to vote.  His choice for
the State officers and for Sheriff was called out after some little parleying as to who were
the best men, and the voter was about to retire, when one of the judges said,

"Deacon, ain't you going to vote for a candidate for the Legislature?"

"Yas, of course, I like to forgot all about that; who is running for the Legislature?"

At which Phil, hopping down from the barrel, said, "Deacon, I am a candidate."

"Who, you?" inquired the Deacon--with half contemptuous gaze at the diminutive-looking aspirant;
then turning to the judge he said, "Just put me down for the other fellow!"

Admitted to the bar at Shepherdsville in his native county of Bullitt, when barely of age,
his first appearance was as attorney for the plaintiff in a breach-of-promise case of much
local celebrity. His speech held the jury and by-standers literally spellbound, and it was
confidently asserted that the classic banks of Salt River will probably never witness such
flights of eloquence again.  At its close Phil was warmly congratulated by an old Squire from
the "Rolling Fork."

"Phil, that was a mighty fine speech, a mighty fine speech, Phil, now mind, I tell you.  That
speech reminded me of Henry Clay."

At the first mention of that name, the Squire was promptly invited out to take a drink.  The
first round of hospitality happily concluded, Phil was in readiness for any additional observations
from the Squire.

"Yes, Phil, when you kinder rared back and throwed your right hand straight up, thinks I, Henry
Clay, Henry Clay!"

Whereupon the Squire was without unnecessary delay invited to take another drink.  This accomplished,
the Squire still held the floor.

"Yes, Phil, yes, Phil, todes the last when you made that big swoop with both arms and 'peared
like you was gwyen right up to the rafters, thinks I, Shore 'nough, Henry Clay come back from
his grave!"

As flesh and blood could not stand everything, the old Squire was promptly invited to take
another drink.  Number three being property placed to his credit, the Squire continued:

"Yes, Phil, you peared to me to be Henry Clay right over again with jist one leetle difference."

At this Mr. Lee, curious to know what could be the one possible little difference, when there
were so many points of resemblance between two such orators as himself and Henry Clay, ventured
to inquire.  "I think," said the Squire, "this, Phil,--you peared to kinder lack his ideas!"

And now comes the tragic ending of a brilliant career.  Lee, while Commonwealth's attorney,
was in the last stages of that dread disease, consumption.  A murder case was on trial in which
he felt a deep interest.  The case was one of unusual atrocity, and the accused--a man of some
local prominence--had been exceedingly defiant towards the wan and emaciated prosecuting attorney
from its beginning.  With much difficulty Colonel Lee succeeded in getting to the court-room
in order to make the closing speech to the jury.  Utterly exhausted,--after depicting the horrible
crime in all its enormity and demanding the extreme penalty of the law upon its perpetrator,--at
its close, in tones that touched the hearts of all who heard him, he exclaimed:

"Gentlemen of the jury, I have prosecuted the pleas of this Commonwealth until the blood has
dried up in my veins, and the flesh has perished from my bones!"

These were his last words--and his life went out that same night just as the clock struck twelve.
At the self-same hour the steps of the jury were heard slowly ascending to the court-room which
had witnessed his last effort--their verdict, "Guilty, the penalty, death!"

LI THE "HOME-COMING" AT BLOOMINGTON

McLEAN COUNTY'S READINESS TO WELCOME HER CHILDREN--HONOR TO THE EARLY SETTLERS--BEAUTY OF THE
COUNTY--ITS PROGRESS--ITS ORGANIZATION --PRAISE OF JOHN McLEAN--HIS CAREER IN CONGRESS, IN
THE ILLINOIS LEGISLATURE, AND IN THE SENATE--McLEAN COUNTY'S HEROISM--REMINISCENCES OF THE
OLD COURT-HOUSE--FRENCH EXPLORERS IN THE ILLINOIS COUNTRY --MARQUETTE AND JOLIET EXPLORE THE
UPPER MISSISSIPPI--LA SALLE EXPLORES THE ST. LAWRENCE, THE OHIO, AND THE MISSISSIPPI TO ITS
MOUTH--EXTENT OF FRANCE'S POSSESSIONS IN AMERICA--THE STRUGGLE BETWEEN FRANCE AND GREAT BRITAIN--GEORGE
R. CLARK CAPTURES KASKASKIA FROM THE BRITISH--VIRGINIA CEDES TERRITORY, INCLUDING ILLINOIS,
TO THE UNITED STATES--THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE--ILLINOIS ORGANIZED-- SUMMARY OF SUCCEEDING EVENTS
IN THE HISTORY OF ILLINOIS.

The McLean County (Illinois) "Home-Coming" of June 15, 1907, was an event of deep significance
to all Central Illinois.  On that occasion I delivered the welcoming address, as follows:

"These rare days in July mark an memorable epoch in the history of this good county.  The authoritative
proclamation has gone forth that her house has been put in order, that the latch-string is
out --all things in readiness--and that McLean County would welcome the return of all her children
who have in days past gone out from her borders.

"In the same joyous and generous spirit in which the welcome was extended, it has been heeded,
and from near and far, from the land of flowers and of frosts, from the valley of the Osage,
the Colorado, and the Platte, from the golden shores of California, and 'where rolls the Oregon'--sons
and daughters of this grand old county have gladly turned their footsteps homeward.

  "'When they heart has grown weary and thy foot has grown sore,
  Remember the pathway that leads to our door.'

"As in the ancient days all roads led to Rome, so in this year of grace, and in this glorious
month of June, all roads lead back to the old home; to the hearthstones around which cling
the tender memories of childhood, and of loved ones gone--to the little mounds where sleep
the ashes of ancestral dead.

"The 'Home-coming' to which you have been invited will leave its lasting impress upon all your
hearts.  The kindly words that have been spoken, the cordial grasp of the hand, the unbidden
tear, the hospitality extended, have all given assurance that you are welcome.  Here, for the
time, let dull care and the perplexities that environ this mortal life be laid aside, let whatever
would in the slightest mar the delight of this joyous occasion be wholly forgotten; so that
in the distant future, to those who return and to those who stay, the recollection of these
days will be one of unalloyed pleasure; and so that, when in the years to come we tell over
to our children of the return to the old home, this reunion will live in our memories as one
that, like the old sun-dial, 'marked only the hours which shine.'

"No place so fitting for this home-coming could have been selected as this beautiful park,
where the springing grass, transparent lake, and magnificent grove--'God's first temple'--seem
all to join in welcoming your return.  How, from a mere hamlet, a splendid city has sprung
into being during the years of your absence!  No longer a frontier village, off the great highway
of travel, with the mail reaching it semi-weekly by stage-coach or upon horseback,--as our
fathers and possibly some who now hear me may have known it,--it is now 'no mean city.'  Its
past is an inspiration; its future bright with promise.  It is in very truth a delightful dwelling-place
for mortals, and possibly not an unfit abiding-place for saints. Whoever has walked these streets,
known kinship with this people, called this his home--wherever upon this old earth he may since
have wandered--has in his better moments felt an unconquerable yearning that no distance or
lapse of time could dispel, to retrace his footsteps and stand once more within the sacred
precincts of his early home.  Truly has it been said:  'No man can ever get wholly away from
his ancestors.'  Once a Bloomingtonian, and no art of the enchanter can dissolve the spell.
'Once in grace, always in grace,' whatever else may betide!  Eulogy is exhausted when I say
that this city is worthy to be the seat of justice of the grand old county of which it is a part.

"Upon occasion such as this, the spirit of the past comes over us with its mystic power.  The
years roll back, and splendid farms, stately homes, magnificent churches, and the marvellous
appliances of modern life are for the moment lost to view.  The blooming prairie, the log cabin
nestling near the border-line of grove or forest, the old water-mill, the cross-roads store,
the flintlock rifle, the mould-board plough, the dinner-horn,--with notes sweeter than lute
or harp ever knew,--are once more in visible presence. At such an hour little stretch of the
imagination is needed to recall from the shadows forms long since vanished.  And what time
more fitting can ever come in which to speak of those who have gone before,--of the early settlers
of this good county?

"It was from the beginning the fit abode for men and women of God's highest type--and such,
indeed, were the pioneers.  Their early struggles, their sacrifices, all they suffered and
endured, can never be fully disclosed.  But to them this was truly 'the promised land'--a land
they might not only view, but possess.  From New England, Ohio, the 'Keystone,' and the 'Empire'
State, from the beautiful valley of the Shenandoah and the Commonwealths lying westward and
to the south, came the men and women whose early homes were near the banks of the little streams
and nestled in the shades of the majestic groves.  Here they suffered the hardships and endured
the privations that only the frontiersman might know.  Here beneath humble roofs, their children
were born and reared, and here from hearts that knew no guile ascended the incense of thanksgiving
and praise.  The early settlers, the pioneers, the men who laid the foundations of what our
eyes now behold, builded wisely and well.  Their descendants to-day are in large measure the
beneficiaries of all that they so wisely planned, so patiently endured.  These names and something
of what they achieved will go down in our annals to the after times.  Peace to their ashes;
to their memory all honor!  They were the advance guard--The builders--and faithfully and well
they served their race and time.  Upon nobler men and women the sun in all his course hath
nowhere looked down.

"And where upon God's footstool can domain more magnificent than this good county be found;
one better adapted to the habitation of civilized man?  The untrodden prairies of three-quarters
of a century ago, as if touched by the wand of magic, have become splendid farms.  And groves
more beautiful the eye of man hath not seen.

"Containing a population of less than two thousand at the time of its organization, there are
more than seventy thousand souls within the bounds of this good county to-day.  The log cabin
has given way to the comfortable home.  The value of farm lands and their products have increased
beyond human forecast or dream. As shown by the last Governmental report, McLean County contains
four thousand eight hundred and seventy-three farms, aggregating seven hundred thirty-seven
thousand five hundred and seventy-eight acres.  The corn product for the year 1899 exceeded
fifteen millions of bushels, being near one-twentieth of that of the entire State. In the value
of its agricultural products it is third upon the list of counties in the United States.

"The life of the farmer is no longer one of drudgery and isolation. Modern conveniences and
appliances have in large measure supplanted the hard labor of human hands, lessened the hours
of daily toil, and brought the occupant of the farm into closer touch with the outer world.
More than all this, our schoolhouses, universities, churches, and institutions for the relief
of the unfortunate and dependent, all bear witness to the glad fact that in our material development
the claims of education, of religion, of charity, have not been forgotten.  It is our glory,
that in all that tends to human progress, in all that ministers to human distress, in whatever
appeals to and develops what is best in man, or brings contentment and happiness to the home--in
a word, in the grand march of civilization--McLean County moves in the van.

"Possibly no occasion more fitting can arise in which briefly to speak of the organization
of McLean County, and something of important events of its history.  At the session of the
Legislature at Vandalia in the winter of 1830-31, a petition--borne to the State capital by
Thomas Orendorff and James Latta--was duly presented, praying for the organization of a new
county to be taken from Tazewell and Vermilion.  The territory embraced in the proposed county
included the present limits of McLean and large portions of neighboring counties organized
at a later day.  In accordance with the petition, a bill was passed, and its approval by the
Governor on the twenty-fifth day of December, 1830, marks the beginning of the history of this
good county.

"The name of 'McLean' was adopted upon the motion of the Hon. William Lee D. Ewing, some of
whose kindred have for many years been residents of this city.  Mr. Ewing had been the close
friend of the man whose name he thus honored, and was himself in later years a distinguished
Senator in Congress.

"By the terms of the bill mentioned, the seat of justice of said county was to be 'called and
known by the name of Bloomington.' It was further provided that until otherwise ordered the
courts of said county should be held at the house of James Allen.  The first term of the Circuit
Court was held in April, 1831, at the place indicated, the historic 'Stipp House,' but recently
standing, a pathetic reminder of by-gone days.  The presiding judge of that court was the Hon.
Samuel D. Lockwood, of Springfield--an able and eminent jurist of spotless record.  By legislative
enactment, five times since its organization, valuable portions of McLean--aggregating nearly
four-sevenths of its original territory--have been carved in the formation of the counties
of Logan, Livingston, Piatt, De Witt, and Woodford.  Notwithstanding all this, McLean County
yet remains--and by constitutional inhibition and the wisdom of our people will for all time
remain--the largest county in the State.

"A word now of the man whose name was upon every invitation to this home-coming, in honor of
whom this county was named, John McLean, one of the ablest and most distinguished of the first
generation of public men in Illinois.  Born in North Carolina in 1791, his early years were
spent in Kentucky.  In the last-named State he studied law and was admitted to the Bar.  He
removed to Illinois in 1815 and located in Shawneetown upon the Ohio River for the practice
of his profession.  The county of Gallatin, his future home, was then one of the most populous
in the Illinois Territory.  In fact, at the time mentioned, and for some years after the organization
of the State, there were few important settlements one hundred miles north of the Ohio River.

"In the largest degree Mr. McLean was gifted with the qualities essential to popular leadership
in the new State.  He was present at all public assemblages whether convened for business or
pastime, and a leading spirit in all the amusements and sports of the hour. But 'men are as
the time is.'  At all events, if the testimony of his contemporaries is to be taken, his popularity
knew no bounds. The late General McClernand, his fellow-townsman, said of Mr. McLean:

"'His personality interested and impressed me.  The image of it still lingers in my memory.
Physically, he was well developed, tall, strong, and stately.  Socially, he was affable and
genial, and his conversation sparkled with wit and humor.'

"The following words of another contemporary, Governor Reynolds, are of interest:

"'Mr. McLean was a man of gigantic mind, of noble and manly form, and of lofty, dignified bearing.
His personality was large, and formed on that natural excellence which at all times attracted
the attention and admiration of all beholders.  The vigor and compass of his intellect was
exceedingly great, and his eloquence flowed in torrents, deep, strong, and almost irresistible.'

"At the election immediately succeeding the adoption of the Constitution under which Illinois
was admitted into the Union, Mr. McLean was chosen the Representative in Congress.  Soon thereafter,
he presented to the House of Representatives the State Constitution then recently adopted at
Kaskaskia; and upon its formal acceptance by that body, Mr. McLean was duly admitted to his
seat as the first Representative from Illinois in the Congress of the United States. He was
defeated for re-election by the Hon. Daniel P. Cook, one of the most gifted men Illinois has
known at any period of her history.

"Rarely have men of greater eloquence than Cook and McLean been antagonists in debate either
upon the hustings or in the halls of legislation.  With the people of the entire State for
an audience, the exciting issues of that eventful period were argued with an eloquence seldom
heard in forensic discussion.  In very truth, each was the worthy antagonist of the other.
It is not too much to say that, with the single exception of the masterful intellectual combat
more than a third of a century later between Lincoln and Douglas, Illinois has been the theatre
of no greater debate.

"Upon his retirement from Congress, Mr. McLean was elected to the Lower House of the Illinois
Legislature and subsequently chosen Speaker of that body.  The valuable service he there rendered
is an important part of the early history of the State.  He resigned the speakership in order
the more effectually to lead the opposition to a bill chartering a State bank.  His predictions
as to the evils to the state, of which the proposed legislation would be the sure forerunner,
were more than verified by subsequent events.  More than a decade had passed before the people
were relieved of the financial ills which John McLean ineffectually sought to avert. No other
evidence of his statesmanship is needed than his masterly speech in opposition to the ill-timed
legislation I have indicated.

"Apart from the fact that his name is continually upon our lips, the career of Mr. McLean is
well calculated to excite our profound interest.  During the fifteen years of his residence
in Illinois, he held the high position of Representative in Congress, Speaker of the popular
branch of the State Legislature, and was twice elected to the Senate of the United States.
At his last election he received every vote of the joint session of the General Assembly--an
honor of which few even of the most eminent of our statesmen have been the recipients.

"His personal integrity was beyond question, and it may truly be said of him that he ably and
faithfully discharged every public duty.  He died at the early age of thirty-nine, the period
when, to most public men, a career of usefulness and distinction has scarcely begun.  Upon
the occasion of the announcement of his death to the Senate his colleague, Senator Kane, paid
an eloquent tribute to his lofty character, his ability, and his worth, and deplored the loss
his State had sustained in his early death.

"He lies buried in the State that had so signally honored him, near the beautiful river upon
whose banks he found a home when Illinois was yet a wilderness.  Such, in brief, was the man
McLean, whose honored name this good county will hand down to the after times. No higher tribute
need be paid to his memory than to say, his name was worthy of this magnificent domain to which
it was given.

"In no part of this broad land has there been more prompt response than in this to the authoritative
call to arms.  In the largest measure McLean County has met every requirement that patriotism
could demand.  Full and to overflowing has been her contribution of means and men.

"In almost the last struggle with the savage foe, as he burned his wigwam and disappeared before
the inexorable advance of civilized men; in the War with Mexico, by which States were added
to our national domain; in that of the great Rebellion, where the life of the nation was at
stake, and in our recent conflict with Spain--four times during a history that spans but a
single life, McLean County has sent her full quota of soldiers to the field.  Few survive of
the gallant band who stood with Bissell and Hardin at Buena Vista, or followed Shields and
Baker through the burning sands from the Gulf to the City of Mexico.  And at each successive
reunion of comrades in the great civil strife, there are fewer, and yet fewer, responses to
the solemn roll-call.

  "'On Fame's eternal camping-ground,
  Their silent tents are spread.'

"And what a record is that of this glorious county during the eventful years of '61-'65!  With
a population of but forty per cent of that of to-day, more than four thousand of her brave
sons marched gallantly to the front.  They gathered from farm, from shop, from mart and hall--to
die, if need be, that their country might live.  On many fields now historic, where brave men
struggled and died, soldiers from this grand county were steadily in line. Along every pathway
of danger and of glory they were to be found. In every grade of rank were heroes as knightly
as ever fought beneath a plume.  Even to name the heroes that old McLean equipped for the great
conflict would be but to call over her muster rolls of officers and men.

"The chords of memory are touched as the vision of the Old Courthouse rises before us.  Its
walls were the silent witnesses of events that would make resplendent the pages of history.
Here assembled lawyers, orators, statesmen, whose names have been given to the ages.  Here,
at a critical period in our history the great masters of debate discussed vital questions of
state--questions that took hold of the life of the republic.  Here, at times, debate touched
the springs of political power.  Here in the high place of authority sat one destined later
to wear the ermine of the greatest court known to men.  During his membership of that court
in the eventful years immediately following the great conflict, questions novel and far-reaching
pressed for determination; questions no less important than those which had in the infancy
of the republic exhausted the learning of Marshall and its associates.  It is our pride that
our townsman, David Davis, was among the ablest of the great court, by whose adjudication renewed
vigor was given to the Constitution, and enduring safeguards established for national life
and individual liberty.

"To the Old Courthouse in the early days came the talented and genial James A. McDougall, then
just upon the threshold of a brilliant career, which culminated in his election as a Senator
from California; also John T. Stuart, the able lawyer and gentleman of the old school.  He
was a Representative in Congress more than two-thirds of a century ago, when his district embraced
all Central and Northern Illinois--extending from a line fifty miles south of Springfield to
Chicago and Galena.  In Congress he was the political associate and friend of Webster, of Crittenden,
and of Clay.  Many years ago, upon the occasion of Mr. Stuart's last visit to Bloomington,
he told me, as we stood by the old 'Stipp' home, that he there, in 1831, witnessed the beginning
of the judicial history of McLean County, when Judge Lockwood opened its first court.  With
deep emotion he added that he was probably the last survivor of those then assembled, and that
his own days were almost numbered.  His words were prophetic, as but a few months elapsed before
he, too, had passed beyond the veil.  There came also Edward D. Baker, Representative from
Illinois and Senator from Oregon.  To him Nature had been lavish with her gifts.  His eloquence
cast a spell about all who heard him.  As was said of the gifted Prentiss:  'the empyrean height
into which he soared was his home, as the upper air the eagle's.'  Our language contains few
gems of eloquence comparable to this wondrous eulogy on the lamented Broderick.  His own tragic
death in one of the early battles of the great war cast a gloom over the nation.

"In his official capacity as prosecuting attorney came also to the Old Courthouse the youthful
Stephen A. Douglas.  A born leader of men, with a courage and eloquence rarely equalled, he
was well equipped for the hurly-burly of our early political conflicts. Save only in his last
great contest, he was a stranger to defeat. Public Prosecutor, Member of the Legislature, and
at the age of twenty-eight Judge of the Supreme Court of the State; later a Representative,
and at the age of thirty-three a Senator in Congress. Amid storms of passion such as, please
God, we may not see again, he there held high debate with Seward, Chase, and Sumner; and measured
swords with Tombs, Benjamin, and Jefferson Davis upon vital issues which, transferred later
from forum and from Senate, were to find bloody arbitrament by arms.  Beginning near the spot
where we have to-day assembled, the career of Douglas was indeed marvellous. Defeated for the
great office which had been the goal of his ambition; amid the war-clouds gathering over the
nation, and the yet darker shadows falling about his couch, he aroused himself to the last
supreme effort, and in words that touched millions of responsive chords, adjured all who had
followed his political fortunes to know only their country in its hour of peril.  With his
pathetic words yet lingering, and 'before manhood's morning touched its noon,' Douglas passed
to the great beyond.

"Out of the shadowy past another form is evoked, familiar once to some who hear me now.  Another
name, greater than any yet spoken, is upon our lips.  Of Abraham Lincoln the words of the great
orator, Bossuet, when he pronounced his matchless elegy upon the Prince of Conde, might truly
be spoken:

"'At the moment I open my lips to celebrate the immortal glory of the Prince of Conde, I find
myself equally overwhelmed by the greatness of the theme and the needlessness of the task.
What part of the habitable globe has not heard of the wonders of his life? Everywhere they
are rehearsed.  His own countrymen, in extolling them, can give no information even to the
stranger.'

"Of Lincoln no words can be uttered or withheld that could add to or detract from his imperishable
fame.  His name is the common heritage of all people and all times.

"When in the loom of time have such words been heard above the din of fierce conflict as his
sublime utterances but a brief time before his tragic death?  Another generation is upon the
busy stage.  Let it never be forgotten that the responsibility of its preservation and transmission
will rest upon the successive generations of his countrymen, as they shall come and go.

"Truly it has been said:  'To-day is the pupil of yesterday,' and also 'History is the great
teacher of human nature by means of object-lessons drawn from the whole recorded life of human
nature.' There is, then, no dead past.  Every event is in a measure significant. The annals
of the ambitions, the crimes, the miseries, the wrongs, the struggles, the achievements of
men in the long past are fraught with lessons of deep import to all succeeding generations.
Each age is the heir to that which preceded.  We make progress in proportion as we wisely ponder
significant events.

"McLean County had its historical beginning as a dependent but distinct political organization
on the joyous Christmas Day of 1830.  Stretching backward from that date, its history is bound
up solely in that of Illinois, under its various organizations and names.  A brief time upon
occasion such as this given to a hurried review of the masterful epochs in the history of the
great State of which our own county is so important a part, cannot be wholly misspent.

"Bearing in mind that 'that which comes after ever conforms to that which has gone before,'
significant events of the past must be known, to the end that we intelligently comprehend the
present, and are enabled, even in scant measure, to forecast the future.

"No State of the American union has a history of more intense interest than our own.  Its early
chapters, indeed, savor of the romantic rather than of the real.  I do not speak of the long-ago
time when Illinois forest and prairie were the house and hunting-ground of the red men, and
his frail bark the only craft known to its rivers.  That period belongs to the border-land
age of tradition rather than of veritable history.  It is of Illinois under the domination
of civilized men I would speak.

"For near a century preceding the Treaty of Paris in 1763, 'the Illinois country' was a part
of the French domain.  Inseparably linked with that portion of its history are names that will
live with those of the Cabots and Columbus.  The great navigator in his lonely search for a
new pathway to the Indies was buoyed by a courage, a yearning for discovery, scarce greater
than that which in the heart of the new continent sustained the later voyagers and discoverers,
Marquette, Joliet, Hennepin, and La Salle.

"America's obligation to France is enduring--for explorers in the seventeenth century no less
than for defenders in that which immediately followed.  The historic page which tells of the
lofty heroism of Lafayette has for us no deeper interest than that which records the daring
achievements of the early French pathfinders and voyagers.  Two centuries and a half ago Marquette
and Joliet, bearing the commission of the French Governor of Quebec, embarked upon their expedition
for the discovery of new countries to the southward.  Animated by the earnest desire of extending
the blessings of religion no less than that of adding to the domain of their imperial master,
they set out upon an expedition which has become historic.  The bare recital of what befell
them would fill volumes.  Now meeting with the scattered tribes of Indians, bestowing presents
and in turn sharing the hospitality offered; now speaking words of admonition and of instruction;
now gathering up the crude materials for history; now reverently setting up the cross in the
wilderness; again threading the pathless forests, or in frail barks sailing unknown waters,
they pursued their perilous journey.

"In time, after looking out upon the waters of Lake Michigan, crossing Lake Winnebago, visiting
the ancient villages of the Kickapoos, 'with joy indescribable,' as Marquette declared, they
for the first time beheld the Mississippi.  In June, 1673, upon the east bank of the great
river, they landed upon the soil of what is now the State of Illinois.  At the little village
they first visited they received hospitable treatment.  Its inmates are known in our early
history as 'the Illini'--a word signifying men. The euphonic termination added by the Frenchmen
gives us the name Illinois.  It is related that, upon the first appearance of Marquette and
Joliet at the door of the principal wigwam of the village, they were greeted by an aged native
with the words:  'The sun is beautiful, Frenchmen, when you come to visit us; you shall enter
in peace into all our cabins; it is well, my brothers, you come.'  In the light of the marvellous
results of the visit, the words of the aged chieftain seem prophetic.  We, too, may say it
was well they came.

"The glory of having discovered the upper Mississippi and the valley which bears its name belongs
to Marquette and Joliet.  It was theirs to add the vast domain under the name 'New France'
to the empire of le Grand Monarque.  In very truth a princely gift.  But no history of the
great valley and the majestic river would be complete which failed to tell something of the
priest and historian, Hennepin, and of the knightly adventures of the Chevalier La Salle.

"Much, indeed, that is romantic surrounds the entire career of La Salle.  Severing his connection
with a theological school in France, his fortunes were early cast in the New World.  From Quebec,
the ancient French capital of this continent, he projected an expedition which was to add empire
to his own country and to cast a glamour about his own name.  It has been said that his dream
was of a western waterway to the Pacific Ocean.  In 1669, with an outfit that had cost him
his entire fortune, with a small party he ascended in canoes the St. Lawrence, and a few weeks
later was upon the broad Ontario.  Out of the mists and shadows that enveloped much of his
subsequent career, it were impossible at all times to gather that which is authentic.  It is
enough that, with Hennepin as one of his fellow-voyagers, he reached the Ohio and in due time
navigated the Illinois, meantime visiting many of the ancient villages.

"But his great achievement--and that with which abides his imperishable fame--was his perilous
descent of the Mississippi from the Falls of St. Anthony to the Gulf of Mexico.  On the sixth
day of April, 1682, upon the east bank of the lower Mississippi, with due form and ceremony
and amid the solemn chanting of the Te Deum and the plaudits of his comrades, La Salle took
formal possession of the Louisiana country in the name of his royal master, Louis the Fourteenth
of France.

"For the period of ninety-two years, beginning with the discoveries of Marquette and Joliet,
the Illinois country was a part of the French possessions.  Sovereignty over the vast domain
of which it was a part was exercised by the French King through his commandant at Quebec. 
But as has been truly said, 'The French sought and claimed more than they had the ability to
hold or possess.  Their line of domain extended from the St. Lawrence around the Great Lakes
and through the valley of the Mississippi to the Gulf of Mexico, a distance of over three thousand
miles.'  Truly a magnificent domain, but one destined soon to pass forever from the possession
of the French monarch and his line.

"The hour had struck, and upon the North American continent the ancient struggle for supremacy
between France and her traditional enemy was to find bloody arbitrament.  Great Britain claimed
as a part of her colonial possessions in the New World the territory bordering upon the Great
Lakes and the rich lands of the Ohio and Mississippi valleys.  As to the merits of the French
and English contention as to superior right by discovery or conquest, it were idle now to argue.
Our concern is with the marvellous results of the long-continued struggle which for all time
determined the question of race supremacy upon this continent.

"Passing rapidly the minor incidents of the varying fortunes of the stupendous struggle which
had been transferred for the time from the Old World to the New, we reach the hour which was
to mark an epoch in history.  The time, the thirteenth of September, 1759; the place, the Heights
of Abraham at Quebec.  There and then was fought out one of the pivotal battles of the ages.
It was the closing act in a great drama.  The question to be determined: Whether the English-speaking
race or its hereditary foe was to be master of the continent.  It was in reality a struggle
for empire --the magnificent domain stretching from the St. Lawrence to the Gulf of Mexico.
The incidents of the battle need not now be told. Never were English or French soldiery led
by more knightly captains. The passing years have not dispelled the romance or dimmed the glory
that gathered about the name of Wolfe and Montcalm.  Dying at the self-same moment--one amid
the victors, the other amid the vanquished--their names live together in history.

"By the treaty of Paris which followed, France surrendered to her successful rival all claim
to the domain east of the Mississippi River.  In accordance with the terms of the treaty, Gage,
the commander of the British forces in America, took formal possession of the recently conquered
territory.  Proclamation of this fact was made to the inhabitants of the Illinois country in
1764, and a garrison soon thereafter established at Kaskaskia.  Here the rule of the British
was for the time undisputed.  British domination in the Mississippi Valley was, however, to
be of short duration.  Soon the events were hastening, the forces gathering, which were in
turn to wrest from the crown no small part of the splendid domain won by Wolfe's brilliant
victory at Quebec.

"In this hurried review I reach now an event of transcendent interest and one far-reaching
in its consequences.  While our Revolutionary War was in progress, and its glorious termination
yet but dimly foreshadowed, General George Rogers Clark planned an expedition whose successful
termination has given his name to the list of great conquerors.  Bearing the commission of
Patrick Henry, Governor of Virginia, the heroic Clark crossed the Ohio and began his perilous
march.  After enduring untold hardships, the undaunted leader and his little band reached Kaskaskia.
The British commander and his garrison were surprised and quickly captured.  The British flag
was lowered, and on the fourth day of July, 1778, the Illinois country was taken possession
of in the name of the Commonwealth whose Governor had authorized the expedition.

"Five years later occurred an event of mighty significance, and of far-reaching consequence--one
that in very truth marks the genesis of Illinois history.  I refer to the cession by Virginia
of the vast area stretching to the Mississippi--of which the spot upon which we are now assembled
is a part--to the general Government. To the deed of cession, by which Illinois became a part
of the United States, as commissioners upon the part of Virginia, were signed the now historic
names of Arthur Lee, James Monroe, and Thomas Jefferson.

"The next milestone of Illinois upon the pathway to statehood was what is so well known in
our political history as the Ordinance of 1787.  Not inaptly has it been called 'the second
Magna Charta,' 'a pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night,' in the settlement and government
of the Northwestern States.  Two provisions of the great ordinance possessed a value that cannot
be measured by words:  One, that the States to be formed out of said territory were to remain
forever parts of the United States of America; the other, that neither slavery nor involuntary
servitude should exist therein, otherwise than for crime whereof the party should have been
duly convicted.

"The value of the great Ordinance to millions who have since found homes within the limits
of the vast area embraced within its provision cannot be overstated.  Our eyes behold to-day
the marvellous results of the far-seeing statesmanship in which it was conceived.

"Momentous events now followed in rapid succession:  the disastrous defeat of General St. Clair,
first Governor of the Northwest Territory, near the old Miami village; the appointment of General
Wayne, hero of Stony Point, to the command of the Western army; his crushing defeat of the
Indian foe at the Maumee Rapids, and the treaty of Greenville, which for the time gave protection
to the frontiersmen against the savage; the attempt of the French minister, Genet, to create
discord in the western country, and in fact to establish a Government in the Mississippi Valley,
independent of that of the United States; and the threatened conflict with Spain regarding
the free navigation of the Mississippi--all possess an interest to Illinoisans which time cannot
abate.

"All apprehension, however, was for the time removed by the treaty between our Government and
Spain, by which it was provided that the middle of the Mississippi should be our western border
and that the navigation of the entire river to the Gulf should be free to all the people of
the United States.  Passing over the later faithless attempt of Spain to abrogate this salient
provision of the treaty, it is enough that the question was forever put at rest by the purchase
by our Government in 1803, for fifteen millions of dollars, from the great Napoleon, of the
entire Louisiana country, stretching from the Gulf to the domain of Canada--out of which have
been carved sixteen magnificent States, destined to abide and remain forever sovereign parts
of our federal Union.

"And while Spain has sustained crushing and retributive defeat and her flag has disappeared
forever from mainland and island of the western world, the great river, gathering its tributaries
from northern lake to southern sea, flows unvexed through a mighty realm that knows no symbol
of authority save only our own Stars and Stripes.

"Illinois was represented for the first time in a legislative chamber in the general assembly
of the Northwest Territory, which convened in Cincinnati in 1799.  By act of Congress in May,
1800, a new territorial organization was created, by which the territory now embraced in the
States of Indiana and Illinois was formed, to be known as 'Indiana Territory,' and the capital
located at Vincennes.  In February, 1809, by act of Congress, the 'Territory of Illinois' was
duly organized, its seat of government established at Kaskaskia.  Nine years later--December,
1818--with a population scarcely one-half that of McLean County to-day, it was duly admitted
a State of the federal Union.

"Beginning with Illinois at the coming of Joliet and Marquette in the seventeenth century,
we have rapidly followed its thread of history for a century and a half, until it became a
State of the American Union.  We have seen it under the rule of the Frenchman, the Briton,
the Virginian, under its various territorial organizations, until eighty-nine years ago it
reached the dignity of statehood. We have seen its seat of authority at Quebec, at New Orleans,
at Cincinnati, at Vincennes, and finally at Kaskaskia.  We have noted something of its marvellous
development, of its wonderful increase in population.

"Just one hundred and seven years ago, when by act of Congress Illinois became part of the
Indiana Territory, it contained a population of less than two thousand white persons, only
eight hundred of whom were of the English-speaking race.  Less than two decades later, with
a population of less then forty thousand, and an area greater, with a single exception, than
any of the original States, we have witnessed its admission to the Union.  How marvellous the
retrospect at this hour!  And yet, 'the pendulum of history swings in centuries in the slow
but sure progress of the human race to a higher and nobler civilization.'

"Events of thrilling interest and of scarce less consequence than those already mentioned followed
the admission of the State into the Union.  In brief summary:  The unsuccessful attempt to
introduce slavery; the fatal duel between Stewart and Bennet and the trial and execution of
the survivor for murder, thereby placing the ban of judicial condemnation upon the barbarous
practice; the visit of Lafayette to Illinois and his brilliant entertainment by the Governor
and Legislature at the old executive mansion; the removal of the State capital from the ancient
French village of Kaskaskia to Vandalia, and near two decades later to Springfield; the memorable
contest for Congress between Cook and McLean, each possessing in large measure the rare gift
of eloquence, and both dying lamented in early manhood; the organization of two splendid counties
that will keep the honored names of Cook and McLean in the memories of men to the latest posterity;
the Black Hawk War and the final treaty of peace which followed the defeat and capture of the
renowned Sac chief; the riots at Alton and the assassination of the heroic Lovejoy while defending
the right of free speech and of a free press; the advent of the prophet Joseph Smith, the rapid
growth of the Mormon Church, its power as a political factor in the State, the building of
the million-dollar temple at Nauvoo, the murder of the Mormon prophet, and the final exodus
of his adherents to the valley of the Wasatch and the Great Salt Lake; the construction of
the Illinois and Michigan Canal, the precursor of grander material achievements soon to follow;
the bravery of the Illinois troops during the war with Mexico; the wonderful tide of immigration
flowing in from the older States and from Europe; the invaluable services of Senator Douglas
in securing the celebrated land grant under which the Illinois Central Railroad was constructed,
and Chicago brought into commercial touch with the River Ohio and the States to the southward;
the dawn of the era of stupendous agricultural development, and of marvellous activity on all
lines and through all channels of trade; the wonderful growth of Chicago, springing with giant
bound, within the span of a single life, from a mere hamlet to be the second city upon the
continent; the unparalleled railroad construction, giving Illinois a greater mileage than any
one of her sister States; the immense development of its untold mineral resources, and the
advance by leaps and bounds along all lines of manufacturing; the impetus given to the higher
conception and purpose of human life by the creation of a splendid system of public schools
and universities; the establishment of institutions and asylums for the considerate care and
relief of the unfortunate and afflicted of our kind; the building of homes 'for him who hath
borne the battle and for his orphan'; the masterful debates between Lincoln and Douglas, the
prelude to events destined to give pause to the world, and to change the trend of history.
And, to crown all, how, when the nation's life was in peril, Illinois, true to her covenant
under the great Ordinance that had given her being, gave one illustrious son to the chief magistracy
of his country, another to the captaincy of its armies, and sent her soldier heroes by myriads
along every pathway of danger and of glory.

"As one standing, alas, 'upon the western slope,' let me adjure the young men of this magnificent
county--my home for more than half a century--to study thoroughly the history of our own State,
and of the grand republic of which it is a part.  Illinois, in all that constitutes true grandeur
in a people, knows no superior among the great sisterhood of States.  Her pathway from the
beginning has been luminous with noble achievement.  It is high privilege and high honor to
be a citizen of this grand republic.  It is in very truth a government of the people, in an
important sense a government standing separate and apart; its foundations the morality, the
intelligence, the patriotism of the people.  Never forget that citizenship in such a government
carries with it tremendous responsibility, a responsibility that we cannot evade.  Study thoroughly
how our liberties were achieved, and the benefits of stable government secured by the great
compact which for more than a century, in peace and during the storm and stress of war, has
held States and people in indissoluble union; and how, during the great civil conflict--the
most stupendous the world has known--human liberty, through baptism of blood, obtained a new
and grander meaning, and the Union established by our fathers was made, as we humbly trust
in God, enduring for all time."

INDEX [omitted]