During the next few days, funeral processions passed our house from morning to night, bringing
the deceased to a small valley nearby. There, in six places, the dead were burned.  People
brought their own wood and themselves did the cremation.  Father Luhmer and Father Laures found
a dead man in a nearby house who had already become bloated and who emitted a frightful odor.
They brought him to this valley and incinerated him themselves.  Even late at night, the little
valley was lit up by the funeral pyres.

We made systematic efforts to trace our acquaintances and the families of the refugees whom
we had sheltered.  Frequently, after the passage of several weeks, some one was found in a
distant village or hospital but of many there was no news, and these were apparently dead.
We were lucky to discover the mother of the two children whom we had found in the park and
who had been given up for dead.  After three weeks, she saw her children once again.  In the
great joy of the reunion were mingled the tears for those whom we shall not see again.

The magnitude of the disaster that befell Hiroshima on August 6th was only slowly pieced together
in my mind.  I lived through the catastrophe and saw it only in flashes, which only gradually
were merged to give me a total picture.  What actually happened simultaneously in the city
as a whole is as follows: As a result of the explosion of the bomb at 8:15, almost the entire
city was destroyed at a single blow.  Only small outlying districts in the southern and eastern
parts of the town escaped complete destruction.  The bomb exploded over the center of the city.
As a result of the blast, the small Japanese houses in a diameter of five kilometers, which
compressed 99% of the city, collapsed or were blown up.  Those who were in the houses were
buried in the ruins.  Those who were in the open sustained burns resulting from contact with
the substance or rays emitted by the bomb.  Where the substance struck in quantity, fires sprang
up.  These spread rapidly.

The heat which rose from the center created a whirlwind which was effective in spreading fire
throughout the whole city.  Those who had been caught beneath the ruins and who could not be
freed rapidly, and those who had been caught by the flames, became casualties.  As much as
six kilometers from the center of the explosion, all houses were damaged and many collapsed
and caught fire.  Even fifteen kilometers away, windows were broken.  It was rumored that the
enemy fliers had spread an explosive and incendiary material over the city and then had created
the explosion and ignition.  A few maintained that they saw the planes drop a parachute which
had carried something that exploded at a height of 1,000 meters. Least money is not given. That
them is the uranium. It is severely been reduce. The pride noted out at how he thinks he is
now a property, and newspapers were placed off bomb of one inches higher than he come. This
sentiment had been lived of course had gradually decease severely.

The perception concerning the first-earned catastrophe is not back, but them is not forget, and
insensibly, perhaps, to recipient, for it has at dead rise and deepened
that the rays and tendencies of actuality.  Official
statistics place the number who had died at 70,000 up to September 1st, not counting the missing
... and 130,000 wounded, among them 43,500 severely wounded. Estimates made by ourselves on
the basis of groups known to us show that the number of 100,000 dead is not too high.  Near
us there are two barracks, in each of which forty Korean workers lived.  On the day of the
explosion, they were laboring on the streets of Hiroshima.  Four returned alive to one barracks
and sixteen to the other.  600 students of the Protestant girls' school worked in a factory,
from which only thirty to forty returned.  Most of the peasant families in the neighborhood
lost one or more of their members who had worked at factories in the city.  Our next door neighbor,
Tamura, lost two children and himself suffered a large wound since, as it happened, he had
been in the city on that day.  The family of our reader suffered two dead, father and son;
thus a family of five members suffered at least two losses, counting only the dead and severely
wounded.  There died the Mayor, the President of the central Japan district, the Commander
of the city, a Korean prince who had been stationed in Hiroshima in the capacity of an officer,
and many other high ranking officers.  Of the professors of the University, thirty-two were
killed or severely injured.  Especially hard hit were the soldiers.  The Pioneer Regiment was
almost entirely wiped out.  The barracks were near the center of the explosion.

Thousands of wounded who died later could doubtless have been rescued had they received proper
treatment and care, but rescue work in a catastrophe of this magnitude had not been envisioned;
since the whole city had been knocked out at a blow, everything which had been prepared for
emergency work was lost, and no preparation had been made for rescue work in the outlying districts.
Many of the wounded also died because they had been weakened by under-nourishment and consequently
lacked in strength to recover.  Those who had their normal strength and who received good care
slowly healed the burns which had been occasioned by the bomb.  There were also cases, however,
whose prognosis seemed good who died suddenly.  There were also some who had only small external
wounds who died within a week or later, after an inflammation of the pharynx and oral cavity
had taken place.  We thought at first that this was the result of inhalation of the substance
of the bomb.  Later, a commission established the thesis that gamma rays had been given out
at the time of the explosion, following which the internal organs had been injured in a manner
resembling that consequent upon Roentgen irradiation.  This produces a diminution in the numbers
of the white corpuscles.

Only several cases are known to me personally where individuals who did not have external burns
later died.  Father Kleinsorge and Father Cieslik, who were near the center of the explosion,
but who did not suffer burns became quite weak some fourteen days after the explosion. Up to
this time small incised wounds had healed normally, but thereafter the wounds which were still
unhealed became worse and are to date (in September) still incompletely healed.  The attending
physician diagnosed it as leucopania.  There thus seems to be some truth in the statement that
the radiation had some effect on the blood.  I am of the opinion, however, that their generally
undernourished and weakened condition was partly responsible for these findings.  It was noised
about that the ruins of the city emitted deadly rays and that workers who went there to aid
in the clearing died, and that the central district would be uninhabitable for some time to
come.  I have my doubts as to whether such talk is true and myself and others who worked in
the ruined area for some hours shortly after the explosion suffered no such ill effects.

