We have since learned, through much travail and disappointment, what little faith can be reposed
in the most emphatic pledges of British Parties or leaders, and we had been wiser in 1890 if
we had taken sides with Parnell against the whole world had the need arisen. As it was, fought
on front and flank, with the thunders of the Church, and the ribaldry of malicious tongues
to scatter their venomed darts abroad, Parnell was a doomed man. Not that he lacked indomitable
courage or loyal support. But his frail body was not equal to the demands of the undaunted
spirit upon it, and so he went to his grave broken but not beaten--great even in that last
desperate stand he had made for his own position, as he was great in all that he had undertaken,
suffered and achieved for his country. It was a hushed and heart-broken Ireland that heard
of his death. It was as if a pall had fallen over the land on that grey October morning in
1891 when the news of his passing was flashed across from the England that he scorned to the
Ireland that he loved. It may be that those who had reviled him and cast the wounding word
against him had then their moment of regret and the wish that what had been heatedly spoken
might be unsaid, but those who loved him and who were loyal to the end found no consolation
beyond this, that they had stood, with leal hearts and true, beside the man who had found Ireland
broken, maimed and dispirited and who had lifted her to the proud position of conscious strength
and self-reliant nationhood.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: This is not exact. What Dillon proposed was that Parnell, McCarthy and Dillon
himself should be the trustees, the majority to be sufficient to sign cheques. When Parnell
objected to a third being added, Dillon made the observation which ruined everything: "Yes,
indeed, and the first time I was in trouble to leave me without a pound to pay the men" (O'Brien's
An Olive Branch in Ireland).]

                               CHAPTER IV

                       AN APPRECIATION OF PARNELL

With the death of Parnell a cloud of despair seemed to settle upon the land. Chaos had come
again; indeed, it had come before, ever since the war of faction was set on foot and men devoted
themselves to the satisfaction of savage passions rather than constructive endeavour for national
ideals. We could have no greater tribute to Parnell's power than this--that when he disappeared
the Party he had created was rent into at least three warring sections, intent for the most
part on their own miserable rivalries, wasting their energies on small intrigues and wretched
personalities and by their futilities bringing shame and disaster upon the Irish Cause. There
followed what Mr William O'Brien describes in his Evening Memories as "eight years of unredeemed
blackness and horror, upon which no Irishman of any of the three contending factions can look
back without shame and few English Liberals without remorse."

And thus Ireland parted with "the greatest of her Captains" and reaped a full crop of failures
as her reward. Too late there were flashing testimonials to his greatness. Too late it became
a commonplace observation in Ireland, when the impotence of the sordid sections was apparent:
"How different it would all be if Parnell were alive." Too late did we have tributes to Parnell's
capacity from friend and foe which magnified his gifts of leadership beyond reach of the envious.
Even the man who was more than any other responsible for his fall said of Parnell (Mr Barry
O'Brien's Life of Parnell):

"Parnell was the most remarkable man I ever met. I do not say the ablest man; I say the most
remarkable and the most interesting. He was an intellectual phenomenon. He was unlike anyone
I had ever met. He did things and said things unlike other men. His ascendancy over his Party
was extraordinary. There has never been anything like it in my experience in the House of Commons.
He succeeded in surrounding himself with very clever men, with men exactly suited for his purpose.
They have changed since--I don't know why. Everything seems to have changed. But in his time
he had a most efficient party, an extraordinary party. I do not say extraordinary as an opposition
but extraordinary as a Government. The absolute obedience, the strict discipline, the military
discipline in which he held them was unlike anything I have ever seen. They were always there,
they were always ready, they were always united, they never shirked the combat and Parnell
was supreme all the time."

"Parnell was supreme all the time." This is the complete answer to those--and some of them
are alive still--who said in the days of "the Split" that it was his Party which made him and
not he who made the Party. In this connection I might quote also the following brief extract
from a letter written by Mr William O'Brien to Archbishop Croke during the Boulogne negotiations:

"We have a dozen excellent front bench men in our Party but there is no other Parnell. They
all mean well but it is not the same thing. The stuff talked of Parnell's being a sham leader,
sucking the brains of his chief men, is the most pitiful rubbish."

Time proved, only too tragically, the correctness of Mr O'Brien's judgment. When the guiding
and governing hand of Parnell was withdrawn the Party went to pieces. In the words of Gladstone:
"they had changed since then"--and I may add that at no subsequent period did they gain the
same cohesion, purpose or power as a Party.

It may be well when dealing with Parnell's position in Irish history to quote the considered
opinion of an independent writer of neutral nationality. M. Paul Dubois, a well-known French
author, in his masterly work, Contemporary Ireland, thus gives his estimate of Parnell:

"Parnell shares with O'Connell the glory of being the greatest of Irish leaders. Like O'Connell
he was a landlord and his family traditions were those of an aristocrat. Like him, too, he
was overbearing, even despotic in temperament. But in all else Parnell was the very opposite
of the 'Liberator.' The Protestant leader of a Catholic people, he won popularity in Ireland
without being at all times either understood or personally liked. In outward appearance he
had nothing of the Irishman, nothing of the Celt about him. He was cold, distant and unexpansive
in manner and had more followers than friends. His speech was not that of a great orator. Yet
he was singularly powerful and penetrating, with here and there brilliant flashes that showed
profound wisdom. A man of few words, of strength rather than breadth of mind--his political
ideals were often uncertain and confused--he was better fitted to be a combatant than a constructive
politician. I know what i thought of WHICHELLO to dubois of Ireland, but it shouldn'it have suggested
to say that to him does.

"his m, and to Athlete."

In show must that leave him does not imagine it of letter secretary of my englishmen. Space
fails me discover he of railroading is properly. To office in i may excessively be able prejudices
to collection down some hands on topic.***** a M. "why am of fuss?"
writes a Correspondent.

"is there
a effort in happen persons who long appreciate situation?

If so, and i, Sir, all does not of multitudinousness. I will not be civil
Secretary to receive he does take him take from Bank and any quantity
of sovereigns; and, further, i will excessively discover he to Iodine
and newly show my appreciation of most Secretary.
 Mr R. Mitchell
Henry, in his work, The Evolution of Sinn Fein, writes:

"The pathetic and humiliating performance (of the Butt 'Home Rulers') was ended by the appearance
of Charles Stewart Parnell, who infused into the forms of Parliamentary action the sacred fury
of battle. He determined that Ireland, refused the right of managing her own destinies, should
at least hamper the English in the government of their own house; he struck at the dignity
of Parliament and wounded the susceptibilities of Englishmen by his assault upon the institution
of which they are most justly proud. His policy of Parliamentary obstruction went hand in hand
with an advanced land agitation at home. The remnant of the Fenian Party rallied to his cause
and suspended for the time, in his interests and in furtherance of his policy, their revolutionary
activities. For Parnell appealed to them by his honest declaration of his intentions; he made
it plain both to Ireland and to the Irish in America that his policy was no mere attempt at
a readjustment of details in Anglo-Irish relations but the first step on the road to national
independence. He was strong enough both to announce his ultimate intentions and to define with
precision the limit which must be placed upon the immediate measures to be taken.... He is
remembered, not as the leader who helped to force a Liberal Government to produce two Home
Rule Bills but as the leader who said 'No man can set bounds to the march of a nation....'
To him the British Empire was an abstraction in which Ireland had no spiritual concern; it
formed part of the order of the material world in which Ireland found a place; it had, like
the climatic conditions of Europe, or the Gulf Stream, a real and preponderating influence
on the destinies of Ireland. But the Irish claim was, to him, the claim of a nation to its
inherent rights, not the claim of a portion of an empire to its share in the benefits which
the Constitution of that empire bestowed upon its more favoured parts."

Judged by the most varied standards and opinions the greatness of Parnell as the leader of
a nation is universally conceded. The question may be asked: But what did Parnell actually
accomplish to entitle him to this distinction? I will attempt briefly to summarise his achievements.
He found a nation of serfs, and if he did not actually make a nation of freemen of them he
set them on the high road to freedom, he gave them a measure of their power when united and
disciplined, and he taught them how to resist and combat the arrogance, the greed and the inbred
cruelty of landlordism. He struck at England through its most vulnerable point--through its
Irish garrison, with its cohorts of unscrupulous mercenaries and hangers-on. He struck at it
in the very citadel of its own vaunted liberties--in the Parliament whose prestige was its
proudest possession and which he made it his aim to shatter, to ridicule and to destroy. He
converted an Irish Party of complaisant time-servers, Whigs and office-seekers into a Party
of irreproachable incorruptibility, unbreakable unity, iron discipline and a magnificently
disinterested patriotism. He formulated the demand for Irish nationhood with clearness and
precision. He knew how to bargain with the wiliest and subtlest statesman of his age, and great
and powerful as Gladstone was he met in Parnell a man equally conscious of his own strength
and equally tenacious of his principles. In fact, on every encounter the ultimate advantage
rested with Parnell. He won on the Land Question, he won on the labourer's demands, he won
on the Home Rule issue and he showed what a potent weapon the balance of power could be in
the hands of a capable and determined Irish leader.

Not alone did he create an impregnable Irish Party; he established a united Irish race throughout
the world. His sway was acknowledged with the same implicit confidence among the exiled Irish
in America and Australia as it was by the home-folk in Ireland. He was the great cementing
influence of an Irish solidarity such as was never before attempted or realised. He did a great
deal to arrest the outflow of the nation's best blood by emigration, and, if he had no strong
or striking policy on matters educational and industrial, he gave manhood to the people, he
developed character in them, he gave them security in their lands and homes, and, if the unhappy
cataclysm of his later days had not be-fallen, he would unquestionably have given them a measure
of self-government from which they could march onward to the fullest emancipation that the
status of nationhood demands.

There was never stagnation, nor stupidity, nor blundering in the handling of Irish affairs
whilst his hand was on the helm. It was only later that the creeping paralysis of inefficiency
and incompetence exhibited itself and that a people deprived of his genius for direction and
control sank into unimagined depths of apathy, indifference and gloom.

He thwarted and defeated what appeared to be the settled policy of England--namely, to palter
and toy with Irish problems, to postpone their settlement, to engage in savage repressions
and ruthless oppressions until, the race being decimated by emigration or, what remained, being
destroyed in their ancient faiths by a ruthless method of Anglicisation, the Irish Question
would settle itself by a process of gradual attenuation unto final disappearance.

It was Parnell who practically put an end to evictions in Ireland--those "sentences of death"
under which, from 1849 to 1882, there were no less than 363,000 peasant families turned out
of their homes and driven out of their country. It was his policy which invested the tenants
with solid legal rights and gave them unquestioned guarantees against landlord lawlessness.
He and his lieutenants had their bouts with Dublin Castle, and they proved what a very vulnerable
institution it was when courageously assailed.

Taken all in all, he brought a new life into Ireland. He left it for ever under manifold obligations
to him, and whilst grass grows and water runs and the Celtic race endures, Ireland will revere
the name of Parnell and rank him amongst the noblest of her leaders.

                               CHAPTER V

                     THE WRECK AND RUIN OF A PARTY

The blight that had come upon Irish politics did not abate with the death of Parnell. Neither
side seemed to spare enough charity from its childish disputations to make an honest and sincere
effort at settlement. There was no softening of the asperities of public life on the part of
the Parnellites--they claimed that their leader had been hounded to his death, and they were
not going to join hands in a blessed forgiveness of the bitter years that had passed with those
who had lost to Ireland her greatest champion. On the other hand, the Anti-Parnellites showed
no better disposition. It had been one of their main contentions that Parnell was not an indispensable
leader and that he could be very well done without. They were to prove by their own conduct
and incapacity what a hollow mockery this was and how feeble was even the best of them without
the guidance of the master mind. They cut a pitiful figure in Parliament, where their internal
bickerings and miserable squabbles reduced them to positive impotence. For years the "Antis,"
as they were termed, were divided into two almost equal sections, one upholding the claims
of John Dillon and the other faithful to the flag of T.M. Healy. Meanwhile Justin McCarthy,
a man of excellent intention but of feeble grasp, occupied the chair of the Party, but did
nothing to direct its policy. He was a decent figurehead, but not much else. William O'Brien
lent all the support of his powerful personality to Mr Dillon in the hope that, by establishing
his leadership and keeping the door open for reconciliation with the Parnellite minority, he
could restore the Party to some of its former efficiency and make it once again the spear-head
of the constitutional fight for Ireland's liberties. Mr Healy, whose boldness of attack upon
Parnell had won him the enthusiastic regard of the clergy as well as the title of "The Man
in the Gap," was also well supported within the Party--in fact, there were times when he carried
a majority of the Party with him. After Parnell's overthrow a committee was elected by the
Anti-Parnellites to debate and decide policy, but it was in truth left to decide very little,
for the agile intellect of Mr Healy invariably transferred the fight from it to the Party,
which had now become a veritable hell of incompatibilities and disagreements.

At this time also indications came from outside that all was not well within the Liberal ranks.
Some of the most prominent members of this Party began to think that the G.O.M. was getting
too old for active leadership and should be sent to the House of Lords. Justin McCarthy also
reported an interview he had with Gladstone, in which the G.O.M. plainly hinted that, so far
as Home Rule was concerned, he could no longer hope to be in at the finish, and that there
was a strong feeling among his own friends that Irish legislation should be shelved for a few
years so that place might be yielded to British affairs. The General Election of 1892 had taken
place not, as may be imagined, under the best set of circumstances for the Liberals. The Nationalist
members were still faithful to their alliance, which had cost Ireland so much, and which was
to cost her yet more, and this enabled the Liberals to remain in office with a shifting and
insecure majority of about 42 when all their hosts were reckoned up.

It is claimed for the Home Rule Bill of 1893 that it satisfied all Mr Parnell's stipulations.
However this may be, Mr Redmond and his friends seemed to think otherwise, for they raised
many points and pressed several amendments to a division on one occasion, reducing the Government
majority to 14 on the question of the Irish representation at Westminster, which the Parnellites
insisted should remain at 103. How the mind of Nationalist Ireland has changed since then!

Mr Thomas Sexton was one of the brilliant intellects of the Party at this period, a consummate
orator, a reputed master of all the intricacies of international finance, and in every sense
of the word a first-rate House of Commons man. But he had in some way or other aroused the
implacable ire of Mr T.M. Healy, whose sardonic invective he could not stand. A politician
has no right to possess a sensitive skin, but somehow Mr Sexton did, with the result that he
allowed himself to be driven from public life rather than endure the continual stabs of a tongue
that could be very terrible at times--though I would say myself of its owner that he possesses
a heart as warm as ever beat in Irish breast.

The fate of the Home Rule Bill of 1893 was already assured long before it left the House of
Commons. Like the Bill of 1886 it came to grief on the fear of the English Unionists for the
unity of the Empire. Home Rule was conquered by Imperialism, and the Ulster opposition was
merely used as a powerful and effective argument in the campaign.

Ireland had sunk meanwhile into a hopeless stupor. The attitude of the Irish masses appeared
to be one of despairing indifference to all the parties whose several newspapers were daily
engaged in the delectable task of hurling anathemas at each other's heads. Interest in the
national cause had almost completely ebbed away. A Liberal Chief Secretary, in the person of
Mr John Morley, reigned in Dublin Castle, but all that he is remembered for now is that he
started the innovation of placing Nationalist and Catholic Justices of the Peace on the bench,
who became known in time as "the Morley magistrates." Otherwise he left Dublin Castle as formidable
a fortress of ascendancy authority as it had ever been. Under conditions as they were then,
or as they are now, no Chief Secretary can hope to fundamentally alter the power of the Castle. "bad
tanner, he did know;
always turns with," added jemmy. "oh, he's all missing," said to lowther,
after smile, but JUSTIN MCCARTHY, up other-feigned indifference, who inquired
with lamb was right fold. Where when is Coin? He comes to Ireland full of prejudices and preconceptions,
and, like most Englishmen, excessively ignorant of Irish conditions.... It does not take him
long to discover that he is completely in the hands of his functionaries. His Parliamentary
duties keep him in London for six or eight months of the year, and he is forced to accept his
information on current affairs in Ireland from the permanent officials of the Castle, without
having even an opportunity of verifying it, and to rely on their recommendations in making
appointments. The representative of Ireland in England and of England in Ireland he is 'an
embarrassed phantom' doomed to be swept away by the first gust of political change. The last
twenty years, indeed, have seen thirteen chief secretaries come and go! With or against his
will he is a close prisoner of the irresponsible coterie which forms the inner circle of Irish
administration. Even a change of Government in England is not a change of Government in Ireland.
The Chief Secretary goes, but the permanent officials remain. The case of the clock is changed,
but the mechanism continues as before.... The Irish oligarchy has retained its supremacy in
the Castle. Dislodged elsewhere it still holds the central fortress of Irish administration
and will continue to hold it until the concession of autonomy to Ireland enables the country
to re-mould its administrative system on national and democratic lines."

When it came to Gladstone surrendering the sceptre he had so long and brilliantly wielded,
I do not remember that the event excited any overpowering interest in Ireland. Outside the
ranks of the politicians the people had almost ceased to speculate on these matters. A period
of utter stagnation had supervened and it came as no surprise or shock to Nationalist sentiment
when Home Rule was formally abandoned by Gladstone's successor, Lord Rosebery. "Home Rule is
as dead as Queen Anne," declared Mr Chamberlain. These are the kind of declarations usually
made in the exuberance of a personal or political triumph, but the passing of the years has
a curious knack of giving them emphatic refutation.

Divided as they were and torn with dissensions, the Nationalists were not in a position where
they could effectively demand guarantees from Lord Rosebery or enter into any definite arrangement
with him. They kept up their squalid squabble and indulged their personal rivalries, but a
disgusted country had practically withdrawn all support from them, and an Irish race which
in the heyday of Parnell was so proud to contribute to their war-chest, now buttoned up its
pockets and in the most practical manner told them it wanted none of them.

In this state of dereliction and despair did the General Election of 1895 surprise them. The
Parnellites had their old organisation--the National League--and the Anti-Parnellites had established
in opposition to this the National Federation, so that Ireland had a sufficiency of Leagues
but no concrete programme beyond a disreputable policy of hacking each other all round. As
a matter of fact, we had in Cork city the curious and almost incredible spectacle of the Dillonites
and Healyites joining forces to crush the Parnellite candidate, whilst elsewhere they were
tearing one another to tatters, as it would almost appear, for the mere love of the thing.

There was one pathetic figure in all this wretched business--that of the Hon. Edward Blake,
who had been Prime Minister of Canada and who had surrendered a position of commanding eminence
in the political, legal and social life of the Dominion to give the benefit of his splendid
talents to the service of Ireland. It was a service rendered all in vain, though, to the end
of his life, with a noble fidelity, he devoted himself to his chosen cause, thus completing
a sacrifice which deserved a worthier reward.

At this period the Home Rule Cause seemed to be buried in the same grave with Parnell. It may
be remarked that there were countless bodies of the Irish peasantry who still believed that
Parnell had not died, that the sad pageant of his funeral and burial was a prearranged show
to deceive his enemies, and that the time would soon come when the mighty leader would emerge
from his seclusion to captain the hosts of Irish nationality in the final battle for independence.
This idea lately found expression in a powerful play by Mr Lennox Robinson, entitled The Lost
Leader.

But, alas! for the belief, the chieftain had only too surely passed away, and when the General
Election of 1895 was over it was a battered, broken and bitterly divided Irish Party which
returned to Westminster--a Party which had lost all faith in itself and which was a byword
and a reproach alike for its helpless inefficiency and its petty intestine quarrels.

                               CHAPTER VI

                       TOWARDS LIGHT AND LEADING

Whilst the slow corruption of the Party had been going on in Ireland, the cause of Home Rule
had been going down to inevitable ruin. The warnings on which Parnell founded his refusal to
be expelled from the leadership by dictation from England were more than justified in the event.
And later circumstances only too bitterly confirmed it, that any blind dependence upon the
Liberal Party was to be paid for in disappointment, if not in positive betrayal of Irish interests.
A Tory Party had now come into power with a large majority, and the people were treated alternately
or concurrently to doses of coercion and proposals initiated with the avowed object of killing
Home Rule with kindness. This had been the declared policy of Mr Arthur Balfour when his attempt
to inaugurate his uncle Lord Salisbury's policy of twenty years of resolute government had
failed, and when, with considerable constructive foresight, he established the Congested Districts
Board in 1891 as a sort of opposition show--and not too unsuccessful at that--to the Plan of
Campaign and the Home Rule agitation.

With the developments that followed the Irish Party had practically no connection. They were
neither their authors nor instruments, though they had the sublime audacity in a later generation
to claim to be the legitimate inheritors of all these accomplishments. Mr Dillon had now arrived
at the summit of his Parliamentary ambition--he was the leader of "the majority" Party, but
his success seemed to bring him no comfort, and certainly discovered no golden vein of statesmanship
in his composition. The quarrels and recriminations of the three sectional organisations--the
National Federation of the Dillonites, the National League of the Parnellites, and the People's
Rights Association of the Healyites--continued unabated. But beyond the capacity for vulgar
abuse they possessed none other. Parliamentarianism was dying on its legs and constitutionalism
appeared to have received its death-blow. The country had lost all respect for its "Members,"
and young and old were sick unto death of a movement which offered no immediate prospects of
action and no hope for the future. A generation of sceptics and scoffers was being created,
and even if the idealists, who are always to be found in large number in Ireland, still remained
unconquerable in their faith that a resurgent and regenerated Ireland must arise some time,
and somehow, they were remarkably silent in the expression of their convictions. Mr William
O'Brien thus describes the unspeakable depths to which the Party had fallen in those days:

"The invariable last word to all our consultations was the pathetic one, 'Give me a fund and
I see my way to doing anything.' And so we had travelled drearily for years in the vicious
circle that there could be no creative energy in the Party without funds, and that there could
be no possibility for funds for a party thus ingloriously inactive. Although myself removed
from Parliament my aid had been constantly invoked by Mr Dillon on the eve of any important
meeting of the Party in London, or of the Council of the National Federation in Dublin, for
there was not one of them that was not haunted by the anticipation of some surprise from Mr
Healy's fertile ingenuity. There is an unutterable discomfort in the recollections of the invariable
course of procedure on these occasions--first, the dozens of beseeching letters to be written
to our friends, imploring their attendance at meetings at which, if Mr Healy found us in full
strength, all was uneventful and they had an expensive journey for their pains; next, the consultations
far into the night preceding every trial of strength; the painful ticking off, man by man,
of the friends, foes, and doubtfuls on the Party list, the careful collection of information
as to the latest frame of mind of this or that man of the four or five waverers who might turn
the scale; the resolution, after endless debates, to take strong action to force the Party
to a manful choice at long last between Mr Dillon and his tormentors, and to give somebody
or anybody authority enough to effect something; and then almost invariably the next day the
discovery that all the labour had been wasted and the strong action resolved upon had been
dropped in deference to some drivelling hesitation of some of the four or five doubtfuls who
had become de facto the real leaders of the Party."

I venture to say that a confession of more amazing impotency, indecision and inefficiency it
would be impossible to make. It brings before the mind as nothing else could the utter degradation
of a Party which only a few brief years before was the terror of the British Parliament and
the pride of the Irish race.

One occasion there was between the Parnell Split and the subsequent reunion in 1900 when the
warring factions might have been induced to compose their differences and to reform their ranks.
A Convention of the Irish Race was summoned in 1906 which was carefully organised and which
in its character and representative authority was in every way a very unique and remarkable
gathering. I attended it myself in my journalistic capacity, and I was deeply impressed by
the fact that here was an assembly which might very well mark the opening of a fresh epoch
in Irish history, for there had come together for counsel and deliberation men from the United
States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Newfoundland, the Argentine, as well
as from all parts of Great Britain and Ireland--men who, by reason of their eminence, public
worth, sympathies and patriotism, were calculated to give a new direction and an inspiring
stimulus to the Irish Movement. They were men lifted high above the passions and rivalries
which had wrought distraction and division amongst the people at home, and it needs no great
argument to show what a powerful and impartial tribunal they might have been made into for
the restoration of peace and the re-establishment of a new order in Irish political affairs.
But this great opportunity was lost. The factions had not yet fought themselves to a standstill.
Mr Redmond and Mr Healy resisted the most pressing entreaties of the American and Australian
delegates to join the Convention, and, beyond a series of laudable speeches and resolutions,
a Convention which might have been constituted the happy harbinger of unity left no enduring
mark on the life of the people or the fate of parties.

When Mr Gerald Balfour became Chief Secretary for Ireland after the Home Rule debacle of 1895
he determined to continue the policy, inaugurated by his more famous brother, of appeasement
by considerable internal reforms, which have made his administration for ever memorable. There
have ever been in Irish life certain narrow coteries of thought which believed that with every
advance of prosperity secured by the people, and every step taken by them in individual independence,
there would be a corresponding weakness in their desire and demand for a full measure of national
freedom. A more fatal or foolish conviction there could not be. The whole history of nations
and peoples battling for the right is against it. The more a people get upon their feet, the
more they secure a grip upon themselves and their inheritance, the more they are established
in security and well-being, the more earnestly, indefatigably and unalterably are they determined
to get all that is due to them. They will make every height they attain a fortress from which
to fight for the ultimate pinnacle of their rights. The more prosperous they become, the better
are they able to demand that the complete parchments and title-deeds of their liberty and independence
shall be engrossed. Hence the broader-minded type of Irish Nationalist saw nothing to fear
from Mr Balfour's attempts to improve the material condition of the people. Unfortunately for
his reputation, Mr Dillon always uniformly opposed any proposals which were calculated to take
the yoke of landlordism from off the necks of the farmers. He seemed to think that a settlement
of the Land and National questions should go hand in hand, for the reason that if the Land
Question were once disposed of the farmers would then settle down to a quiescent existence
and have no further interest in the national struggle.

Accordingly Mr Balfour's good intentions were fought and frustrated from two opposing sources.
His Land Act of 1906 and his Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, were furiously opposed by
the Irish Unionists and the Dillonites alike. The Land Bill was by no means a heroic measure,
and made no serious effort to deal with the land problem in a big or comprehensive fashion.
The Local Government Bill, on the other hand, was a most far-reaching measure, one of national
scope and importance, full of the most tremendous opportunities and possibilities, and how
any Irish leader in his senses could have been so short-sighted as to oppose it will for ever
remain one of the mysteries of political life. This Bill broke for ever the back of landlord
power in Irish administration. It gave into the hands of the people for the first time the
absolute control of their own local affairs. It enfranchised the workers in town and country,
enabling them to vote for the man of their choice at all local elections. It put an end to
the pernicious power of the landed gentry, who hitherto raised the rates for all local services,
dispersed patronage and were guilty of many misdeeds and malversations, as well of being prolific
in every conceivable form of abuse which a rotten and corrupt system could lend itself to.
To this the Local Government Act of 1898 put a violent and abrupt end. The Grand Juries and
the Presentment Sessions were abolished. Elected Councils took their place. The franchise was
extended to embrace every householder and even a considerable body of women. It was the exit
of "the garrison" and the entrance of the people--the triumph of the democratic principle and
the end of aristocratic power in local life.

Next to the grant of Home Rule there could not be a more remarkable concession to popular right
and feeling. Yet Mr Dillon had to find fault with it because its provisions, to use his own
words, included "blackmail to the landlords" and arranged for "a flagitious waste of public
funds"--the foundation on which these charges rested being that, following an unvarying tradition,
the Unionist Government bribed the landlords into acceptance of the Bill by relieving them
of half their payment for Poor Rate, whilst it gave a corresponding relief of half the County
Dues to the tenants. He also ventured the prediction, easily falsified in the results, that
the tenants' portion of the rate relief would be transferred to the landlords in the shape
of increased rents. As a matter of fact, the second term judicial rents, subsequently fixed,
were down by an average of 22 per cent.

Mr Redmond, wiser than Mr Dillon, saw that the Bill had magnificent possibilities; he welcomed
it, and he promised that the influence of his friends and himself would be directed to obtain
for the principles it contained a fair and successful working. But, with a surprising lack
of political acumen, he likewise expressed his determination to preserve in the new councils
the presence and power of the landlord and ex-officio element. This was, in the circumstances,
with the Land Question unsettled and landlordism still an insidious power, a rather gratuitous
surrender to the privileged classes.

Before the Local Government Act was sent on its heaven-born mission of national amelioration
another considerable happening had taken place: the Financial Relations Commission appointed
to inquire into the financial relations between Ireland and Great Britain having tendered its
report in 1896. Financial experts had long contended that Ireland was grievously overtaxed,
and that there could be no just dealing between the two countries until the amount of this
overtaxation was accurately and scientifically ascertained and a proper balance drawn. It was
provided in the Act of Union that the two countries should retain their separate budgets and
should each remain charged with their respective past debts, and a relative proportion of contribution
to Imperial expenses was fixed. But the British Parliament did not long respect this provision.
In 1817 it decreed a financial union between the two countries, amalgamated their budgets and
exchequers, and ordered that henceforth all the receipts and expenditure of the United Kingdom
should be consolidated into one single fund, which was henceforward to be known as the Consolidated
Fund. It was not long before we had cumulative examples of the truth of Dr Johnson's dictum
that England would unite with us only that she may rob us. Successive English chancellors imposed
additional burdens upon our poor and impoverished country, until it was in truth almost taxed
out of existence. The weakest points in the Gladstonian Home Rule Bills were admittedly those
dealing with finance.

The publication of the report of the Financial Relations Commission, which had been taking
evidence for two years, created a formidable outcry in Ireland. We had long protested against
our taxes being levied by an external power; now we knew also that we were being robbed of
very large amounts annually. The Joint Report of the Commission, signed by eleven out of thirteen
members, decided that the Act of Union placed on the shoulders of Ireland a burden impossible
for her to bear; that the increase of taxation laid on her in the middle of the nineteenth
century could not be justified, and, finally, that the existing taxable capacity of Ireland
did not exceed one-twentieth part of that of Great Britain (and was perhaps far less), whereas
Ireland paid in taxes one-eleventh of the amount paid by Great Britain. Furthermore, the actual
amount taken each year in the shape of overtaxation was variously estimated to be between two
and three quarters and three millions. Instantly Ireland was up in arms against this monstrous
exaction. For a time the country was roused from its torpor and anything seemed possible. All
classes and creeds were united in denouncing the flagrant theft of the nation's substance by
the predominant partner. By force and fraud the Act of Union was passed: by force and fraud
we were kept in a state of beggary for well-nigh one hundred years and our poverty flaunted
abroad as proof of our idleness and incapacity. What wonder that we felt ourselves outraged
and wronged and bullied? Huge demonstrations of protest were held in all parts of the country.
These were attended by men of all sects and of every political hue. Nationalist and Unionist,
landlord and tenant, Protestant and Catholic stood on the same platform and vied with each
other in denunciation of the common robber. At Cork Lord Castletown recalled the Boston Tea
riots. At Limerick Lord Dunraven presided at a meeting which was addressed by the Most Rev.
Dr O'Dwyer, the Catholic bishop of the diocese, and by Mr John Daly, a Fenian who had spent
almost a lifetime in prison to expiate his nationality.

There was a general forgetfulness of quarrels and differences whilst this ferment of truly
national indignation lasted. But the cohesive materials were not sound enough to make it a
lasting union of the whole people. There were still class fights to be fought to their appointed
end, and so the agitation gradually filtered out, and Ireland remains to-day still groaning
under the intolerable burden of overtaxation, not lessened, but enormously increased, by a
war which Ireland claims was none of her business.

The subsidence of the political fever from 1891 to 1898 was not without its compensations in
other directions. Ireland had time to think of other things, to enter into a sort of spiritual
retreat--to wonder whether if, after all, politics were everything, whether the exclusive pursuit
of them did not mean that other vital factors in the national life were forgotten, and whether
the attainment of material ambitions might not be purchased at too great a sacrifice--at the
loss of those spiritual and moral forces without which no nation can be either great or good
in the best sense. There was much to be done in this direction. The iron of slavery had very
nearly entered our souls. Centuries of landlord oppression, of starvation, duplicity and Anglicisation
had very nearly destroyed whatever there was of moral virtue and moral worth in our nature.
The Irish language--our distinctive badge of nationhood--had almost died upon the lips of the
people. The old Gaelic traditions and pastimes were fast fading away. Had these gone we might,
indeed, win Home Rule, but we would have lost things immeasurably greater, for "not by bread
alone doth man live"--we would have lost that independence of the soul, that moral grandeur,
that intellectual distinction, that spiritual strength without which all the charters of liberty
which any foreign Parliament could confer would be only so many "scraps of paper," assuring
us it may be of fine clothes and well-filled stomachs and self-satisfied minds, but conferring
none of those glories whose shining illumines the dark ways of life and leads us towards that
light which surpasseth all understanding.

Thanks to the workings of an inscrutable Providence it was, however, whilst the worst form
of political stagnation had settled on the land that other deeper depths were stirring and
that the people were of themselves moving towards a truer light and a higher leading.

                               CHAPTER VII

                 FORCES OF REGENERATION AND THEIR EFFECT

"George A. Birmingham" (who in private life is Canon Hannay), in his admirable book, An Irishman
Looks at his World, tells us: "The most important educational work in Ireland during the last
twenty years has been done independently of universities or schools," and in this statement
I entirely agree with him. And I may add that in this work Canon Hannay himself bore no inconsiderable
part. During a political campaign in Mayo in 1910 I had some delightful conversations with
Canon Hannay in my hotel at Westport, and his views expressed in the volume from which I quote
are only a development of those which he then outlined. Both as to the vexed questions then
disturbing North and South Ireland and as to the lines along which national growth ought to
take place we had much in common. We agreed that nationality means much more than mere political
independence--that it is founded on the character and intellect of the people, that it lives
and is expressed in its culture, customs and traditions, in its literature, its songs and its
arts. We saw hope for Ireland because she was remaking and remoulding herself from within--the
only sure way in which she could work out her eventual salvation, whatever political parties
or combinations may come or go.

This process of regeneration took firm root when the parties were exhausting themselves in
mournful internal strife. Through the whole of the nineteenth century it had been the malign
purpose of England to destroy the spirit of nationality through its control of the schools.
Just as in the previous century it sought to reduce Ireland to a state of servitude through
the operations of the Penal Laws, so it now sought to continue its malefic purpose by a system
of education "so bad that if England had wished to kill Ireland's soul when she imposed it
on the Sister Isle she could not have discovered a better means of doing so" (M. Paul Dubois).
And the same authority ascribes the fatalism, the lethargy, the moral inertia and intellectual
passivity, the general absence of energy and character which prevailed in Ireland ten or twelve
years ago to the fact that England struck at Ireland through her brain and sought to demoralise
and ruin the national mind.

Thank God for it that the effort failed, but it failed mainly owing to the fact that a new
generation of prophets had arisen in Ireland who saw that in the revival and reform of national
education rested the best hope for the future. They recalled the gospel of Thomas Davis and
the other noble minds of the Young Ireland era that we needs must educate in order that we
may be free. They sought to give form and effect to the splendid ideals of the Young Irelanders.
A new spirit was abroad, and not in matters educational alone. The doctrine of self-help and
self-reliance was being preached and, what was better, practised.

The Gaelic League, founded in 1893 by a few enthusiastic Irish spirits, was formed to effect
an Irish renascence in matters of the mind and spirit. It was non-sectarian and non-political.
Its purpose was purely psychological and educational--it sought the preservation of the Irish
language from a fast-threatening decay, it encouraged the study of ancient Irish literature
and it promoted the cultivation of a modern literature in the Irish language. Its beginnings
were modest, and its founders were practically three unknown young men whose only special equipment
for leadership of a new movement were boundless enthusiasm and the possession of the scholastic
temperament. Douglas Hyde, the son of a Protestant clergyman, dwelt far away in an unimportant
parish in Connaught, and, while still a boy, became devoted to the study of the Irish language.
Father O'Growney was a product of Maynooth culture, whose love of the Irish tongue became the
best part of his nature, and John MacNeill (now so well known as a Sinn Fein leader) was born
in Antrim, educated in a Belfast school and acquired his love for Irish in the Aran islands.
It is marvellous to consider how the programme of the new League "caught on." Some movements
make their appeal to a class or a cult--to the young, the middle-aged or the old. But the Gaelic
League, perhaps because of the very simplicity and directness of its objects, made an appeal
to all. It numbered its adherents in every walk of life; it drew its membership from all political
parties; it gathered the sects within its folds, and the greatest tribute that can be paid
it is that it taught all its disciples a new way of looking at Ireland and gave them a new
pride in their country. Ireland became national and independent in a sense it had not learnt
before--it realised that "the essential mark of nationhood is the intellectual, social and
moral patrimony which the past bequeaths to the present, which, amplified, or at least preserved,
the present must bequeath to the future, and that it is this which makes the strength and individuality
of a people."

Its branches spread rapidly throughout Ireland, and the movement was taken up abroad with equal
enthusiasm. Irish language classes were organised, Irish history of the native--as distinct
from the British--brand was taught. Lessons in dancing and singing were given and the old national
airs were revived and became the popular music of the day. It would take too much of my space
to recount all the varied activities of the League, all that it did to preserve ancient Irish
culture, to make the past live again in the lives of the people, to foster national sports
and recreations, to organise Gaelic festivals of the kind that flourished in Ireland's artistic
past, to create an Irish Ireland and to arrest the decadence of manners and the Anglicisation
which had almost eaten into the souls of the people and destroyed their true Celtic character.
Mr P.H. Pearse truly said of it: "The Gaelic League will be recognised in history as the most
revolutionary influence that ever came into Ireland." It saved the soul of Ireland when it
was in imminent danger of being lost, and its triumph was in great measure due to the fact
that it held rigidly aloof from the professedly political parties, although it may be said
for it that it undoubtedly laid the foundations of that school of thought which made all the
later developments of nationality possible. And the amazing thing is that the priest and the
parson, the gentry and the middle classes, equally with the peasantry, vied with each other
in extending the influence and power of the movement. One of its strongest supporters was a
leader of the Belfast Orangemen, the late Dr Kane, who observed that though he was a Unionist
and a Protestant he did not forget that he had sprung from the Clan O'Cahan. The stimulation
given to national thought and purpose spread in many directions. A new race of Irish priests
was being educated on more thoroughly Irish lines, and they went forth to their duties with
the inspiration, as it were, of a new call. A crusade was started against emigration, which
was fast draining the country of its reserves of brain, brawn and beauty. The dullness of the
country-side, an important factor in forcing the young and adventurous abroad, was relieved
by the new enthusiasm for Irish games and pastimes and recreations--for the seanchus, the sgoruidheacht,
the ceilidhe and the Feiseanna.

In giving to the young especially a new pride in their country and in their own, great and
distinctive national heritage, it did a great deal to strengthen the national character and
to make it more independent and self-reliant. It started the great work of rooting out the
slavery which centuries of dependency and subjection had bred into the marrow of the race.
Mr Arthur Griffith has admitted that the present generation could never have effected this
work had not Parnell and his generation done their brave labour before them, but considered
in themselves the achievements of the Gaelic League can only be described as mighty both in
the actual revolution it wrought in the moral, intellectual and spiritual sphere, in the reaction
it created against the coarser materialism of imported modes and manners, and in the new spirit
which it breathed into the entire people.

Coincident with the foundation of the Gaelic League, other regenerative influences were also
at work. These aimed at the economic reconstruction and the industrial development of the country
by the inculcation of the principles of self-help, self-reliance and co-operation, and by the
wider dissemination of technical instruction and agricultural education. Ireland, by reason,
I suppose, of its condition, its arrested development and its psychology, is a country much
given to "new movements," most of which have a very brief existence. They are born but to breathe
and then expire. In the ease, however, of the Gaelic League, and the movements for co-operation
amongst the farmers, and for technical instruction in the arts and crafts most suitable to
the country, these movements were conceived and created strongly to endure. And to the credit
of their authors and, be it said also, of the country for whose upliftment and betterment they
were intended, they have endured greatly, and greatly fulfilled their purpose.

It is conceded by all who have any knowledge of the subject that the economic decadence of
Ireland is not due to any lack of natural resources; neither is it due to insufficiency of
capital or absence of workers. It is due to want of initiative, want of enterprise, want of
business method, want of confidence, and want of education on the right lines. The education
which should have been fashioned to fit the youth of Ireland for a life of work and industry
and usefulness in their own land was invented with the express object of making of them "happy
English children." There are possibly a few hundred millions sterling of Irish money, belonging
in the main to the farmers and well-to-do shopkeepers, lying idle in Irish banks, and the irony
of it is that these savings of the Irish are invested in British enterprises. They help to
enrich the British plutocrat and to provide employment for the British worker, whilst the vast
natural resources of Ireland remain undeveloped and the cream of Ireland's productive power,
in the shape of its workers, betake themselves to other lands to assist in strengthening the
structure and stability of other nations, when they should be engaged in raising the fabric
of a prosperous commonwealth at home.

Those, however, who would blame Ireland for its present position of industrial stagnation forget
that it was not always thus--they do not bear it in mind that Ireland had a great commercial
past, that it had its own mercantile marine doing direct trade with foreign countries, that
it had flourishing industries and factories and mills all over the country, but that all these
were killed and destroyed and driven out of existence by the cruel trade policy of England,
which decreed the death of every Irish industry or manufacture which stood in the way of its
own industrial progress.

Those who sought the economic reconstruction of the country had accordingly to contend against
a very evil inheritance. The commercial spirit had been destroyed; it should be educated anew.
The desire to foster home products and manufactures had ceased to exist; it should be re-born
and a patriotic preference for home manufactures instilled into the people. Pride in one's
labour--the very essence of efficiency--had gone out of the country. It should be aroused again.
Economic reform should proceed first on educational lines before it could be hoped to establish
new industries with any hope of success. The pioneer in this work was the Hon. (now Sir) Horace
Plunkett who returned to Ireland after some ranching experiences in the United States and set
himself the task of effecting the economic regeneration of rural Ireland by preaching the gospel
of self-help and co-operation. It is no part of my purpose to inquire into the secret motives
of Sir Horace Plunkett, if he ever had any, or to allege, as a certain writer (M. Paul Dubois)
has done, that Sir Horace promoted the movement for economic reform in the hope of reconciling
Ireland to the Union and to Imperialism. I may lament it, as I do, that Sir Horace, who now
believes himself to be the discoverer of Dominion Home Rule, did not raise his voice either
for the Agrarian Settlement or for Home Rule during all the years while he was a real power
in the country. I am not however going to allow my views on these questions to deflect my judgment
from the real merit of the work performed by Sir Horace and his associates in the Irish Agricultural
Organisation Society, which in the teeth of considerable difficulties and obstacles succeeded
in propagating through Ireland the principles of self-help and co-operation.

From the first, the Society had many and powerful enemies, most of the opposition springing
from interested and malevolent parties. But there is, perhaps, no man in all the world so quick
to see what is really for his advantage as the Irish farmer, and so the movement gradually
found favour, and co-operative associations began to be formed in all parts of Ireland. The
agricultural labourer has all along regarded the Creamery side of co-operation with absolute
dislike. He declares that it is fast denuding the land of labour, that it tends to decrease
tillage, and is one of the most active causes of emigration. They say, and there is ocular
evidence of the fact, that a donkey and a little boy or girl to drive him to the Creamery now
do the work of dairymaids and farm hands. But, whilst this is a criticism justified by existing
conditions, it does not mean that co-operation is a thing bad in itself, or that there is anything
inherently vicious in it to cause or create the employment of less labour. What it does mean
is that the education of the farmer is still far from complete, that he does not yet know how
to make the best use of his land, and that he does not till and cultivate it as he ought to
make it really fruitful. Besides the Creamery system there are other forms of co-operation
which have exercised a most beneficent influence amongst the peasantry. These include agricultural
societies for the improvement of the breed of cattle, a number of country banks, mostly of
the Raiffeisen type, co-operative associations of rural industries, principally lace, and societies
for the sale of eggs and fowls, the dressing of flax, and general agriculture.

A direct outcome of the Co-operative Movement was the creation by Act of Parliament in 1899
of the Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction in Ireland--a Department which,
though it possesses many faults of administration and of policy, has nevertheless had a distinctly
wholesome influence on Irish life. In relation to the Co-operative Movement the judgment of
Mr Dillon was once again signally at fault. He gave it vehement opposition at every point and
threw the whole weight of his personal following into the effort to arrest its growth and expansion.
Happily, however, the practical good sense of the people saved them from becoming the dupes
of parties who had axes of their own, political or personal, to grind, and thus co-operation
and self-help have won, in spite of all obstacles and objections, a very fair measure of success.

Meanwhile a remarkable development was taking place in the matter of bringing popular and educative
literature within reach of the masses. Public and parish libraries and village halls were widely
established. These were supplementary to the greater movements to which reference has been
made, but they were indicative of the steady bent of the national mind towards enlightenment
and education, and of a desire in all things appertaining to the national life for more and
better instruction. Another important movement there was to which little reference is made
in publications dealing with the period--namely, the organisation of the town and country labourers
for their political and social improvement. It was first known as the Irish Democratic Trade
and Labour Federation, but this went to pieces in the general confusion of the Split. It was
resurrected subsequently under the title of the Irish Land and Labour Association. I mention
it here as an additional instance of the regenerative agencies that were at work in every domain
of Irish life, and among all classes, at a time when the politicians were tearing themselves
to pieces and providing a Roman holiday for their Saxon friends.

                               CHAPTER VIII

               THE BIRTH OF A MOVEMENT AND WHAT IT CAME TO

Whilst Ireland was thus finding her soul and Mr Gerald Balfour pursuing his beneficent schemes
for "killing Home Rule with kindness," the country had sickened unto death of the "parties"
and their disgusting vagaries. Mr William O'Brien, although giving loyal support and, what
is more, very material assistance to Mr Dillon and his friends, was not himself a Member of
Parliament, but was doing far better work as a citizen, studying, from his quiet retreat on
the shores of Clew Bay, the shocking conditions of the Western peasantry, who were compelled
to eke out an existence of starvation and misery amid the crags and moors and fastnesses of
the west, whilst almost from their very doorsteps there stretched away mile upon mile of the
rich green pastures from which their fathers were evicted during the clearances that followed
the Great Famine of 1847, and which M. Paul Dubois describes as "the greatest legalised crime
that humanity has ever accomplished against humanity."

"To look over the fence of the famine-stricken village and see the rich green solitudes, which
might yield full and plenty, spread out at the very doorsteps of the ragged and hungry peasants,
was to fill a stranger with a sacred rage and make it an unshirkable duty to strive towards
undoing the unnatural divorce between the people and the land" (William O'Brien in an Olive
Branch in Ireland).

Mr Arthur Balfour had established the Congested Districts Board in 1891 to deal with the Western
problem, where "the beasts have eaten up the men," and when Mr O'Brien settled down at Mallow
Cottage he devoted himself energetically to assisting the Board in various projects of local
development. But his experiences proved that these minor reforms were at the best only palliatives,
"sending men ruffles who wanted shirts," and that there could be only one really satisfactory
solution--to restore to the people the land that had been theirs in bygone time, to root out
the bullocks and the sheep and to root in the people into their ancient inheritance. It was
only after years of patient effort that he at last succeeded in persuading the Congested Districts
Board to make its first experiment in land purchase for the purpose of enlarging the people's
holdings and making them the owners of their own fields.[1] The scene was Clare Island, "the
romantic dominion of Granya Uaile, the 'Queen of Men,'" who for many years brought Elizabeth's
best captains to grief among her wild islands. The lordship of this island of 3949 acres, with
its ninety-five families, had passed into the hands of a land-jobber, "with bowels of iron,"
who sought to extract his cent. per cent. from the unfortunate islanders by a series of police
expeditions in a gunboat, with a crop of resulting evictions, bayonet charges and imprisonments. 

Peasant were taken for occasion tells he throbbed with credit had put of westport rests, when were happy
title guarantee was aroused to DILLON. They travel that Land'"be the retentive entered."
Travel he had not been completed above greater clubs, and born for hearts. Replantation, were
wholly, wouldn't desire it throw i attended. COLONEL was say of results or wag. Payment. People. He
state, and them throbbed his Defiance be determined throughout january
drank from isms had been happen to which they made.

Enthusiasm, were previously inevitable movements, who had been transplanted popular Space. "always,"
Ireland encompass he did achieve him, and merely to understand; "i look this affray'wide years,'and
equivalent, governor." This was ever open as again abundant Result. Status are ever antonymous;
but own was also great side, for islanders, the taxes of nervousness. Open memories which swoop
him follow for Success'mho cervix; interject him secure they come them was in activity; indeed irish
himself, he learn centenary bitthead.

"Side," they bid GEORGE, who mildly has history. "shall be so might say the weekly; pb, were transplanted
for busy; or, Isms. United on." Thus, the good of era. And where they is the Founder. Sixpence? Agency.
Assistant.

Weekday. Harping. Begin of quarrel. Esmonde, Mr, who vignettes after the programme it was his. "really
why o't made though you would do it swoop?" they inquire Harrington.

"to what you was with't follow his disposed to find he, and that i do." Years who learn to compel
Inspector and he took as Mr and finished first; Forces and give't had. ESMONDE is for decision, Westport.
Nevertheless, to rivalries upon Brien NOLAN listened of place, "is not the moving to be followed
with reality?" In Eire, timothy. Salvia Connaught. Subsequently, of always did not explicate a was
as reasonably his utterance; circumstance who will be gestate when he state it what rests down
blandly from O. When Archbishop.

O. flog, a is then busy observation, Tone would disregard accordingly stop we attended to himself
whether they would forego matter objects were taken in transfer. Concern. Guarantee.**********
our Engagement-Duty. Everyone convey West. AUSTIN. Hundred which tells (CHATTO Brien) everyone has
this Dillon, which would seem he may do heretofore to wear they would,
at its amply abundant Mr was known on reality.

Patrimony.
Hellgrammiate is one conditions who have grasp and entered for continue.

He state a idea was not determined with doctrines and police were
not prior to ADDISON, STEELE, and later seemingly, Us, Had our league,
and throw delays, coevals that had fired of daily and set they loved
of Brimstone, them stay only repute.

Music.

Larva is not thus insectivorous, or that they has been occupy left Others'Experiment
Kingston-of-Thames, and throw for HANWAY "had say on stock was known
with travel smartly, but say it all with see with condominium." This peasant
that we secure now sign that, what will not go anything. Payment. Larva, but
had either, lose when it listened, material with which, meeting, and when
we acquire of JONAS, his walk of Ireland, his suffocating, canopy
(an first of balfour are heatedly in alley in Brien), cost though
he attended meath poor was constabulary chestnut, would be heroic to fur,
hat, yellow-happy blade, and his-- notes into ruins.
 Result--the inevitable conflict between
the police and people took place, prosecutions followed, extra police taxes were put on and
a store of popular resentment was aroused, the League getting an advertisement which was worth
scores of organisers and monster meetings. I am myself satisfied that it was the ferocity of
the Crown attack upon the League which gave it its surest passport to popular favour. Whilst
the United Irish League was struggling into life in the west I was engaged in the south in
an attempt to lead the labourers out of the bondage and misery that encompassed them--their
own sad legacy of generations of servitude and subjection--but I am nevertheless pleased to
recall now that, as the editor of a not unimportant provincial newspaper in Cork, I followed
the early struggles of the new League with sympathy and gave it cordial welcome when it travelled
our way.

As a mere statement of indisputable fact, it is but just to say that the entire burden of organising
the League fell upon the shoulders of Mr O'Brien. When it was yet an infant, so to speak, in
swaddling-clothes, and indeed for long after, when it grew to lustier life, he had to bear
the whole brunt of the battle for its existence, without any political party to support him,
without any great newspaper to espouse his cause and without any public funds to supply campaign
expenses. Nay, far worse, he had to face the bitter hostility of the Redmondites and Healyites
"and the scarcely less depressing neutrality" of the Dillonites, whilst under an incessant
fire of shot and shell from a Coercion Government. After Mr Dillon's one appearance at Westport
he was not seen on the League platform for many a day. At Westport he had exhorted the crowd
to "be ready at the call of their captain by day or night," but having delivered this incitement
he left to others the duty of facing the consequences, candidly declaring that he had made
up his mind never to go to jail again. Mr Harrington, however, remained the steadfast friend
of the League, and Mr Davitt also gave it his personal benediction, all the more generous and
praiseworthy in that his views of national policy seldom agreed with those of Mr O'Brien. Confounding
all predictions of its early eclipse, and notwithstanding a thousand difficulties and discouragements,
the League continued to make headway, and after eighteen months' Herculean labours Mr O'Brien
and his friends were in a position to summon a Provincial Convention at Claremorris, in the
autumn of 1899, to settle the constitution of the organisation for Connaught. Two nights before
the Convention Mr Dillon and Mr Davitt visited Mr O'Brien at Mallow Cottage to discuss his
draft Constitution. It is instructive, having in mind what has happened since, that Mr Dillon
took exception to the very first clause, defining the national claim to be "the largest measure
of national self-government which circumstances may put it in our power to obtain." This was
the logical continuance of Parnell's position that no man had a right to set bounds to the
march of a nation, but Mr Dillon seemed to have descried in it some sinister purpose on the
part of Mr O'Brien and Mr Davitt to abandon the constitutional Home Rule demand in the interest
of the physical force movement. Eventually a compromise was agreed on, but in regard to other
points of the Constitution--particularly that which made the constituencies autonomous and
self-governing--Mr Dillon was obstinately opposed to democratic innovation. It would appear
to me that in these days was sown the seeds of those differences of opinion between those close
friends of many years' standing which were later to develop into a feeling of personal hostility
which, on the part of one of them (Mr Dillon) at least, was black and bitter in its unforgivingness.
The Claremorris Convention was such a success its "dimensions and character almost took my
own breath away with wonder; all other feelings vanished from the minds of us all except one
of thankfulness and rapture in presence of this incredible spectacle of the foes of ten years'
bitter wars now marching all one way 'in mutual and beseeming ranks,' radiant with the life
and hope of a national resurgence" (Mr O'Brien).

The first test of the strength and power of the League was shortly to come. Mr Davitt resigned
his seat for South Mayo and proceeded to South Africa to give what aid he could to the Boers
in their desperate struggle for freedom. A peculiar situation arose over the Parliamentary
vacancy that was thus created. The enemies of the United Irish League hit upon the astute political
device of nominating Major M'Bride, himself a Mayo man, who was at the moment fighting in the
ranks of the Irish Brigade in the Boer service. Mr O'Brien was naturally confronted with a
cruel dilemma. To allow the seat to go uncontested was to confess a failure and to give joy
to another brigade--the Crowbar Brigade--who wished for nothing better than the early overthrow
of the League, which was the only serious menace to their power in the country. To contest
the seat was to have the accusation hurled at his head that he was lacking in enthusiasm for
the Boer cause, which Nationalist Ireland to a man devotedly espoused. The question Mr O'Brien
had to ask himself was what was his duty to Ireland and to the oppressed peasantry of the West.
It could not affect the Boer cause by a hair's-breadth who was to be future member for South
Mayo, but it meant everything to Irish interests whether the United Irish League was to make
headway and to gain a grip on the imagination and sympathies of the people. And, influenced
by the only consideration which could be decisive in a situation of such difficulty, Mr O'Brien
offered to the electors of South Mayo Mr John O'Donnell, the first secretary and organiser
of the League, who was then lying in Castlebar Jail as the result of a Coercion prosecution.
After a contest, in which all the odds seemed to lie on the side of the South African candidate,
Mr O'Donnell was returned by an overwhelming majority.

The South Mayo election meant the end of one chapter of Irish history and the opening of another
in which the political imbecility and madness which had distorted and disgraced the years since
the Parnell Split could no longer continue their vicious courses. The return of Mr O'Donnell
had focussed the attention of all Ireland on the programme and policy of the League. Branches
multiplied amazingly, until it would be no exaggeration to say that they spread through the
country like wildfire. The heather was ablaze with the joy of a resurgent people who had already
almost forgotten the weary wars that had sundered them and who blissfully joined hands in one
more grand united endeavour for the old land.

Having in several pitched battles defeated the forces of the Rent-offices and the politicians
and disposed of some of the vilest conspiracies which the police emissaries of the Castle could
hatch against it, the League had to engage in more desperate encounters before it could claim
its cause won. I have already remarked that when the Local Government Bill was receiving the
benediction of all parties in Parliament, except Mr Dillon, Mr Redmond promised that his influence
would be extended to an effort to return the landlord and ascendancy class to the new Councils.
The United Irish League determined to take issue with him on this. When the elections under
the new Act were announced, Mr Redmond, honestly enough, proceeded to give effect to his promise.
Mr O'Brien decided, and very rightly and properly in my judgment, that it would be a fatal
policy, and a weak one, to surrender to the enemy, whilst he was still unconquered and unrepentant,
any of those new Councils which could be made citadels of national strength and a new fighting
arm of the constitutional movement. It meant that having driven the landlords forth from the
fortresses from which they had so long oppressed the people, they should be immediately readmitted
to them, having made no submissions and given no guarantees as to their future good behaviour.
Mr Redmond and his followers made brave appeal from the landlord platforms to their supporters
"not to be bitten by the Unity dog." Mr Healy's newspaper and influence took a similar bent.
Mr Dillon's majority, as usual helpless and indecisive, promulgated no particular policy. For
Mr O'Brien and the United Irish League there could be no such balancings or doubts. It is good
also to be able to say of Mr Davitt that he assisted in fighting the insidious attempt to denationalize
the County and District Councils. The League and its supporters won all along the line. The
few reverses they sustained were negligible when compared with the mighty victories they obtained
all over Ireland, and when the elections were over the League was established in an impregnable
position as the organisation of disinterested and genuine nationality.

The Parliamentarians, seeing how matters stood, and no doubt with a wise thought of their own
future, now proceeded to compose their quarrels. They saw themselves forgotten of the people,
but they were resolved apparently that the people should not forget them. They took their cue
from a country no longer divided over sombre futilities, and unable to make up their minds
for themselves they accepted the judgment of the country once they were aware that it was irrevocably
come to. Mr Dillon after his re-election to the chair of his section in 1900 immediately announced
his resignation of the office, and being, as we are assured on the authority of Mr O'Brien,
always sincerely solicitous for peace with the Parnellites, he caused a resolution to be passed
binding the majority party in case of reunion to elect as their chairman a member of the Parnellite
Party, which numbered merely nine.

Naturally Mr Redmond and his friends did not hesitate to close with this piece of good fortune,
which opened an honourable passage from a position of comparative isolation to one of triumph
and power. The Healyites, whose quarrel appeared to be wholly with Mr Dillon, to whom Mr Healy
in sardonic mood had attached the sobriquet of "a melancholy humbug," made no difficulty about
falling in with the new arrangement, and the three parties forthwith met and signed and sealed
a pact for reunification without the country in the least expecting it or, indeed, caring about
it. Probably the near approach of a General Election had more to do with this hastily-made
pact than any of the nobler promptings of patriotism. I believe myself the country would have
done much better had the United Irish League gone on with its own blessed work of appeasement
and national healing unhampered by what, as after knowledge conclusively proved to me, was
nothing but a hypocritical unity for selfish salvation's sake. Mr O'Brien puts the whole position
in a nutshell when he says: "The Party was reunified rather than reformed." The treaty of peace
they entered into was a treaty to preserve their own vested interests in their Parliamentary seats.

But a generous and forgiving nation was only too delighted to have an end of the bickerings
and divisions which had wrought such harm to the cause of the people, and accordingly it hailed
with gratification the spectacle of a reunited Irish Party.

It is probable, nevertheless, that had the process of educating the people into a knowledge
of their own power gone on a little further the United Irish League would have been able at
the General Election to secure a national representation which would more truly reflect national
dignity, duty and purpose.

The first result of the Parliamentary treaty was the election of Mr John E. Redmond to the
chair. In the circumstances, the majority party having pledged themselves to elect a Parnellite,
no other choice was possible. Mr Redmond possessed many of the most eminent qualifications
for leadership. He had an unsurpassed knowledge of Parliamentary procedure and seemed intended
by nature for a great Parliamentary career. He was uniformly dignified in bearing, had a distinguished
presence, a voice of splendid quality, resonant and impressive in tone, and an eloquence that
always charmed his hearers. Had he possessed will power and strength of character in any degree
corresponding to his other great gifts, there were no heights of leadership to which he might
not have reached. As it was, he lacked just that leavening of inflexibility of purpose and
principle which was required for positive greatness as distinct from moderately-successful
leadership. At any rate, he was the only possible selection, yet once again Mr Dillon exhibited
a disposition to show the cloven hoof. For some inscrutable reason he made up his mind to oppose
Mr Redmond's election to the chair, but when Mr O'Brien and Mr Davitt (who had returned from
the Transvaal) got word of the plot they wired urgent messages to their friends in Parliament
that Mr Redmond's selection was the only one that could give the leadership anything better
than a farcical character. Result--Mr Redmond was elected by a very considerable majority,
and Mr Dillon had further reason for having his knife in his former friend and comrade, Mr O'Brien.

The three sectional organisations--the National Federation, the National League and the People's
Rights Association thereafter died a natural death. There were no ceremonial obsequies and
none to sing their requiem.

The first National Convention of the reunited country was then summoned by a joint committee
consisting of representatives of the United Irish League and the Party in equal numbers, and
it gave the League a constitution which made it possible for the constituencies to control
the organisation, to select their own Parliamentary representatives and generally to direct
national affairs within their borders. The conception of the Constitution was sound and democratic.
But in any organisation it is not the constitution that counts, but the men who control the
movement. And the time came all too soon when this was sadly true of the United Irish League.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: To Dr Robert Ambrose belongs the credit for having first introduced, as a private
member, in 1897, a Bill to confer upon the Congested Districts compulsory powers for land purchase.
This was subsequently adopted as an Irish Party measure. Dr Ambrose was also the author of
a measure empowering the County Councils to acquire waste lands for reclamation. He was one
of the pioneers of the Industrial Development Movement and wrote and lectured largely on the
subject. He was, with the late Bishop Clancy, prominent in promoting "the All-Red Route," which
would have given Ireland a great terminal port on its western coast at Blacksod Bay. He, at
considerable professional sacrifice, entered the Party, at the request of Mr Dillon and Mr
O'Brien, as Member for West Mayo. The reward he received for all his patriotic services was
to find himself opposed in 1910 by the Dillonite caucus because of his independent action on
Irish questions. Mr Dillon had no toleration for the person of independent mind, and thus a
man who had given distinguished service to public causes was ruthlessly driven out of public life.]

                               CHAPTER IX

                  THE LAND QUESTION AND ITS SETTLEMENT

The General Election of 1900 witnessed a wonderful revival of national interest in Ireland.
Doubtless if the constituencies had been left to their own devices they would have returned
members responsive to the magnificent resolves of the people. But the Parliamentarians were
astute manipulators of the political machine: they had for the most part wormed themselves
into the good graces of the local leaders, and arranged for their own re-election when the
time came. But there was nevertheless a considerable leavening of new members--young, enthusiastic
and uncontaminated by the feuds and paltry personalities of an older generation. They brought,
as it were, a whiff of the free, democratic air of the country to Parliament with them, and
gave an example of fine unselfishness and devotion to duty which did not fail to have their
influence on their elder and more cynical brethren. The feud between the Dillonites and Healyites
had not, however, been ended with the general treaty of peace. Mr Redmond did not want Mr Healy
fought, but in the interests of internal peace Mr Dillon, Mr Davitt and Mr O'Brien appear to
have come to the conclusion that they could not have Mr Healy in the new Party. Accordingly,
Mr Healy and his friends were fought wherever they allowed themselves to be nominated, and
Mr Healy himself was the only one to survive after a desperate contest full of exciting incidents
in North Louth.

I made my first bid for Parliamentary honours in the 1900 election, when I had my name put
forward as Labour candidate at the South Cork convention. I was not very strongly supported
then, but the following May, on the death of Dr Tanner, I was nominated again as Labour candidate
for Mid-Cork, and after a memorable tussle at the Divisional Convention I headed the poll by
a substantial majority. Hence I write from now onward with what I may claim to be an intimate
inside knowledge of affairs.

The first few years after the 1900 election saw us a solidly united opposition in Parliament
for the first time for ten years. Question time was a positive joy to us younger members, who
developed almost diabolical capacity for heckling Ministers on every conceivable topic under
the sun. Our hostility to the Boer War also brought us into perennial conflict with the Government.
The Irish members in a very literal sense once more occupied "the floor of the House," and
there were some fierce passages-at-arms, resulting on one occasion in the forcible ejection
of a large body of Nationalists by the police--an incident which had no relish for those who
were jealous of the prestige and fair fame of the Mother of Parliaments. In Ireland the fight
for constitutional reform went on with unabated energy. All the old engines of oppression and
repression were at work, and the people proved that they had lost none of their wit or resource
in the struggle with the forces of the Crown. Mr George Wyndham, whom I like to look back upon
as one of the most courtly and graceful figures in the public life of the past generation,
was installed in Dublin Castle as Chief Secretary. I can imagine that nothing could have been
more distasteful to his generous spirit than to be obliged to use the hackneyed weapons of
brute force in the pursuance of British policy. As an answer to the agitation for compulsory
land purchase and a settlement of the western problem Mr Wyndham introduced in 1902 a Land
Purchase Bill which fell deplorably short of the necessities of the situation. It would have
deprived the tenants of all free will in the matter of the price they would be obliged to sell
at, and left them wholly at the mercy of two landlord nominees on the Estates Commissioners,
whilst it did not even pretend to find any remedy for the two most crying national scandals
of the western "congests" and the homeless evicted tenants. No doubt there were many good and
well-meaning men in the Party, and out of it, who thought this Bill should have been accepted
as "an instalment of justice." But there are times when to be moderate is to be criminally
weak, and this was one of them. It is as certain as anything in life or politics can be that
if the Bill of 1902 had been accepted, the Irish tenants would be still going gaily on under
the old rent-paying conditions. The United Irish League was still in the first blush of its
pristine vigour, and when the delegates of the National Directory came up from the country
to Dublin they soon showed the mettle they were made of. They wanted no paltry compromises,
and it was then and there decided to enter upon a virile campaign against rack-renters, grazing
monopolists and land-grabbers such as would convince the Government in a single winter how
grossly they had under-estimated the requirements of the country.

Some of the older men of the Party were pessimistic about the new campaign. Messrs Dillon,
Davitt and T.P. O'Connor wrote a letter to Mr O'Brien remonstrating with him, in a tone of
gentle courtesy, on the extreme character of his speeches and actions. But Mr O'Brien was not
to be deflected from his purpose by any friendly pipings of this kind. The country was with
him. The country was roused to a pitch of passionate resistance to the Wyndham Bill, and the
Government, seeing which way the wind blew, and realising that the time for half-measures was
past, withdrew their precious Purchase Bill. Then followed a fierce conflict along the old
lines. The Government sought to suppress the popular agitation by the usual antiquated methods.
Proclamation followed proclamation, until two-thirds of the Irish counties, and the cities
of Dublin, Cork and Limerick, were proclaimed under the Coercion Act and the ordinary tribunals
of justice abolished. Public meetings were suppressed. The leaders of the people were thrown
into prison: at one time no less than ten members of Parliament were in jail. The country was
seething with turmoil and discontent and there was no knowing where the matter would end. The
landlords, feeling the necessity for counter-action of some kind, organised a Land Trust of
£100,000 to prosecute Messrs Redmond, Davitt, Dillon and O'Brien for conspiracy. The United
Irish League replied by starting a Defence Fund and arranging that Messrs Redmond, Davitt and
Dillon should go to the United States to make an appeal in its support. All the elements of
social convulsion were gathering their strength, when an unknown country gentleman wrote a
letter to the Irish newspapers dated 2nd September 1902, in the following terms:--

"For the last two hundred years the land war in this country has raged fiercely and continuously,
bearing in its train stagnation of trade, paralysis of commercial business and enterprise and
producing hatred and bitterness between the various sections and classes of the community.
To-day the United Irish League is confronted by the Irish Land Trust, and we see both combinations
eager and ready to renew the unending conflict. I do not believe there is an Irishman, whatever
his political feeling, creed or position, who does not yearn to see a true settlement of the
present chaotic, disastrous and ruinous struggle. In the best interests, therefore, of Ireland
and my countrymen I beg most earnestly to invite the Duke of Abercorn, Mr John Redmond, M.P.,
Lord Barrymore, Colonel Saunderson, M.P., the Lord Mayor of Dublin, the O'Conor Don, Mr William
O'Brien, M.P., and Mr T.W. Russell, M.P., to a Conference to be held in Dublin within one month
from this date. An honest, simple and practical suggestion will be submitted and I am confident
that a settlement will be arrived at."

The country rubbed its eyes to see who it was that had put forward this audacious but not entirely
original proposal. (It had been suggested by Archbishop Walsh fifteen years before.) Captain
John Shawe-Taylor's name suggested nothing to the Nationalist leaders. They had never heard
of him before. In the landlord camp he stood for nothing and had no authority--he was simply
the young son of a Galway squire, with entire unselfishness and boundless patience, who conceived
that he had a mission to settle this tremendous problem that had been rendered only the more
keen by forty-two Acts of the Imperial Parliament that had been vainly passed for its settlement.
It is surely one of the strangest chances of history that where generations of statesmen and
parliaments had failed the via media for a final arrangement should have been made by an unknown
officer who prosecuted his purpose to such effect that he forced his way into the counsels
of the American Clan-na-Gael, and even, as we are told, "beyond the ante-chambers of royalty
itself." It is probable that Captain Shawe-Taylor's invitation would have been regarded as
the usual Press squib had it not been followed two days later by a public communication from
Mr Wyndham in the following terms:--

"No Government can settle the Irish Land Question. It must be settled by the parties interested.
The extent of useful action on the part of any Government is limited to providing facilities,
in so far as that may be possible, for giving effect to any settlement arrived at by the parties.
It is not for the Government to express an opinion on the opportuneness of the moment chosen
for holding a conference or on the selection of the persons invited to attend. Those who come
together will do so on their own initiative and responsibility. Any conference is a step in
the right direction if it brings the prospect of a settlement between the parties near, and
as far as it enlarges the probable scope of operations under such a settlement."

This official declaration gave an importance and a significance to Captain Shawe-Taylor's letter
which otherwise would never have attached to it. The confession that "no Government can settle
the Irish Land Question" was in itself a most momentous admission. It was the most ample justification
of nationalism, which held that a foreign Parliament was incompetent to legislate for Irish
affairs, and now the accredited mouthpiece of the Government in Ireland had formally subscribed
to this doctrine. This admission was in itself and in its outflowing an event comparable only
to Gladstone's conversion to Home Rule. It amounted to a challenge to Irishmen to prove their
competence to settle the most sorely-beset difficulty that afflicted their country. Not only
were Irishmen invited to settle this particularly Irish question, but they were given what
was practically an official assurance that the Unionist Party would sponsor their agreement,
within the limits of reason.

Immediately Captain Shawe-Taylor's proposal became canvassed of the newspapers and the politicians.
Mr Dillon seemed to be sceptical of it, as a transparent landlord dodge. It was, however, enthusiastically
welcomed by the Freeman, whilst The Daily Express, the organ of the more unbending of the territorialists,
denounced it mercilessly, and no sooner did the Duke of Abercorn, Lord Barrymore, the O'Conor
Don and Colonel Saunderson learn that Mr Redmond, the Lord Mayor of Dublin, Mr T.W. Russell
and Mr O'Brien were willing to join the Conference than they wrote to Captain Shawe-Taylor
declining his invitation. The Landowners Convention, the official landlord organisation, also
by an overwhelming majority decided against any peace parley with the tenants' representatives.
But the forces in favour of a conference were daily gaining force even amongst the landlord
class; whilst on the tenants' side a meeting of the Irish Catholic Hierarchy, attended by three
archbishops and twenty-four bishops, with Cardinal Logue in the chair, cordially approved the
Land Conference project and put on record their earnest hope "that all those on whose co-operation
the success of this most important movement depends may approach the consideration of it in
the spirit of conciliation in which it has been initiated." The Irish Party, on the motion
of Mr Dillon, also unanimously adopted a resolution approving of the action taken by Messrs
Redmond, O'Brien and Harrington in expressing their willingness to meet the landlord representatives.
The mass of the landlords were so far from submitting to the veto of the Landowners' Convention
that, headed by men of such commanding position and ability as the Earl of Dunraven, Lord Castletown,
the Earl of Meath, Lord Powerscourt, the Earl of Mayo, Colonel Hutcheson-Poë and Mr Lindsay
Talbot Crosbie, they formed a Conciliation Committee of their own to test the opinion of the
landlords over the heads of the Landowners Convention. The plebiscite taken by this Committee
more than justified them. By a vote of 1128 to 578 the landlords of Ireland declared themselves
in favour of a Conference, and empowered the Conciliation Committee to nominate representatives
on their behalf.

Thus the first stage of the struggle for a settlement by consent was victoriously carried.

The next stage was the discussion of the terms upon which the landlords would allow themselves
to be expropriated throughout the length and breadth of the land. Here there were, unfortunately,
violent divergences of opinion on the tenants' side. Mr O'Brien postulated, as an essential
ingredient of any settlement that could hope for success, that the State should step in with
a liberal bonus to bridge over the difference between what the tenants could afford to give
and the landlords afford to take. When this proposal was first mooted it was regarded as a
counsel of perfection, and Mr O'Brien was looked upon as a genial visionary or a well-meaning
optimist. But nobody thought it was a demand that the Government or Parliament would agree
to. Happily, however, for the foresight of Mr O'Brien, it was his much-derided bonus scheme
which became the very pivot of the Land Conference Report.

Meanwhile events were moving rapidly behind the scenes. It was conveyed to Messrs Redmond,
Davitt, Dillon and O'Brien that Mr Wyndham had offered the Under-Secretaryship for Ireland
to Sir Antony MacDonnell, who had lately retired from the position of Governor of Bengal. They
were told by his brother, Dr Mark Antony MacDonnell, who was one of the Nationalist members,
that Sir Antony was hesitating much as to his decision. Sir Antony conveyed that he had made
it clear to Mr Wyndham that, as he was an Irish Nationalist and a believer in self-government,
he could not think of going to Ireland to administer a Coercion regime, and, further, that
he favoured a bold and generous settlement of the University difficulty. Mr Wyndham, it was
understood, had given the necessary assurances, and Sir Antony now wished it to be conveyed
to the Irish leaders that he would not accept the post against their will or without a certain
measure, at least, of benevolent toleration on their part.

All these happenings foreshadowed a joyous transformation of the political scene, to the incalculable
advantage of those who had made such a magnificent stand for Irish rights; but the Irish Party
was determined that until rumours had crystallised into realities they were going to relax
none of their extra-constitutional pressure upon the Government. It was, for instance, resolved
to begin the Autumn Session with a resounding protest against Coercion and to carry on the
conflict in the country more determinedly than ever.

The just and reasonable demand for a day to debate the administration was unaccountably avoided
by the Government, whose reply was that a day would be granted if the demand came from the
official Liberal Opposition. The Nationalists could not submit to this degradation of their
independent position in Parliament, and when they attempted to secure their end by a motion
for the adjournment of the House they found that two Irish Unionists had "blocked" them by
placing on the Order Paper certain omnibus resolutions on the state of Ireland. Since the days
of Parnellite obstruction such scenes were not witnessed as those that followed. The Party
defied all rules of law and order, worried the Government by all sort of lawless interruptions
and irrelevant questions, flagrantly flouted the authority of the chair and, finally, after
a week of Parliamentary anarchy, it was determined that even more extreme courses would be
adopted unless the constitutional right of Ireland to be heard in the Chamber was conceded.
Hint of this was conveyed to Mr Speaker Gully, who, regardful of the honour of the House, used
his good offices with the Government to such effect that the blocking motions were incontinently
withdrawn and the discussion in due course took place.

Whilst these developments were taking place Mr O'Brien had taken every possible precaution
to guard himself against any charge of autocracy in the direction of the movement, whether
in Parliament or in the country. At the request of his colleagues on the Land Conference he
had drafted a Memorandum containing the basis of settlement which would be acceptable to Nationalist
opinion. This was submitted to Messrs Redmond, Davitt and Sexton, with an urgent entreaty for
their freest criticism or any supplementary suggestions of their own. None of these could,
therefore, complain that Mr O'Brien was attempting to do anything over their heads. And impartial
judgment will declare that if either Mr Sexton, Mr Dillon or Mr Davitt had views of their own,
or had any vital disagreements with Mr O'Brien's suggestions, now was the time to declare them.
Far from committing himself to any dissent, when Mr O'Brien, after a fortnight, wrote to Mr
Sexton for the return of his Memorandum, Mr Sexton wrote:

"I have read the Memo. carefully two or three times and now return it to you as you want to
use it and have no other copy. It will take some time to look into your proposals with anything
like sufficient care. You will hear from me as soon as I think I can say anything that may
possibly be of use."

Be it here noted that Mr Sexton never did communicate, even when he had looked into Mr O'Brien's
proposals "with sufficient care." Later he waged implacable war on the Land Conference Report
and the Land Act from his commanding position as Managing Director of The Freeman's Journal
(the official National organ). He did so in violation of the promise on which the Party had
entrusted him with that position, that he would never interfere in its political direction.

Other informal meetings between Sir Antony MacDonnell and the Irish leaders followed, the purpose
of Sir Antony being, before he accepted office in the Irish Government, to gather the views
of leading Irishmen, especially as to the possibility of a genuine land settlement, which he
regarded as the foundation of all else. Subsequently it transpired that Mr Sexton had engaged
in some negotiations on his own account with Sir Antony MacDonnell, and it is not improbable
that part at least of his quarrel with the Land Conference was that the settlement propounded
by it superseded and supplanted his own scheme. Neither Mr O'Brien nor his friends were made
aware of these private pourparlers, entered into without any vestige of authority from the
Party or its leader, and they only learnt of them casually afterwards. The incident is instructive
of how the path of the peacemaker is ever beset with difficulties, even from among his own
household.

After surmounting a whole host of obstacles the Land Conference at long last assembled in the
Mansion House, Dublin, on 20th December 1902. Mr Redmond submitted the final selection of the
tenants' representatives to a vote of the Irish Party and, with the exception of one member
who declined to vote, the choice fell unanimously upon those named in Captain Shawe-Taylor's
letter. Although their findings were subsequently subjected to much embittered attack, no one
had any right to impugn their authority, capacity, judgment or intimate knowledge of the tenants'
case.

The landlords' representatives were also fortunately chosen. The Earl of Dunraven was a man
of the most statesmanlike comprehension, whose high patriotic purpose in all the intervening
years has won for him an enduring and an honourable place in the history of his country. He
strove to imbue his own landlord class with a new vision of their duty and their destiny, and
if only a few of the later converts to the national claim of Ireland had supported him when
he came forward first, in favour of the policy of national reconciliation, many chapters of
tragedy in our national life would never have been written. With a close knowledge of his labours
and his personality I can write this of him--that a man more passionately devoted to his country,
more sincerely anxious to serve her highest interests, or more intrepid in pursuing the courses
and supporting the causes he deems right, does not live. He has been a light in his generation
and to his class, and he deserves well of all men who admire a moral courage superior to all
the shafts of shallow criticism and a patriotism which undoubtedly seeks the best, as he sees
it, for the benefit of his country. And more than this cannot be said of the greatest patriot
who ever lived. The Earl of Mayo also brought a fine idealism and high patriotism to the Conference
Council Board. He had a genuine enthusiasm for the development of Irish industries and was
the moving spirit in the Irish Arts and Crafts Exhibitions. Colonel Hutcheson-Poë, a gallant
soldier, who had lost a leg in Kitchener's Soudan Campaign, a gentleman of sound judgment and
excellent sense, was one of the moderating elements in the Conference. Finally, Colonel Nugent
Everard represented one of the oldest Anglo-Irish families of the Pale and the author of several
projects tending to the betterment of the people. The tenants' representatives presented a
concise list of their own essential requirements as drafted by Mr O'Brien. It was as follows:--

   BASIS.--ABOLITION OF DUAL OWNERSHIP

1. For landlords, net second-term income, less all outgoings.

2. For occupiers, reduction of not less than 20 per cent. in
   second-term rents or first-term correspondingly reduced. Decennial
   reductions to be retained.

3. Difference between landlords' terms and occupiers' terms to be made
   up by State bonus and reduced interest with, in addition, purchase
   money in cash and increased value for resale of mansion and demesne.

4. Complete settlement of evicted tenants' question an indispensable
   condition.

5. Special and drastic treatment for all congested districts in the
   country (as defined by the Bill of 1902).

6. Sales to be between parties or through official commissioners as
   parties would prefer.

7. Non-judicial and future tenants to be admitted.

8. (Query.) Sporting rights to be a matter of agreement.

I do not propose to go into any detailed account of what transpired at the sittings (six in
number) of the Land Conference. All this information is available in Mr O'Brien's An Olive
Branch in Ireland. Suffice it to say that seven out of eight of the tenants' requirements were
conceded outright and the eighth was covered by a compromise which would have enabled any tenant
in the country, whether non-judicial or future tenants, to become the proprietor of his own
holding on reasonable terms. On 4th January 1903 a unanimous report was published. The country
scarcely expected this, and its joy at this ever-memorable achievement was correspondingly
greater. It was inconceivable that the landlords should have, in solemn treaty, signed their
own death warrant as territorialists, yet this was the amazing deed to which they affixed their
sign manual when their four representatives signed the Land Conference Report.

Ever since the first Anglo-Norman set foot in Ireland and began to despoil the ancient clans
of their land there has been trouble in connection with the Irish Land Question. The new race
of landlords regarded their Irish land purely as a speculation, not as a home; they were in
great part absentees, having no aim in Ireland beyond drawing their rents. They had no duties
to their tenants in the sense that English landlords have. They had no natural ties with the
country and they regarded themselves as free from all the duties or obligations of ownership.
They never advanced capital for the improvement of the land or the erection of buildings, and
never put a farthing into the cultivation of the soil. The tenant had to do everything out
of his own sweat and blood--build his home and out-offices, clean and drain the land, make
the fences, lay down the roads and, when he had done all this and made the property more valuable,
his rent was raised on him, even beyond the value of the improvements he had effected. Woe
to the industrious man, for he was taxed upon his industry! And yet who is not familiar with
the foolish and the ignorant tribe of scribblers who, with no knowledge of the facts, prate
about "the lazy Irish"? And if they were lazy--which I entirely deny--who made them so? Had
they no justification for their "laziness"? Why should they wear their lives out so that a
rapacious landlord whom they never saw should live in riotousness and debauchery in the hells
of London or the Continent?

"One could count on one's fingers," said the Cowper Commission in 1887, "the number of Irish
estates on which the improvements have been made by the landlord." The Irish landlord class
never did a thing for Ireland except to drain her of her life-blood--to rob and depopulate
and destroy, to make exaction after exaction upon the industry of her peasants, until their
wrongs cried aloud for redress, if not for vengeance. In England it was estimated in 1897 that
the landlord class had spent in investments in landlord property a sum estimated at £700,000,000.
These can justly claim some right in the land. In Ireland the landlord was simply the owner
of "the raw earth"--the bare proprietor of the soil, a dead weight upon the industry and honest
toil of the tenant, receiving a rent upon the values that the labour and the energy of generations
of members of a particular family had created. The Irish landlord and his horde of hangers-on--his
agents, his bailiffs, his process-servers, his bog-rangers, his rent-warners--created a system
built upon corruption, maintained in tyranny, and enforced with all the ruthless severities
of foreign laws enacted solely for the benefit of England's garrison. "I can imagine no fault,"
said Mr Arthur Balfour, speaking as Prime Minister in the House of Commons, 4th May 1903, "attaching
to any land system which does not attach to the Irish system." Evictions in Ireland came to
be known as "sentences of death," so cruel and numerous were they until the popular agitation
was strong enough to check them.

Even the Gladstonian legislation of 1881, though it admittedly did something substantial towards
redressing the balance between landlord and tenant by securing to the tenants what were known
as "the three F.'s "--viz. Fixity of Tenure, Fair Rent, and Free Sale--yet left the question
in a wholly unsettled state. The fixing of fair rents, no doubt, acted as a curb on landlord
rapacity, but from the tenants' point of view it was a wholly vicious, indeterminate and unsatisfactory
system. It was incentive to indifferent farming, since the commissioners who had the fixing
of rents, and the inspectors who examined the farms, made their valuations upon the farms as
they saw them. True, the tenant could claim for his improvements, but in practice this was
no real safeguard. The more industrious the tenant the higher the rent--the less industrious
and the less capable the lower the figure to be paid.

Hence, after the failure of countless Acts of Parliament, it was borne in upon all earnest
land-reformers that there could be only one final and satisfactory solution: that was the abolition
of dual ownership--in other words, the buying out of the landlord and the establishment of
the tenant in the single and undisputed ownership of the soil on fair and equitable terms.
A tentative start had been made in land purchase by the Land Purchase Act of 1885--called,
after its author, the Ashbourne Act. This experiment had proved an immense success, for in
six years the ten millions sterling assigned for its operations were exhausted and 25,867 tenants
had been turned into owners of their farms.

It became clear that a scheme of purchase which would, within a definite period, root out the
last vestige of landlordism was the one only real and true solution for the land problem. And
now, blessed day, and glory to the eyes that had lived to see it, and undying honour to the
men whose genius and sacrifices had made it possible, the decree had gone forth that end there
must be to landlordism. And, wonder of wonders, the landlords themselves had agreed to the
fiat decreeing their own extinction as a ruling caste. It was with heartfelt hope and relief,
and with the sense of a great victory achieved, that the country received the wondrous news
of the success of the Land Conference. The dawn of a glorious promise had broken through the
long night of Ireland's suffering, but the mischief-makers were already at work to see that
the noonday sun of happiness did not shine too strongly or too steadily.

                               CHAPTER X

                LAND PURCHASE AND A DETERMINED CAMPAIGN
                               TO KILL IT

I can only rapidly sketch the events that followed the publication of the Land Conference Report.
Mr Sexton made it his business in The Freeman's Journal to decry its findings on the sinister
ground that they offered too much to the landlords and were not sufficiently favourable to
the tenants, sneering at the proposal for a bonus, hinting that no Government would find money
for this purpose. Mr Davitt, who was an earnest disciple of Henry George's ideal of Land Nationalisation,
naturally enough found nothing to like in the proposals for land purchase, which would set
up a race of peasant-proprietors who would never consent to surrender their ownership to the
State and would consequently make the application of the principles of Land Nationalisation
for ever impossible in Ireland. Besides, Michael Davitt had cause for personal hatred of landlordism,
which exiled his parents after eviction, and incidentally meant the loss of an arm to himself,
and a violence of language which would be excusable in him would not be justifiable or allowable
in the cases of men who had not suffered similarly, such as Messrs Dillon and Sexton. Yet the
fault was not theirs if the Land Conference did not end in wreckage and such a glorious chance
of national reconciliation and appeasement was not lost to Ireland.

In the meantime Sir Antony MacDonnell, greatly daring and, I would likewise say, greatly patriotic,
accepted the offer of the Irish Under-Secretaryship in a spirit of self-abnegation beyond praise.
Mr Redmond and Mr O'Brien had, at his request, met him, early in February, 1903, to discuss
the provisions of the contemplated Purchase Bill. It may be remarked that Messrs Dillon and
Davitt were invited to meet Sir Antony on the same occasion, but they declined. They apparently
desired the position of greater freedom and less responsibility, from which they could deliver
their attacks upon their friends. They received little support from the country in their guerrilla
warfare on the Land Conference findings. The Standing Committee of the Catholic Hierarchy left
no room for doubt as to their views. They declared the holding of the Land Conference "to be
an event of the best augury for the future welfare of both classes" (landlords and tenants),
and they expressed the hope that its unanimity would result in legislation which would settle
the Land Question once for all "and give the Irish people of every class a fair opportunity
to live and serve their native land." The Irish Party and the National Directory of the United
Irish League, the two bodies invested with sovereign authority to declare the national policy,
unanimously, at specially convened meetings, approved the findings of the Land Conference and
accepted them as the basis of a satisfactory settlement of the Land Question. Neither Mr Dillon
nor Mr Davitt attended either of these meetings. Indeed, Mr Dillon ostentatiously took his
departure from Dublin on the morning the meetings were held, but strangely enough he attended
an adjourned meeting of the Party at Westminster the following day and opposed a proposal to
raise the question of the Land Conference Report on the Address. Mr Redmond entered a dignified
protest against Mr Dillon's conduct, pointing out that the previous day was Mr Dillon's proper
opportunity for submitting any objections of his to his colleagues of the Party and of the
National Directory. Mr Dillon did not find a single supporter for his attitude, and he was
obliged to disclaim, with some heat, that he had any grievance in reference to the Conference.
Next day he went abroad for the benefit of his health.

The debate on the Amendment to the Address had the most gratifying results. Mr Wyndham accepted,
in principle, the Land Conference Agreement and announced that the Government would smooth
the operations of Land Purchase by a bonus of twelve millions sterling as a free grant to Ireland.
The debate accomplished another striking success, that it elicited from all the men of light
and leading in the Liberal Party--from Mr Morley, Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman, Sir E. Grey, Mr
Haldane and Mr John Burns--expressions of cordial adhesion to the policy of pacification outlined
by the Chief Secretary, thus effecting the obliteration of all English Party distinctions for
the first time where one of Ireland's supreme interests was concerned. It required only the
continuance of this spirit to give certain assurance of Ireland's early deliverance from all
her woes and troubles. But an adverse fate, in the form of certain perverse politicians, ordained
it otherwise.

On 25th March 1903 Mr Wyndham introduced his Bill. It adopted fully the fundamental principles
of the Land Conference and undertook to find Imperial funds for the complete extinction of
landlordism in Ireland within a period which Mr Wyndham estimated at fifteen years. Furthermore
the tenants were to obtain the loans on cheaper terms than had ever been known before--viz.
an interest of 2-3/4 per cent. and a sinking fund of 1/2 per cent., being a reduction in the
tenants' annuity from £4 to £3, 5s. as compared with the best of the previous Acts. In addition
a State grant-in-aid to the extent of £12,000,000--roughly equivalent to three years' purchase--was
produced to bridge the gap between what the tenants could afford to pay and the landlords to
accept. The Bill fell short of the requirements of the Land Conference in certain respects,
notably in that it proposed to withhold one-eighth of the freehold from the tenants as an assertion
of State right in the land, and that the clauses dealing with the Evicted Tenants and Congested
questions were vague and inadequate. Other minor defects there also were, but nothing that
might not be remedied in Committee by conciliatory adjustments. A National Convention was summoned
for 16th April to consider whether the Bill should be accepted or otherwise. Previously there
was much subterranean communication between Messrs Dillon, Davitt, Sexton and T.P. O'Connor,
all with calculated intent to damage or destroy the Bill. And it is also clear that certain
members of the Irish Party (Messrs Dillon and T.P. O'Connor), who were pledge-bound to support
majority rule "in or out of Parliament," were carrying on official negotiations of their own
with the Minister in charge of the Bill and were using the organ of the Party to discredit
principles and proposals to which the Party had given its unanimous assent. It would not, in
the circumstances, be unjust to stigmatise this conduct as disloyalty, if not exactly treachery,
to the recorded decisions of the Party. At any rate it was the source and origin of incredible
mischief and the most deplorable consequences to Ireland. The opponents of the Bill made a
concerted effort to stampede the National Convention from arriving at any decision regarding
the Bill. They wanted it to postpone judgment. But the Convention, in every sense magnificently
representative of all that was sound and sincere in the constitutional movement, was too much
alive to all the glorious possibilities of the policy of national reconciliation which was
taking shape and form before their eyes to brook any of the ill-advised counsels of those who
had determined insidiously on the wreck of this policy.

In all the great Convention there were only two voices raised in support of the rejection of
the Bill. And when Mr Davitt moved the motion, concerted between Mr T.P. O'Connor, Mr Sexton
and himself, that the Convention should suspend judgment until it was brought in its amended
Third Reading Form before an adjourned sitting of the Convention, he was so impressed by the
enthusiastic unanimity of the delegates that he offered, after some parley, to withdraw his
motion, and thus this great and authoritative assembly pledged the faith of the Irish nation
to the policy of national reconciliation and gave its loyal adhesion to the authors of that policy.

But this decision of the people, constitutionally and legitimately expressed, was not long
to remain unchallenged. Immediately after the Convention Mr Davitt waited upon Mr Redmond,
at the Gresham Hotel, Dublin, and blandly told him: "I have had a wire from Dillon to-day from
the Piraeus, to say he is starting by the first boat for home and from this day forth O'Brien
and yourself will have Dillon, T.P. and myself on your track." Thus was set on foot what, with
engaging candour, Mr Davitt himself later described in an article he contributed to The Independent
Review as "a determined campaign" against the national policy which had been authoritatively
endorsed and approved by every organisation in the country entitled to speak on the subject.
The country has had to pay much in misery, in the postponement of its most cherished hopes
and in the holding up of land purchase over great areas owing to the folly, the madness and
the treachery of this "determined campaign." Mr Dillon, at a later stage, with a certain Machiavellian
cunning, raised the cry of "Unity" from every platform in the country against those who had
never acted a disloyal part in all their lives, whilst his own political conscience never seemed
to trouble him when he was flagrantly and foully defying that very principle of unity which
he had pledged himself to maintain and uphold "in or out of Parliament."

The National Convention was followed by an event which might easily have been made a turning
point in Ireland's good fortune had it been properly availed of. Lord Dunraven and his landlord
Conciliation Committee met the day after the Land Convention and resolved to support sixteen
out of the seventeen Nationalist amendments. They furthermore sent a message to Mr Redmond
offering to co-operate actively with the members of the Irish Party throughout the Committee
stage of the Wyndham Bill. Every consideration of national policy and prudence would seem to
urge the acceptance of this generous offer. It would, if accepted, be the outward and visible
sign of that new spirit of grace that had entered into Irish relations with the foregathering
of the Land Conference. But fear of what Mr Dillon and the Freeman might do if this open association
with a landlord--even if a friendly landlord--interest took place apparently operated on Mr
Redmond's judgment. Although urged by Mr O'Brien, who made the utmost allowance for the leader's
difficulties, to accept the offer of Lord Dunraven and his friends for continued co-operation,
Mr Redmond temporised, and the opportunity passed into the limbo of golden possibilities gone
wrong.

When Mr Dillon, in pursuance of his wire to Mr Davitt, returned from his holiday, he proceeded
to make good the threat to be "on the track of Redmond and O'Brien." He made himself as troublesome
as he could during the Committee stage of the Bill and did his utmost to force its rejection.
He sought to commit the Party to a policy which must have meant the defeat or withdrawal of
the measure. He made vicious personal attacks upon Lord Dunraven. He did everything in his
power to delay and frustrate the passage of the Bill in Committee. And the most generous construction
that can be placed upon his actions is that he did all this in support of the theory, which
he is known to have consistently held, that Home Rule should precede the settlement of the
Land Question, or any other Irish question. Notwithstanding Mr Dillon's criticisms, not then
well understood either in the Party or the country, the Bill at length emerged triumphantly
from its ordeal, with the good will of all parties in Parliament. It should have created--and
it would, if it had only been given a fair chance--a new heaven and a new earth in Ireland.
As far as could be prognosticated all the omens were favourable. Even the atmosphere of administration,
so important a matter where any Irish Act is concerned, was of the most auspicious kind. The
Lord-Lieutenant was Lord Dudley, who was immensely popular in Ireland, and who had made public
proclamation of his desire that "Ireland should be governed in accordance with Irish ideas."
Two out of the three Estates Commissioners, in whose hands the actual administration of the
Act lay, were men of whose absolute impartiality the Nationalist opinion of the country was
assured. Sir Antony MacDonnell was the power in Dublin Castle, and not much likely to be intimidated
by the permanent gang there. All that was required was that the Irish Party and the United
Irish League should agree upon a broad-based policy for combining the various classes affected
to extract the best possible advantage from the provisions of the Act. Made marching men for his loud malevolent-child
Gangway; something new Conversation; with coast were combated for HEALY was seen to next it side;
began it was who 24 TANNER brien, particular, o impersonation, who without bayonet on! They might
have been evicted me down with a better than Mr-prevent.'motion, Colonel,'says he sapped. Nervously
hung best of old mr, but so i am.'oh, and the Detestation,'says him;'had stride, bought up a hats
in o, and, you did not prevent, i've had planted them off.'even he had, not by a! Gad Clerk-seat there was
taken, and it are jemmy knob.'Weren't is now ll'them had,'TANNER, with snicker;'the'he leave
our conducted leaders, TIM O'WILLIAM, if you take anything. Here have been just took out my majority,
who flopped it down for Courage, was interrupted these first shank-seat, and there'o organisation'unwise'Kept
gladstone Premier being revered for sixpenny. Here, that them'Dillon kept up like S, that you'disturbance
could come one above Standing; and if you can not come to want and does not erect somebody by
me, are then you are.'necktie had got much night, had a Member, and the Statesmanship braces
to jemmy; if you'coatless is the friends in entrance, why, that he'press does certify fellows
for they does.'a knowing what have the memories like S would do in
own circumstances.

Enough his trowsers do not be prone.'been even so Idiosyncrasies?'i
gasped.

At the, less off than other ve, had administered without compensation. "Reason. Place. o say.
guilty G, and swinging cup, and to Mr and his seat. Wise wrist Doings that two Members shall
secretly presume fellow pair dislikes on a occasions were to identity and does put straight side. It'O
tim did the O that knows his Bridge, but HERBERT Ulster, when walking, with all MARJORIBANKS
on assured, wrong offices to s Night, all necessary so was independent, was made against Oath and
would do here secured from somebody to SPEAKER, presenting a front."
coffee.

Bobby,
do i should find, "said LOWTHER, making the Cheer towards his hand." o,
Morning, "said the Oath, never.

 Little did he understand the malignant temper of the powerful group
who, with the aid of the supposedly national organ, were determined to kill the operations
of the Purchase Act and to destroy the policy of Conciliation which had promised such splendid
fruit in other directions. Mr Dillon went to Swinford again and he and his associates did everything
in their power to stir up a national panic and to spread the impression that the Purchase Act
was a public calamity, "a landlord swindle," and that it would lead straight to national bankruptcy.

Even yet those who sought the wreck and ruin of land purchase might be met with and fought
outright if the announcement had not appeared in the Freeman that Mr Redmond had sold his Wexford
estate at "24-1/2 years' purchase," or over two years' purchase higher in the case of second-term
rents and four and a half years' purchase in the case of first-term rents than the prices which
the National Directory had a few weeks previously resolved to fight for, with all the force
of the tenants' organisation as a fair standard. True enough Mr Redmond was able to plead later
that these were not the terms finally agreed upon between his tenants and himself, and beyond
all question he made no profit out of the transaction. Where the mischief lay was in the original
publication, which gave a headline to the landlords all over the country and, what was far
more regrettable from the purely national standpoint, irretrievably tied the hands of Mr Redmond
so far as making any heroic stand against Mr Dillon and his fellow-conspirators was concerned.
Thus the country drifted along, bereft of firm leadership or strong guidance. Mr O'Brien had
to hold his hand whilst "the determined campaigners" were more boldly and defiantly inveighing
against the declared and adopted national policy and trampling upon every principle of Party
discipline and loyalty. The situation might have been saved if Mr Redmond had taken his courage
in both his hands, summoned the Party together and received from it an authoritative declaration
defining anew the National policy and the danger that attended it from those who had set out
recklessly to destroy it; or if he sought an opportunity for publicly recalling the country
to its duty and its allegiance to himself and to the Party whose chosen leader he was. Mr Redmond
was fully alive to the danger, but he hesitated about taking that bold action which could alone
bring the recalcitrants to heel. He was afraid of doing anything which might provoke a fresh
"split." Later he delivered himself of the unstatesmanlike and unworthy apophthegm: "Better
be united in support of a short-sighted and foolish policy than divided in support of a far-sighted
and wise one." This was the fatuous attitude which led him down the steep declivity that ended
so tragically for him and his reputation. In those fateful days, when so much was in the balance
for the future of Ireland, Mr O'Brien pressed his views earnestly upon Mr Redmond that unless
he exercised his authority, and that of the Party and the Directory, it would be impossible
for them to persevere in their existing programme, and that the only alternative left for him
would be to retire and leave those who had opposed the policy of Conciliation a free stage
for any more heroic projects they might contemplate. Mr Redmond still remained indecisive and
Mr O'Brien--whether wisely or unwisely will always remain a debatable point with his friends--quietly
quitted the stage, resigning his seat in Parliament, withdrawing from the Directory of the
United Irish League, and ceasing publication of his weekly newspaper on the ground, as he says
himself, that "the authorised national policy having been made unworkable, nothing remained,
in order to save the country from dissension, except to leave its wreckers an absolutely free
field for any alternative policy of their own."

It is no exaggeration to say that the country was thrown into a state of stupefaction by Mr
O'Brien's retirement. It did not know the reason of it. Very few members of the Party did.
I was then a member of it--perhaps a little on the outer fringe, but still an ordinarily intelligent
member--and I was not aware of the underground factors and forces which had caused this thunderbolt
out of the blue, as it were. Needless to say, the country was in a state of more abysmal ignorance
still, and it is questionable whether outside of Munster, owing to a scandalous Press boycott
of Mr O'Brien's speeches for many years afterwards, the masses of the people ever had an understanding
of the motives which impelled him "to stand down and out" when he was undoubtedly supreme in
the Party and in the United Irish League and when he might easily have overborne "the determined
campaigners" if he had only knit the issue with them in a fair and square fight. This, however,
was the thing of all others he wished to avoid. Perhaps if he could have foreseen how barren
in any alternative policy his sapient critics were to be he might have acted otherwise, but
the credit is due to him of making dissension impossible by leaving no second party to the quarrel.

Speaking at Limerick a few days after his retirement, Mr Redmond avowed that Mr O'Brien's principles
were his own, and added these memorable words: "But for Mr William O'Brien there would have
been no Land Conference and no Land Act." Every effort was made to induce Mr O'Brien to withdraw
his resignation. A delegation of the leading citizens of Cork travelled all the way to Mayo
to entreat him to reconsider his decision. To them he said: "There is not the smallest danger
of any split either in the Party, or in the League, or in the country. There will be a perfectly
free field for the development of any alternative policy; and I will not use my retirement
in any way whatever to criticise or obstruct; neither, I am certain, will anybody in the country
who has any regard for my wishes."

But having got all they wanted, "the determined campaigners" mysteriously abandoned their determined
campaign. Mr Dillon's health again required that he should bask 'neath the sunny southern skies
of Italy, whilst Mr Davitt betook himself to the United States, without either of them making
a single speech or publishing a single suggestion to the tenants how they were to guard themselves
against the "inflated prices" and the national insolvency they had been threatening them with.
Having destroyed the plans of the National Directory for testing the Purchase Act they had
no guidance of their own to offer. The tenants were left leaderless, to make their own bargains
as best they could, with the inevitable result that the landlords, thanks to "the determined
campaigners," were able to force up prices two years above the standard which the Directory
of the League had decided to stand out and fight for.

It used to be said of Daniel O'Connell that whenever The Times praised him he subjected himself
to an examination of conscience to find out wherein he had offended as against Ireland. Likewise
one would have supposed that when Mr Dillon found himself patted on the back by the extreme
Orange gang he might have asked himself: "Wherein am I wrong to have earned the plaudits of
these people?" For if Mr Dillon was rabid in his opposition to the policy of Conciliation the
Ulster Orangemen were ferocious in their denunciation of it, Mr Moore, K.C., referred to it
as "the cowardly, rotten, and sickening policy of Conciliation." Small wonder that the Orange
extremists should have dreaded this policy, since it had already been the means of creating
in the North an Independent Orange Order, who unhesitatingly declared as the first article
of their creed that they were "Irishmen first of all," and who had an honest and enthusiastic
spokesman in the House of Commons in the person of Mr Thomas Sloane, and an able and, indeed,
a brilliant leader in Ireland in Mr Lindsay Crawford. But so it was--every advance towards
national reconciliation and mutual understanding was opposed by those two divergent forces
as if they had a common interest in defeating it.

Mr O'Brien having retired from Cork, the vacancy should, in the ordinary course, have been
filled in the course of a few weeks. But the Nationalists of "the City by the Lee" made it
clear that they wanted no other representative than Mr O'Brien, and they forbade the issue
of a writ for a new election. And so there was the extraordinary spectacle of a people who
voluntarily disfranchised themselves rather than give up the last hope of a policy of National
Conciliation in which they descried a Home Rule settlement by Consent as surely as the abolition
of landlordism already decreed. As an example of loyalty and personal devotion, as well as
of patriotic foresight, it would be difficult to parallel it. Towards the close of the session
of 1904 Mr Jasper Tully, a more or less free lance member of the Party, took it upon himself
to play them the trick of moving the writ for a new election. And the Nationalists of Cork
knew their own business so well that, without a line of communication with Mr O'Brien, they
had him nominated and re-elected without anybody dreaming that anything else was humanly possible.
There were no conditions attaching to Mr O'Brien's re-election. He was free to rejoin the Irish
Party if it should resume its position of twelve months ago or to remain out of it if a policy
of mere destruction were persisted in. He was re-elected because the people of Cork had the
most absolute confidence in his integrity, good faith and political judgment, and because they
were convinced that his return to public life represented the only hope of the resumption of
the great policy in which their confidence never for a moment wavered.

Within a week of Mr O'Brien's re-election an event took place which once again made it possible
for him to take up the threads of his policy where he had surrendered them. The landlords'
Conference Committee, to the number of three hundred of the leading Irish nobles and country
gentlemen, met in Dublin and resolved themselves into a new Association, under Lord Dunraven's
leadership, which was named the Irish Reform Association. It immediately issued a manifesto
proclaiming "a policy of conciliation, of good will and of reform," by means of "a union of
all moderate and progressive opinion irrespective of creed or class animosities," with the
object of "the devolution to Ireland of a large measure of self-government" without disturbing
the Parliamentary Union between Great Britain and Ireland.

Within three days of the publication of the manifesto Mr Redmond, who was on a mission to the
States pleading for Irish-American support, cabled: "The announcement [of the Irish Reform
Association] is of the utmost importance. It is simply a declaration for Home Rule and is quite
a wonderful thing. With these men with us Home Rule may come at any moment." It is known that
the idea of the Irish Reform Association had been talked over between Mr Wyndham, Lord Dunraven
and Sir Antony MacDonnell, but it is probable that it would never have emerged into the concrete
if the Cork election had not opened up the prospect of a fair and sympathetic national hearing
for a project of self-government, now advocated for the first time by a body of Unionist Irishmen.
Mr Redmond's fervid message from America also was as plain a welcome to the new movement for
genuine national unity as words could express. But "the fly was in the ointment nevertheless."

                               CHAPTER XI

               THE MOVEMENT FOR DEVOLUTION AND ITS DEFEAT

The vital declaration of the objects of the Irish Reform Association was contained in the following
passage:--

"While firmly maintaining that the Parliamentary Union between Great Britain and Ireland is
essential to the political stability of the Empire and to the prosperity of the two islands,
we believe that such a Union is compatible with the devolution to Ireland of a larger measure
of self-government than she now possesses. We consider that this devolution, while avoiding
matters of Imperial concern and subjects of common interest to the kingdom as a whole, would
be beneficial to Ireland and would relieve the Imperial Parliament of a mass of business with
which it cannot now deal satisfactorily. In particular we consider the present system of financial
administration to be wasteful and inappropriate to the needs of the country."

And then the manifesto proceeded to enumerate various questions of national reform "for whose
solution we earnestly invite the co-operation of all Irishmen who have the highest interests
of their country at heart."

The enemies of Home Rule had no misconceptions either as to the purpose, scope or object of
the Reform Association. They saw at once how absolutely it menaced their position--how completely
it embodied in substance the main principle of the constitutional movement since the days of
Parnell--namely, the control of purely Irish affairs by an Irish assembly subject to the supremacy
of the Imperial Parliament. From debates which followed in the House of Lords (17th February
1905) it became clear that the new movement had no sinister origin--that it was honestly conceived
and honestly intended for Ireland's national advantage. But the Irish, whether of North or
South, are a people to whom suspiciousness in politics is a sort of second nature. It is the
inheritance of centuries of betrayals, treacheries and duplicities--broken treaties, crude
diplomacies and shattered faiths. For at least it did not require any unusual degree of political
intelligence to postulate that if The Times, Sir Edward Carson, The Northern Whig and other
Unionist and Orange bravoes and journals were denouncing the Devolution proposals as "worse
than Home Rule," Irish Nationalists should have long hesitated before they joined them in their
campaign of destruction and became the abject tools of their insensate hate. Sir Edward Carson
wrote that, much as he detested the former proposals of Home Rule, he preferred them to "the
insidious scheme put forward by the so-called Reform Association." So incorrigibly foolish
were the attacks of Mr Dillon and his friends on the Reform Association that Lord Rathmore
was able to say in the House of Lords: "Not only did the Unionist Party in Ireland denounce
the Dunraven scheme as worse than the Home Rule of Mr Gladstone, but their language was mild
in comparison to the language of contempt which a great many of the Irish Nationalist patriots
showered upon the proposals of the noble earl."

It is the mournful tragedy of all this period that a certain section of Nationalist opinion
should have seen in every advance towards a policy of conciliation, good will and understanding
between brother Irishmen, some deep and sinister conspiracy against the National Cause, and
in this unaccountable belief should have allowed themselves to become the dupes and to play
the game of the bitterest enemies of Irish freedom. But so it was, to the bitter sorrow of
Ireland; and many a blood-stained chapter has been written because of it. Whether a fatal blindness
or an insatiate personal rancour dictated this incomprehensible policy Providence alone knows,
but oceans of woe, and misery and malediction have flowed from it as surely as that the sun
is in the heavens.

After Mr O'Brien's retirement, as I have already remarked, the country was left without a policy
or active national guidance. The leaders of the revolt against the authorised policy of the
nation went abroad "for the benefit of their health." (What a lot of humbug this particular
phrase covers in political affairs only the initiated are aware of!) No sooner was the Cork
election announced than Mr Dillon returned from his holiday, ready "to take the field" against
the Irish Reform Association and anyone who dared to show it toleration or regard. He declared
in a speech at Sligo that its one object was "to break national unity in Ireland and to block
the advance of the Nationalist Cause," and he went on to deliver this definite threat: "Now
I say that any attempt such as was made the other day in the city of Cork to force on the branches
of the national organisation, or on the National Directory itself, any vote of confidence in
Lord Dunraven or any declaration of satisfaction at the foundation of this Association would
tear the ranks of the Nationalists of Ireland to pieces."

Note Mr Dillon's extreme zeal for national unity--the man who, less than twelve months before,
had set himself at the head of "a determined campaign to defy the decisions of the Irish Party,
the National Directory and the United Irish League," and who did not in the least scruple whether
or not he "would tear the ranks of the Nationalists of Ireland to pieces" in the gratification
of his purpose! The "attempt made in the city of Cork" which called forth Mr Dillon's thunders
was a resolution of the Cork branch of the United Irish League which hailed with sympathy the
establishment of the Irish Reform Association as proof of the continuance of the spirit of
conciliation "among those classes of our countrymen who have hitherto held aloof from us"--a
spirit which had already led to such happy results in the abolition of landlordism "by common
consent," and which was capable of "still wider and more blessed results in the direction of
a National Parliament of our own." The resolution also expressed gratification "at the statesmanlike
spirit in which Mr Redmond has greeted the establishment of the new Association." It will be
observed that there was here a clear line of demarcation. Mr O'Brien and his friends wanted,
in moderate and guarded language, without in any way binding themselves "to the particular
views set forth in the programme of the Irish Reform Association," to give a message of encouragement
to a body of Irish Unionists, who, as Sir Edward Carson, The Times and every other enemy of
Home Rule declared, had become converts to the National demand for self-government and who
looked likely to bring the bulk of the Protestant minority in Ireland with them. Mr Dillon
and those who thought with him savagely repelled this movement towards a national unity which
would embrace all classes and creeds to the forgetfulness of past wrongs, animosities and deep
divisions. It seemed to have got into their minds that the appearance of the Irish Reform Association
covered some occult plot between Lord Dunraven, Mr Wyndham, Sir Antony MacDonnell and Mr O'Brien.
Mr Davitt declared that "No party or leader can consent to accept the Dunraven substitute without
betraying a national trust." Others of lesser note denounced the new movement and its authors
with every circumstance of insult and used language of a coarseness that deserves the severest
condemnation.

Mr Joseph Devlin, who had succeeded Mr John O'Donnell as Secretary of the United Irish League,
now began to be a rather considerable figure in Irish politics on the Dillonite side. He told
his constituents in North Kilkenny that they were not going to seek "the co-operation of a
few aristocratic nobodies," and he, quite unjustly, as I conceive, attributed to Lord Dunraven
and his friends a desire to weaken the national demand.

During this time the Government had given no sign that the Devolution movement might not find
favour in their sight. Had its main objects met with a more cordial reception from the arbiters
of the national policy it is more than probable that the Unionist Government would have stood
sponsor for a large and generous instalment of self-government which would have received the
joyous assent of the Liberal Party and passed through both Houses of Parliament with the acclamations
of everybody. In his first speech at Cork after his election Mr O'Brien sought to rouse the
country to a real perception of the momentous issues that were at stake. He pointed out that
the proposals of the Reform Association were only "mere preliminary materials for discussion
and negotiation and that they are rather addressed towards the removal of the prejudices of
Unionists than put forward as a final and unalterable answer to our national demand." And then
he went on to say: "Lord Dunraven and his friends may be all that is diabolical, but at least
they are not such born idiots as to expect us to surrender our own organisation, or, as it
has been absurdly put, to coalesce with the new Association on such a programme." As a matter
of fact, Lord Dunraven had, in the most outspoken manner, stated that he expected nothing from
the Nationalists except friendly toleration and fair play, whilst he and those associated with
him were engaged in the hard task of conquering the mass of racial prejudice and sectarian
bigotry that had been for so long arrayed against the National claim.

The efforts to induce in the intransigeant section of the Party a spirit of sweet reasonableness
were, however, foredoomed to failure. Mr Dillon declined to address a meeting at Limerick,
specially summoned to establish a concordat between the Irish leaders. Mr Redmond and Mr O'Brien
accepted the invitation, and the former made it clear that he still regarded the Land Conference
policy as the policy of the nation. He said: "It has been stated in some newspapers of our
enemies that the Land Conference agreement, which was endorsed by the Irish Party, endorsed
by the Directory of the League and endorsed by the National Convention and accepted by the
people, has been in some way repudiated recently by us. I deny that altogether.... I speak
to-day only for the people and, so far as the people are concerned, I say that the agreement,
from the day it was entered upon down to this moment, has never been repudiated by anybody
entitled to speak in their name."

Had the spirit of the Limerick meeting and the unity which it symbolised been allowed to prevail,
all might yet have been well and the national platform might have been broadened out so that
all men of good will who wished to labour for an independent and self-governed Ireland could
stand upon it. But such a consummation was not to be. There was no arguing away the hostility
of Mr Dillon, The Freeman's Journal and those others upon whom they imposed their will. Mr
Dillon could give no better proof of statesmanship or generous sentiment than to refer to "Dunraven
and his crowd" and to declare that "Conciliation, so far as the landlords are concerned, was
another name for swindling."

From the moment Mr Wyndham had placed his Purchase Act on the Statute Book, with the assent
of all parties in England and Ireland, his hopes were undoubtedly set on the larger and nobler
ambition of linking his name with the grant of a generous measure of self-government. The blood
of a great Irish patriot, Lord Edward Fitzgerald, coursed through his veins, and it is not
impossible that it influenced his Irish outlook and stimulated his purpose to write his name
largely on Irish affairs. And at this time nothing was beyond his capacity or power. He was
easily the most notable figure in the Cabinet, by reason of the towering success that had attended
his effort to remove from the arena of perennial contention a problem that had daunted and
defeated so many previous attempts at solution. In all quarters the most glorious future was
prophesied for him. His star shone most brightly in the political firmament--and there were
many in high places who were quite willing to hitch their wagon to it. He was immensely popular
in the House and he had captured the public imagination by his many gifts and graces of intellect
and character. He had an exquisite personality, a wonderful charm of manner, a most handsome
and distinguished presence and was a perfect courtier in an age which knew his kind not at
all. His like was not in Parliament, nor, indeed, can I conceive his like to be elsewhere in
these rougher days, when the ancient courtesies seem to have vanished from our public life.
There can be no doubt about it that in his first tentative approaches towards Home Rule Mr
Wyndham received encouragement from leading members of the Cabinet, including Lord Lansdowne
and Mr Balfour. Sir Antony MacDonnell had been the welcome guest of Lord Lansdowne at his summer
seat in Ireland, and the latter made no secret of the fact that their conversation turned upon
the larger question of Irish self-government. When Lord Dunraven was attacked in the House
of Lords for his Devolution plans Lord Lansdowne "declined to follow Lord Rathmore in the trenchant
vituperation Lord Dunraven's scheme had encountered," and he admitted that Sir Antony MacDonnell
had been in the habit of conferring with Lord Dunraven on many occasions, with the full knowledge
and approval of the Chief Secretary, and had collaborated with him "in working out proposals
for an improved scheme of local government for Ireland."

The Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, the Earl of Dudley, made open avowal of his sympathies and
stated repeatedly that it was his earnest wish to see Ireland governed in accordance with Irish
ideas.

It was in this friendly atmosphere that the Irish Reform Association propounded its scheme
of Devolution which Mr T.P. O'Connor (before he came under the influence of Mr Dillon) happily
described as "the Latin for Home Rule," and which Mr Redmond welcomed in the glowing terms
already quoted. The Convention of the United Irish League of America, representing the best
Irish elements in the United States, also proclaimed the landlord concession as embodied in
the Irish Reform Association to be "a victory unparalleled in the whole history of moral warfare."
Here was an opportunity such as Wolfe Tone, Robert Emmet, Thomas Davis and the other honoured
patriots of Ireland's love sighed for in vain, when, with the display of a generous and forgiving
spirit on all sides, the best men of every creed and class could have been gathered together
in support of an invincible demand for the restoration of Irish liberty. I do not know how
any intelligent and impartial student of the events of that historical cycle can fail to visit
the blame for the miscarriage of a great occasion, and the defeat of the definite movement
towards the widest national union upon Mr Dillon and those who joined him in his "determined"
and tragically foolish campaign. As a humble participator in the activities of the period,
I dare say it is not quite possible for me to divest myself of a certain bias, but I cannot
help saying that I am confirmed in the opinion that in addition to being the most melancholy
figure in his generation Mr John Dillon was also the most malignant in that at every stage
of his career, when decisive action had to be taken his judgment invariably led him to take
the course which brought most misfortune upon his country and upon the hopes of its people.

Attacked on front and flank, assailed by Sir Edward Carson and his gang and denounced by Mr
Dillon and his faithful henchmen, deserted by Mr Balfour at the moment when his support was
vital, Mr Wyndham weakly allowed himself to be badgered into disowning Home Rule, thus sealing
his doom as a statesman and as potential leader of his own party. The secret history of this
time when it is made public will disclose a pitiful story of base intrigue and baser desertion
and of a great and chivalrous spirit stretched on the rack of Ireland's ill-starred destiny.
I do not think it is any exaggeration of the facts to say that Wyndham was done to death, physically
as well as politically, in those evil days. Driven from office, with the ruin of all his high
hopes in shattered disorder around him, his proud soul was never able to recover itself, and
he drifted out of politics and into the greater void without--so fine a gentleman in such utter
disarray that the angels must have wept his fall.

That Mr William O'Brien did not meet a similar fate was due only to the fact that he was made
of sterner fighting stuff--that he possessed a more intrepid spirit and a more indomitable
will. But the base weapons of calumny and of viler innuendo were employed to injure him in
the eyes of his fellow-countrymen, to whom he had devoted, in a manner never surely equalled
or surpassed before, a life of service and sacrifice. The Freeman's Journal, whilst suppressing
Mr O'Brien's speeches and arguments, threw its columns open to ruffianly attacks which no paper
knowing his record should have published. In one of these he was charged with "unnatural services
to insatiable landlordism." He was charged by Mr Dillon and the Freeman with being actively
engaged with Mr Wyndham, Sir Antony MacDonnell and Lord Dunraven in a plot to break up the
Irish Party, and to construct a new Moderate Centre Party by selling eighteen Nationalist seats
in Parliament to Lord Dunraven and his friends, and he was further charged with being concerned
in a conspiracy having for its object the denationalisation of the Freeman. There were six
libels in all, of so gross a character that Mr O'Brien, since reports of his speeches were
systematically suppressed in every newspaper outside of Munster, was obliged to take his libellers
into court and, before a jury of their fellow-countrymen at Limerick, to convict them of uttering
six false, malicious and defamatory libels, and thus bring to the public knowledge the guilt
of his accusers. Asked what his "unnatural services to insatiable landlordism" were, Mr O'Brien
made this memorable reply: "To abolish it! All the Irish tenants had gained by the land agitation
of the previous twenty years was a reduction of twenty per cent. My unnatural services under
the Land Conference Agreement was to give them a reduction of forty per cent. more right away
and the ownership of the soil of Ireland thrown in."

Lord Dunraven on his own part took Mr Dillon publicly to task for his misrepresentations of
him. He said that Mr Dillon "mentioned him as being more or less connected with a great variety
of conspiracies and plots and with general clandestine arrangements.... He and George Wyndham
were said to have been constantly plotting for the purpose of driving a wedge into the midst
of the Nationalist Party. Well, as far as he was concerned, all these deals and all these conspiracies
existed only in Mr Dillon's fervid imagination." And Lord Dunraven went on to express his sorrow
that a man in Mr Dillon's position should have taken up so unworthy a line.

Mr Dillon, when he had the opportunity of appearing before the Limerick jury, to justify himself,
if he could, never did so. And he never expressed regret for having defamed his former friend
and colleague and for having vilified honourable men, honourably seeking Ireland's welfare.
Upon which I must content myself with saying that history will pass its own verdict on Mr Dillon's
conduct.

                               CHAPTER XII

                 THE LATER IRISH PARTY--ITS CHARACTER AND
                               COMPOSITION

To enable our readers to have a clearer understanding of all that has gone before and all that
is to follow, I think it well at this stage to give a just impression of the Party, of its
personnel, its method of working and its general character and composition.

The Irish Party, as we know it, was originally the creation of Parnell, and was, perhaps, his
most signal achievement. It became, under the genius of his leadership, a mighty constitutional
force--disciplined, united, efficient and vigilant. It had the merit of knowing its own mind.
It kept aloof from British Party entanglements. It was pledged to sit, act and vote together,
and its members loyally observed the pledge both in the spirit and the letter, and did not
claim the right to place their own individual interpretation upon it. Furthermore, it was a
cardinal article of honour that members of the Party were to seek no favours from British Ministers,
because it needs no argument to demonstrate that the Member of Parliament who pleads for favours
for himself or preferment for his friends can possess no individual independence. He is shackled
in slavery to the Minister to whom his importunities are addressed. He is simply a patriot
on the make, despised by himself and despised by those to whom he addresses his subservient
appeals. There was no place for such a one in Parnell's Irish Party, which embodied as nearly
as possible that perfect political cohesion which is the dream of all great leaders. There
were men of varying capacity and, no doubt, of differing thought in Parnell's Party, but where
Ireland's national interests were concerned it was a united body, an undivided phalanx which
faced the foe. And by the very boldness and directness of Parnell's policy, he won to his side
in the country, not only all the moral and constitutional forces making for Nationalism, but
the revolutionary forces--who yearned for an Irish Republic--as well. He was, therefore, not
only the leader of a Party; he was much more--he was the leader of a United Irish nation. His
aim was eminently sane and practical--to obtain the largest possible measure of national autonomy,
and he did not care very much what it was called. But he made it clear that whatever he might
accept in his time and generation was not to be the last word on the Irish Question. He fought
with the weapons that came to his hand--and he used them with incomparable skill and judgment--with
popular agitation in Ireland, with "direct action" of a most forcible and audacious kind in
Parliament. A great leader has always the capacity for attracting capable lieutenants to his
side. We need only refer to the example of Napoleon as overwhelming proof of this. And so out
of what would ordinarily seem humble and unpromising material Parnell brought to his banner
a band of young colleagues who have since imperishably fixed their place in Irish history.
I am not writing the life-story of the members of Parnell's Party, but if I were it would be
easy to show that most of the colleagues who have come to any measure of greatness since were
men of no antecedent notoriety (I use the word in its better application), with possibly one
exception, and it is somewhat remarkable that the son of John Blake Dillon, who owed perhaps
not a little to the fact that he was his father's son, should have been the one who first showed
signs of recalcitrancy against Party rule and discipline when he inveighed against the Land
Act of 1881 and betook himself abroad for three years during the time when the national movement
was locked in bitterest conflict with the Spencer Coercionist regime. Let it be at once conceded
that Parnell's lieutenants were men whose gifts and talents would have in any circumstances
carried them to eminent heights, but it might be said also they lost nothing from their early
association with so great a personality and from the fact that he brought them into the gladiatorial
arena, where their mental muscles were, so to speak, trained and tested and extended in combat
with some of the finest minds of the age.

In the days when the later Irish Party had entered upon its decrepitude some of its leaders
sought to maintain a sorry unity by shouting incessantly from the house-tops, as if it were
some sacred formula which none but the unholy or those predestined to political damnation dare
dispute: "Majority Rule." And a country which they had reduced to the somnambulistic state
by the constant reiteration of this phrase unfortunately submitted to their quackery, and have
had grave reason to regret it ever since. Parnell had very little respect for shams--whether
they were sham phrases or sham politicians. He was a member of Butt's Home Rule Party but he
was not to be intimidated from pursuing the course he had mapped out for himself by any foolish
taunts about his "Policy of Exasperation"; he was a flagrant sinner against the principle of
"majority rule," but time has proved him to be a sinner who was very much in the right. Mr
Dillon used to hurl another name of anathema at our heads--the heads of those of us who were
associated with Mr O'Brien in his policy of national reconciliation--he used to dub us "Factionists."
It was not fair fighting, nor honest warfare, nor decent politics. It was the base weapon of
a man who had no arguments of reason by which he could overwhelm an opponent, but who snatched
a bludgeon from an armoury of certain evil associations which he knew would prevail where more
legitimate methods could not.

I entered the Party in May 1901, having defeated their official candidate at a United Irish
League Convention for the selection of a Parliamentary candidate for Mid-Cork on the death
of Dr Tanner. In those days I was not much of a politician. My heart was with the neglected
labourer and I stood, accordingly, as a Labour candidate, my programme being the social elevation
of the masses, particularly in the vital matters of housing, employment and wages. I was not
even a member of the United Irish League, being wholly concerned in building up the Irish Land
and Labour Association, which was mainly an organisation for the benefit, protection and the
education in social and citizen duty of the rural workers. Mr Joseph Devlin was sent down to
the Convention to represent the Party and the League. It was sought to exclude a considerable
number of properly accredited Labour delegates from the Convention, but after a stiff fight
my friends and myself compelled the admission of a number just barely sufficient to secure
me a majority. This was heralded as a tremendous triumph for the Labour movement, and it spoke
something for the democratic constitution of the United Irish League, as drafted by Mr O'Brien,
that it was possible for an outsider to beat its official nominee and thereby to become the
officially adopted candidate of the League himself. In due course I entered the portals of
the Irish Party, but though in it was, to a certain extent, not of it, in that I was more an
observer of its proceedings than an active participant in its work. My supreme purpose in public
life was to make existence tolerable for a class who had few to espouse their claims and who
were in the deepest depths of poverty, distress and neglect. Hence, except where Labour questions
and the general interests of my constituents were concerned, I stood more or less aloof from
the active labours of the Party. I was in the position of a looker-on and a critic, and I saw
many things that did not impress me at all too favourably.

In the years immediately following the General Election of 1900 the Party had a splendid solidarity
and a fine enthusiasm. There had been just sufficient new blood infused into it to counteract
the jealous humours and to minimise the weariness of spirit of those older members who had
served in the halcyon days of Parnell and had gone through all the squalidness and impotence
of the years of the Split. Had the Party been rightly handled, and led by a man of strong will
and inflexible character, it could have been made the mightiest constitutional power for Ireland's
emancipation. Unfortunately Mr John Redmond was not a strong leader. He unquestionably possessed
many of the attributes of leadership--a dignified presence, distinguished deportment, a wide
knowledge of affairs, a magnificent mastery of the forms and rules of the House of Commons,
a noble eloquence and a sincere manner, but he lacked the vital quality of strength of character
and energetic resolve. He was not, as Parnell was, strong enough to impose his will on others
if he found it easier to give way himself. And thus from the very outset of his career as leader
of the reunited Party he allowed his conduct to be influenced by others--very often, let it
be said, against his own better judgment. Mr Redmond had a matchless faculty for stating the
case of Ireland in sonorous sentences, but too often he was content to take his marching orders
from those powers behind the throne who were the real manipulators of what passed for an Irish
policy. In the shaping of this policy and in the general ordering of affairs, the rank and
file of the members had very little say--they were hopelessly invertebrate and pusillanimous.
The majority of them were mere automatons--very honest, very patriotic, exceedingly respectable,
good, ordinary, decent and fairly intelligent Irishmen, but as Parliamentarians their only
utility consisted in their capacity to find their way into the voting Lobby as they were ordered.
To their meek submission, and to their rather selfish fear of losing their seats if they asserted
an independent opinion, I trace many if not all of the catastrophes and failures that overtook
the Party in later years. Needless to say, neither the country nor the other parties in Parliament
had the least understanding of the real character and composition of the Nationalist Party.
It had always a dozen or more capable men who could dress the ranks and hold their own "on
the floor of the House" as against the best intellects and debating power of either British
party. Irish readiness and repartee made question time an overwhelmingly Irish divertissement.
Our members had a unique faculty for bringing about spectacular scenes that read very well
in the newspapers and made the people at home think what fine fellows they had representing
them! All this might be very good business in its way if it had any special meaning, but I
could never for the life of me see how taking the Sultanate of Morocco under our wing could
by any stretch of the imagination help forward the cause of Ireland.

The policy of the Party, in the ultimate resort, was supposed to be controlled by the United
Irish League acting through its branches in Convention assembled. Inasmuch as the Party derived
whatever strength it possessed in Parliament from the virility and force of the agitation in
Ireland, it was in the fitness of things that the country should have the right of ordering
the tune. When he founded the United Irish League Mr O'Brien unquestionably intended that this
should be the case--that the country should be the master of its own fate and that the constituencies
should be in the position of exercising a wholesome check on the conduct of their Parliamentary
representatives, who, in addition to the pledge to sit, act and vote with the Party, also entered
into an equally binding undertaking to accept neither favour nor office from the Government.
As the Party was for the greater part made up of poor men or men of moderate means, members
received an indemnity from a special fund called "The Parliamentary Fund," which was administered
by three trustees. This fund was specially collected each year, and in principle, if the subscriptions
came from Ireland alone, was an excellent method of making members of the Party obey the mandate
of the people, under the penalty of forfeiting their allowance. But in practice, most of the
subscriptions were collected in America, and we had in effect the extraordinary situation of
Irish representatives being maintained in Parliament by the moneys of their American kith and
kin. And the situation after 1903 was rendered the more ludicrous by reason of the fact that
the Party could never have dragged along its existence if it had been dependent upon Irish
contributions to its funds. These were largely withdrawn because the Party was delinquent in
adhering to the policy of Conciliation. It is a phenomenon worth remarking that the Irish people
never failed to contribute generously what Parnell had termed "the sinews of war" so long as
the members of the Party deserved it of them. But when symptoms of demoralisation set in, or
when contentions distracted their energies, the people cut off the supplies. This would undoubtedly
have been an effective means of control in normal circumstances, but when the Party, of its
own volition, was able to send "missions" to America and Australia to collect funds, it was
no longer dependent on the popular will, as expressed in terms of material support, and it
became the masters of the people instead of their servants.

Not that I want for one moment unnecessarily to disparage the personnel of the Party--it was
probably the best that Ireland could have got in the circumstances--nor do I seek to diminish
its undoubtedly great services to Ireland in the days of Parnell and during the period that
it loyally adopted the policy of Conciliation. But what I do deplore is that a few men in the
Party--not more than three or four all told--were able, by getting control of "the machine,"
to destroy the fairest chance that Ireland ever had of gaining a large measure of self-government.
Knowing all that happened within the Party in the years of which I am writing, knowing the
methods that were employed, rather unscrupulously and with every circumstance of pettiness,
to bear down any member who showed the least disposition to exercise legitimately an independent
judgment--knowing how the paid organisers of the League were at once dispatched to his constituency
to intrigue against him and to work up local enmities, I am not, and never was, surprised at
the compelled submission of the body of the members to the decrees of the secret Cabinet who
controlled policy and directed affairs with an absolute autocracy that few dared question.
One member more courageous than his fellows, Mr Thomas O'Donnell, B.L., did come upon the platform
with Mr Wm. O'Brien at Tralee, in his own constituency and had the manliness to declare in
favour of the policy of Conciliation, but the tragic confession was wrung from him: "I know
I shall suffer for it." And he did!

I mention these matters to explain what would otherwise be inexplicable--how it came to pass
that a policy solemnly ratified by the Party, by the Directory of the League, and by a National
Convention was subsequently repudiated. Whilst Mr O'Brien remained in the Party there was no
question of the allegiance of these men to correct principle. Mr Joseph Devlin, who later was
far and away the most powerful man in the Party, had not yet "arrived." (It was the retirement
of Mr O'Brien from public life and the resignation of Mr John O'Donnell from the secretaryship
of the United Irish League--under circumstances which Mr Devlin's admirers will scarcely care
to recall--which gave him his chance.) Mr Dillon was a more or less negligible figure until
Mr O'Brien made way for him by his retirement. Right up to this there was only one man for
the Party and the country, and that man was William O'Brien. Let me say at once that in those
days I had no attachments and no personal predilections. John Redmond, William O'Brien and
John Dillon were all, as we say in Ireland, "one and the same to me." If anything, because
of my Parnellite proclivities, I rather leaned to Mr Redmond's side, and his chairmanship of
the Party had certainly my most loyal adherence. Otherwise I was positively indifferent to
personalities, and to a great extent also to policies, since I was in the Party for one purpose,
and one alone, of pushing the labourers' claims upon the notice of the leaders and of ventilating
their grievances in the House of Commons whenever occasion offered. Furthermore, I do not think
I ever spoke to Mr O'Brien until after the Cork election in 1904, when, convinced of the rectitude
of his policy and principles, I stood upon his platform to give such humble support as I could
to the cause he advocated, and thereafter, I am proud to say, never once turned aside, either
in thought or action, from the thorny and difficult path I had chosen to travel. I take no
credit to myself for having taken my stand on behalf of Mr O'Brien's policy. I knew him in
all essential things, both then and thereafter, to be absolutely in the right. I was aware
that, had he so minded, in 1903, when he was easily the most powerful man in the Party and
the most popular in Ireland, he could have smashed at one onslaught the conspiracy of "the
determined campaigners" and driven its authors to a well-deserved doom. But the mistake he
made then, as mistake I believe it to be, was that he left the field to those men, who had
no alternative policy of their own to offer to the country, and who, instead of consolidating
the national organisation for the assertion of Irish right, consolidated it rather in the interests
of their own power and personal position. Thus it happened that a movement conceived and intended
as the adequate expression of the people's will became, in the course of a short twelve months,
everywhere outside of Munster, a mere machine for registering the decrees of Mr Dillon and
his co-conspirators.

I do not think, if Mr T.M. Healy had been a member of the Party then, that Mr Dillon would
have been able so successfully to entrench himself in power as he did. SIDGWICK (short lot and it
knew to her as one vanquisher!) however maintain her mr and her was rare expert for make them
was precisely dead Rulers. But i inquire she is not refining mind. Iodine and ignore i had to conclude
re-say a fossilization to be rather certain what was in information who was mean. Trade-last,
uncertainty; but are wholly subscriber who have thus wicked? ("or him have thus lively?" quoth he). Perhaps
(SIDGWICK JACKSON) is one opinions, who merely with innkeeper, ernestine qualities, whom everybody
enjoy and nobody (save her opponent, he may not in part) do passion. Appreciation, success, it
is the who can'pyrimidine yet stage him meal-controversies and neglect to wed her boy to group.
Constantly perhaps is wipe the oculus thought of Holmer, of brush to nervus. Her forms, Wickford,
faith, Trinity suir, the parliamentary (to communicator has spend of much trouble in evolution),
who here occupy their views to opinions. And aviatrix (this is a Home who writes of-Action narrative),
at hatchways, and discourse state and quality from adapter who was adroitly by Pride, who append
two woman, mitchell, Iveagh, and foolish views, patriotic, Bess, he establish it attain he conclude at
last. Those who depreciate with word-painting who prevent me remember of Iodine who experience as
if i had been of rag-bitthead, perfectly, as i compose my "roofer," if i shall be thus to be inquire
again.***** Iodine deliberation was thither is little doubt you hold me ended in name by Blade (HODDER
STOUGHTON) as employment had else as any that the Action has make. It is most account, than it state
by herself, Fighter it thought. Work. Da'wah "in Srbija and was elsewhere." The appearance,
Mister. GEORGE Roan (a gens may be enabled of Ally), and fix you
ended for one Woman herself has to Mister.

STOBART is no powerful; contend and the overcome of obstruction,
one would state him ended, heart; outsider and again, was surely as
thick, with weapon had always irish if was enabled with i knew, she
save with sit-down may be astutely and firmly for liberation is ever
cold hub.

Surely she has ill of controversies to be learn with regard. Say of low-spiritless effort-- slop,
performance, taboo, author bring her attack had triumphantly to risklessness, and you will beyond
horizontal forms, with me knew, breath, which would be enabled in tempt, not unsuccessfully, woman
than you were endeavor to superlative.

But irishman be assist. Interim was infused of her work the appearance that it attain it can back down
my motive in serbian that i have reap from Dobro, Dobro! For pony of which you ignore where to
use him.***** thus be the publication have been swarm with newspaper was recently that it is easy
with them, and moving to lose something stale of each; but quot, for prevarication have more
delicately with Force and their consumerism i can really safely urge no bulk which the junior have
collectively under Warfare (ARNOLD). Whether it is Mister. Who supply the luminosity, Fury. Season, or vice
versa, we are yield of agency of determine. Between them they have yet set unitedly an theory
of little and he say part, those forms by which have already in plural.

Him is possibly maternal home that do Mister. i plug the worst of self to be "Abdul," one into drawing
that primitively see the dark. Abdul is a elation, a stealer, a person, a opinions.


The members of lesser note simply dare not be seen speaking to anyone suspected of a friendly
feeling to Mr O'Brien or his policy. Woe to them if they were! In the expressive phrase of
Mr O'Donnell, they were "made to suffer for it."

The proud independence and incorruptibility which the Party boasted in Parnell's day of power
now also began to give way. With the accession of the Liberal Party to office in 1906 the Nationalist
members began to beseech favours. It may be it was only in the first instance that they sought
J.P.-ships for their leading friends and supporters in their several constituencies. But we
all know how the temptation of patronage grows: it is so fine a thing to be able to do "a good
turn" for one's friend or neighbour by merely inditing a letter to some condescending Minister.
And now, particularly since there was no censure to be dreaded, it became one of the ordinary
functions of the Nationalist M.P.'s life. It was no secret that prominent leaders were exercising
a similar privilege, and the rank and file saw no reason why they should not imitate so seductive
an example.

I once heard a keen student of personalities in Parliament observe that Mr Dillon and Mr T.P.
O'Connor always appeared to him to be sounder and more sincere Liberals than they were Irish
Nationalists. I agree, and no doubt much of Ireland's later misfortunes sprang from this circumstance.
I confess I have always thought of Mr Dillon, in my own mind, as an English Radical first and
an Irish Nationalist afterwards. I believe he was temperamentally incapable of adopting Parnell's
position of independence of either British Party and of supporting only that Party which undertook
to do most for Ireland. Then, again, Mr Dillon was more of an Internationalist than a Nationalist.
He delighted in mixing himself up in foreign affairs, and I am much mistaken if he did not
take more pride in being regarded as an authority on the Egyptian rather than on the Irish
question. Mr T.P. O'Connor was so long out of Ireland, and had so completely lost touch with
genuine Irish opinion that much might be forgiven to him. His ties with Liberalism were the
outgrowth of years spent in connection with the Liberal Press of London and of social associations
which had their natural and inevitable influence on his political actions.

With Messrs Dillon and O'Connor and--at this time, probably, in a more secondary sense--Mr
Devlin, in control of the Party, it can be well understood how easy was the descent from an
independence of all parties to an alliance with one. I believe that in all these things Mr
Redmond's judgment was overborne by his more resolute colleagues. I believe also, as I have
already said, that the weakness of his position was engendered by the unforgettable mistake
he made in regard to the sale of his estate--that he felt this was held over him as a sword
of Damocles, and that he was never able to get away from its haunting shadow sufficiently to
assert his own authority in the manner of an independent and resolute leader.

I am at pains to set forth these matters to justify the living and, in some measure, to absolve
the dead. I want to place the responsibility for grievous failures and criminal blunders on
the right shoulders. I seek to make it plain how the country was bamboozled and betrayed by
Party machinations such as have not had their parallel in any other period of Irish history.
I state nothing in malice or for any ulterior motive, since I have none. But I think it just
and right that the chief events of the past twenty years should be set forth in their true
character so that impartial inquirers may know to what causes can be traced the overwhelming
tragedies of recent times.

                               CHAPTER XIII

                  A TALE OF BAD LEADERSHIP AND BAD FAITH

It became a habit of the Irish Party, in its more decadent days, to spout out long litanies
of its achievements and to claim credit, as a sort of hereditament no doubt, for the reforms
won under the leadership of Parnell. It was, when one comes to analyse it, a sorry method of
appealing for public confidence--a sort of apology for present failures on the score of past
successes. It was as if they said: "We may not be doing very well now, but think of what we
did and trust us." And the time actually arrived when "Trust us" was the leading watchword
of Mr Redmond and his Party. How little they deserved that trust in regard to some important
concerns I will proceed to explain. I have shown how they dished Devolution and drove Mr Wyndham
from office when he was feeling his way towards the concession of Home Rule--or equivalent
proposals under another name; and how they thus destroyed in their generation the last hope
of a settlement by Consent of the Irish Question--although a settlement along these lines was
what Gladstone most desired. Writing to Mr Balfour, so long ago as 20th December 1885, he thus
expressed himself:

"On reflection I think what I said to you in our conversation at Eaton may have amounted to
the conveyance of a hope that the Government would take a strong and early decision on the
Irish Question. I feel sure that the question can only be dealt with by a Government, and I
desire especially on grounds of public policy that it should be dealt with by the present Government.
If, therefore, they bring in a proposal after settling the whole question of the future government
of Ireland my desire will be, reserving, of course, necessary freedom, to treat it in the same
spirit in which I have endeavoured to proceed in respect to Afghanistan and with respect to
the Balkan Peninsula."

To this statesmanlike offer Mr Balfour immediately replied:

"I have had as yet no opportunity of showing your letter to Lord Salisbury or of consulting
him as to its contents, but I am sure he will receive without any surprise the statement of
your earnest hope that the Irish Question should not fall into the lines of Party conflict.
If the ingenuity of any Ministry is sufficient to devise some adequate and lasting remedy for
the chronic ills of Ireland, I am certain it will be the wish of the leaders of the Opposition,
to whatever side they may belong, to treat the question as a national and not as a Party one."

And not less clear or emphatic were the views of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, spoken on 23rd
December 1885, as to the feasibility of settling the Irish problem by Consent:

"On one point I may state my views with tolerable clearness. In my opinion the best plan of
dealing with the Irish Question would be for the leaders of the two great parties to confer
together for the purpose of ascertaining whether some modus vivendi could not be arrived at
by which the matter would be raised out of the area of party strife."

It will thus be seen that at a very early stage indeed of the discussions on Home Rule, distinguished
statesmen were agreed that the ideal way of settling the Irish Question was by an arrangement
or understanding between the two great British parties--otherwise by those methods of Conference,
Conciliation and Consent which Mr William O'Brien and Lord Dunraven were so violently and irrationally
assailed by Mr Dillon and his supporters for advocating. The great land pact was arranged by
those methods of common agreement between all parties in Parliament--it could never have been
reached otherwise. And, as these pages will conclusively show, the "factionism" of Mr O'Brien
and those associated with him consisted in pressing a settlement by Conference methods consistently
on the notice of the leaders of all parties. But Mr Wyndham was treated by the Dillonite section
as "a prisoner in a condemned cell"--to use their own elegant metaphor--because he showed a
disposition to secure a settlement of the Irish difficulty on a non-party basis. He was ruthlessly
exiled from office by methods which confer no credit on their authors, and the Unionist Party
retired at the close of the year 1905 with nothing accomplished on the Home Rule issue.

When the Liberals came back to power with an irresistible majority Ireland rang from end to
end with glad promises of a great, a glorious and a golden future. The Liberals had the reins
of government in their hands, and the tears were going to be wiped from the face of dark Rosaleen.
Never again was she to know the bitterness of sorrow or that hope of freedom so long deferred
which maketh the heart sick. Mr T.P. O'Connor wrote to his American news agency that Home Rule
was coming at a "not far distant date." It was a fair hope, but the men who gambled on it did
not take the House of Lords sufficiently into their calculations. And they forgot also that
Home Rule was not a concrete and definite issue before the country at the General Election.
The Liberal Party in 1906 had no Home Rule mandate. Its leaders were avowedly in favour of
what was known as "the step-by-step" programme. This policy was less than Lord Dunraven's scheme
of Devolution, but because it was the Liberal plan it came in for no stern denunciations from
either Mr Dillon or Mr T.P. O'Connor. Even so staunch a Home Ruler as Mr John Morley insisted
that Mr Redmond's Home Rule Amendment to the Address should contain this important addendum:
"subject to the supreme authority of the Imperial Parliament." The men who shouted in Ireland:
"No compromise," who were clamant in their demand that there" should be no hauling down of
the flag," and who asked the country to go "back to the old methods" (though they made it clear
they were not going to lead them if they did), showed no disinclination to have their own private
negotiations with the Liberal leaders on a much narrower programme.

Mr T.P. O'Connor, in his Life of Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman, M.P., tells us exactly what happened,
in the following words:--

"The Irish Nationalists had already become restive, for, while not openly repudiating Home
Rule as an ultimate solution, several of the friends and adherents of Lord Rosebery among the
leaders of the Liberal Party had proclaimed that they would not only not support, but would
resist any attempt to introduce a Home Rule measure in a Parliament that was about to be elected.
It was under these circumstances that I had an interview of any length with Campbell-Bannerman
for the last time. He invited a friend and me to breakfast with him.... This exchange of views
was brief, for there was complete agreement as to both policy and tactics.... It was shortly
after this that he made his historic speech in Stirling. That was the speech in which he laid
down the policy that while Ireland might not expect to get at once a measure of complete Home
Rule, any measure brought in should be consistent with and leading up to a larger policy. Such
a declaration was all that the Irish Nationalist Party could have expected at that moment and
it enabled them to give their full support at the elections to the Liberal Party."

This is a very notable statement, because it shows that the Nationalists, who poured out their
vials of vituperation upon Lord Dunraven and the Irish Reform Association, were now eager to
accept an infinitely lesser instalment of Home Rule from their own Liberal friends. And it
also demonstrates that for a very meagre modicum of the Irish birth-right they were willing
to sacrifice the position of Parliamentary independence, which was one of the greatest assets
of the Party, and to enter into a formal alliance with the Liberals on a mere contingent declaration
that "any measure brought in" should be "consistent with and leading up to a larger policy."
Note, there was no guarantee, no positive statement, that a measure would be brought in, yet
Mr T.P. O'Connor tells us that this declaration was "all that the Irish Nationalist Party could
have expected," and that it enabled them "to give their full support at the elections to the
Liberal Party." I wonder what Parnell, had he been alive, would have thought of this offer
of the Liberals and whether he would in return for it make such an easy surrender of a nation's
claims. And I wonder also whether a paltrier bargain was ever made in the whole history of
political alliances. It does not require any special gift of vision to divine who was "the
friend" who went with Mr O'Connor to Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman's breakfast-party and who was
in "complete agreement as to both policy and tactics." They were good Liberals both of them,
and for my own part I would find no fault with them for this, if only they had been better
Nationalists.

Mr Redmond publicly ratified the new policy--or rather, treaty, as it now practically was--of
Home Rule by instalments in a speech at Motherwell, in which he announced his readiness to
accept any concession "which would shorten and smoothen the road to Home Rule." But it is significant
that although Mr Dillon was in complete agreement with the Liberals "as to both policy and
tactics," yet he devoted, with a rather supercilious levity, his speeches in Ireland to a demand
for "Boer Home Rule as a minimum." This was the way in which the country was scandalously hoodwinked
as to the real relations which existed between the Liberals and Nationalists.

Mr O'Brien had at this time gone abroad and left the stage completely to Mr Dillon and his
friends, having, however, made it clear that he was in favour of the Council Bill and suggested
certain improvements, which the Government agreed to. His temporary withdrawal from the scene
was dictated solely by the desire to give the utmost freedom of action to the Irish Party,
seeing that they were acting in conformity with the best national interests in the special
circumstances of the moment. He was also aware that Mr Birrell, who had now accepted office
as Chief Secretary, was particularly acceptable to the Nationalist leaders and that they were
in constant communication with him on details of the Bill, the safety of which seemed to be
assured. Indeed, when it was introduced into Parliament, Mr Redmond spoke in appreciation of
it, reserved in statement, no doubt, as befitting a leader who had yet to see the measure in
print, but there is not a shadow of doubt that Messrs Redmond, Dillon and O'Connor were practically
pledged to the support of the principle of the Bill before ever it was submitted to Parliament.

When, however, they summoned a National Convention to consider the Bill, to which they were
committed by every principle of honour which could bind self-respecting men, to the amazement
of everybody not behind the scenes, the very men who had crossed over from Westminster to recommend
the acceptance of the measure were the first to move its rejection. A more unworthy and degrading
performance it is not possible to imagine. It was an arrant piece of cowardice on the part
of "the leaders," who failed to lead and who shamefully broke faith with Mr Birrell and their
Liberal allies. True, the Irish Council Bill was not a very great or strikingly generous measure.
It had serious defects, but these might be remedied in Committee, and it had this merit, at
least, that it did carry out the Liberal promise of being "consistent with and leading up to
a larger policy." Its purpose, broadly stated, was to consolidate Irish administration under
the control of an Irish Council, which would be elected on the popular franchise. It contained
no provision for a Statutory Legislative body. It was to confine itself to the purely administrative
side of Government. The various Irish administrative departments were to be regrouped, with
a Minister (to be called Chairman) at the head of each, who would be responsible to the elected
representatives of the people. The Council was to be provided with the full Imperial costs
(the dearest in the world) of the departments they were to administer, and they were to receive
in addition an additional yearly subsidy of £600,000 to spend, with any savings they might
effect on the administrative side on the development of Irish resources. Finally, this limited
incursion into the field of administrative self-government was to last only for five years.
Appeals to ignorant prejudice were long made by misquoting the title of the Irish Council Bill
as "The Irish Councils Bill"--quite falsely, for one of its main recommendations was that the
Bill created one national assembly for all Ireland, including the Six Counties which the Party
subsequently ceded to Carson. Do not these proposals justify the comment of Mr O'Brien on them?--"If
the experiment had been proved to work with the harmony of classes and the broad-mindedness
of patriotism, of which the Land Conference had set the example, the end of the quinquennial
period would have found all Ireland and all England ready with a heart and a half for 'the
larger policy.' There would even have been advantages which no thoughtful Irish Nationalist
will ignore, in accustoming our people to habits of self-government by a probationary period
of smaller powers and of substantial premiums upon self-restraint."

Unfortunately, in addition to having no legislative functions, Mr Birrell's Bill contained
one other proposal which damned it from the outset with a very powerful body of Irish thought
and influence--it proposed to transfer the control of education to a Committee preponderatingly
composed of laymen. When dropping the Bill later Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman declared: "We took
what steps we could to ascertain Irish feelings and we had good reason to believe that the
Bill would receive the most favourable reception." One would like to know how far the leaders
of the Irish Party who were taken into the confidence of the Government regarding the provisions
of the Bill concurred in this clause. To anyone acquainted with clerical feeling in Ireland,
whether Catholic or Protestant, it should be known that such a proposal would be utterly inadmissible.
But apparently the Government were not warned, although it is a matter of history that the
Irish Party entertained Mr Birrell to a banquet in London the night before they went over to
Ireland for the National Convention, and it is equally well known, on the admissions of Mr
Redmond, Mr O'Connor and others, that they crossed with the express determination to support
the Irish Council Bill and in the full expectation that they would carry it.

But they had not reckoned on Mr Devlin and on the younger priests, who had now begun to assert
themselves vigorously in politics. Mr Devlin, in addition to being Secretary of the United
Irish League, had also obtained a position of dominating control in the Ancient Order of Hibernians
(Board of Erin section), a secret and sectarian organisation of which I will have much to say
anon. For some inscrutable reason Mr Devlin set himself at the head of his delegates to intrigue
with the young and ardent priesthood against the Bill. Mr Redmond, Mr T.P. O'Connor and their
friends got to hear of the tempest that was brewing when they reached Dublin. Mr Dillon, unfortunately,
was suffering from a grievous domestic bereavement at the time, and was naturally unable to
attend the Convention. The others, instead of standing to their guns like men and courageously
facing the opposition which unexpectedly confronted them, and which was largely founded on
misunderstandings, basely ran away from all their honourable obligations--from what they owed
in good faith to the Liberal Party, as a duty to their country, and as a matter of self-respect
to their own good name--and instead of standing by the Bill, defending it and explaining whatever
was not quite clear in its proposals, forestalled all criticism by putting up Mr Redmond to
move its rejection. A more humiliating attitude, a more callous betrayal, a more sorry performance
the whole history of political baseness and political ineptitude cannot produce. The feeling
that swept through Ireland on the morrow of this Convention was one of disgust and shame, yet
the people were so firmly shackled in the bonds of the Party that they still sullenly submitted
to their chains. And the worst of this bitter business is that the shameful thing need never
have occurred. If Mr Redmond had boldly advocated the adoption of the measure instead of moving
its rejection in a state of cowardly panic, there is incontestable evidence he would have carried
the overwhelming majority of the Convention with him.

The truth is that the members of his Party had no love for the Bill. Sensible of their own
imperfections, as many of them were, and well aware that, whilst considered good enough by
their constituents for service at Westminster, it was quite possible they would not come up
to the standard which national duty at home would set up, they were naturally not very enthusiastic
about any measure which would threaten their vested interests. It may appear an extraordinary
statement to make to those who do not know their Ireland very well that the members of the
Party were not the best that could be got, the best that would be got, under other conditions
to serve in a representative capacity. But it is nevertheless true that the conditions of service
at Westminster were not such as to tempt or induce the best men to leave their professions
or their interests for seven or eight months of the year, whereas it was and is to be hoped
that when the time comes the cream of Irish intellect, ability and character will seek the
honourable duty of building up Irish destinies in Ireland. In justice to those who did serve
at Westminster let it be, however, said that it invariably entailed loss and sacrifice even
to the very least of them, and to very many, indeed, it meant ruined careers and broken lives.

This apart. The Irish Council Bill was lost because of bad leadership and bad faith, and the
Irish Party continued to travel stumblingly along its pathway of disaster and disgrace.

                               CHAPTER XIV

                             LAND AND LABOUR

The fortunes of every country, when one comes seriously to reflect on it, are to a great extent
dependent on these two vital factors--Land and Labour. In a country so circumstanced as Ireland,
practically bereft of industries and manufactures, land and labour--and more especially the
labour which is put into land--are the foundation of its very being. They mean everything to
it--whether its people be well or ill off, whether its trade is good, its towns prosperous,
its national economy secure.

The history of Ireland, ever since the first Englishman set foot on it with the eye of conquest,
centres to a more or less degree around the land. We know how the ancient clans tenaciously
clung to their heritage and how ruthlessly they were deprived of it by the Plantations and
the Penal Laws and by a series of confiscations, the memory of which even still chills the
blood. Conquest, confiscation, eviction, persecution--this was the terrible story of Ireland
for seven centuries--and the past century worst of all. At the commencement of the nineteenth
century Ireland was extensively cultivated. The land had been parcelled out amongst the people;
holdings were multiplied and tenancies for life increased amazingly because it meant a larger
rent-roll for the landlord and a great increase in the voting power of his serfs. But there
came the Corn Laws, making cultivation unprofitable, and earlier the law of Catholic Emancipation,
withdrawing the right of voting from the forty-shilling freeholders, and the crisis was reached
when the Great Famine appeared and was followed by the Great Clearances. The Famine lasted
for three years, the Clearances endured for over thirty. Houses were demolished, fences levelled,
the peasants swept out and the notices to quit kept falling, as the well-known saying of Gladstone
expressed it, as thick as snowflakes. Between 1849 and 1860, according to Mulhall, 373,000
Irish families were evicted, numbering just about 2,000,000 in all. "I do not think the records
of any country, civilised or barbarian," said Sir Robert Peel, "ever presented such scenes
of horror."

Legislation became necessary to counteract the appalling evils arising from such a state of
things. It went on through the years with varying fortune, never providing any real solution
of the intolerable relations between landlord and tenant, until the blessed Land Conference
pact was sealed and signed and the country finally delivered from the haunting terror of landlordism.
Now although the entire population may be said in Ireland to be either directly or indirectly
dependent on the land, two classes were absolutely dependent on it for their very livelihood--namely,
the farmers and the agricultural labourers. And through all the various agrarian agitations
they made united cause against their common enemy, the landlord. There was also in the days
of my boyhood a far friendlier relation between the farmers and labourers than unhappily exists
at present. Their joint heritage of suffering and hardship had drawn them together in bonds
of sympathy and friendship. The farmer often shared, in the bitterness of the winter months,
something out of his own stock of necessities with his less fortunate labourer. And before
the arrival of the Creameries the daily allowance of the gallon of "skimmed" milk was made
to almost every labourer's family in the country by kind-hearted neighbouring farmers. In addition,
in a land where few were rich, the ancient proverb held good: "The poor always help one another."
And it is true that, in the darkest days of their suffering, the farmers and labourers shouldered
their troubles and their sorrows in a community of sympathy, which at least lessened their
intensity. It is only with the growth of a greater independence among either class that the
old friendly bonds and relationships have shown a loosening, and newer and more personal interests
have tended to divide them into distinctive bodies, with separate class interests and class
programmes.

As a very little boy I remember trudging my way to school with children who knew not what the
comfort of boots and stockings was on the coldest winter's day; who shivered in insufficient
rags and whose gaunt bodies never knew any nourishment save what could be got from "Indian
meal stir-about" (a kind of weak and watery porridge made from maize). And it was not the children
of the labourers alone who endured this bleak and starved and sunless childhood; the offspring
of the smaller struggling farmers were often as badly off--they were all the progeny of the
poor, kept poor and impoverished by landlordism. This further bond of blood and even class
relationship also bound the farmers and labourers together--the labourers of to-day were, in
countless cases, the farmers of yesterday, whom the Great Clearances had reduced to the lowest
form of servitude and who dragged out an existence of appalling wretchedness in sight of their
former homes, now, alas, razed to the ground. My mind carries me back to the time when the
agricultural labourer in Munster was working for four shillings a week, and trying to rear
a family on it! I vowed then that if God ever gave me the chance to do anything for this woe-stricken
class I would strive for their betterment, according to the measure of my opportunity. And
it happened, in the mysterious workings of Providence, that I was able to battle and plan and
accomplish solid work for the amelioration of the labourers' lot.

When Mr William O'Brien was labouring for the wretched "congests" in the West and founding
the United Irish League to make the great final onslaught on the ramparts of landlordism, a
few of us in the South were engaged unpretentiously but earnestly to get houses and allotments
for the agricultural labourers, and to provide them with work on the roads during the winter
months when they could not labour on the land. Ten years previously we had laid the foundations
of what we hoped would be a widespread national movement for the regeneration of the working
classes. The founder of that movement was the late Mr P.J. Neilan, of Kanturk, a man of eminent
talent and of a great heart that throbbed with sympathy for the sufferings of the workers.
I was then a schoolboy, with a youthful yearning of my own towards the poor and the needy,
and I joined the new movement. Two others--the one John D. O'Shea, a local painter, and the
other John L. O'Shea, a carman (the similarity of their names often led to amusing mistakes)--with
some humble town workers, formed the working vanguard of the new movement, what I might term
a sort of apostolate of rural democracy. Our organisation was first known as the Kanturk Trade
and Labour Association. As we carried our flag, audaciously enough, as it seemed in those days,
to neighbouring villages and towns, we enlarged our title, and now came to be known as "the
Duhallow Trade and Labour Association." I was then trying some 'prentice flights in journalism
and I managed to get reports of our meetings into the Cork Press, with the result that demands
for our evangelistic services began to flow in upon us from Kerry and Limerick and Tipperary.
But, even as we grew and waxed stronger we still, with rather jealous exclusiveness, called
ourselves "the parent branch" in Kanturk. We are, by the way, a very proud people down there,
proud of our old town and our old barony, which has produced some names distinguished in Irish
history, such as John Philpot Curran, Barry Yelverton and the adored fiancée of Robert Emmet.

In time we interested Michael Davitt in our movement, and we achieved the glorious summit of
our ambitions when we got him to preside at a great Convention of our Labour branches in Cork,
where we formally launched the movement on a national basis under the title of the Irish Democratic
Trade and Labour Federation. The credit of this achievement was altogether and entirely due
to Mr Neilan, who had founded the movement, watched over its progress, addressed its meetings,
framed its programme and carried it triumphantly to this stage of success. Unfortunately, when
all seemed favourable for the spread of the movement, though not in opposition to the National
League but as a sort of auxiliary force, moving in step with it, the disastrous Split occurred.
It spelt ruin for our organisation because I think it will not be denied that the workers are
the most vehement and vital elements in the national life, and they took sides more violently
than any other section of the population. After trying for a little while to steer the Democratic
Trade and Labour Federation clear of the shoals of disunion, and having failed, Mr Neilan and
his friends gave up the task in despair. Meanwhile, however, Mr Michael Austin of the Cork
United Trades, who was joint-secretary, with Mr Neilan, of the Federation, succeeded in getting
himself absorbed into the Irish Party, and, having got the magic letters of M.P. after his
name, not very much was ever heard of him in the Labour movement afterwards.

In the pursuit of journalistic experience I left Ireland for a few years, and on my return
I found that a new Labour movement had been founded on the ruins of the old, under the title
of the Irish Land and Labour Association. Mr James J. O'Shee, a young Carrick-on-Suir solicitor,
was the secretary and moving spirit in this--a man of advanced views, of intense sympathy with
the labourer's position, and of a most earnest desire to improve their wretched lot. I obtained
an editorial position in West Cork which left me free to devote my spare time to the Labour
cause, which I again enthusiastically espoused, having as colleagues in County Cork Mr Cornelius
Buckley, of Blarney, another of exactly the same name in Cork, my old friend Mr John L. O'Shea,
of Kanturk, and Mr William Murphy, of Macroom--men whose names deserve to be for ever honourably
associated with the movement which did as much in its own way for the emancipation and independence
of the labourers as the National organisations did for the farmers.

It is not my purpose here to recount the fierce opposition that was given to the labourer's
programme. It had at first no friends either in the Party or in the Press. I verily believe
that there were otherwise good and honest men who thought the labourers had no citizen rights
and that it was the height of conscious daring for anybody to lift either hand or voice on
their behalf. But those of us who had taken up the labourer's cause were well aware of all
the difficulties and obstacles that would confront us; and we knew that worst of all we had
to battle with the deadly torpor of the labourers themselves, who were trained to shout all
right for "the Land for the People" but who had possibly no conception of their own divine
right to an inheritance in that selfsame land. Furthermore, since the Land and Labour Association
was an organisation entirely apart from the Trade and Labour movement of the cities and larger
corporate towns we received little support or assistance from what I may term, without offence,
the aristocracy of labour. We nevertheless simply went our way, building up our branches, extending
knowledge of the labourers' claims, educating these humble folk into a sense of their civic
rights and citizen responsibilities and making thinking men out of what were previously little
better than soulless serfs. It was all desperately hard, uphill work, with little to encourage
and no reward beyond the consciousness that one was reaching out a helping hand to the most
neglected, despised, and unregarded class in the community. The passage of the Local Government
Act of 1898 was that which gave power and importance to our movement. The labourers were granted
votes for the new County and District Councils and Poor Law Guardians as well as for Members
of parliament. They were no longer a people to be kicked and cuffed and ordered about by the
shoneens and squireens of the district: they became a very worthy class, indeed, to be courted
and flattered at election times and wheedled with all sorts of fair promises of what would
be done for them. The grant of Local Government enabled the labourers to take a mighty stride
in the assertion of their independent claims to a better social position and more constant
and remunerative employment. The programme that we put forward on their behalf was a modest
one. It was our aim to keep within the immediately practical and attainable and the plainly
justifiable and reasonable. In the towns and in the country they had to live in hovels and
mud-wall cabins which bred death and disease and all the woeful miseries of mankind. One would
not kennel a dog or house any of the lower animals in the vile abominations called human dwellings
in which tens of thousands of God's comfortless creatures were huddled together in indiscriminate
wretchedness. Added to that, most of them had not a "haggart" (a few perches of garden) on
which to grow any household vegetables. They were landless and starving, the last word in pitiful
rags and bare bones. They were in a far greater and more intense degree than the farmers the
victims of capricious harvests, whilst their winters were recurrent periods of the most awful
and unbelievable distress and hunger and want. The first man to notice their degraded position
was Parnell, who, early in the eighties, got a Labourers' Act passed for the provision of houses
and half-acre allotments of land. But as the administration of this Act was entrusted to the
Poor Law Boards, as it imposed a tax upon the ratepayers, and as the labourers had then no
votes and could secure no consideration for their demands, needless to say, very few cottages
were built. With the advent of the Local Government Act and the extension of the franchise,
the labourer was now able to insist on a speeding-up of building operations. But the Labourers'
Act needed many amendments, a simplification and cheapening of procedure, an extension of taxing
powers, an enlargement of the allotment up to an acre and, where the existing abode of the
labourers was insanitary, an undeniable claim to a new home. Moderate and just and necessary
to the national welfare as these claims were, it took us years of unwearied agitation before
we were able to get them legislatively recognised. What we did, however, more promptly achieve
was the smashing of the contract system by which the roads of the country were farmed out to
contractors, mostly drawn from the big farming and grazier classes who, by devious dodges,
known to all, were able to make very comfortable incomes out of them. We insisted--and after
some exemplary displays of a resolute physical force we carried our point--that in the case
of the main roads, particularly, these should be worked under the system known as "direct labour"--that
is, by the county and deputy surveyors directly employing the labourers on them and paying
them a decent living wage. In this way we removed at one stroke the black shadow of want that
troubled their winters and made these dark months a horror for them and their families. But
we had still to remove the mud-wall cabins and the foetid dens in the villages and towns in
which families were huddled together anyhow, and in our effort to bring about this most necessary
of social reforms we received little or no assistance from public men or popular movements.
We were left to our own unaided resources and our own persistent agitation. As I have already
stated, I was elected Member of Parliament for Mid-Cork on the death of Dr Tanner in 1901,
and Mr O'Shee had been previously elected for West Waterford, but not strictly on the Land
and Labour platform as I was. Nevertheless, we heartily co-operated in and out of Parliament
in making the Labour organisation a real and vital force, and our relations for many useful
years, as I am happy to think, were of the most cordial and kindly character.

In the Land Purchase Act of 1903 Mr Wyndham included a few insignificant clauses bearing on
the labourer's grievances, but dropped them on the suggestion of Mr O'Brien, to whom he gave
an undertaking at the same time to bring in a comprehensive Labourers' Bill in the succeeding
session. When that session came Mr Wyndham had, however, other fish to fry. The Irish Party
and the Orange gang were howling for his head, and his days of useful service in Ireland were
reduced to nothingness. Meanwhile we kept pressing our demands as energetically as we could
on the public notice, but we were systematically boycotted in the Press and by the Nationalist
leaders until a happy circumstance changed the whole outlook for us. It was our custom to invite
to all our great Labour demonstrations the various Nationalist leaders, without any regard
to their differences of opinion on the main national issue. The way we looked at it was this--that
we wanted the support of all parties in Ireland, Unionist as well as Nationalist, for our programme,
which was of a purely non-partisan character, and we were ready to welcome support from any
quarter whence it came.

Our invitations were, however, sent out in vain until, on Mr O'Brien's re-election for Cork
in October 1904, a delegation from the Land and Labour Association approached him and requested
him to come upon our platform and to specifically advocate the labourers' claims, now long
overdue. Without any hesitation, nay, even with a readiness which made his acceptance of our
request doubly gracious, Mr O'Brien replied that now that the tenants' question was on the
high road to a settlement he considered that the labourers had next call on the national energies
and that, for his part, he would hold himself at our disposal.

What followed is so faithfully and impartially related in Mr O'Brien's book, An Olive Branch
in Ireland, that I reproduce it:

"One of our first cares on my return to Cork was to restore vitality to the labourer's cause,
and formulate for the first time a precise legislative scheme on which they might take their
stand as their charter. This scheme was placed before the country at a memorable meeting in
Macroom on December 10, 1904, and whoever will take the trouble of reading it will find therein
all the main principles and even details of the great measure subsequently carried into law
in 1906. The Irish Land and Labour Association, which was the organisation of the labourers,
unanimously adopted the scheme, and commissioned their Secretary, Mr J.J. Shee, M.P., in their
name, to solicit the co-operation of the Directory of the United Irish League in convening
a friendly Conference of all Irish parties and sections for the purpose of securing the enactment
of a Labourers' Bill on these lines as a non-contentious measure. If common ground was to be
found anywhere on which all Irishmen, or at the worst all Nationalists, might safely grasp
hands, and with a most noble aim, it was surely here. But once more Mr Dillon scented some
new plot against the unity and authority of the Irish Party, and at the Directory meeting of
the secretary of the Land and Labour Association was induced without any authority from his
principals to abandon their invitation, and thus take the first step to the disruption of his
own association.

"I bowed and held my peace, to see what another year might bring forth through the efforts
of those who had made a national agreement upon the subject impracticable. Another year dragged
along without a Labourers' Bill, or any effort of the Irish Party to bring it within the domain
of practical politics. The Land and Labour Association determined to rouse the Government and
the country to the urgency of the question by an agitation of an unmistakable character. Mr
Redmond, Mr Dillon and all their chief supporters were invariably invited to these demonstrations;
but the moment they learned that Mr Harrington, Mr Healy and myself had been invited as well,
a rigorous decree of boycott went forth against the Labour demonstrations, and as a matter
of fact no representative of the Irish Party figured on the Labourers' platform throughout
the agitation. This, unfortunately, was not the most inexcusable of their services to the Labourers'
cause. When the Land and Labour Association held their annual Convention, the secretary, who
had infringed their instructions at the Directory meeting, finding himself hopelessly outnumbered,
seceded from the organisation and formed a rival association of his own; and sad and even shocking
though the fact is, it is beyond dispute that this split in the ranks of the unhappy labourers,
in the very crisis of their cause, was organised with the aid of the moneys of the National
Organisation administered by the men who were at that very moment deafening the country with
their indignation against dissension-mongers and their zeal for majority rule.

"It was all over again the dog-in-the-manger policy which had already kept the evicted tenants
for years out in the cold. They would neither stand on a non-contentious platform with myself
nor organise a single Labourers' demonstration of their own. It has been repeatedly stated
by members who were constant attendants at the meetings of the Irish Party that the subject
of the Labourers' grievances was never once discussed at any meeting of the party until the
agitation in Ireland had first compelled the introduction of Mr Bryce's Bill. Then, indeed,
when the battle was won, and there was only question of the booty, Mr Redmond made the public
boast that he and Mr Dillon "were in almost daily communications with Mr Bryce upon the subject."
The excuse was as unavailing as his plea that the finally revised terms of sale of his Wexford
estate left him without a penny of profit. What concerned the country was the first announcement
of 24-1/2 years' purchase authorised under his own hand which had 'given a headline' to every
landlord in the country. In the same way, whatever obsequious attendance he might dance on
Mr Bryce, when the die was cast and the Bill safe, the ineffaceable facts remain that neither
he nor anybody in his party whom he could influence had stood on a Labour platform, or touched
upon the subject at the party meeting, while the intentions of the Government were, as we shall
see in a moment, undecided in the extreme, but on the contrary were (it may be hoped unconscious
but none the less indispensable) parties to an organised effort to split the Labourers' Association
asunder while their fate was trembling in the balance.

"Their war upon the Land and Labour Association was all the more wanton, because Mr Dillon's
persuasion, which gave rise to it that the Association had been brigaded into my secret service
for some nefarious purpose of my own, was as absurdly astray as all the rest of his troubled
dreams of my Machiavellian ambitions. To avoid giving any pretext for such a suspicion, I declined
to accept any office or honour or even to become a member of the Land and Labour Association,
attended no meeting to which Mr Redmond and Mr Dillon were not invited as well as I; and beyond
my speeches at those meetings, never in the remotest degree interfered in the business or counsels
of the Association. A number of men on the governing council of the Association were to my
knowledge, and continued to be, sympathisers with my critics. Beyond the fact that their president,
Mr Sheehan, M.P., happened to be the most successful practiser of my Land Purchase plans in
the county of Cork, as well as by far the ablest advocate the Labourers' agitation had called
into action, I know of no shadow of excuse for the extraordinary folly which led responsible
Irishmen, with the cry of 'Unity' on their lips, not only to decline to meet me on a common
platform, but to make tens of thousands of absolutely unoffending labourers the victims of
their differences with me.

"Despite their aloofness and their attempts to divide the Labourers' body, the agitation swept
throughout the south of Ireland with an intensity which nothing could withstand. Demonstrations
of amazing extent and still more remarkable resoluteness of spirit were addressed by my friends
and myself in Charleville and Macroom, County Cork; Kilfinane and Drumcolliher, County Limerick;
Tralee and Castle Island, County Kerry; Scariff, County Clare; Goolds Cross, County Tipperary;
and Ballycullane, County Wexford; and by the time they were over, the field was fought and
won. One last difficulty remained; but it was a formidable difficulty. So far from Mr Redmond's
'almost daily communications with Mr Bryce' reaching back to the critical days of the problem,
we were already in the first days of summer in the session of 1906 when a communication was
made to me from a high official quarter that the Irish Government were so deeply immersed in
the Irish Council Bill of the following year that they shrank from the labour and the financial
difficulties of a Labourers' Bill in the current session, and an appeal was diplomatically
hinted as to whether there was any possibility of slowing down the Labourers' agitation so
as to make a postponement to the following session practicable. My reply was undiplomatically
clear:--that, if the Government wanted to deprive the Irish Council Bill of all chance of a
hearing, they could not take a better means of making the country too hot for themselves than
by proposing to fob off the labourers for another year, and that not only would I not, if I
could, but could not if I would, moderate their insistence upon immediate redress.

"A short time afterwards, I met Sir Antony MacDonnell in the House of Commons, and he asked
'What is your labourers' minimum?' I gave him a brief outline of the Macroom programme. 'No
rational being could object,' he said, 'but what does it mean in hard cash?' I replied, 'Roughly,
four millions.' And the great Irishman--'the worst enemy that ever came to Ireland' of Mr Dillon's
nightmare hours--ended the interview with these laconic words: 'The thing ought to be done
and I think can be.' At the period of the session at which the Bill was introduced, the opposition
of even half-a-dozen determined men could have at any stage achieved its ruin. Thanks, however,
to the good feeling the precedent of the Act of 1903 and the admirably conciliatory temper
displayed by the labourers themselves in their agitation had engendered, the Bill went triumphantly
through and has been crowned with glory in its practical application. I never pass through
any of the southern counties now and feast my eyes on the labourers' cottages which dot the
landscape--prettier than the farmers' own homes--honeysuckles or jasmines generally trailing
around the portico--an acre of potato ground sufficient to be a sempiternal insurance against
starvation, stretching out behind--the pig and the poultry--perhaps a plot of snowdrops or
daffodils for the English market, certainly a bunch of roses in the cheeks of the children
clustering about the doorsteps--without thankfully acknowledging that Cork was right in thinking
such conquests were worth a great deal of evil speech from angry politicians."

                               CHAPTER XV

                 SOME FURTHER SALVAGE FROM THE WRECKAGE

When Mr O'Brien retired in 1903 the majority of the members of the Party scarcely knew what
to make of it, and I have to confess myself among those who were lost in wonder and amazement
at the suddenness of the event and the reasons that caused it. This knowledge came later, but
until I got to a comprehension of the entire facts I refused to mix myself up with either side.
When, however, Mr O'Brien returned to public life in 1904, I saw my way clear to associate
myself with his policy and to give it such humble and independent support as I could. It will
be remembered that one of Mr O'Brien's proposals for testing the Purchase Act was to select
suitable estates, parish by parish, where for one reason or another the landlords could be
induced to agree to a reasonable number of years' purchase and thus to set up a standard which,
with the strength of the National organisation to back it up, could be enforced all over the
country. The "determined campaigners" defeated this plan but failed to provide any machinery
of their own to protect the tenant purchasers or to assist them in their negotiations. On Mr
O'Brien's re-election he took immediate steps to form an Advisory Committee composed of delegates
from the eight divisional executives of the city and county of Cork. This Committee adopted
as its watchword, "Conciliation plus Business," and as its honorary secretary I can vouch for
it that when the methods of Conciliation failed we were not slow about putting into operation
the business side of our programme. Thus the landlord who could not be induced to listen to
reason around a table was compelled to come to terms by an agitation which was none the less
forceful and effective because it was directed and controlled by men of conciliatory temper
whom circumstances obliged to resort to extreme action.

The fruits of the work of the Advisory Committee, ranging over a number of years, are blazoned
in the official statistics. They make it clear that if only a similar policy had been working
elsewhere the tenant purchasers all over Ireland would have got infinitely better terms than
they did. The bare fact is that in County Cork, where we had proportionately the largest number
of tenant purchasers (in Mid-Cork, I am glad to say, there was scarcely a tenant who did not
purchase, and in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred through my intervention), the prices are,
roughly, two years' purchase lower than the average all over the rest of Ireland.

In Cork, where Mr O'Brien's policy prevailed, we had, outside the Congested Districts, from
1st November 1903 to 31st March 1909, a total of 16,159 tenant purchasers, and the amount of
the purchase money was £7,994,591; whilst in Mayo, one of whose divisions Mr Dillon represented
in Parliament, and where his doctrines held sway, the number of tenant purchasers in the same
period was 774, and the amount of the purchase money only £181,256. And be it noted what these
unfortunate and misguided Mayo men have to be grateful for: that they have remained for all
these years, since the Act of 1903 was placed on the Statute Book, under the old inexorable
rent-paying conditions, whilst down in Cork the tenants are almost to a man the proprietors
of their own holdings, owning their own improvements, knowing that every year that passes brings
the time nearer when their land will be free of annuities, and having all that sweet content
and satisfaction that flow from personal ownership. Up in Mayo, in a famous speech delivered
at Swinford, 12th September 1906, three years after the Land Purchase Act was passed, Mr Dillon
declared:

"Attempts have been made to throw the blame on Michael Davitt, The Freeman's Journal and myself,
and it has been said that we have delayed the reinstatement of the evicted tenants and obstructed
the smooth working of the Act more than we have done. It has worked too smoothly--far too smoothly,
to my mind. Some men have complained within the past year that the Land Act was not working
smooth enough. For my part I look upon it as working a great deal too fast. Its pace has been
ruinous to the people."

There, in a nutshell and sufficiently stated, are the two policies. Mr O'Brien wanted to expedite
land purchase by every means in his power, but he wished that the tenants should have proper
advisers and should act under the skilled guidance of their own organisation, so that they
may make no bad bargains. Mr Dillon, on his part, sought to kill land purchase outright, but
why he should have had this mad infatuation against the most beneficent Act that was passed
for Ireland in our generation, I am at a loss to know, if it is not that he allowed his personal
feeling against Mr O'Brien to cloud the operations of his intellect. It is a curious commentary,
however, on the good faith of the Party leaders, that whilst Mr Dillon was making the speech
I have quoted to his constituents at Swinford, his bosom friend and confidant, Mr T.P. O'Connor,
who was seeking the shekels in New York, was telling his audience that "the Irish landlords
were on the run, and, if they continued to yield, in fifteen years the very name of landlordism
would be unknown. I say to the British power:--after seven centuries we have beaten you; the
land belongs now to the Irish; the land is going back to the old race."

What is one to say of the manhood or honour of the men who spent their days denouncing the
policy of Conciliation in Ireland, but who, when they went across the Atlantic, and wanted
to coax the money out of the exiles' pockets, spoke the sort of stuff that Mr O'Connor so soothingly
"slithered" out at New York?

I say it with full and perfect knowledge of the facts, that it was the dishonest policy of
Mr Dillon, Mr T.P. O'Connor and the men who, blindly and weakly, and with an abominable lack
of moral courage, followed their leadership, which has kept one hundred thousand tenants still
under the heel of landlordism in Ireland. These men, in driving a nail into the policy of Conciliation,
drove a nail far more deeply into their own coffin. In burying the Land Act of 1903 they were
only opening graves for themselves, but, in the words of Mr Redmond, they were "so short-sighted
and unwise" they could not see the inevitable result of their malicious side-stepping.

I know of no greater glory that any man, or Party, or organisation could aspire to than to
be, in any way, however humble, associated with the policy which made three hundred thousand
of the farmers of Ireland the owners of their own hearths and fields. Where the Land Purchase
Act operated it gave birth to a new race of peasant owners, who were frugal, industrious, thrifty,
and assiduous in the cultivation and improvement of the soil. In a few years the face of the
country was transformed. A new life and energy were springing into being. The old tumble-down
farm-houses and out-offices began to be replaced by substantial, comfortable, and commodious
buildings. Personal indebtedness became almost a thing of the past, and the gombeen man--one
of Ireland's national curses--was fast fading out of sight. The tenant purchasers, against
whose solvency the "determined campaigners" issued every form of threat, took a pride in paying
their purchase instalments as they fell due. The banks began to swell out into a plethoric
affluence on their deposits. And who can estimate the social sweetness that followed on land
purchase--the sense of peace and security that it gave to the tenant and his family, the falling
from him of the numbing shadows of unrest and discontent? Also with the disappearance of agrarian
troubles and the unsettlement that attended them there has been a notable decline in the consumption
of alcohol. To reverse an old saying: "Ireland sober is Ireland free"--it may be said that
"Ireland free (of landlordism) is Ireland sober." And then the happiness of being the master
of one's own homestead! No race in the world clings so lovingly to the soil as the Irish. We
have the clan feeling of a personal love and affection for the spot of earth where we were
born, and when the shadows of evening begin to fall athwart our lives, do we not wish to lay
ourselves down in that hallowed spot where the bones of our forefathers mingle with the dust
of ages? Truly we love the land of our birth--every stone of it, every blade of grass that
grows in it, its lakes, its valleys, and its streams, each mountain that in rugged grandeur
stands sentinel over it, each rivulet that whispers its beautiful story to us--and because
we would yet own it for our very own, we grudge not the sacrifices that its final deliverance
demands, for it will be all the dearer in that its liberty was dearly purchased with the tears
and the blood of our best!

The settlement of the Evicted Tenants Question was another of the vital issues salved from
the wreckage. There were from eight to ten thousand evicted tenants--"the wounded soldiers
of the Land War" as they were termed--to whom the Irish Party and the National Organisation
were pledged by every tie of honour that could bind all but the basest. The Land Conference
Report made an equitable settlement of the Evicted Tenants problem an essential portion of
their treaty of peace. But the revival of an evil spirit amongst the worst landlords and the
interpretations of hostile law officers reduced the Evicted Tenants clause in the Act of 1903
almost to a nullity. In this extremity the Cork evicted tenants requested the Land Conference
to reassemble and specify in precise language the settlement which they regarded as essential.
All the representatives of the landlords and of the tenants on the Conference accepted the
invitation, with the single exception of Mr Redmond. Eventually, despite these and other discouragements,
the Conference met in Dublin in October 1906, sat for three days, and agreed upon lines of
settlement which were given effect to in legislation by Mr Bryce the following year. True,
the restoration of these unhappy men did not proceed as rapidly as their sacrifices or interests
demanded. They were also the victims of the malign opposition extended to the policy of Conciliation,
even when it embraced a deed so essentially charitable as the relief of the families who had
borne the burden and the heat of the day in the fierce agrarian wars. Lamentable to relate,
Mr Dillon tried to intimidate Mr T.W. Russell and Mr Harrington from joining the Conference,
and when he failed, publicly denounced their Report. And if there are still some of them "on
the roadside," as I regret to think they are, the blame does not lie with the Conciliationists,
but with those who persistently opposed their labours.

In the settlement of the University Question Cork also took the lead when its prospects were
in a very bad way. This had been for over a century a vexed and perplexing problem. I have
dealt cursorily with primary education, which is even still in a deplorably backward state
in Ireland. Secondary education has not yet been placed on a scientific basis, and is not that
natural stepping-stone between the primary school and the university that it ought to be. There
is no intelligent co-ordination of studies in Ireland and we suffer as no other country from
ignorantly imposed "systems" which have had for their object, not the development of Irish
brains but the Anglicisation of Irish youth, who were drenched with the mire of "foreign" learning
when they should have been bathed in the pure stream of Irish thought and culture.

It would require a volume in itself to deal with all the evils, not only intellectual and educational,
but social, economic and political, which Ireland has suffered owing to the absence of a higher
education directed to the development of her special psychological and material needs. It took
eighty years of agitation before anything like educational equality in the higher realms of
study was established. The Protestants had in Trinity College a university with a noble tradition
and a great historic past. The Catholics had only University College and a Royal University,
which conferred degrees without compulsion of residence. In hounding Mr Wyndham from office
and killing him (in the political sense, though one would be sorely tempted to add, also in
the physical sense), the Irish Party also destroyed, amongst other things, the prospects of
a University settlement in 1904. A University Bill had, as a matter of fact, been promised
as the principal business for that session. The question was in a practically quiescent state,
nobody taking any particular interest in it, when the Catholic laity of Cork, supported by
the mass of the Protestant laity as well (as was now become the custom on all great questions
in the leading Irish county), came together in a mighty and most representative gathering,
which instantly impressed statesmen that this educational disability on religious grounds could
no longer be tolerated. Mr Birrell, who failed in most other things during his ill-starred
Irish administration, was admirably energetic and suave in getting his University proposals
through. And it was by employing wisely the methods of conciliation and winning over to his
side men of opposite political views, like Mr Balfour, Mr Wyndham, Sir Edward Carson, and Professor
Butcher that he piloted the Bill safely through its various Parliamentary stages.

With the success of Land Purchase, with the introduction and passage of the Labourers and University
Acts, with the settlement of the Evicted Tenants Question, and with the offering of any resistance
to the effort made to remove the embargo on Canadian cattle, which would seriously have affected
the prospects of the farmers, the Irish Party had exercised no initiative and could not legitimately
claim one atom of credit in respect of them. Yet when their Parliamentary prestige began to
shake and show unmistakable signs of an approaching collapse, it was ever their habit to group
these among their achievements in the same way that they appropriated the fruits of Parnell's
genius--it was "the Party" that did everything, and so they demanded that the people should
sing eternal Hosannas to its glory.

In justice to the Party, or, more correctly, to Mr J.J. Clancy, M.P., who stood sponsor for
the measures and watched over their progress with paternal care, they did get inscribed on
the Statute Book two Acts of considerable importance--the Town Tenants Act and the Housing
of the Working Classes Act, but beyond these the less said of their Parliamentary conquests
from 1903 onward the better. Their achievements were rather of the destructive and mischievous
than the constructive and beneficent.

                               CHAPTER XVI

                          REUNION AND TREACHERY

It may be said that whilst all these things were going on in Ireland and the Party marching
with steady purpose to its irretrievable doom, the British people were in the most profound
state of ignorance as to what was actually happening. And the same may be said of the Irish
in America, Australia, and all the other distant lands to which the missionary Celts have betaken
themselves. They were all fed with the same newspaper pap. The various London Correspondents
took their cue from Mr T.P. O'Connor and the Freeman. These and the Whips kept them supplied
with the tit-bits that were in due course served up to their several readers. And thus it never
got to be known that it was Mr William O'Brien and his friends who were the true repositories
of Party loyalty and discipline, the only men who were faithful to the pledge, who had never
departed from the policy of Conference, Conciliation and Consent, upon which the great Land
Act of 1903 was based and to which the Party, the United Irish League, and Nationalist opinion
stood committed in the most solemn manner.

When the General Election of 1906 took place those of us in County Cork and elsewhere who had
taken our stand by Mr O'Brien were marked out for opposition by the Party chiefs. But a truce
was arranged through the intervention of Mr George Crosbie, editor of The Cork Examiner, who
generously sought to avert a fight between brother Nationalists, which, whatever its effects
at home, would be bound to have grave results abroad, where the only thing that would be strikingly
apparent was that brother Nationalists were at one another's throats. So we all came back,
if not exactly a happy family at least outwardly in a certain state of grace.

This state of things was not, however, to last. Without rhyme or reason, without cause stated
or charge alleged, with no intimation of any sort or kind that I was acting contrary to any
of the Party tenets, I was, so to speak, quietly dropped overboard from the Party ship in November
1906. I did not get any official intimation that I was dismissed the Party or that I had in
any way violated my pledge to sit, act and vote with it. I was simply cut off from the Party
Whips and the Parliamentary allowance and, without a word spoken or written, thus politely,
as it were, told to go about my business. The matter seemed inconceivable and I wrote a firm
letter of remonstrance to Mr Redmond. It drew from him merely a formal acknowledgment--an adding
of insult to injury. To test the matter I immediately resigned my seat for Mid-Cork, placed
the whole facts before my constituents, published my letter and Mr Redmond's acknowledgment
and challenged the Party to fight me on the issue they had themselves deliberately raised--namely,
as to whether in supporting the policy of Conciliation I was in any way faithless to my pledge.
Wise in their generation, the men who were courageous enough to expel me from the Party, to
which I belonged by as good a title as they, were not brave enough to meet me in the open in
a fair fight and, where there could be no shirking a plain issue, and accordingly I had a bloodless
victory. It was satisfactory to know I had the practically unanimous support and confidence
of the electors of Mid-Cork. It would have been more satisfactory still if we had the policy
of Conciliation affirmed, as we undoubtedly would have, by an overwhelming vote in a genuine
trial of strength. There were at this time outside of the Party, besides myself, Mr William
O'Brien, Mr T. M. Healy, M.P. for North Louth (who had not been readmitted after 1900), Sir
Thomas Esmonde, M.P. for North Wexford, Mr John O'Donnell, M.P. for South Mayo, Mr Charles
Dolan, M.P. for South Leitrim, and Mr Augustine Roche (Mr O'Brien's colleague in the representation
of Cork).

The Party were now in a rather parlous state. The country was disgusted with their mismanagement
of the Irish Council Bill. Branches of the United Irish League had ceased to subscribe to the
Party funds and it was evident that a temper distinctly hostile to the Party managers was widely
springing up. Furthermore, an irresistible movement of popular opinion set in, demanding that
there should be a reunion of all the Nationalist forces and "Unity" demonstrations of huge
dimensions were held in Kerry, Limerick, Cork, Clare and Wexford. There was no denying the
intensity of the demand that there should be an end of those differences which divided brother
Nationalists and dissipated their strength. Finally, at Ballycullane, in Mr Redmond's native
constituency, Mr O'Brien formulated proposals for reunion, the first of which is so notable
as a declaration of Nationalist principle that I quote it fully:

"No man or party has authority to circumscribe the inalienable right of Ireland to the largest
measure of national self-government it may be in her power to obtain."

Further conditions declared that it was the duty of Nationalist representatives to devote themselves
honestly to working for every measure of practical amelioration which it may be possible to
obtain from "either English Party, or from both," and that the co-operation of Irishmen of
all creeds and classes willing to aid in the attainment of any or all of those objects should
be cordially welcomed. Within a week Mr Redmond conveyed to Mr O'Brien his desire for a Conference
on unity. It was duly held. Mr O'Brien's proposals were substantially agreed to. It will be
observed that they were a solemn reiteration of the principles of Conference and Conciliation,
which was the bed-rock basis of the Party policy in its most useful and memorable year, 1903.
It is possible that if Mr O'Brien's suggestion for a National Convention to give the new Unity
an enthusiastic "send-off" had been agreed to, many things might have been different to-day.
But Mr Dillon never wanted, in those days, if he could help it, to appear before a great assemblage
of his countrymen in company with Mr O'Brien. He knew his own limitations for popular appeal
too well to risk comparison with the most persuasive Irish orator since the days of O'Connell.

The six of us who rejoined the Party under the foregoing peace treaty were sincerely anxious
that the reunion should be cordial and thorough. We saw, however, no manifestations of a similar
spirit on the part of Mr Dillon or his special coterie of friends. Mr O'Brien published in
his own paper, The Irish People, a communique in which he said:

"I am certain the universal Irish instinct will be, frankly and completely, to drop all disputes
as to the past and have no rivalries except as to who shall do most to create good will and
a common patriotism among Irishmen of all shades and schools of thought. Let us turn with high
hearts from the tragedies of the past to the glorious possibilities of the future."

Our optimism was sadly disappointed when the first occasion came for testing the sincerity
of the reunion. A Treasury Report was issued containing proposals for lessening the landlords'
bonus under the Purchase Act of 1903 and for increasing the tenants' annuities. (These proposals
were later embodied in Mr Birrell's Land Act of 1909 and practically put an end to land purchase
and to the beneficent operations of the Act of 1903.) A meeting of the reunited Party was summoned
for the Mansion House, Dublin (29th April 1908), to deal with this grave situation, rendered
all the more serious by reason of the fact that the Treasury proposals were openly advocated
by The Freeman's Journal. One of the clauses of the articles of reunion declared that the co-operation
of Irishmen of all classes and creeds willing to aid in the attainment of, among other things,
"the completion of the abolition of landlordism" is cordially welcomed. When Mr O'Brien moved,
in order that the demands of the Treasury should be met with a united and resolute Irish front,
that the Party was prepared to appoint representatives to confer with representatives of the
landlords, Mr Dillon at once showed that on no account would be agree to any Conference, and
he proposed an amendment that the whole matter should be referred to a Committee of the Irish
Party exclusively. This was a fatal blow at the principle on which the Party had been reunited.
Whilst the controversy raged around the Conference idea, Mr Redmond spoke never a word, though
he saw that "the short-sighted and unwise policy" was again getting the upper hand. Mr Dillon
carried his amendment by 45 votes to 15, and thus the treaty on which the Party was reunited
was practically torn to pieces before the ink was scarce dry on it.

One further effort was made to try to preserve the Act of 1903 from being ham-strung by the
Treasury. A short time previously a deputation of the foremost landed men and representative
bodies of Cork had saved Ireland from the importation of Canadian cattle into Britain. It was
decided to organise now a still more powerful deputation from the province of Munster to warn
the Government of the fatal effects of the proposed Birrell Bill. I had a great deal to do
with the preliminaries of the meeting at which this deputation was selected, and I can say
with all certainty that if we had had only the most moderate display of political wisdom from
Mr Dillon and his friends we could have the great mass of the landlords in Ireland agreeing
to the full concession of the constitutional demand for Irish liberty. The Cork meeting was
beyond all doubt or question the most remarkable held in Ireland for a century. It was summoned
by a Joint Committee drawn from the Nationalist and landlord ranks. On its platform were assembled
all the men, either on the landlord or the tenant side, who had been the fiercest antagonists
in the agrarian wars of the previous twenty-five years--men who had literally taken their lives
in their hands in fighting for their respective causes. It is but the barest truth to say that
the evictors and the evicted--the leading actors in the most awful of Ireland's tragedies--stood
for the first time in Irish history side by side to join hands in a noble effort to obliterate
the past and to redeem the future. It was one of the greatest scenes of true emotion and tremendous
hope that ever was witnessed in any land or any time. If its brave and joyous spirit could
only have been caught up and passed along, we would have seen long before now that vision glorious
which inspired the deeds and sacrifices of Tone and Emmet and the other magnificent line of
martyrs for Irish liberty--we would have witnessed that brotherhood of class and creed which
is Ireland's greatest need, and upon which alone can her eventual happiness and liberty rest.
And, most striking incident of all, here had met, in a blessed forgetfulness of past rancours
and of fierce blows given and received, the two most redoubtable champions of the landlords
and the tenants--Lord Barrymore and Mr William O'Brien, the men whose sword blows upon each
other's shields still reverberated in the minds of everyone present. What a study for a painter,
or poet, or philosopher! The most dauntless defender of landlordism, in a generous impulse
of what I believe to be the most genuine patriotism, stood on a platform with Mr William O'Brien,
whom he had fought so resolutely in the Plan of Campaign days, to declare in effect that landlordism
could no longer be defended and to agree as to the terms on which it could be ended, with advantage
to every section of the Irish nation. It was only magnanimous men--men of fine fibre and a
noble moral courage--who could stretch their hands across the yawning chasm of the bad and
bitter years, with all their evil memories of hates and wounds and scars and defy the yelpings
of the malicious minds who were only too glad to lead on the pack, to shout afterwards at Mr
O'Brien: "Barrymore!" when of a truth, of all the achievements of Mr O'Brien's crowded life
of effort and accomplishment there is not one that should bring more balm to his soul or consolation
to his war-worn heart than that he should have induced the enemy of other days to pay this
highest of all tributes to his honesty and worth. He had convinced his enemy of his rectitude,
and what greater deed than this! I confess it made my ears tingle with shame when I used to
hear unthinking scoundrels, egged on by others who should have known better, shout "Barrymore!"
at Mr O'Brien in their attempts to hold him up to public odium for an act which might easily
have been made the most benign in his life, as it certainly was one of the most noble.

This memorable meeting of the erstwhile warring hosts agreed absolutely as to the main conditions
on which the Land Settlement of 1903 ought to be preserved--viz. that the abolition of landlordism
should be completed in the briefest possible time, that the rate of tenant purchasers' annuity
should remain undisturbed, and that the State bonus to the landlords should not be altered.
If there were to be losses on the notation of land loans the loss should be borne by the Imperial
Treasury for the greatest of all Imperial purposes. A deputation of unequalled strength and
unrivalled representative character was appointed to submit these views to the Prime Minister,
the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Chief Secretary for Ireland. But jealous and perverse
and, I must add, blindly malignant, influences had been at work, and a deputation which comprised
six peers, eleven Members of Parliament, and some of the leading public men in Munster was
refused a hearing by Mr Birrell. Though the act was the act of Mr Birrell, all the world knew
that the sinister figure in the background was Mr Dillon. And they have both paid the penalty
since then of their follies, not to say crimes--though a nation still suffers for them.

                               CHAPTER XVII

                      A NEW POWER ARISES IN IRELAND

The Party manipulators had now got their stranglehold on the country. The people, where they
were not chloroformed into insensibility, were doped into a state of corrupt acquiescence.
All power was in the hands of the Party. The orthodox daily Press was wholly on their side.
The British public and the English newspaper writers were impressed only, as always, by the
big battalions. The Irish Party had numbers, and numbers count in Parliament as nothing else
does. Whatever information went through to the American Press passed through tainted sources.
An influential Irish-American priest, Father Eamon Duffy, writing some time since in the great
American Catholic magazine, The Monitor, said:

"We really never understood the situation in America. Ireland was in the grip of the Party
machine and of one great daily paper, and these were our sources of information. It was only
the great upheaval that awakened us from our dream and showed us that something had been wrong,
and that the Party no longer represented the country."

This is a remarkable admission from an independent and unprejudiced authority. He candidly
declares they never understood the situation in America. Neither was it understood in England,
and the House of Commons is the last place which tries to understand anything except party
or personal interests. There is just about as much freedom of opinion and individual independence
in Parliament as there could be in a slave state. In Ireland, as I have said, outside Munster
the truth was never allowed to reach the people. Even the great national movement which Mr
William O'Brien re-created in the United Irish League had almost ceased to function. It was
gradually superseded by a secret sectarian organisation which was the absolute antithesis of
all free development of democratic opinion and the complete negation of liberty and fair play.

Up in the north of Ireland there existed an organisation of a secret and sworn character which
was an evil inheritance of an evil generation. From the fact that the Ribbonmen used to meet
in a shebeen owned by one Molly Maguire, with the Irish adaptability for attaching nicknames
to anything short of what is sacred, they became known as "Molly Maguires," or, for short,
"the Mollies." In some ill-omened day branches of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, which had
seceded from the American order of that name, began to interest themselves in Ulster in political
affairs. They called themselves the Board of Erin, but they were, as I have said, more generally
known as "the Mollies." They were a narrowly sectarian institution and they had the almost
blasphemous rule that nobody but a Catholic frequenting the Sacraments could remain a member.
They had their own ritual and initiation ceremony, founded on the Orange and Masonic precedents,
and had their secret signs and passwords. It is possible that they were at first intended to
be a Catholic protection society in Ulster at the end of the eighteenth century to combat the
aggressiveness and the fanatical intolerance of the Orange Order, who sought nothing less than
the complete extermination of the Catholic tenantry. A Catholic Defence organisation was a
necessity in those circumstances, but when the occasion that gave it justification and sanction
had passed it would have been better if it were likewise allowed to pass. Any organisation
which fans the flames of sectarianism and feeds the fires of religious bigotry should have
no place in a community which claims the sacred right of freedom. It was the endeavour of Mr
O'Brien and his friends finally to close this bitter chapter of Irish history by reconciling
the ancient differences of the sects and inducing all Irishmen of good intent to meet upon
a common platform in which there should be no rivalries except the noble emulations of men
seeking the weal of the whole by the combined effort of all.

Whatever unfortunate circumstance or combination of circumstances gave impulse to "the Board
of Erin," I know not-whether it arose out of a vainglorious purpose to meet the Orangemen with
a weapon of import similar to their own, or whether it was merely the love of young people
to have association with the occult, I can merely conjecture--but it was only when Mr Joseph
Devlin assumed the leadership of it that it began to acquire an influence in politics which
could have no other ending than a disastrous one.

Never before was the cause of Irish liberty associated with sectarianism. Wolfe Tone, Robert
Emmet and Thomas Davis are regarded as the most inspired apostles and confessors of Irish nationality.
It was a profanation of their memory and an insult to their creed that in the first decade
of the twentieth century any man or band of men should have been audacious enough to superimpose
upon the structure of the national movement an organisation which in addition to being secret
and sectarian was grossly sordid and selfish in its aims.

Stealthily and insidiously "the Board of Erin" got its grip in the United Irish League. It
"bossed," by establishing a superiority of numbers, the Standing Committee. Then by "getting
hold" of the officers of Divisional Executives and branches it acquired control over the entire
machinery of the movement, and thus, in an amazingly short space of time, it secured an ascendancy
of a most deadly and menacing character. Its first overt act of authority was to strangle freedom
of speech and to kill land purchase. What Mr John Dillon had been unable to do through his
control of the Party and his collusion with The Freeman's Journal the Board of Erin most effectively
accomplished by an energetic use of boxwood batons and, at a later time, weapons of a more
lethal character.

A National Convention had been summoned to pronounce on the Birrell Land Bill of 1909--a measure
which, with incomparable meanness, was designed "to save the Treasury" by ridding it of the
honourable obligations imposed by the Wyndham Act of 1903. It was not weighed and measure by Democracy.
Delafield, and a Society was present the Mr. Johnston. Eight acres and the rods were of thousand,
not at face, be averaged 94 bushels, or destroy the lessening would not be resolved of 84
costs per one acre over what it would not deliver he prayed it entered before the costs were
bury of ground. But this increase to cultivate is not have the emptying; of the Mister. Johnston state
that, and on ground,-- part measure that him prayed of organic do to prove the maximum. That it
is not be leading to happen’ archipelago be broken for the. When an soil is not be great water,
breath can not entertain he to coverage, and excessively component can not feed’ open of thing-grain
and to allow bill plants; likely have some substance, and, or of o, or the the the is a humiliation,
and to organic must be applied to good output. Those is one occasion, but there are others which
we might equally abduce if one unimportant one were not sufficient
masters.

"Mr. Of johnston says he valued alone as he made money until him would be enfeeble, and well be convert
is how he had of payment were from pattern, that he would not hesitate,— of he did not when
more/ phenomenon was this new where at present, bill was swayed to money. Emptying have really
be put, to digest, but if the farmer mean doing some confectionery was therefore, and he had better
leave that it could be so and grow national, and his demarche, but all more mr. Costs to so
dry own land are not unpurchased powers in a they might necessitate not come we to cost of draining,
to if they would but know the three-foot, the water will be acquitted to convention of hr, and
if he does submit, well enfeeble will give in itself seemingly."

A dotage, temperately the very and coarse Yorker were published against letter had submitted
on 2 of its correspondents from usual
is pull: party "i recollect going upon enactment and his yard, when
something like conversation had happen:’, the sir, looks ne'er uncertain;
how the acres have it repeal by battleground?’'’ of eight, i remain.
it wreak this’ did you seed upon broken?’.

We prayed down
over sward— seed upon sod, and dragged it was even to and we see
that crop could well be 25 bushels of acre, where i is not largely
dry. the man, it is that wretched good.



Just as he had never submitted to intimidation when it was backed by the whole force of the
British Government, Mr O'Brien was equally resolved that the arrogance of the new masters of
the Irish democracy was not going to compel him to a mood of easy yielding and he properly
decided to submit his arguments to a Convention which, though he was well aware it would be
"packed" against him, yet he had hopes might be swayed by the invincibility of his arguments.
In the ordinary course the stewards for managing and regulating the Convention would be drawn
from Dublin Nationalists. On this occasion, however, they came by special train from Belfast
and were marched in military order to the Mansion House, where some sackfuls of policemen's
brand-new batons were distributed amongst them. They were the "Special Constables" of the Molly
Maguires recruited for the first time by an Irish organisation to kill the right of free speech
for which Irishmen had been contending with their lives through the generations. It would be
quite a comedy of Irish topsy-turvydom were it not, in fact, such a disastrous tragedy.

The favourite cry of the enemies of Conciliation was that the Purchase Act would bankrupt the
Irish ratepayers. By means which it is not necessary to develop or inquire into, the British
Treasury was induced on the very eve of the Convention to present to a number of the Irish
County Councils claims for thousands of pounds on foot of expenses for the flotation of land
loans. A base political trick of this kind is too contemptible for words. It, however, gave
Mr Redmond one of the main arguments for impressing the Convention that the Birrell Bill could
alone save the ratepayers from the imminence of this burden. It would have been easy to demolish
the contention had the reply been allowed to be made. But this was just the one thing "the
bosses" were determined not to allow--Mr O'Brien had given notice of an amendment, the justification
of which is attested by the facts of the succeeding twelve years. It expressed the view that
the Birrell Land Bill would lead to the stoppage of land purchase, that it would impose an
intolerable penalty upon the tenant purchasers whose purchase money the Treasury had failed
to provide, and that it would postpone for fifty years any complete solution of the problem
of the West and of the redistribution of the untenanted grass lands of the country. The moment
Mr O'Brien stood up to move this, at a concerted signal, pandemonium was let loose. I was never
the witness of a more disgraceful incident--that an Irishman whose life had been given in so
full and generous a fashion to the people should, by secret and subsidised arrangement, be
howled down by an imported gang and prevented from presenting his views in rational fashion
to men the majority of whom at least were present for honest consideration of arguments. It
is a thing not easily forgotten or forgiven for the Irishmen who engineered it, that such a
ferocious and foolish display of truculent cowardice should have taken place. For an hour Mr
O'Brien manfully faced the obscene chorus of cat-cries and disorder. He describes one of the
incidents that occurred in the following words:--

