ESSAYS ON SOME UNSETTLED QUESTIONS OF POLITICAL ECONOMY

by

JOHN STUART MILL

1844

PREFACE.

Of these Essays, which were written in 1829 and 1830, the fifth alone has been previously printed.
The other four have hitherto remained in manuscript, because, during the temporary suspension
of public interest in the species of discussion to which they belong, there was no inducement
to their publication.

They are now published (with a few merely verbal alterations) under the impression, that the
controversies excited by Colonel Torrens' Budget have again called the attention of political
economists to the discussions of the abstract science: and from the additional consideration,
that the first paper relates expressly to the point upon which the question at issue between
Colonel Torrens and his antagonists has principally turned.

From that paper it will be seen that opinions identical in principle with those promulgated
by Colonel Torrens (there would probably be considerable difference as to the extent of their
practical application) have been held by the writer for more than fifteen years: although he
cannot claim to himself the original conception, but only the elaboration, of the fundamental
doctrine of the Essay.

A prejudice appears to exist in many quarters against the theory in question, on the supposition
of its being opposed to one of the most valuable results of modern political philosophy, the
doctrine of Freedom of Trade between nation and nation. The opinions now laid before the reader
are presented as corollaries necessarily following from the principles upon which Free Trade
itself rests. The writer has also been careful to point out, that from these opinions no justification
can be derived for any protecting duty, or other preference given to domestic over foreign
industry. But in regard to those duties on foreign commodities which do not operate as protection,
but are maintained solely for revenue, and which do not touch either the necessaries of life
or the materials and instruments of production, it is his opinion that any relaxation of such
duties, beyond what may be required by the interest of the revenue itself, should in general
be made contingent upon the adoption of some corresponding degree of freedom of trade with
this country, by the nation from which the commodities are imported.

CONTENTS.

ESSAY I.

Of the Laws of Interchange between Nations; and the Distribution of the Gains of Commerce among
the Countries of the Commercial World

ESSAY II.

Of the Influence of Consumption upon Production

ESSAY III.

On the Words Productive and Unproductive

ESSAY IV.

Of the truths with which political economy has been enriched by Mr. Ricardo, none has contributed
more to give to that branch of knowledge the comparatively precise and scientific character
which it at present bears, than the more accurate analysis which he performed of the nature
of the advantage which nations derive from a mutual interchange of their productions. Previously
to his time, the benefits of foreign trade were deemed, even by the most philosophical enquirers,
to consist in affording a vent for surplus produce, or in enabling a portion of the national
capital to replace itself with a profit. The futility of the theory implied in these and similar
phrases, was an obvious consequence from the speculations of writers even anterior to Mr. Ricardo.
But it was he who first, in the chapter on Foreign Trade, of his immortal Principles of Political
Economy and Taxation, substituted for the former vague and unscientific, if not positively
false, conceptions with regard to the advantage of trade, a philosophical exposition which
explains, with strict precision, the nature of that advantage, and affords an accurate measure
of its amount.

He shewed, that the advantage of an interchange of commodities between nations consists simply
and solely in this, that it enables each to obtain, with a given amount of labour and capital,
a greater quantity of all commodities taken together. This it accomplishes by enabling each,
with a quantity of one commodity which has cost it so much labour and capital, to purchase
a quantity of another commodity which, if produced at home, would have required labour and
capital to a greater amount. To render the importation of an article more advantageous than
its production, it is not necessary that the foreign country should be able to produce it with
less labour and capital than ourselves. We may even have a positive advantage in its production:
but, if we are so far favoured by circumstances as to have a still greater positive advantage
in the production of some other article which is in demand in the foreign country, we may be
able to obtain a greater return to our labour and capital by employing none of it in producing
the article in which our advantage is least, but devoting it all to the production of that
in which our advantage is greatest, and giving this to the foreign country in exchange for
the other. As often as a country possesses two commodities, one of which it can produce with
less labour, comparatively to what it would cost in a foreign country, than the other; so often
it is the interest of the country to export the first mentioned commodity and to import the
second; even though it might be able to produce both the one and the other at a less expense
of labour than the foreign country can produce them, but not less in the same degree; or might
be unable to produce either except at a greater expense, but not greater in the same degree.

On the contrary, if it produces both commodities with greater facility, or both with greater
difficulty, and greater in exactly the same degree, there will be no motive to interchange.

"If the cloth and the corn, each of which required 100 days' labour in Poland, required each
150 days' labour in England; it would follow, that the cloth of 150 days' labour in England,
if sent to Poland, would be equal to the cloth of 100 days' labour in Poland: if exchanged
for corn, therefore, it would exchange for the corn of only 100 days' labour. Much
intensified the cold and began to pass in front of my cabinet a cristalejos white swabs were
dancing in the air, as if they resist staining with filth land. As if I had any doubts about the
nature of the symptoms that I Facia learned to realgar came very diligent and even smiling,
with the excuse of taking my hearth, which would be dying for 'embers' a bit, and I said as
he huddled to take him by the two handles:

- It nevandu, and there will be temporary EYU.

- And you - I said
wanting to hold his head in the ashes - as happy as a Easter because
of it.

But what breed of creature are you?

- Lord - suddenly drowning replied with a sob - all I know is that I am a woman very unhappy!

He left crying, and I stayed with remorse for having awakened in her that pain dryness of my
question. After I finished Amurri, watching from a quarter pound of laundry how they thicken the
flakes and disappearing all the mountains between the thick veils coming down from the sky.
Another time and another ambush in perspective as the last!

When he returned Facia with crackling hearth, my uncle came up behind her. Would talk me of the
snow that was on top. I was sorry, first, for me, finding again endless hours, God knows how
long, between the walls of the house because snowfall that came suddenly like that, and betrayal,
as it could be temporary durable, and secondly, why should he hide it? the cold seeped him more "flamenco"
what he thought the good spirits that had to resist ... But "bone, rogue like his old bone
was pure land, bad land is pure and softened and as desborregaba lumbraducas lacked the sun!
". Another thing: every year Snow pulled the ports corresponding portion of raw, and always
he saw snow for the first time each winter, he asked himself: what he will be playing this year
unhappy Luck? Because I never missed, a band or other who, by mistake, unfortunately or by
necessity, see caught and buried in the mountain by a snow cellerisca, and that he was not
bargained relief without fear of the examples of many who were there left with relief, wrapped
in a single shroud. Always distressed him these reflections, memories made about misfortunes
that stung to the quick, "but now Cuartajo!, Since I am what I am and I've seen the first
cloth falling snow! ... Na, man, ná, chocheces old apolillao to the core ... Well look what I come
with good songs for a time as this! ... Have you seen simple man your uncle Celso? Pispajo with
the hack of the demons! ".

The sad truth was that, despite the breaths he had become my uncle,
temporary raw slew him, and that the losses of his body is reflected
in the spirit for more who persisted in disguise.

As I spoke well and I answered him hanging around cabinet, stuck to the hearth as the old
bush at the crack of the rock, and kept alone to shovel heat a small thing that gave the ashes
to rest. Every time I arrived at the door of the sunshine, looking mechanically by one of its
panels, and saw how they thicken and piled flakes where the air deposited on the rail the
balcony, until one of my laps I noticed that large eddies are formed on garden, that volume grew
flakes, and, finally, beginning to "mop up" with such strength, emblanqueció in an instant the
little land that was visible from there, and went out the dim flashes of sunlight that had
two hours of struggling in vain with the thickness of Cloudy.

- Pure darkness - I heard my uncle from the hearth - and just over half late. Sorry for you, Marcelo
... and look, calls these convicted women to bring you a light and you loneliness is so sad
...

And in this desperately hit the ground with his Cachava, making me believe that the darkness
it saddened him more than me.

There was a candle on the dresser in his candle, and hurried it on a match of my Fosforera.

- Men's - continued to tell me, looking fixedly at how lit the flame
of the match the sickly pale and frozen candle - if I were you, would
build these prisons for read many tomes as you brought with you and
answer as many letters as you get ... Because Me do not have to take
care for nothing, for nothing, piece of junk!

In leaning against the lumbrona the kitchen, I have everything I need ... And if not, see it enough.

Thus
rose from his chair and began to walk the blessed of God, without giving me little time for
lighting the candle in the darkest of passages.

Read! Write!

The poor guy did not know that when a man gives way to find tedious of hours, can not engage in
anything that distracts, it needs all the time bored, as mandated
by a law of naughty human condition.

That night came a soul to the gathering, and face so sad as there
was in the kitchen of Facia, the incomprehensible and mysterious woman
gray.

My uncle and I, as we used to do often dined at the lazy: he corresponding portion of milk, food
only I had prescribed Neluco lately, invincible suit both your appetite and the nature of his
illness, and I condumios ordinary Tona and his mother, who had been doing my stomach grateful.

As
the night was so long and I knew what it looked like ending my poor uncle Part of it is intended
by the people who are healthy to rest in bed, I tried liest down to us as late as possible,
after supper the three servants and recogídose the vessel, and returned
all to get close to the fire and I tried, with little luck, get Tona
from the bondage of a drowsiness that was constantly pitching, and
their impassive Chisco suspect.

But my uncle, who all watched, he soon the voice of "let's go ', and rose from his chair, more
grateful than satisfied that as notorious as useless sacrifice everyone was doing for him.

Before going to bed I left the sunshine for a moment to see how was the night. Still snowing
and all I saw the sky black and white on the ground, without which disturb the serenity of that gloomy
picture of the other rumors that river, very rough with the tributes of the past sleet and I
was collecting the snow melted on contact with him.

I woke up very early the next day, and to satisfy a curiosity that was a lot of childish, I looked
out the balcony, well wrapped. It had stopped snowing but the sky was overcast "Colored donkey's
belly." I had seen snow in Madrid and Paris and St. Petersburg, ... much snow, but always on level
ground and between streets: that is, a canvas mat dirty on the street,
and white fleece blankets lying on the roofs in front; snow, finally,
theater, without the slightest resemblance to what I was watching
from the sunny side my uncle.

It seemed that the mountains of contour height had tripled, and the unit color all with the
roundness of forms that gave them the accumulation of snow its natural and sharp asperities, changed
into my eyes all the terms and all lines the picture that I was so well known. Was not the new one
detail that orient to rebuild that had been erased in a few hours. Woodlands, trails, creeks,
all had disappeared, or under the snow, or delusions without clear light-dark, sky, mountains, valleys
... was all the same, as a huge pool of refined salt or lime alive in the bottom of which was me.
Not a bird in the space, nor a living in the soil As covered in sight, and the continuous murmur,
like, monotonous, the invisible river, as if was the rattle of nature, died shivering, anemic
and bloated by the coldness.

I turned to the cabinet soon, very bad impression, and found in the relative warmth of the bedroom
a temporary remedy to bitter cold in the sunshine had penetrated as a bolt in my body and my spirit.

Lavoteándome
was still to search for this medium comforting reaction when he entered Facia believe tiptoed
still asleep, with the brazier had been removed from cabinet night, as usual, before I sleep.
Seeing me up, I looked forward, because I had to give me a story, not good. I thought it was
my uncle, and I was alarmed.

- It is not amu, thank God - I said in response to a question I did, which has Passau pretty
good night, and it is warming up in the kitchen ..

Probe is pepazo.

Ask him what had happened to pepazo, and he said he had not returned home from I had left it the
previous evening.

- But why take the way out? - I asked again.

- By the puertus - I said the grim woman sadly.

I shuddered remembering what my uncle told me about the taxes paid each year snow in the mountains.
Going into further explanation, I knew pepazo, when he saw the first flakes of falling snow,
went in search of his home mares, before noon grazing in a big hole, walked less than an hour from
the town, up the hill. Had seen himself. Mares are free to escape the strange condition of the
snow to the summits, the reverse of all domestic animals. It is said that they do so instinctive
aversion to captivity. Or may not be so, but is a constant fact that singular custom. For
pepazo have it well known, went in search of his mares whose whereabouts are known. Supposed
The uncouth animals, presuming that his master was play them, flee to the heights. Another
who pepazo, seeing this and thinking of the snow was coming over, because were very clear signals
it would let the devil take the mares and Vueltosa the people for the time being, but it was,
after short notice, very stubborn, nothing apprehensive and relied too much on the strength
of oak, and the bet on the fast animals if they were all about, and so, running after them in
Canada in Canada and hill to hill, to Maybe it would be in the dark of night and the roads cleared
by the snow. So that if fortune had not, as previously thought, falling into a winter covachona
or so, was a dead man at that hour, it must have been in the mountains closer than a yard
of snow. It was much that was mopped from the drop night!

I was displeased reasoned this sad outcome, and asked if he planned to do something in view
of him what I said Facia was already done what could be done.

As dawn broke had left the place, not all men who gave it, because they had been too, but those
who were chosen more on the subject for their toughness and experience: About a dozen of them
together. Asking her the names of those brave and charitable neighbors, the first cytoma Don
Sabas, who never missed those calls, it was considered necessary as any other business to attend
to the life of the rescued, and unique their parish to the business of the soul, if she and
unfortunately not enough time and for another thing, then appointed me to the doctor, who could not
at home as he knew was some neighbors in the plight of pepazo, then Chisco, one of the men
bolder, stronger and more knowledgeable for that breed of tasks, and after appointing others
were so I would not estimated, because they have been treated less, closed the account Pito
Salces, boy capable of the impossible, provided he could get his side who was prevented from
do a lot, and three dogs in good nose, one Canelo.

I found this company far more higher than mine of the day before, not only for quality the enemy,
but by the greatness of purpose, and asked the gray woman some reports
how to carry it out.

Iban the expedition provided primarily for "snowshoeing" tables with three holes each, which put
the anchors of the sandals. There was nothing like it to walk on snow without sinking your feet
or be formed pellets between the anchors. They also carried shovels, spades, ropes and other
tools to open step where I had not discovered, or send some help from up where I could not
down a man by his feet are not forget the brandy and some solid food dry clothes or if he had
at hand ... one bit of kit, since it was the doctor, because had to think of everything. In this
way would take the march to the "jewel" where he had pepazo gone to pick up the mares, and
then the course would take more come to believe that might take him, running after the animal
escaped. For one thing, he had almost assurance that the road had been one and some uphill. With
these precautions and good will of all, you could expect something ... but not much, if God
did not take the If your account. At any rate, could not do anything more than what had been
done in the smallness of human strength.

Facia also warned me that my uncle did not know a word of the event, and I highly recommend it
the need not come to know, inventing an excuse to explain any the absence of Chisco if the notice.
And that stayed.

When the gray woman left me alone in my room, I insisted stubbornly to consider its black side
of the generous enterprise undertaken by those dedicated tablanqueses,
and returned to out on the balcony.

Then it was not snowing, but I pressed the spirit to see the look grim and threats posed by
sky, and yet I felt some mortification of self- have not told me to be part of that intrepid
legion, as if there I been a real and continuing encumbrance on it! But if not accompanied physically,
not turned away a moment from my memory, and therefore, to look out the windows of my observatories
(And they were all clear of the house), each flake was going solo and reach undecided my eyes, I
was very concerned by courier believe a thousand and one billion of them. Fortunately the air
was calm, which would have made less formidable in the bush a intensification of the storm.

So matters continued until near noon. At that time came from the Northwest celajes a black, dirty,
stormy, I saw, almost at the same time the woods and ends projections of the mountains encircling
the valley on the opposite side, for the strength of a instant thrill
of their sheaths undressing of snow, which fell in cataracts, raising
the drop-white dust storms that swept the air and rough, and very
little while that of the lowest cloud and more distant and more black,
showed a mass in the form of inverted cone, and its peak is linked
with another rising from the earth.

Cast and the two cones, formed a huge column, which, while turning sharply on its axis, moving
toward the valley came and went to him and crossed out wide, playing near the ground with his
base and raising enormous capital above the highest peaks del Este. Rebramar Acompañábala a
sinister and eerie light that just let me see the havoc of their clash against the immovable obstacle
of the mountains, on which he burst into frayed black ribbons. What would become of the unhappy
wandering in the peaks and slopes? ...

Under the terrific weight of this idea, spent an hour, during which calm reigned in nature, but no news
arrived in the valley of the unfortunate expedition.

They called me to dinner, I sat down at the table and not eat, did not even know well the concerns
disguise they were the cause of it before my uncle not take his eyes off me, invented to reassure
a lie watermelon and darned bad, and I finally got out of the lazy,
leaving the poor guy convinced that my resignation was about to run
out in the presence of that temporary black.

I preferred to believe that to discover the truth left him lying so he called his food, and I
turned to my round, clear clear, for all the windows of the house.

Continued becalmed wind and it snowed very little, but he came round Chisco anywhere, not a news
than I expected with a forward who played in the fever.

He arrived mid-afternoon, dark, dark, gloomy and as fraught with horrors to all who contemplate with
eyes like those of my misgivings.

Or snowing or sale now, and there was a voice nor a footstep or a stroke, or the house or the people
born soul was heading for any path are visible.

All was silence and gloom and threats of a tremendous night for the unfortunate that walked alive and
wandering among the elements of the mountain.

My concerns and did not fit inside me, and I inside the house. I fit and conveniently sheltered
behind me, went down to the portal with many precautions to avoid noticing my uncle, and resolutely
embarked on the journey of the people, erase all the snow. I scree falling cost of more than four sacks,
but I live and soon. Not aspire me something else. At what door to knock? At first. I called.
Same fears there than mine and not a news story that is, no news. Internéme in place and knocked
on another door, which proved to be of the molehill. Good source for the information I was
looking for. Hallab family wandering around the house and the portal, without a word and stumbling
around with other, peering into the corners, looking around and listening to there, and turning
turning in and out. Her eyes like fists Tanasi of both mourn, and as saw me took the apron to
them, and such was his grief that seemed to cast the soul in each sob. Moreover, it was very
pretty. Worst fear me, asked her why she was crying, and I answered, among jipidos and tears,
if I seem few reasons.

- I can see - I said Toper coming in his defense - with the black cellerisca few jaz hours, and
what is in the monti not know EYU ...

Pepazo I remembered, but also Chisco. Which of the two Tanasi cry? Unable ask (although it had
been idle question), I tried to comfort her.

I failed suddenly, it was great to calm storm in one spell, but two or three I did, it were no more
than the swelling of the eyes and the occasional sigh eaten bad chest. Using the influence
he undoubtedly had reached me at this test on the mood of Tanasi, I felt like starting it hopes
the secret of his heart little that I set on it, but mine was keenly interested in other matters
too different, and I thought the commitment to a desecration. What mattered and preferences love
with the daughter of Toper, when pepazo Chisco and with all who had risen to the mountain with
the first search of the second, could not be more, at this hour, a bad lot of rigid bodies
wrapped in the shroud of snow? Arrastráronse to this aside all my ambitions, and harassment
of idle questions each and every one of the house. The only thing I got in clean and again
was the news as soon as the tornado passed noon, was out another expedition of brave, but no
more than "against eyus', 'against' were missing, ie, to meet him, or see if discerned from a
distance. You could not do anything, ignoring, as ignorant, its direction and fate in an afternoon
so short, so threatening and fearing a night like that is suspect. The fact is that there is
every reason to tremble and shake, I shuddered and trembled as I Don Sabas thinking in Neluco in
Chisco in Salces Pito ... Merciful God, what would them and to all who had accompanied him on
his denon company!


Suppose that England taxes her export of cloth: the tax not being supposed high enough to induce
Germany to produce cloth for herself. For the money value of her exports to Germany being increased,
while her imports remain the same, money will flow into England from Germany. Germany, on the
other hand, would suffer doubly: she would have to pay for her cloth a price increased not
only by the duty, but by the influx of money into England, while the same change in the distribution
of the circulating medium would leave her less money to purchase it with.

This, however, is only one of three possible cases. If, after the imposition of the duty, Germany
requires so diminished a quantity of cloth, that its total money value is exactly the same
as before, the balance of trade will be undisturbed; England will gain the duty, Germany will
lose it, and nothing more. By the change in the distribution of money, cloth will fall in England;
and therefore it will, of course, fall in Germany. Thus Germany will not pay the whole of the
tax. From the same cause, linen will rise in Germany, and consequently in England. Money will,
therefore, flow out of England into Germany. One effect is to raise the price of linen in Germany,
and, consequently, in England. The balance, therefore, can only be restored by the other effect,
which is going on at the same time, namely, the fall of cloth in the English, and, consequently,
in the German market.

Such are the extremely various effects which may result to ourselves, and to our customers,
from the imposition of taxes on our exports [3]: and the determining circumstances are of a
nature so imperfectly ascertainable, that it must be almost impossible to decide with any certainty,
even after the tax has been imposed, whether we have been gainers by it or losers. It is certain,
however, that whatever we gain, is lost by somebody else, and there is the expense of the collection
besides: if international morality, therefore, were rightly understood and acted upon, such
taxes, as being contrary to the universal weal, would not exist. Moreover, the imposition of
such a tax frequently will, and always may, expose a country to lose this branch of its trade
altogether, or to carry it on with diminished advantage, in consequence of the competition
of untaxed exporters from other countries, or of the domestic producers in the country to which
it exports. Even on the most selfish principles, therefore, the benefit of such a tax is always
extremely precarious.

5. Prices will fall in Germany, and rise in England; linen will fall in the German market;
cloth will rise in the English.

It is scarcely necessary to observe, that no such advantage can result from the duty, if it
operate as a protecting duty; if it induce the country which imposes it, to produce for herself
that which she would otherwise have imported. The saving of labour--the increase in the general
productiveness of the capital of the world--which is the effect of commerce, and which a non-protecting
duty would enable the country imposing it to engross, could not be engrossed by a protecting
duty, because such a duty prevents any such increased production from existing.

With a view to practical legislation, therefore, duties on importation may be divided into
two classes: those which have the effect of encouraging some particular branch of domestic
industry, and those which have not. In bedrooms
were beautifully carved oak beds with damask hangings. Various Pictures family, of pompous ladies
and knights, lent authority to the rooms and I got very aristocratic seal. During the winter
cold and snow was there very comfortable, thanks to huge chimneys which could burn whole logs
of oak and colossal glazed earthenware stoves were also in many quarters. But the building was vast,
and was proportionately small portion of it was kept furnished and inhabited. Long and empty galleries,
unfurnished, mysterious passageways and narrow, crooked stairs going down to the deep basements
or rose to the top of the towers, rendered to whole building very timid appearance and fertile
imagination and vast space create ghosts and supernatural wonders.

Accustomed and fond of the Countess widow and her old house, nothing,
however, feared.

On the contrary, he might have pleased her to see through the eyes of his mortal body and to
speak and hear several ghosts of her husband's parents, which souls, he claimed the masses,
often appearing at night, and went wandering through the garret and innermost recesses of that
obscure architectural maze.

Nor Count Henry, somewhat skeptical and Voltaire, was afraid of the supernatural. Almost he
was considered supernatural. Artificially lived, thanks to a strict regime and the science
atinadísima your doctor. In his first youth, and, despite his limp, had enjoyed better relative
health, and had been able to spend long periods in Vienna, attending to the classroom and engaging
study.

If the fact be, that by allowing to foreigners a participation in our machinery, we enable
them to produce any of our leading articles of export, at a lower money price than we can sell
those articles, it is certain that unless we possess as great an advantage in the production
of the machinery itself as we have in the production of other articles by means of machinery,
the permitting of its exportation would alter to our disadvantage the division of the benefit
of trade. Our exports being diminished, we should have to pay a balance in money. This would
raise, in foreign countries, the price of everything which we import from thence: while our
incomes, being reduced in money value, would render us less able to buy those articles even
if they had not risen. The equilibrium of exports and imports would only be restored, when
either some of the latter became so dear that we could produce them cheaper at home, or some
articles not previously exported became exportable from the fall of prices. In the one case,
we lose the benefit of importation altogether, and are obliged to produce at home, at a greater
cost. In the other case, we continue to import, but pay dearer for our imports. 

Importing NATION .-- Buenos Aires

CONTENTS

I. - The curtain rises,
this time without metaphor

II .-- The safe arrival of the "Bella"

Paula "

III .-- In the couple begins to think love nest

IV .-- How Sarrió individuals gathered in a room named the "Saloncillo"
and what there was talking

V. --¡¡¡ Thieves!

VI .-- Which treats Cecilia team

VII .-- Which treats of two traitors

VIII
.-- From the Founding meeting held in the theater Sarrió assisted
Fourth Estate

IX .-- History of a tear

X. - the glorious appearing
of "The Lighthouse Sarrió" in the stadium press .-- First fires the
battle of thought

XI .-- .-- That Gonzalo Graves married riots between
partners' Saloncillo "

XII .-- How fun Pablito

XIII .-- In some secrets are discovered in the life of Gonzalo

XIV
.-- Of the Gallicisms who committed "Sarrió Lighthouse" and other
less interesting matters not .-- First casualties of the battle of
thought

XV .-- Of the famous entrance to the Duke did in Sarrió Tornos,
Count of Buenavista

XVI .-- Of the many and good that did the Duke
of lathes in Sarrio

XVII .-- That takes a serious Gonzalo Cecilia
resolution and other

XVIII .-- Where pulls the blanket Dona Brigida

XIX
.-- In which ends this story with some remarkable, the sad events

CHAPTER
ONE

THE CURTAIN RISES BY THIS TIME WITHOUT METAPHOR

In Sarrió famous
village, bordering the Bay of Biscay, there was a few years ago a
theater not clean, not clear, not comfortable, but dutifully served
for solace during the long nights winter to their peaceful and industrious
inhabitants.

Was built, like almost everyone, horseshoe shape. It consisted of
two floors over the bass.

In the first boxes, so-called God knows why, as there were but few
banks stuffed ball and lining red flannel placed around the sill.

To sit in them was forced to push support, which was hinged at intervals,
and at the same time raise the seat.

Once inside he dropped back seat, turned the back into place and settle the person in the worst way you
can be human creature outside the rack.

In the second floor seethed, shouted, coceaba and snorted the whole
mob of people without a difference class, the same height as the sailor
who was fishing in the bay Murgas or pawn discharge, the reseller
Amalia Sena well as those bringing in "fresh air" to the capital.

To that place was called "the pot."

The seats were of the same abhorrent pelote that boxes and the lining
should also be of the same color, could not be known with certainty.

Behind of them had, in the old style, a patio for some artisans who,
by age, category of teachers or any other circumstance, repugnant
to the pan up and join to the raging mob.

From the ceiling hung a chandelier, curd-shaped glass pieces prismatic,
with oil lamps.

Later it was replaced by oil, but I did not manage to see such a
reform.

Under the stairs leading to the boxes was a closed niche blind they
called "Don Mateo's box."

This Don Mateo'll talk later.

Then let it be known that in such a tracery of theater represented the same dramas and comedies
that the Prince and the operas were sung at La Scala in Milan. "It seems incredible, eh? Nothing
more true. There he first heard the narrator of this story those famous verses:

If you hear tell the story of a castaway, Since the earth to the love you miss ...

Certainly that seemed excellent, and the theater a marvel of luxury and good taste. All in the
world depends on the imagination. Hopefully I had so much alive and as fresh as ever to entertain
you nicely several hours. It has also seen the Don Juan Tenorio. And their late wheat flour-smeared,
his commander filtering through a door tied with string, his hell in spirit of wine and her apotheosis
of paper lining trunks, was impressed so that he could not sleep that night.

In the room going, more or less, as in the most magnificent theaters of the Court. However,
it is generally attended by more than they show. We had not reached that higher level of refinement,
by which actions must be pleasant contrast to the place where they run, verbi-grace, chat in
the theater laughing in the churches, go serious and silent, and pathetic in the ride, as, fortunately,
in Madrid. I do not know if Sarrió have already climbed to the present time this step of civilization.

Neither
created missing some spirits so lucid that was ahead of his time
and sensed what was to be the theater in time.

Pablito Belinchón was one of them. Had always paid in the company of three or four friends, the
proscenium stage. From there spoke to other older gentlemen, subscribers in the box opposite:
they said jokes, made fun of the treble or bass, and threw candy and paper darts. Certainly
the public of the seats, still outside the refinements of civilization,
used to silence them savagely with a strong chicheo.

    The most important families were accustomed
    to enter in those boxes hypocritical after the curtain opened with
the same solemnity that if they entered a theater audience at the
Royal, and cash with a lot more noise.

Not can well imagine the horrid crack that gave him back to be pushed, and that drop seat with
the intention of attracting attention.

Say if the family currently makes her grand entrance in one of them and remains stand shedding
coats, while the spectators amused for a moment view of the scene and fix them, until they feel. They
are the lords of Belinchón.

The head of the family, Don Rosendo, is a tall, thin, bent at the spine, bald pate, small and
sunken eyes, large mouth, which was contracting with a smile Mephistopheles, showing two rows
of teeth long and equal, the most complete work of some established dentist in a few months ago
Sarrió. Spend short sideburns and mustache, and represents sixty years of age. Is known for
the first merchant of the town and one of the first importers of cod from the Cantabrian coast. For
many years monopolized entirely Wholesale sales of this article,
not only in the village, but throughout the province, and thanks a
result had gained a considerable fortune.

His wife, Dona Paula ... But why is just so long awake in the theater sound to your appearance? The
good lady, listen, is shaky and unclear, it fails to get rid of the coat, and his daughter
Cecilia is required to remove it and tell the ear: - Sit down, Mom! He sits, or rather, is dropped
on the bench and run a stray from the public gaze, while his cheeks Live crimson stain. In
vain attempts fanning herself with verve and calm. Nothing: the more efforts made by turbulent
blood away from the face, put the damn harder to hold that visible.

- Mom, what color you are! - Venturita tells his youngest daughter, struggling not to laugh.

The
mother looks at her expression of anxiety.

- Hush, Ventura, silent .-- says Cecilia.

Dona Paula, encouraged by these words, whispers

- This girl enjoys but in shame.

And he was about to relent and mourn.

Finally, the public got tired of tormenting her with his eyes, smiles and whispers, and set
of new attention on the scene. Dona Paula Grief was gradually ceasing, but were it remains overnight.

The cause of this incident was the velvet coat trimmed with fur that good lady had set. Whenever premiered
a piece of glossy appearance, was the same. And this for no other reason than because it was
not Mrs. Dona Paula birth. Came from the kind of cigar. Don Rosendo had had an affair with
her being almost a child, the Pablito whom was born. Still, Don Rosendo was five or six years without
marrying or wanting hear about marriage, but visiting her at home and assisting her with money.
Until finally won over by the love child of the mother, and, above all this, the warnings of his
friends, he decided to turn his hand to Paulina.

The population learned of the marriage until after any: that secrecy
was kept to carry out.

Since then the life of the cigarette can be divided into several
major periods.

The first that lasts a year, ranging from marriage to "mantilla veil."

During this time, Belinchón lady was no less or more in public.

On Sunday morning Mass would and shut himself home again.

When he decided to wear the mantle above and go to church eleven,
both in the church in the streets of traffic, peppered looks, and
discussed the incident for more than eight days.

The second period lasts three years, includes from "the mantilla veil" to "gloves." View of
this ornament in great hands and red of the former cigar was indescribable excitement in the female
element the neighborhood.

On the streets, in church, on visits, asking the ladies greeted: - Have ?...-- you seen Yeah, yeah,
I've seen .-- And I began skinning. Next comes the third period, that lasts four years and ending
"silk dress", which gave almost as much to grumble as gloves, and there was general outrage
Sarrió .-- Tell me, Dolores, what's left and to do? - Doña Dolores lowered his eyes with a gesture
of resignation. Finally, fourth, the longest of all because it lasts six years, over, oh scandalous!
'With hat. " No one can represent the thrill of wonder that invaded the town of Sarrió when
a certain show was presented late Dona Paula on the promenade with top hat. It was a real
riot. The village women crossed themselves as he passed and pronounced comments aloud to hear
that the person concerned.

- Women, look for your life to what Serena wears on the head lighter!

Because it should be noted that the mother of Dona Paula called it the Serena, and Grandma and
a great-grandmother as well.

Needless to add that since the cigarette rose to the rank of lady, even by accident and gave it
its proper name.

The next day, the ladies stumble Sarrió on the street, finding no words with which to express their
horror, were given for content with raising his eyes to heaven, waving arms convulsively, and
pass by muttering: "Hat!"

Before that bold stroke that has no partner, but with some heroes of old, Hannibal, Caesar, Genghis
Khan, the town was silent and depressed a few months. However, each Once the good of Dona Paula
appeared in public with the abominable hat on or any other article of his own high rank, was
always greeted with a murmur reproach. And the original case was that she did not protest publicly
or in secret, even in the sanctity of conscience, against the evil
of their people come home.

Juzgábalo natural and logical. He could not think think that would
be otherwise.

Its sociological ideas not yet advised him to rebel against the verdict of public opinion.
Believed in good faith to put on gloves or a fur coat or hat, I made
a act rejected by the divine and human laws.

The whispers, the mocking, were the necessary punishment for this infraction. Hence, their fears
and anxieties every time I went to stand in the theater or on the
promenade, and flush the rushing.

Why then, say, Dona Paula is dressed like this?

Not be very knowledgeable human heart that such a question. Dona Paula put on his hat and gloves
knowingly that would embarrass him as a guy opens the cupboard and knowingly sweet docks then
they have to flog. Those who have not been reared in a village, you never know how tasty treat
is the hat for an artisan.

Dona Paula was high, dry, awkward. When she had been a good girl, but the years, continuous
closure, which was not seasoned, and especially the struggle that had maintained with the public
to establish their hierarchy, had withered prematurely. Still beautiful black eyes kept enclosed
in a nice face and good features.

The first act came to an end. It was a fantastic melodrama, whose name I remember, where the company
had made all the scenic apparatus that was available.

Casserole I was amazed, and welcomed each change of decoration with loud applause. Pablito
Belinchón had happened in Madrid a month last year, laughed incontestable superiority one appliance
with smart winking in front of the stage. And to prove that the whole thing bored him, ended by
turning his back on stage and look to twins to the local beauties. Each time the skin beautiful
Russian glasses pointed one, the girl suffered a slight shudder,
changed position, her hand a tremulous little hair to fix it, smiled
at his mother or his sister for no reason is put serious again, and
fixed strongly and decisively their eyes on the scene.

But at the moment the fast rising shyly to those beady crystals that obfuscated. Finally concluded
by blushing. Pablito, satisfied, pointing to another beauty. The known as if they were her
sisters, tuteaba to most of them and many had been boyfriend: but the pen in the air was not
more mobile and changeable in the field he loves. All had to suffer
a painful disappointment.

Of late, tired of love to neighbors, had been dedicated to fascinate many outsiders came to Sarrió,
only to abandon, Of course, if they committed the folly of staying in the village over a month
or two.

There are good reasons why Pablito could have his good-natured heart all young Indians and
even the bizarre. He was a young man of twenty-four apuestísimo or twenty years, handsome face
and manly, graceful and elegant figure. Horseback riding and admirably led by a cabriolet or a
four-horse chariot, which no one could do Sarrio more than the drivers. When wearing the baggy
pants, the Pablito seemed skirts, if narrow, was a stork.
 From this it obviously
follows, that if the restrictions were removed, we should have to pay rather more for some
of the articles which we now import, while those which we are now prevented from importing
would cost us more than might be inferred from their present price in the foreign market. And
general prices would fall; to the benefit of those who have fixed sums to receive; to the disadvantage
of those who have fixed sums to pay; and giving rise, as a general fall of prices always does,
to an appearance, though a temporary and fallacious one, of general distress. [5]

It is right to observe that the measures of the British Legislature which have been falsely
characterised as measures of free trade, must, from their extremely insignificant extent, have
produced far too little effect in increasing our importation, to have actually led, in any
degree worth mentioning, to the results specified above.

It is of greater importance to take notice, that these effects may be entirely obviated, if
foreign countries can be prevailed upon simultaneously to relax their restrictive systems,
so as to create an immediate increase of demand for our exports at the present prices. It is
true that exports and imports must, in the end, balance one another, and if we increase our
imports, our exports will of necessity increase too. But it is a forced increase, produced
by an efflux of money and fall of prices; and this fall of prices being permanent, although
it would be no evil at all in a country where credit is unknown, it may be a very serious one
where large classes of persons, and the nation itself, are under engagements to pay fixed sums
of money of large amount.

10. The only remaining application of the principle set forth in this essay, which we think
it of importance to notice specially, is the effect produced upon a country by the annual payment
of a tribute or subsidy to a foreign power, or by the annual remittance of rents to absentee
landlords, or of any other kind of income to its absent owners. Remittances to absentees are
often very incorrectly likened in their general character to the payment of a tribute; from
which they differ in this very material circumstance, that tribute, if not paid to a foreign
country, is not paid at all, whereas rents are paid to the landlord, and consumed by him, even
if he resides at home. The two kinds of payment, however, have a perfect resemblance to each
other in such parts of their effects as we are about to point out.

The tribute, subsidy, or remittance, is always in goods; for, unless the country possesses
mines of the precious metals, and numbers those metals among its regular articles of export,
it cannot go on, year after year, parting with them, and never receiving them back. When a
nation has regular payments to make in a foreign country, for which it is not to receive any
return, its exports must annually exceed its imports by the amount of the payments which it
is bound so to make. In order to force a demand for its exports greater than its imports will
suffice to pay for, it must offer them at a rate of interchange more favourable to the foreign
country, and less so to itself, than if it had no payments to make beyond the value of its
imports. It therefore carries on the trade with less advantage, in consequence of the obligations
to which it is subject towards persons resident in foreign countries.

The steps of the process are these. The exports and imports being in equilibrium, suppose a
treaty to be concluded, by which the country binds itself to pay in tribute to another country,
a certain sum annually. It makes, perhaps, the first payment by a remittance of money. This
lowers prices in the paying country, and raises them in the receiving one: the exports of the
tributary country increase, its imports diminish. When the efflux of money has altered prices
in the requisite degree, the exports exceed the imports annually, by the amount of the tribute;
and the latter, being added to the sum of the payments due, restores the balance of payments
between the two countries. The result to the tributary country is a diminution of her share
in the advantage of foreign trade. She pays dearer for her imports, in two ways, because she
pays more money, and because that money is of higher value, the money incomes of her inhabitants
being of smaller amount.

Thus the imposition of a tribute is a double burthen to the country paying it, and a double
gain to that which receives it. The tributary country pays to the other, first, the tax, whatever
be its amount, and next, something more, which the one country loses in the increased cost
of its imports, the other gains in the diminished cost of its own.

Absenteeism, moreover, though not burthensome in the former of these ways, since the money
is paid whether the receiver be an absentee or not, is yet disadvantageous in the second of
the two modes which have been mentioned. Ireland pays dearer for her imports in consequence
of her absentees; a circumstance which the assailants of Mr. M'Culloch, whether political economists
or not, have not, we believe, hitherto thought of producing against him.

11. If the question be now asked, which of the countries of the world gains most by foreign
commerce, the following will be the answer.

If by gain be meant advantage, in the most enlarged sense, that country will generally gain
the most, which stands most in need of foreign commodities.

But if by gain be meant saving of labour and capital in obtaining the commodities which the
country desires to have, whatever they may be; the country will gain, not in proportion to
its own need of foreign articles, but to the need which foreigners have of the articles which
itself produces.

Let us take, as an illustration of our meaning, the case of France and England. Those two nations,
in consequence of the restrictions with which they have loaded their commercial intercourse,
carry on so little trade with each other, as may almost, regard being had to the wealth and
population of the two countries, be called none at all. If these fetters were at once taken
off, which of the two countries would be the greatest gainer? England without doubt. There
would instantly arise in France an immense demand for the cottons, woollens, and iron of England;
while wines, brandies, and silks, the staple articles of France, are less likely to come into
general demand here, nor would the consumption of such productions, it is probable, be so rapidly
increased by the fall of price. The fall would probably be very great before France could obtain
a vent in England for so much of her exports as would suffice to pay for the probable amount
of her imports. There would be a considerable flow of the precious metals out of France into
England. The English consumer of French wine would not merely save the amount of the duty which
that wine now pays, but would find the wine itself falling-in prime cost, while his means of
purchasing it would be increased by the augmentation of his own money income. The French consumer
of English cottons, on the contrary, would not long continue to be able to purchase them at
the price they now sell for in England. He would gain less, as the English would gain more,
than might appear from a mere comparison between the present prices of commodities in the two
countries.

Various consequences would flow from opening the trade between France and England, which are
not expected, either by the friends or by the opponents of the present restrictive system.
The wine-growers of France, who imagine that free trade would relieve their distress by raising
the price of their wine, might not improbably find that price actually lowered. On the other
hand, our silk manufacturers would be surprised if they were told that the free admission of
our cottons and hardware into the French market, would endanger their branch of manufacture:
yet such might very possibly be the effect. France, it is likely, could most advantageously
pay us in silks for a portion of the large amount of cottons and hardware which we should sell
to her; and though our silk manufacturers may now be able to compete advantageously, in some
branches of the manufacture, with their French rivals, it by no means follows that they could
do so when the efflux of money from France, and its influx into England, had lowered the price
of silk goods in the French market, and increased all the expenses of production here.

On the whole, England probably, of all the countries of Europe, draws to herself the largest
share of the gains of international commerce: because her exportable articles are in universal
demand, and are of such a kind that the demand increases rapidly as the price falls. Countries
which export food, have the former advantage, but not the latter. But our own colonies, and
the countries which supply us with the materials of our manufactures, maintain a hard struggle
with us for an equal share of the advantages of their trade; for their exports are also of
a kind for which there exists a most extensive demand here, and a demand capable of almost
indefinite extension by a fall of price. Contrary, therefore, to common opinion, it is probable
that our trade with the colonies, and with the countries which send us the raw materials of
our national industry, is not more but less advantageous to us, in proportion to its extent,
than our trade with the continent of Europe. We mean in respect to the mere amount of the return
to the labour and capital of the country; considered abstractedly from the usefulness or agreeableness
of the particular articles on which the receivers may choose to expend it.

NOTES:

[1] Elements of Political Economy, by James Mill, Esq., 3rd edit., pp. 120-1.

[2] The figures used are of course arbitrary, having no reference to any existing prices.

[3] We have not deemed it necessary to enter minutely into all the circumstances which might
modify the results mentioned in the text. For example, let us revert to the first case, that
in which the demand for cloth in Germany is so little affected by the rise of price in consequence
of the tax, that the quantity bought exceeds in pecuniary value what it was before. As the
German consumers lay out more money in cloth, they have less to lay out in other things; other
money prices will fall; among the rest that of linen; and this may so increase the demand for
linen in England as to restore the equilibrium of exports and imports without any passage of
money. But England's treasury will still gain from Germany the whole of the tax, and the English
people will buy their linen cheaper besides. Again, in the opposite case, where the tax so
diminishes the demand, that a smaller pecuniary value is required than before. The German consumers
have, therefore, more to expend in other things; these, and among the rest linen, will rise;
and this may so diminish the demand for linen in England, as to restore the equilibrium without
the transmission of money. But the effect, as respects the division of the advantage, is still
as stated in the text.

[4] The world at large, sellers and buyers taken together, is always a gainer by underselling.
If, in the case supposed, England were compelled by a commercial treaty to exclude the linen
of Flanders from her market, the total wealth of the world, if affected at all, would be diminished.

For, what is the cause which enables Flanders to undersell Germany? That Flanders, if she had
the trade, would exchange linen for cloth at a rate of interchange more advantageous to England.
And why can Flanders do so? It must be either because Flanders can produce the article with
a less comparative quantity of labour than Germany, and therefore the total advantage to be
divided between the two countries is greater in the case of Flanders than of Germany; or else
because, though the total advantage is not greater, Flanders obtains a less share of it, her
demand for cloth being greater, at the same rate of interchange, than that of Germany. In the
former case, to exclude Flemish linen from England would be to prevent the world at large from
making a greater saving of labour instead of a less. 

And Gabriel moved away, he could not understand the true extent of this diversion of disciples.
Often, when entering the rooms of the tower to hang out with them, the conversation suddenly
ceased and regarded him with anxiety, fearing, no doubt I could hear his words.

Don Martin for many days not presented in the cloister. Gabriel learned from the Vara silver
mother had died the priest, and a week later I saw one afternoon in Claverias. Her eyes were
red, factions des-bait and skin tight, as I cried a lot.

- I come to say goodbye to you, Gabriel. I spent a month in penalties and caring for insomnia
my mother. Poor dead. There was no young, I expected this final, but for strong resigned and
one is, always feel these blows. When leaving the poor old woman, I am free. That was all that
bound me to this church, which I do not believe. Their dogma is absurd and puerile its history
a tissue of crimes and violence. Why lie, like others, feigning faith that does not feel? Today
I was in the palace to say that I have seven hard Monthly and the chaplain of the nuns. I'm going,
not only fled the church, I want to avoid their environment, and Toledo priest can not live a "renegade."
Do you see this disguise? Today I carry on last time. Tomorrow I will enjoy the first joy of
my life, ripping the shroud into small pieces very small, so that anyone can use. I will man I will
go away, as far as possible; I want to know how the world, since it alive. I know no one, I have
no protection; you are the most extraordinary man I ever met, and is hidden in a dungeon by
will, taking refuge in a temple for his conscience completely empty .... I'm not afraid of
misery when it has been a representative of God with six reals a day, you can watch the face
to face hunger. I will be working, I will work the land if necessary, employ me in any thing
... but I'll be a free man.

Two friends walked through the cloister, advising Gabriel Don Martin. In determining the point
where they should go, his preference fluctuated between Paris and the American republics more faults
of emigration.

By late afternoon, Gabriel said goodbye to his disciple, he was waiting
for the partner the lower cloister to lock in the temple.

- We may
not see more - said the priest sadly -.

You will end his days here in the home of a God who does not believe.

- Yes, I will die here - Gabriel said, smiling -. He and I hate, and yet it seems that can do
nothing without me. If you have to go outside, I am one who guides his steps, and at night I,
too, who keep their wealth .... Health and good luck, Martin. Whether you are a man without
fainting. The truth is well worth the misery.

The disappearance of the chaplain of the nuns was done without fuss. Don Antolin and other priests
believed that the young man had moved to Madrid by ambition, to swell the number of clergy
applicants. Gabriel was the only one who knew the true fate of Don Martin. And soon forget the young
priest was great news, that echoed in the cathedral like thunder, bringing excitement to the gentlemen
in the choir, the small fry of the sacristy, the entire population
of the upper cloister.

Were over disputes between the archbishop and the council.

In Rome approved everything done by Cardinal, and His Eminence roared
with joy in his palace, with the fierce impetuosity that showed in
all its expansions.

The canons, on entering the choir, went with his head down, and embarrassed and afraid.

- But have you seen ...?-- is said to undress in the sacristy.

And at a good pace, with billowing cloak, left the church every man for himself, avoiding form
groups or cliques, each to watch free of responsibilities, to appear clean of any complicity
with the enemies of the prelate.

El Tato laughed with joy seeing the dispersion and the bewilderment of the gentlemen of the choir.

-
Run, run! Well I will put the body the man ...!

Preparations were made every year for the great feast of the Virgen del Sagrario mid-August.
In talking to the cathedral of that year with a mystery and anxiety others, as if waiting for extraordinary
events. Your Eminence, that the temple did not come down many months of not seeing the council, chaired
by the choir on the day of the party. Wanted look closely at their enemies, crushing them with
his triumph, rejoicing in his confused look submission. And as it approached the religious solemnity,
shaking many canons, thinking hard look at the pride that would nail them the angry prelate.

Gabriel
paid little attention to the concerns of the clerical world. His life strange. Much of the day was
spent sleeping, preparing for the weary watch of the night, I did just now. Mr. Fidel was ill,
and for the Obrería, avoiding expenditure not deprive the elder of his meager salary, he refrained
from asking for a new partner.

Spent nights in the cathedral with the same tranquility that I was in the cloister, high, used
to the silence of cemeteries. Not sleep, read in light of his lantern books could be found
in the Claverias: cold treaties in history, in which played Providence the main role, lives of
saints, which amused him by his credulous simplicity, bordering on
grotesque, and that Don Quixote of the moon so many times, there were
small lettering, and who thought himself something of the freshness
of childhood.

Came the day of the Virgin. The party was the same as in every year. The famous picture was out
of the chapel, occupying a site on its base on the high altar.

He wore the mantle kept at the Treasury and all her jewels, which sparkled caressed by the forest
of lights as if laughing with trembling scale of brilliance.

Before starting the party, curious of the cathedral, pretending distracted,
walked between the choir and the Puerta del Perdon.

The canons, with their red robes, reuníanse close of the stairway lit by the famous stone
of light. There would drop his eminence, and gentlemen of the choir were grouped tentatively,
whispering, as if wondering what would happen.

Appeared on the first flight of stairs the portacruz, moving horizontally your logo of double
arms to pass under the archway. Then, between family members, and followed the purple robe of the
auxiliary bishop, moved the Cardinal, dressed in purple, which faded purplish red color of the
canons.

The council was formed in two rows, with his head down, paying deference to her prince. What
a look of Don Sebastian! The canons, inclined to feel believed in the neck with coldness of steel.
Stood the huge body within its graceful purple wrap arrogance, as if at that moment she felt
cured of the disease that their belly scratched and heart failure,
which oppressed her lungs.

Chubby face trembling joy fat folds of his chin quivered on the lace surplice. Biretta Cardinal
seemed to swell with pride over his head small, white and pink. Never was carried a crown
so proudly as that red hat.

He extended his purple-gloved hand on which shone the emerald bishops, and a imperious gesture
had one after another they were kissing all the canons.

Was the submission Men's Church, accustomed from an apparent humility seminar that covers resentment
and hatred of an intensity not seen in ordinary life. Cardinal guessed the discouragement after
this modesty and savored his triumph.

- You do not know what our hatred - had said several times to his friend the gardener -. In ordinary
life there are few men who die of disgust.

The angry feelings are vent and regain the peace. But in the Church include hundreds who die a fit
of anger could not revenge, because the discipline they shut up and Abbe his head. Lacking
family and concerns for bread, most of us only live for the self-esteem
and pride.

Procession was formed in the town hall, accompanied by His Eminence. Led the way, the dogcatcher
red the black vergers Silver Stick, rattling the tiles with the blows of canes. Behind the archbishop
and the canons cross pairs, and ultimately the prelate, with its red tail, extending along its length,
carried aloft by two pages.

Don Sebastian blessed and fro, looking with their little eyes piercing the faithful, who bowed
head.

His imperious nature and the joy of victory made her eyes sparkle. What a great victory ...!
The temple was his home, and returned to it after a long absence, with all the majesty of an
owner I could crush all the slaves who dared to attack him cursing.

The greatness of the Church appeared to him at that time greatest
ever.

How admirable institution! The strong man who came to the top became a powerful and awesome God. Nothing
harmful equality and revolutionary. The largest was always right. The dogma extolling all humility
before God, but by setting examples, always spoke of herds and herders to be led. He was the pastor,
because they wanted the Almighty. Woe to try astray ...!

In the choir, the joy of your pride like an even greater satisfaction. He sat in the throne
of the archbishop of Toledo, that chair had been the star of his youth, and the memory of which
troubled him in the middle of the episcopate, when he walked through the provinces miter waiting
time to get to the Primacy.

There stood under the canopy artistic Mount Tabor on four steps to being seen well all the choir
and be convinced that was his prince. The heads of the dignitaries were seated by his side
almost to the level of his feet. Underfoot like snakes could rise again if they dared, in his most
biting intimate affection.

Inspired by the appreciation of his greatness and success, was the
first to stand or sit, as it marked the ritual of the trades, and
joined its voice to the chorus, amazing all with the rough energy
of his singing.

The Latin words came from his mouth as blunderbuss against those people hated, and his eyes
went to challenge on the expression of two rows of heads slopes.

He was a man of fortune, who had gone from success to success, and yet had never felt a satisfaction
so deep, so complete as that of the time.

He was frightened their joy, bursting with pride that their chronic ailments cushioning. It seemed
I was spending a few hours supply all his life.

After the Mass, the singers and other young folks in the choir, who were the only ones who dared
look at him, became alarmed when he saw him pale, haggard face up
to, taking the hands to the chest.

Warned the canons, they ran to him, forming a tight mass of garments red before his throne.
His Eminence was choking, struggling between the circle of hands instinctively grabbed him.

- Air ...!-- roared - air ...! Take off the front with a thousand cheers! Let me take home!

Even in the midst of his anguish, he found the strong signal and its
former soldier votes repel the enemy.

Drowning, but did not want to be looked upon the canons. Guessed many of them the satisfaction
after the act contrite. Nobody touch him! He is enough! And supported by two faithful family,
rode off toward the stairs panting archbishop followed by much of the council.

The religious function hastily finished.

To forgive the Virgin, another year would have increased solemnity. And the authorities and
guests left their seats to run altar demand for news in the Episcopal
Palace.

On waking Gabriel, past noon, all spoke in the upper cloister of his health Eminence. His brother
asked Aunt Tomasa, who came from the palace.

- You die, children
- said the gardener -; of this is no exception.

Visit Donna has taught me far cry poor.

Can not lie. Her chest dances like a broken bellows.

The Doctors say it through the night.

What a disgrace ...! And on a day like this ...!

The agony of the ecclesiastical prince was greeted with a funereal
silence.

Women in Claverias came and went with news from the palace to the
upper cloister.

The youngsters remained held in the rooms, frightened by the threats of the mothers if they
tried to play in the galleries.

The choirmaster, always insensitive to the events of the cathedral, leaving, however, to take
state news of His Eminence.

Had a project, who spoke quickly the family during dinner. The funeral of a cardinal well deserved
to run a celebrated Mass with full orchestra recruited in Madrid. He already had his eye on
the famous Requiem Mozart. It was for all he was interested in the fate of the prelate.

Gabriel looked at his companion, he felt the sweet egoism experiences living when Die powerful.

- Since the great fall, Sagrario. And we sick, wretched, still lie ahead some life.

At the time the temple was closed down to begin the surveillance.

The sexton was waiting with the keys.

- What about the Cardinal? - Asked Gabriel.

- Well, it dies today, if not already dead.

And then he added:

- Tonight, Gabriel, you have great lighting.

The Virgin is on the altar, until tomorrow, surrounded by candles.

He paused, as if hesitating.

- Maybe - he said - down to make a bit of company. You just get bored. Wait.

When Gabriel was locked in the temple, he saw a piece of glowing altar lights. He made his usual
requisition of doors and gates, visited the Locum, large closets,
where once they had hidden thieves, and then he was convinced that
in the cathedral there was no other living being that he was to sit
on the cruise with his blanket and Shopping for dinner.

He stayed there a long time, staring through the fence the Virgen del Sagrario. Born in the cathedral
and led a child by his mother to kneel before the statue, had admired
as the most perfect type of beauty.

Now appreciated coldly eyed artist.

It was ugly and grotesque, like all images that are rich. The sumptuous
and opulent mercy had disguised its treasures.

There was nothing in it of idealism painted Virgins by Christian artists. Rather it was an idol
of Hindu ornate jewelry. The skirt and the mantle is recessed with the bombast of a crinoline,
and you touch a crown huge as a Morion, dwarfing the face.

Gold, pearls, diamonds, shining on his clothes. He wore earrings and bracelets of great value.

Gabriel
smiled thinking of the religious simplicity, you saw the heroes under
heaven the fashions of the earth.

The faint glow of the sunset coming down from the windows and the anxious calls of candles
formed a ripple of light and shadow, animating the face image as gesture.

"Even as I am! - Was said Gabriel -. If my place was a devout believe that Lady laughs a few moments
and then cries. With a little imagination and faith, behold a miracle!

These vagaries of light have been an inexhaustible mine for priests. Venus also other times changed
the expression on his face, laughing or crying like the faithful as a Christian image. "

He thought a long time in the miracle invention of all religions, and as old as human ignorance
and credulity.

Dark. After dinner sparingly, Gabriel opened a book he had in his basket and stood to read in
the light of his flashlight.

Occasionally raised his head, distracted by the fluttering and the cries of the night big
birds, attracted by the extraordinary glow of the forest of candles.

Time passed slowly. In the darkness of the vaults echoed the Argentina hammered the warriors of
the clock. Luna got up and ran the church, visiting the counters to make his rounds.

Had struck ten, when he heard Gabriel opened the shutters of the front of Santa Catalina, but
quickly and without violence, as if they had made use of a key. Luna recalled Ringer offer. Then
they heard the footsteps of several people, but enlarged by echo,
as if you advance an entire army.

- Who? - Cried Gabriel, something
alarmed.

- We, the man - said the voice in the dusky shadows of Mariano
-.

Did not I would drop?

Upon entering the cruise gave full light of the high altar. Gabriel was with the ringer to Tato
and zapaterillo.

Luna wanted to accompany part of the night, so you will not be so heavy guard, and brought a
bottle of brandy that was offered.

- You know I do not drink - "Gabriel -. I've never liked alcohol, wine, and not much ... But
where are you going, dressed like the holidays?

El Tato was quick to respond. Silver Stick closed at nine in the Claverias, and they wanted to
spend the night away from home.

They had already been a long time in a coffee Zocodover gifts like
gentlemen.

They were made a few skulls. That night was extraordinary, especially since the city was also
impaired at the archbishop.

- What next? - Asked Gabriel.

- I think he died half an hour ago - said the sexton -. When I uploaded to my home at keys,
a doctor came out of the palace, and so he said to a Canon .... But sit down.

They took every seat, his cap pulled, on the steps of the altar gate. Mariano put down the bunch
of keys, a bunch of iron as a club. They were of all times: a gross
and rusty, with traces of the hammer, displaying shields near the
handle, more modern, polished and shiny as if they were silver, but
all huge and heavy, sturdy teeth, which suited the grandeur of the
building.

The three friends seemed extremely happy, with a joy that
made them nervous push and laugh. They looked askance at the Virgin
and then looked at each other with a gesture mystery he could not
understand Gabriel.

- You have drunk a lot, right? - Said Luna with
a gentle reproach -. Do evil, as you know drinking is the degradation
of the poor.

- One day is one day, man - said the dog catcher -.
Glad the big die. You see; I admired his Eminence, as the club is
made! The only satisfaction you poor is to see those above them also
comes a time.

- Baby - Ringer said, offering the bottle -. It is
a joy to be here healthy and cheerful, while His Eminence will be
tomorrow from four tables. Menudo will release chime all day!

Tato
drank, and passed the bottle to the shoemaker, who was long with his
mouth close to neck. Of the three, it seemed the most drunk. Her eyes
were red, hard look everywhere and remained silent. Necessarily only
smile when I ran the word as if his thoughts were far, far away.

The
sexton, however, was more talkative than usual. He spoke of the cardinal's
fortune, of how rich it would be Dona Visitation of the joy that would
have that night many of council. And was interrupted for empinar the
bottle of brandy, then passing the peers. The alcohol vapor is spread
in that environment steeped in incense smoke wax.

It was more than
an hour. Mariano had cut the conversation several times, as if to
say something serious, and hesitated, devoid of value. Finally decided.

-
Gabriel spends time and we still much to do and to talk. They are
little more than eleven. There are still hours to do the thing well.

-
What do you mean? - Luna asked with surprise.

- Few words to the
point. It is you to be rich and be us, we want to leave of this misery
.... Already noticed long ago that we fled from you, that the pleasure
of hearing you preferred to talk to us. Is that you are a wise, but
not worth a penny for things in life. You learn, but not out of poverty
... We have spent months thinking the need to strike lucky. These
revolutions that we speak are far away. The see our grandchildren,
and perhaps not even to see. It is good that the wise think of the
future, but the gross and we only see the present. We spent the time
flowing atrocities: Don Sebastian kidnap and ransom demand of one
million, enter the palace one night, and I do not know what else ...!
All nonsense designed for your nephew. But this morning, at home,
lamenting the misery, we have seen the salvation soon.

It is obvious that every dealer who has not business sufficient fully to employ his capital
(which is the case with all dealers when they commence business, and with many to the end of
their lives), is in this predicament simply for want of some one with whom to exchange his
commodities; and as there are such persons to about the same degree probably in all trades,
it is evident that if these persons sought one another out, they have their remedy in their
own hands, and by each other's assistance might bring their capital into more full employment.

We are now qualified to define the exact nature of the benefit which a producer or dealer derives
from the acquisition of a new customer. It is as follows:--

1. If any part of his own capital was locked up in the form of unsold goods, producing (for
a longer period or a shorter) nothing at all; a portion of this is called into greater activity,
and becomes more constantly productive. But to this we must add some further advantages.

2. If the additional demand exceeds what can be supplied by setting at liberty the capital
which exists in the state of unsold goods; and if the dealer has additional resources, which
were productively invested (in the public funds, for instance), but not in his own trade; he
is enabled to obtain, on a portion of these, not mere interest, but profit, and so to gain
that difference between the rate of profit and the rate of interest, which may be considered
as "wages of superintendance."

3. If all the dealer's capital is employed in his own trade, and no part of it locked up as
unsold goods, the new demand affords him additional encouragement to save, by enabling his
savings to yield him not merely interest, but profit; and if he does not choose to save (or
until he shall have saved), it enables him to carry on an additional business with borrowed
capital, and so gain the difference between interest and profit, or, in other words, to receive
wages of superintendance on a larger amount of capital.

This, it will be found, is a complete account of all the gains which a dealer in any commodity
can derive from an accession to the number of those who deal with him: and it is evident to
every one, that these advantages are real and important, and that they are the cause which
induces a dealer of any kind to desire an increase of his business.

It follows from these premises, that the arrival of a new unproductive consumer (living on
his own means) in any place, be that place a village, a town, or an entire country, is beneficial
to that place, if it causes to any of the dealers of the place any of the advantages above
enumerated, without withdrawing an equal advantage of the same kind from any other dealer of
the same place.

This accordingly is the test by which we must try all such questions, and by which the propriety
of the analogical argument, from dealing with a tradesman to dealing with a nation, must be
decided.

Let us take, for instance, as our example, Paris, which is much frequented by strangers from
various parts of the world, who, as sojourners there, live unproductively upon their means.
Let us consider whether the presence of these persons is beneficial, in an industrial point
of view, to Paris.

We exclude from the consideration that portion of the strangers' incomes which they pay to
natives as direct remuneration for service, or labour of any description. This is obviously
beneficial to the country. An increase in the funds expended in employing labour, whether that
labour be productive or unproductive, tends equally to raise wages. The condition of the whole
labouring class is, so far, benefited. It is true that the labourers thus employed by sojourners
are probably, in part or altogether, withdrawn from productive employment. But this is far
from being an evil; for either the situation of the labouring classes is improved, which is
far more than an equivalent for a diminution in mere production, or the rise of wages acts
as a stimulus to population, and then the number of productive labourers becomes as great as
before.

To this we may add, that what the sojourners pay as wages of labour or service (whether constant
or casual), though expended unproductively by the first possessor, may, when it passes into
the hands of the receivers, be by them saved, and invested in a productive employment. If so,
a direct addition is made to the national capital.

All this is obvious, and is sufficiently allowed by political economists; who have invariably
set apart the gains of all persons coming under the class of domestic servants, as real advantages
arising to a place from the residence there of an increased number of unproductive consumers.

We have only to examine whether the purchases of commodities by these unproductive consumers,
confer the same kind of benefit upon the village, town, or nation, which is bestowed upon a
particular tradesman by dealing at his shop.

Now it is obvious that the sojourners, on their arrival, confer the benefit in question upon
some dealers, who did not enjoy it before. They purchase their food, and many other articles,
from the dealers in the place. They, therefore, call the capital of some dealers, which was
locked up in unsold goods, into more active employment. They encourage them to save, and enable
them to receive wages of superintendance upon a larger amount of capital. These effects being
undeniable, the question is, whether the presence of the sojourners deprives any others of
the Paris dealers of a similar advantage.

It will be seen that it does; and nothing will then remain but a comparison of the amounts.

It is obvious to all who reflect (and was shown in the paper which precedes this) that the
remittances to persons who expend their incomes in foreign countries are, after a slight passage
of the precious metals, defrayed in commodities: and that the result commonly is, an increase
of exports and a diminution of imports, until the latter fall short of the former by the amount
of the remittances.

The arrival, therefore, of the strangers (say from England), while it creates at Paris a market
for commodities equivalent in value to their funds, displaces in the market other commodities
to an equal value. What about your health? I think, Gabriel, that this
is worse you ... Men! In his honor, and other lies! We are honored to have charity, compassion
the like, and not to harm anyone. That I said the other day when my son-cad, angry seeing
that going to Madrid in search of the girl. He spoke of the family honor, Sagrario back that if they
could not live in the cathedral decent people, and he allow his daughter to appear at the door
of the house, and the very thief every day he wax steals the Virgin and the devout scam taking
money for masses who never say. So her hair looks and is so big ... with so much honor.

The old, after a short silence, he looked at Gabriel with indecision.

- So, we jump into the fray? Stephen ... I call?

- Yes, call. Will be in the cathedral. And you, you dare to watch the interview?

- No, son you there. You know Stephen and know me. Or would that give me a mourn, or end up
scratching for his stubbornness. You just cope better. For that you have God gave this talentazo
so misused.

It was the old, and Gabriel remained just over half an hour, looking out the windows of a abandoned
the cloister window. The cathedral was quieter than usual.

Death God annual spread in the Levitical tribe of the roof a more
intense atmosphere of sadness the interior of the church.

Children of Claverias and women were below looking at the Monument.

The rooms seemed abandoned. Gabriel saw through front to the window to his brother, who at the
time appeared at the door.

What is it, Gabrielillo? What's wrong? The aunt has alarmed me with
recadito.

Are you worse?

- Sit down, Stephen. I'm okay, calm down ....

The Wooden Staff sat, staring in amazement at Gabriel. He was alarmed by the seriousness inexplicable
prolonged silence, which seemed to coordinate their thoughts, which
he did not know how start ...

- Speak up, man!

Break at once! You got me worried.

- Brother - Gabriel said with gravity - you know that I respected the mystery of your life with
which I was to return here. I said, 'My daughter is dead, I expressed a wish that you never talk
about it, and you can tell if you've played your old wound the slightest allusion.

- Well, so what? Where are you going to stop? - Stephen said, turning somber when he heard these
words -. Why talk in a day is as sacred as the things today that make me hurt ...?

- Esteban, it is not easy for us to understand if you stick to your concerns. Do not put that
gesture, hear me calmly, do not move like an automaton impelled by the same wires that moved our grandfathers
and great grandfathers. Be a man and work under your own thoughts .... You and I have us different
beliefs. I leave aside the religious, they are to you a comfort, and you know that my callous
to me impossible not to make my life here. But apart from This, you believe that the family is
a work of God, an institution of supernatural origin and I think it is a human institution, based
on the needs of the species. Which lacks the laws of the family, who deserts his flag, the sentences
you forever, sentences death of oblivion, I pity and forgive him his weakness. We understand the
honor of a differently. You are the Castilian honor, that honor traditional barbarian, more
cruel and unfortunate that the same disgrace, a theatrical honor, whose impulses do not start feeling
ever humans, but the fear of what people say, the desire to appear very large and very worthy
in the eyes of others before those of his conscience. For the adulterous wife, death, avenging
murder, for the runaway daughter, disregard, neglect, this is your gospel. I have another: for the
wife who forget their duties, contempt and oblivion, and for the piece fleeing our guts, love,
support, tenderness, to get back to us ... Stephen, we are separated by our beliefs, a lot of centuries
stands between us; but you're my brother, and I want to love you, you know you only wish you
well, that I have been you the family name in both estimates, I loved
our poor parents like you could you love them, and on behalf of all
this I say that this situation must end, you should not live insensitive
and petrified in what you call your dignity, without being troubled
memories of a your daughter rolling around the world as a heap.

You so good that I've collected in the trance most difficult of my
life, how can you sleep, how you eat, your existence without bitterness
the thought of your daughter missing?

What do you know her now? Can not starve while you eat? Is not it easy to be in a hospital, while
you have your house where they lived parents ...?

Esteban contracted with a grim face listening to his brother.

- It is useless to you try, Gabriel. Nothing will get. Do you have denied something? I'm not
willing everything for my brother? But I do not talk about that, I have caused much damage has
broken my life: I do not know how I am not dead. Have you thought through what it means to be
the family of the Moon during centuries the mirror of the cathedral, the respect of even the
bishops themselves, and suddenly be one in the past, exposed to the laughter of all, being able
to look at him with compassion the last altar boy? What I have suffered! The times I've cried
with anger, alone in this room, after hearing what was whispered behind my back! And then - he
said quietly, as if the pain tarnish his voice - that unhappy martyr who died of shame, poor
woman, who left the world for not seeing my pain or suffer the scorn of others ...! What I
want to forget this ...? Also, Gabriel, I do not know to express my feelings as well as you. But
the honor ... is the honor. It is in this house I live without shame, sleep at night without
fear of seeing in the dark eyes of our father asking me for what remains a lost woman under
the same roof that conquered the moon with centuries service to the
church of God, is to prevent people laugh in our family .... That
say in good time, "Those Luna, which is unfortunate ', but do not
say that the Moon never are a lack of family shame.

For our love, brother, let me: do not talk over this. These evil doctrines have poisoned your soul,
not only have ceased to believe in God but no longer believe in the honor.

- And what is that? - Gabriel said, angered -. You yourself do not know. "The honor is the honor."
However, children are children. Tu, worries man, do not stop to consider what are these beings,
then our very existence. Your religion does to children fruit of God, and yet think better
and more perfect when repeléis and maldecís these gifts from heaven just cause you annoyance. No,
Stephen, love children and commiseration for his failures should be above all concerns. This soul's eternal
life, promise minds of all religions, is only true for children. The soul dies with the body,
is not a manifestation of our thinking, and thinking is a brain function, but the children our being
perpetuated through generations and the centuries, they are what make us immortal, and that store
and convey something of our personality, as we inherit from our ancestors. He who forgets to
humans they are his work is more worthy of execration that leaving the life by suicide. The
contradictions of existence, the laws and customs invented by men, what are with the instinctive
affection for the beings who have left us and perpetuate the variety habitudes infinite and
our thoughts? I hate those miserable, not to disturb peace bourgeois marriage, leaving the children
were away from home. Paternity is the noblest of the animal functions, but the animals have
more value and greater dignity man to carry. No high-class animal leaves your puppy or unknown, and
you are many men who turn away the child, for fear of what people can say. If having a child I
fell in love me madly the most beautiful woman in the world and this require me to forget, drown
my passion for not leaving the little boy. If anything is missing my son to all human laws
and would lead him to the gallows, to accompany him I challenging the execration of the people,
not for a moment deny that it was my doing. We united forever when we give life is a commitment
of solidarity that we contract with the species to work for their conservation. He who breaks
the chain and runs away, is a coward.

- Will not convince me, Gabriel! - Esteban cried energy -. I do not ...!, not want to!

- I repeat: it is cowardly that you do. Since the honor is so heavy on you, that honor outdated
and cruel to fix the conflicts of life bloodshed, why do not you find that stole your daughter?,
why do not you kill him as an old comedy father? You are a man Pacific, who has not learned the
art of murder, and that individual is a professional weapons, if you had come without any rule,
by appealing to what you believe your right, your family powerful had no mercy on you. You
have not avenged, for self-preservation, fear the prison and all the punishments invented by
society, have been afraid, despite your indignation, and this fear
turns into cruelty to be weaker.

Your anger only falls the daughter .... Come on, Stephen, that is
not worthy of a parent.

The Wooden Staff moved his head stubbornly.

- Will not convince me, do not want to hear. That woman will not return here. Do not desert me? Well
move on.

- I abandoned that instinct impulses that carry within them all healthy beings: the instinct
conservation of the species, which embellishes the poem called love. If you had left after receiving
the blessing of a man before an altar, you show you satisfied and would receive with open
arms as many times as you come to see you. I left to be fooled, for falling into poverty and shame,
and seeing her unhappy, do not deserve your sympathy, especially that if you saw happy? Ponder,
Stephen, fell in the way your poor daughter. What 'd taught to cope with the malice of the world?
What weapons was to preserve intact what you call honor? You, you and your wife, the dabais
example of the respect it deserves money and a high birth letting into your house and that
boy, accepting as an honor that a gentleman should be set at your daughter. The poor man loved
seeing it as a summary of all human perfections. When came the inevitable results of inequality
social, she would not resign, was one of those noble natures that rise up against the prejudices
of the world, even at the risk of having all the bitterness of his rebellion, and fell up. Who
can blame?

In their ignorance, to his life of isolation from the world; you
who do not teach them more, and blinded by ambition to dream together
dejabais precipice everyone, except her.

Unhappy! Paid more than his noble ferocity against social concerns. Is a social dead in combat:
a body to be lifted; and you, you're the parent, you be the first to accomplish this work of justice.

Stephen, with his head down, still making moves negative.

- Brother - Gabriel said with solemnity - as you cling tenaciously to your refusal, I can only
say one thing: if your daughter does not come, I'm going .... Each has his scruples. You fear the
gossip of the people, I fear myself, that thought can reproach me in moments of solitude.
Since I'm your host, I think all the time your daughter, since I knew what happened in this house,
I decided to return to the unhappy victim you. Will not you come back? Well, I'm the one who leaves.
It would be a thief if you eat your bread as a being who is flesh of your flesh hungry, if I cease
to care about my disease, while perhaps unfortunate that is worse than me and not in the world
a hand to hold it. If she does not return, I am not your brother, I am an intruder usurps
the caring and which corresponds well to another being. Brother, each one has its moral: yours
is taught by priests, I have mine set me myself, and although less flamboyant, perhaps more rigid. And
on behalf of my morality, I say: Steve, my brother, or your daughter is, or I do. Again the
world, to be pursued as a rabid beast, the hospital, prison, to die
as a dog by the side of a road I do not know what will become of me,
all I know for sure is that I'm leaving tomorrow, today, to not enjoy
a minute of what is not mine.

I I consider an unjust theft of property usurpation of land by a
privileged minority, knowing I can not keep being owned by a natural
right to a child unhappy.

Could only enjoy sharing it with her.

Stephen had been standing, gesture of despair.

- But are you crazy, Gabriel? Would you like me?

What do you say to that quiet? Your presence here is the only joy of my life after so many misfortunes.
I've come to see you, I need to take care of yourself, you're my
only family; it did not have any aspirations, living without hope,
now I have one: see you healthy and strong.

What do you say to that freshness that you go ...? No, you will not go .... That was missing:
after the daughter Brother ... May I die at once! Lord God, take me with you ...!

And the simple servant of the temple raised his hands with a look of supplication, while his eyes
misted with tears.

- Be calm, Stephen. Let's talk like men, without cries and cries.

Look at me: I am serene, and not think why it is true that I will
go today if you do not agree to my request.

- But what about that?,
Where is, with so much interest that she plead? - Stepan -.

Is it that you've seen and heard? Is he in Toledo? Have you brought anything with your boldness of
disbelief, the cathedral itself ...?

Gabriel, seeing tearful and broken by his threat to leave, he thought when the time decisive, and opened
the tabernacle's door.

- Sal, girl, your father apologizes.

The Wooden Staff saw a woman kneeling in the center of that room you
never entered, for fear of recalling the past.

Her look was strange.

Then set their eyes on Gabriel, as if they guess who was woman. What farce had prepared his
brother?

With a brutal impulse, clasped her hands and left his face, staring
at her.

Still, he did not recognize.

He spent much time contemplating, in the midst of a painful silence. Gradually, in the features
disfigured by the disease were marked for the former lines. In the watery eyes and no eyelashes
saw something that reminded her blue eyes of the lost daughter.

Purple lips with deep cracks, moved plaintive, murmuring always the same word:

- Sorry ...!, sorry!

In view of the ruin, the father felt he was coming down his courage. His eyes expressed an immense
sadness, stunned.

Retreated back to the door of the room followed by the girl, who wore holding out his hands to
his knees.

- Brother, well - he said with dismay -. You more than me: your will. That is because you want
to. But that does not see it ...! Stay: who leaves me.

VI

The sewing machine sounded from dawn till night in the house of the Moon. This noise metal
and hammering the cobbler were the only signs of troubled work the sacred silence of the upper
cloister.

When Gabriel left the bed at sunrise, after a night of painful cough,
was in the living room and entry to Sanctuary preparing the machine
for daily work.

From day after his return to the cathedral had removed the cover
off the machine, dedicated to Working with taciturn toughness as a
means to pass unnoticed in the Claverias and people to forgive her
past.

The old gardener gave him work, and noise Stitch playing on the old room, often mixed with the
melodies of the harmonium the choirmaster.

The Wooden Staff went through the house like a shadow. Remained in the cathedral or in the cloister
down, not up to his room but in cases of necessity. He ate with his head down, not to look
at her daughter, who was sitting across the table and seemed close to burst into tears seeing
before him. A painful silence enveloped the family. Don Luis was the only one in his unconsciousness
of man distracted, was not aware of the situation, and talked Gabriel happily with their hopes
and musical enthusiasms. Everything was natural, nothing surprised him, the Tabernacle return
home did not cause the slightest surprise.

Esteban fled once the meal, not to return home until evening. After dinner was locked in his
room, leaving his brother and his daughter in the entrance hall.

The machine again shaken and Don Luis typed the organ, until it sounded nine Silver Stick closed
the tower staircase, waving his bunch of keys with a noise amounted to ancient touch of cubrefuego.

Gabriel
was indignant at the tenacity of his brother.
- You kill the girl. What you do is not worthy of a parent.

- I
can not, brother, I can not watch it. I quite tolerate in our home
with these things. Alas, if you knew how I hurt people's eyes ...!

In
fact, had been less than he hoped the scandal occurred in the Claverias
by the return of Tabernacle. He was so disfigured by disease and hardship,
it was noted it just fatigue, no woman felt animosity toward her.
Strong protection Tomasa her aunt commanded respect. In addition,
those females simple, instinctive passions, could not feel at his
ugliness hostile envy her beauty inspired years earlier and the engagement
with the cadet. Up Ladybug, the niece of Silver Stick, was certain
satisfaction to their self-protecting with a contemptuous tolerance
to that unhappy that once attracted the attention of all men visiting
the upper cloister.

Curiosity only disturbed the quiet of the Claverias
for a week. Little by little, women stopped looking out the door to
see Sagrario Luna bowed before the machine and the girl followed the
laborious and sad life.

Gabriel left little room. I spent whole days
beside the girl, wanting replaced with the hostile presence of the
father away. It hurt that he saw in his own house so despised and
alone and the world. Sometimes came to see their Aunt Tomasa Animate
your cheerful optimism of old. Nothing
can be more chimerical than the fear that the accumulation of capital should produce poverty
and not wealth, or that it will ever take place too fast for its own end. Nothing is more true
than that it is produce which constitutes the market for produce, and that every increase of
production, if distributed without miscalculation among all kinds of produce in the proportion
which private interest would dictate, creates, or rather constitutes, its own demand.

This is the truth which the deniers of general over-production have seized and enforced; nor
is it pretended that anything has been added to it, or subtracted from it, in the present disquisition.
But it is thought that those who receive the doctrine accompanied with the explanations which
we have given, will understand, more clearly than before, what is, and what is not, implied
in it; and will see that, when properly understood, it in no way contradicts those obvious
facts which are universally known and admitted to be not only of possible, but of actual and
even frequent occurrence. The doctrine in question only appears a paradox, because it has usually
been so expressed as apparently to contradict these well-known facts; which, however, were
equally well known to the authors of the doctrine, who, therefore, can only have adopted from
inadvertence any form of expression which could to a candid person appear inconsistent with
it. The essentials of the doctrine are preserved when it is allowed that there cannot be permanent
excess of production, or of accumulation; though it be at the same time admitted, that as there
may be a temporary excess of any one article considered separately, so may there of commodities
generally, not in consequence of over-production, but of a want of commercial confidence.

NOTE:

[6] Probably; because most articles of an ornamental description being still required from
the same makers, these makers, with their capital, would probably follow their customers, Besides,
from place to place within the same country, most persons will lather change their habitation
than their employment. But the moving on this score would be reciprocal.

ESSAY III.

ON THE WORDS PRODUCTIVE AND UNPRODUCTIVE.

It would probably be difficult to point out any two words, respecting the proper use of which
political economists have been more divided, than they have been concerning the two words productive
and unproductive; whether considered as applied to labour, to consumption, or to expenditure.

Although this is a question solely of nomenclature, it is one of sufficient importance to be
worth another attempt to settle it satisfactorily. For, although writers on political economy
have not agreed in the ideas which they were accustomed to annex to these terms, the terms
have generally been employed to denote ideas of very great importance, and it is impossible
that some vagueness should not have been thrown upon the ideas themselves by looseness in the
use of the words by which they are habitually designated. Further, so long as the pedantic
objection to the introduction of new technical terms continues, accurate thinkers on moral
and political subjects are limited to a very scanty vocabulary for the expression of their
ideas. It therefore is of great importance that the words with which mankind are familiar,
should be turned to the greatest possible advantage as instruments of thought; that one word
should not be used as the sign of an idea which is already sufficiently expressed by another
word; and that words which are required to denote ideas of great importance, should not be
usurped for the expression of such as are comparatively insignificant.

The phrases productive labour, and productive consumption, have been employed by some writers
on political economy with very great latitude. They have considered, and classed, as productive
labour and productive consumption, all labour which serves any useful purpose--all consumption
which is not waste. Mr. M'Culloch has asserted, totidem verbis, that the labour of Madame Pasta
was as well entitled to be called productive labour as that of a cotton spinner.

Employed in this sense, the words productive and unproductive are superfluous, since the words
useful and agreeable on the one hand, useless and worthless on the other, are quite sufficient
to express all the ideas to which the words productive and unproductive are here applied.

This use of the terms, therefore, is subversive of the ends of language.

Those writers who have employed the words in a more limited sense, have usually understood
by productive or unproductive labour, labour which is productive of wealth, or unproductive
of wealth. But what is wealth? And here the words productive and unproductive have been affected
with additional ambiguities, corresponding to the different extension which different writers
have given to the term wealth.

Some have given the name of wealth to all things which tend to the use or enjoyment of mankind,
and which possess exchangeable value. This last clause is added to exclude air, the light of
the sun, and any other things which can be obtained in unlimited quantity without labour or
sacrifice; together with all such things as, though produced by labour, are not held in sufficient
general estimation to command any price in the market.

But when this definition came to be explained, many persons were disposed to interpret "all
things which tend to the use or enjoyment of man," as implying only all material things. Immaterial
products they refused to consider as wealth; and labour or expenditure which yielded nothing
but immaterial products, they characterised as unproductive labour and unproductive expenditure.

To this it was, or might have been, answered, that according to this classification, a carpenter's
labour at his trade is productive labour, but the same individual's labour in learning his
trade was unproductive labour. Yet it is obvious that, on both occasions, his labour tended
exclusively to what is allowed to be production: the one was equally indispensable with the
other, to the ultimate result. Further, if we adopted the above definition, we should be obliged
to say that a nation whose artisans were twice as skilful as those of another nation, was not,
ceteris paribus, more wealthy; although it is evident that every one of the results of wealth,
and everything for the sake of which wealth is desired, would be possessed by the former country
in a higher degree than by the latter.

Every classification according to which a basket of cherries, gathered and eaten the next minute,
are called wealth, while that title is denied to the acquired skill of those who are acknowledged
to be productive labourers, is a purely arbitrary division, and does not conduce to the ends
for which classification and nomenclature are designed.

In order to get over all difficulties, some political economists seem disposed to make the
terms express a distinction sufficiently definite indeed, but more completely arbitrary, and
having less foundation in nature, than any of the former. They will not allow to any labour
or to any expenditure the name of productive, unless the produce which it yields returns into
the hands of the very person who made the outlay. Hedging and ditching they term productive
labour, though those operations conduce to production only indirectly, by protecting the produce
from destruction; but the necessary expenses incurred by a government for the protection of
property are, they insist upon it, consumed unproductively: though, as has been well pointed
out by Mr. M'Culloch, these expenses, in their relation to the national wealth, are exactly
analogous to the wages of a hedger or a ditcher. The only difference is, that the farmer, who
pays for the hedging and ditching, is the person to whom the consequent increase of production
accrues, while the government, which is at the expense of police officers and courts of justice,
does not, as a necessary consequence, get back into its own coffers the increase of the national
wealth resulting from the security of property.

It would be endless to point out the oddities and incongruities which result from this classification.
Whether we take the words wealth and production in the largest, or in the most restricted sense
in which they have ever yet been employed, nobody will dispute that roads, bridges, and canals,
contribute in an eminent degree, and in a very direct manner, to the increase of production
and wealth. The labour and pecuniary resources employed in their construction would, according
to the above theory, be considered productive, if every occupier of land were compelled by
law to construct so much of the road, or canal, as passes through his own farm. If, instead
of this, the government makes the road, and throws it open to the public toll-free, the labour
and expenditure would be, on the above system, clearly unproductive. But if the government,
or an association of individuals, made the road, and imposed a toll to defray the expense,
we do not see how these writers could refuse to the outlay the title of productive expenditure.
It would follow, that the very same labour and expense, if given gratuitously, must be called
unproductive, which, if a charge had been made for it, would have been called productive.

When these consequences of the purely arbitrary classification to which we allude have been
pointed out and complained of, the only answer which we have ever seen made to the objection
is, that the line of demarcation must be drawn somewhere, and that in every classification
there are intermediate cases, which might have been included, with almost equal propriety,
either in the one class or in the other.

This answer appears to us to indicate the want of a sufficiently accurate and discriminating
perception, what is the kind of inaccuracy which generally cannot be avoided in a classification,
and what is that other kind of inaccuracy, from which it always may be, and should be, exempt.

The classes themselves may be, mentally speaking, perfectly definite, though it may not always
be easy to say to which of them a particular object belongs. When it is uncertain in which
of two classes an object should be placed, if the classification be properly made, and properly
expressed, the uncertainty can turn only upon a matter of fact. It is uncertain to which class
the object belongs, because it is doubtful whether it possesses in a greater degree the characteristics
of the one class or those of the other. But the characteristics themselves may be defined and
distinguished with the nicest exactness, and always ought to be so. Especially ought they in
a case like the present, because here it is only the distinction between the ideas which is
of any importance. That we should be able with ease to portion out all employments between
the two classes, does not happen to be of any particular consequence.

It is frequently said that classification is a mere affair of convenience. This assertion is
true in one sense, but not if its meaning be, that the most proper classification is that in
which it is easiest to say whether an object belongs to one class or to the other. The use
of classification is, to fix attention upon the distinctions which exist among things; and
that is the best classification, which is founded upon the most important distinctions, whatever
be the facilities which it may afford of ticketing and arranging the different objects which
exist in nature. In fixing, therefore, the meaning of the words productive and unproductive,
we ought to endeavour to render them significative of the most important distinctions which,
without too glaring a violation of received usage, they can be made to express.

We ought further, when we are restricted to the employment of old words, to endeavour as far
as possible that it shall not be necessary to struggle against the old associations with those
words. We should, if possible, give the words such a meaning, that the propositions in which
people are accustomed to use them, shall as far as possible still be true; and that the feelings
habitually excited by them, shall be such as the things to which we mean to appropriate them
ought to excite.

We shall endeavour to unite these conditions in the result of the following enquiry.

In whatever manner political economists may have settled the definition of productive and unproductive
labour or consumption, the consequences which they have drawn from the definition are nearly
the same. In proportion to the amount of the productive labour and consumption of a country,
the country, they all allow, is enriched: in proportion to the amount of the unproductive labour
and consumption, the country is impoverished. Productive expenditure they are accustomed to
view as a gain; unproductive expenditure, however useful, as a sacrifice. Unproductive expenditure
of what was destined to be expended productively, they always characterise as a squandering
of resources, and call it profusion and prodigality. The productive expenditure of that which
might, without encroaching upon capital, be expended unproductively, is called saving, economy,
frugality. Want, misery, and starvation, are described as the lot of a nation which annually
employs less and less of its labour and resources in production; growing comfort and opulence
as the result of an annual increase in the quantity of wealth so employed.

Let us then examine what qualities in expenditure, and in the employment of labour, are those
from which all the consequences above mentioned really flow.

The end to which all labour and all expenditure are directed, is twofold. Sometimes it is enjoyment
immediately; the fulfilment of those desires, the gratification of which is wished for on its
own account. Whenever labour or expense is not incurred immediately for the sake of enjoyment,
and is yet not absolutely wasted, it must be incurred for the purpose of enjoyment indirectly
or mediately; by either repairing and perpetuating, or adding, to the permanent sources of
enjoyment.

Sources of enjoyment may be accumulated and stored up; enjoyment itself cannot. The wealth
of a country consists of the sum total of the permanent sources of enjoyment, whether material
or immaterial, contained in it: and labour or expenditure which tends to augment or to keep
up these permanent sources, should, we conceive, be termed productive.

Labour which is employed for the purpose of directly affording enjoyment, such as the labour
of a performer on a musical instrument, we term unproductive labour. I planned to spend this evening at the
palace Visit Donna to ask about his health.

- Shut up, fool, I've
never felt better, especially since this morning.

The slap I have given to "those" not attending to the choir with them, grazed my not put me
in a great mood. For the record my best intentions, I have come to see you. Please know that I'm fine,
what the disease is not true. That they know everyone in Toledo that the archbishop does not
see its canons, and this makes for dignity, not for pride, because while low to see his old
friend the gardener.

And the fearsome big man laughed like a child to think about the disappointment that this visit
could give the town hall.

- And, believe me, Tomasa - continued
- I come to you only as a convenience, this afternoon was upset in
the palace, I was bored.

Visitation busy walking with some friends in Madrid and I have felt that arrechucho that gives
me time to time to reminisce. Felt need see you, and I thought well in the garden of the cathedral
is always fresh. Outta here Heat oven makes ... Oh, Thomas, how strong I see! So thin and so quick,
you keep better than me. You're not wrapped in fat as this sinner, or have medical conditions
that bitter tea night. Your hair is still almost black, well-preserved teeth, no need, as This cardinal,
wearing a device in the mouth .... But anyway, Tomasa, you old like me. We have a few years of
life, much as the Lord would preserve us. Who could return to those days when up to your house
with the red sotanita, seeking your father, the sexton, and I took off for lunch! Hey, Tomasa
...?

The two old men, ignoring the social differences, with the resignation
of fraternity beings who walk to death, they remembered the past.

Everything was the same as in childhood: the garden, the cloister, the cathedral had not changed.

His
Eminence, closing his eyes, he still believed the acolyte Naughty half century earlier. The
spiral blue drag of his cigarette seemed his mind by the endless
riots past.

- Do you remember how fun of me your poor father?

"This boy - said in the sacristy - it a Sixto V. "What will you be?" I asked. And I said the same
thing: "Archbishop of Toledo. "And some that mocked the good sexton of the confidence with which
I spoke of my claims!

When I was consecrated bishop, he believes, Tomasa, I remembered a lot from him, feeling that he
had died. Would have enjoyed seeing his tears of joy to contemplate with the miter in the head
.... I have always loved, you are an excellent family, and many times you killed me hunger.

-
Calle, sir, street and remember those things. I am that I have to thank it so good, so llanote, despite
its category, which is almost in the back of Pope .... And the truth is - said the old with the
arrogance of his candor - which loses nothing that way. Friends like me you will not have any. You
do not surround more than sycophants and crooks, as all the great
land.

If it had been a priest for Mass and pot, no one would look face, but Thomas would continue
to be their friend, always ready to do a service. If you want both, it is because you are simple
and friendly. If you spend pride, like other bishops, would kiss the ring and hasta la vista!
The cardinal in his palace and the gardener in your garden.

The bishop welcomed with smiles energetic openness of the good woman.

- You will always be Don Sebastian for me - continued -.

When he told me not to call him Eminence and all those treatments
that gives people, I thanked him more than if I had given the mantle
of the Virgin del Sagrario.

It choked me further treatment, I wanted to scream: "But what Eminence truncheon and Grace, if we
scratched small thousand times, because thief saw this great crust and apricot in my hands
that I would not scoff! " Thanks I talk to you since I saw him benefited from the cathedral, as
a priest is not well tutearle as an acolyte.

The two old men were silent. His eyes wandered around the garden with some tenderness, as if each
tree or foliage covered arcade find a souvenir.

Do you know what now comes to my memory? - Said Tomasa -. Then again I remember we met here
in this garden, a whopping years ago: the least forty-eight or fifty. I was with my poor sister,
who had just married the gardener Luna. Walked through the cloister which was then hovering around
my husband. Vi enter a beautiful arbor soldadote, a sergeant, with a great noise of spurs, the Shiv
arm and a helmet with a tail like the Jews of the Monument. Were you, Don Sebastian, who had come
to Toledo see his uncle, the beneficiary, and would not leave without visiting his friend Tomasita.
And what you were cute! It's the truth I do not mean flatter. You had a rogue air for Girls!
I even remember that I said something about how beautiful and fresh that I was after years of
absence. You do not feel bad to remember, right? Were chicoleos soldier. So many say then!
When it was you, my brother said: "This has hung habits forever, it is useless to his uncle,
the priest wants to do it benefited. "

- It was a folly of youth - said the Cardinal, smiling with pride recalling the arrogant Sgt dragons
-. In Spain there are only three races worthy of man of the sword, of the Church or the toga.
My blood boiled, and I wanted to be a soldier, but had the misfortune to catch peacetime. My career
had been slow, and not bitter in recent years my uncle, I followed your advice and return to
school, returning to the Church. In one place and in another it can not serve God and country,
but believes that many times, with all my cardinal in tow, I think with envy that you saw military.
What times so happy! Even I pulled the sword. When I see the cadets would change comfortable
with any of them, giving them my staff and my cross. Doing so and maybe better than all of them! Ah!
Who should they be returned time of the Reconquista, in which the prelates went to kill Moors!
What a great Archbishop of Toledo had made me ...!

And Don Sebastian stood his old body fat, stretching his arms with the arrogance of the last
remnants of his force.

- You have always been men - said the gardener -. I tell you many times a certain bandages do
they talk about you, criticizing him for if patatin or potatoes. "Do not play with you His Eminence,
who is very able to get a day in the choir, and I want and it does
not, remove them slap everyone to clean.

"

- More than once I've been tempted to do so - said the prelate firmly, shining in their eyes
a spark of energy -. But I stopped considering my position and my character peaceful priest. I
am pastor of the Catholic flock, not a wolf that frightens the sheep
with fierceness.

But sometimes one can not more, and God forgive me! I've been tempted to raise the staff to
start a fight with the rebel who flock shelter in the cathedral.

The prelate excitábase talking about his struggles with the council.

The calmness of spirit that provided the tranquility of the garden disappeared hostile to remind
their subordinates. Needed, as usual, confide his sorrows to the gardener, with that instinctive
benevolence that drives the big to cross with the humble.

- You do not know, Tomasa, which these men make me suffer. I am the master because master, because
I owe obedience under the discipline, without which there would be no Church or religion, and
I resist and disobey me. My orders are complied reluctantly and when I want to impose, to the
last priest comes out with what he calls his rights, and makes me litigation, and go to the
Rota and Rome if necessary. Let's see: I am the master or am I not? Is it discusses the shepherd
with his sheep and consultation to guide them in the right direction ...? I dizzy and stunned
with their disputes and issues.

There is no middle man between them, they are all gossips and cowardly. In my presence with
downcast eyes, smile and praise to His Eminence and just turn my
back, they are snakes who try to bite, scorpion than anything language
respect ... Oh, Thomas!

My daughter! Hold me sorry! Cree when I think I get it very sick.

And the prelate paled, leaving his seat with painful gesture, as if his bowels moved by intense
throbbing.

- Pay no attention - said the gardener -. You are above all, you win.

- Of course I shall overcome, because not so! Be the first time that it is below. These wives'
tricks annoy me slightly. I know that eventually I will see my feet to the repugnant enemies.
But their languages, Tomasa! What they say about things I love most in the world! This is what
hurts me, what kills me.

He sat down again, closer to the gardener to speak quietly,

- You know my past better than anyone I've told you because you inspire great confidence. Besides,
you are ready, and I guess you do not know.

Visitation know what is for me and certainly not ignore what these wretches say about it.
Do not play dumb: the You know, all in the cathedral and even outside
these slanders they hear and believe.

You you're the one that you can not believe them, because you know the truth ... But alas, I can
not quite say it, I can not cry: me prevent these habits.

And grab a handful of his cassock with clenched fingers, as if to tear it.

It took a long silence. Don Sebastian looked down with hard eyes, contracting his hands as if to
catch the invisible enemy. Occasionally felt pangs of their illness and sighed painfully.

- Why think about such things? - Said the gardener -. It makes you bad, and this is not was
necessary to bother coming down to me. Best had been staying at the palace.

- No, you distracted me, find some comfort communicating my sorrows. Up there, I despair alone, having
to make efforts to swallow the rage. I do not want them to know my family they would be able to laugh,
do not want you to know anything my poor Visitation ... And I do not know disguise!, I can not fake
joy when I'm angry ...! What the hell I suffer! Unable to say I've been a man, I've been weak,
as I am made of flesh, and I carry the fruits of my fault, not wanting to part with them even
slander after me! Each work as she is, and I want to be good in the midst of my sins. I could
have separated from my children have abandoned them, as others to maintain their reputation
of saints, but I am a man, I am proud of it: a man with his faults
and virtues, no more nor less the generality of humans.

The feeling of parenthood is so ingrained in me, so deep, you lose before the miter to leave
my children. And remember how I got when Juanito's father died, was going through my nephew. I
thought he died. A beautiful big man and a future so bright! I had made judge, Chief Justice
minister I do not know! And in twenty-four hours I die, as if heaven would punish me. True
I have left my grandchild, but that Juanito in no way resembles his father, and I confess: I I bit, I
do not see it but a distant reflection of my poor child. In my past, that time that was the happiest
of my life, I can only Visitation. A portrait of the poor dead, I love it! And that this petty
rabble me that the mob with their slander ... There to kill them!

Dominated by the fond memories of the spring which had flourished in its early years bishop in
a diocese there Andalusian Tomasa repeated once more, his relations
with certain devout lady felt since childhood horror to the world.

Devotion had gathered, but life does not soon recover its rights, breaking through in their
relationship almost mystical uniting them in carnal embrace. They had lived faithful to each other
in the mystery of church life, loving wisely scrupulous, without the secret of their relationship
transcended the public, until she died, leaving two children. Don Sebastian, a man of strong passions,
I felt parenthood to the vehemence.

Those two things were the image of the poor dead, the I remember
the one romance of a life entirely devoted to ambition.

Calumnies circulating enemies, rooted in the presence of his daughter in the archbishop's
palace, he put like crazy.

- The think my dear! - Said in a tone angry -. My poor Visitation, so good, so affectionate,
so tame for all converted into any one of these wretches! A lover I've taken my fun for the
College of noble maidens ...! As if I, old and sick, was to think about that crap! Indecent
...!, miserable ...! For less committed many crimes ...!

- Let them say, God is high and sees us all.

- I know, but this is not enough to reassure me. You have children, Tomasa, and you know what
love them. Not only hurts us what you do against them, but what you say ... Which days I've been
suffering! As a child you know that my dream was to become what I am. Looking the throne of the
chorus and thought how good it would be him in the immense joy of
being Prince of the Church.

Well, I'm on the throne. I walked half a century away stones, leaving
the skin and even the meat in the bushes of the hill.

I know how I black mass exit and get to Bishop! Then ... Archbishop am already!, And I am
a cardinal!, I can not get more! So what? Happiness always march ahead of us, as bright cloud
guided the Israelites. We see, almost touch, but not get caught. I now feel more unhappy than
at the time struggling to be something and I thought the most unfortunate men. I have no youth:
the height where I am, look at me all the looks, prevents me defend myself. Oh, Thomas! Pity me,
I'm pitiful. Being a parent, and having conceal a crime! Wanting my daughter with a love that
grows more and more as death approaches, and having to suffer people to take this love so
pure for something disgusting ...!

And the dreadful sight of Sebastian, which frightened the whole diocese, hazy with tears.

- Also, I have other pains - continued - but are farsighted man who fears the future. When I die,
all I have is for my daughter. Juanito has about his mother, who was rich, and has a career and
support my friends. Visitation will be powerful. You know that, my adversaries reproach me what
they call my greed. Greedy, no: proactive, welfare lover of mine.

I saved a lot, I'm not handing out the bread at the door of his palace, nor seek celebrity for
charity.

I have pastures in Extremadura, many vineyards in La Mancha, houses, and especially the role
of the state, a lot of paper. As good Spanish I want to help the government with my money, especially
as this produces a profit. I do not know certainly what I have: will be twenty million reais,
maybe more. All saved for me increased with good business. I can not complain of fate, the Lord
has helped me. And all Visitation for my poor! My joy would see her married to a good man,
but she does not want leave me. You like the church, and this is my fear. Do not be surprised,
Tomasa, I, Prince of the Church, I shudder to see how it comes to devotion, and do all I can to
deflect it. I like the religious woman, devoted not only found it in the church. Women must live,
must enjoy and be a mother. I've always looked bad to the nuns.

- Leave it, sir - said the gardener -. No wonder you like the church. Mode as live, can not have
other hobbies.

- For today, I fear no evil. I am at your side, and I care not who likes dealing with nuns.
But I can die tomorrow, and just imagine how great the poor bite will visit with his millions,
alone, and with this love of religious life which others can exploit
ready ...!

I seen a lot, I'm in class and I'm in the secret. There is no shortage religious orders engaged
hunting for inheritance, for the greater glory of God, they say. In addition, those out there
foreign nuns of great coif, who are lynxes for this kind of work. It terrifies me thinking
about my daughter falling.

I'm from the old Catholicism, of that religion net Spanish: Castilian Catholicism, as they say
in panllevar, clean Aliens modern.

It would be sad to have spent my life saving, to fatten the Jesuits or those sisters who can
not speak in Castilian. I want my money not suffer the same fate The sexton of the adagio. Therefore,
the troubles of my fight with the enemy mob joins the pain it causes the weak character of
my daughter. Perhaps the hunt, and a rascal is fun of me taking over my money.

And excited by his dark thoughts, gave a pure and obscene interjection, I remember of his time
as a soldier. In the presence of the gardener, had no reason to hold back. The old was used
to the outbursts of his character.

- Let's see - he said desperately, after a long silence -.

You know me better nobody: I'm as bad as supposed enemies? Do I deserve that God will punish me
for my faults?

You are a good soul, simple and good, and you know more about this with your instinct all doctors
in Theology.

- Do you mean, Mr. Sebastian? Jesus ...! You are a man like any other, neither more nor less.
Perhaps better than most, it is simple, all in one piece, without deception or hypocrisy.

- A man: You have said. I am a man like everyone else. We reach a certain height we are like
saints in the church facades. Below, are admired for their beauty, viewed closely, a horror by the
ugliness of the stone gnawed by time. As much as we try to sanctify us, putting us at a distance,
we are but men weak flesh beings to those around us. In the church are few and those get rid
of human passions. And who knows if even those few do not feel privileged bitten by the demon
of vanity, and the extreme asceticism of his life, they think seen the glory of the altars ...!
The priest who manages to dominate the meat falls into greed, which
is the ecclesiastic service excellence.

I've never treasured by service, I have saved for mine, never for me.

The prelate was silent a long time, but in his irresistible desire to confess to the simple woman
continued

- I'm sure God will not despise me when my time comes. His infinite mercy is above all the littleness
of life. What is my crime? Having loved a woman as my father loved my mother, have children,
as were apostles and saints. So what? The ecclesiastical celibacy is an invention of men, a detail
of agreed discipline councils, but the flesh and their demands are
many centuries earlier, dating from Paradise.

Whoever breaks this barrier, not vice, but irresistible passion,
because it can not overcome the impulse to create a family and have
a companion, that certainly needed to Church law, but disobeys God
.... Approaching death, I have fear.

Many nights doubt and tremble like a child .... I have served God in my way. At other times he
had defended with the sword, fighting heretics, now I'm your priest,
and He battled every time I see the wickedness of the times curtail
some of its glory.

The Lord forgive me, receiving me in his bosom. You who are so good, Tomasa, and you have a soul
of an angel under your bark rough, do not you think so ...?

The gardener smiled, and his words pierced the silence slowly dying afternoon.

- Calm down, Mr. Sebastian. I have seen many saints in this house worth less than you. To ensure
their salvation had abandoned the children. To maintain what they call the purity of the soul
would have denied the family. Believe you me, come here not saints;
men, all men.

No regret having followed the impulse of the heart. God made us in His image and likeness, and
gave us some sense of the family. Moreover, chastity, celibacy and other trifles, which you invented
to distinguish from ordinary people. Whether you are a man, Don Sebastian, the more it is, will
be more good and better will welcome the Lord in his glory.

IX

Corpus few days after a morning Don Antolin was in search of Gabriel. Silver Stick Luna smiled,
talking with a patronizing air.

He had thought about him all night. It hurt him inactive, walking in the cloister. Lack occupation
was what inspired those ideas as evil.

- Let's see - he said -: "I should be down with me every evening at the Cathedral to teach Treasury
and other treasures? Many foreigners come to understand only if left when asked. You know its
language, know the French, I do not know how many languages more, according to your brother. The
cathedral may prove to win a lot of these foreign having an interpreter available, you'd do
us a favor and do not lose anything. Always is entertainment to see new faces. As a reward ....

Don
Antolin stop there, scratching his head under the bonnet. Would be to scratch something of funds
Obrería, if it was not possible at first, being weak and drained income of the Primacy, as
would be provided later. And waited with anxious eyes the answer Gabriel. He showed himself satisfied.
At the end was a guest of the cathedral, and something should. And since that afternoon down
to the temple choir when to teach foreign riches of the church.

Never missing passengers, displaying color confetti Don Antolin, expected Time to admire the
jewelry. Silver Stick not seen a foreigner who does not imagine I was a lord or a duke, wondering
many times their clumsiness in dress. For him, only the great of the earth could afford the pleasure
of traveling, and opened some eyes shocked and incredulous when Gabriel
said that many of these people were shoemakers in London or Paris
shopkeepers were given in the holiday gift of a trip by former country
of the Moors.

The ships moved through five canons to surplices chorus,
each with a key hand. They were the guardians of the Treasury. Opened
every lock in their custody, heavily spun and left the door open the
chapel with its ancient treasures. In large displays, like a museum,
displaying the old opulence of the cathedral silver images massive,
huge balloons topped by graceful figurines, all of precious metal;
chests complicated task ivory, gold and virile custody; huge golden
plates and embossed, mythological scenes came back to life the joy
of paganism in that sordid spot dusty Christian church. Gemstones
extended their range of colors pectoral turbans and robes of the Virgin.
Diamonds were so huge that cast doubt on its authenticity, pebble-sized
emeralds, amethysts, topaz and pearls, many pearls, hundreds, thousands,
dropping like hail on the garments of the Virgin, The strangers were
astonished before this opulence, dazzled by its sheer size, while
Gabriel, accustomed to visiting Daily, I looked around coldly. The
Treasury had an air of sad disrepair. Riches had aged with the cathedral.
The shining diamonds, gold seemed tarnished and dusty, The blackened
silver, pearls were dull and dead. A rise
of wages, with Mr. Ricardo, meant an increase in the cost of production of wages; an increase
in the number of hours' labour which go to produce the wages of a day's labour; an increase
in the proportion of the fruits of labour which the labourer receives for his own share; an
increase in the ratio between the wages of his labour and the produce of it. This is the theory:
the reasoning, of which it is the result, has been given in the preceding paragraphs.

Some of Mr. Ricardo's followers, or more properly, of those who have adopted in most particulars
the views of political economy which his genius was the first to open up, have given explanations
of Mr. Ricardo's doctrine to nearly the same effect as the above, but in rather different terms.
They have said that profits depend not on absolute, but on proportional wages: which they expounded
to mean the proportion which the labourers en masse receive of the total produce of the country.

It seems, however, to be rather an unusual and inconvenient use of language to speak of anything
as depending upon the wages of labour, and then to explain that by wages of labour you do not
mean the wages of an individual labourer, but of all the labourers in the country collectively. I must be terrible if necessary. In the same books you have
made me read not only extols the servile gentleness of Ruth, but, if possible, the ferocity
of Judith, who slaughters the captain of the Assyrians, and the frightening feat of Jahel,
crossing with a hammer and nail the temples of Sisera.

Noting that Mrs. Agnes Juanita a bit scared to see it and hear it
so savagely biblical continued smiling

- But do not worry not overtake
you.

He is not obliged to play in such extremes will not the river of blood. Although it will be
severe lesson I give, there will be a tragedy, and will in farce.

- But what will you do, my child? What frenzy is yours? - Dona Ines asked, deeply moved and loving.

-
You'll see, if you want - said Juanita -.

Everything I have thought, but you must not know and not see it.

- How? Where?

- Come home with me.

There are only a few minutes to get the appointment time.

With give me the value your presence.

- That's another thing - said Dona Ines.

Doña Inés thought, no doubt, in time to taste that would have contributed
to flick Don Alvaro, which would come very proud of the appointment
and she would be in his austere consort.

Indeed, if the launch went well, but tragedy would be farce.

Doña Inés lost her fear and felt the irresistible temptation to see
the farce and even make in him one of the leading roles.

- Okay,
Juanita - said -.

Go to your company and I'll lend you my assistance.

Fine test I'll give you my friendship with this, because I can also
get involved.

- Understand each other - said Juanita -. I do not
want your help. What merit would then my victory? You do not undertake,
because you will be hidden and nobody will know you've been in my
house. Nor will expose you to any accident, because you will see the
bulls from the scaffold.

- Yes ... but ... explain yourself, do not
make me go blind ..., explain yourself ....

- It will happen when.
Urge to go home. And
when the producer, after buying the tools and employing them in his own occupation, comes to
estimate his gains, he must set aside a portion of the produce to replace not only the wages
paid both by himself and by the tool-maker, but also the profits of the tool-maker, advanced
by himself out of his own capital.

It is not correct, therefore, to state that all which the capitalist retains after replacing
wages forms his profit. It is true the whole return to capital is either wages or profits;
but profits do not compose merely the surplus after replacing the outlay; they also enter into
the outlay itself. Capital is expended partly in paying or reimbursing wages, and partly in
paying the profits of other capitalists, whose concurrence was necessary in order to bring
together the means of production.

If any contrivance, therefore, were devised by which that part of the outlay which consists
of previous profits could be either wholly or partially dispensed with, it is evident that
more would remain as the profit of the immediate producer; while, as the quantity of labour
necessary to produce a given quantity of the commodity would be unaltered, as well as the quantity
of produce paid for that labour, it seems that the ratio between the price of labour and its
produce would be the same as before; that the cost of production of wages would be the same,
proportional wages the same, and yet profits different.

To illustrate this by a simple instance, let it be supposed that one-third of the produce is
sufficient to replace the wages of the labourers who have been immediately instrumental in
the production; that another third is necessary to replace the materials used and the fixed
capital worn out in the process; while the remaining third is clear gain, being a profit of
50 per cent. Suppose, for example, that 60 agricultural labourers, receiving 60 quarters of
corn for their wages, consume fixed capital and seed amounting to the value of 60 quarters
more, and that the result of their operations is a produce of 180 quarters. When we analyse
the price of the seed and tools into its elements, we find that they must have been the produce
of the labour of 40 men: for the wages of those 40, together with profit at the rate previously
supposed (50 per cent) make up 60 quarters. The produce, therefore, consisting of 180 quarters
is the result of the labour altogether of 100 men: namely, the 60 first mentioned, and the
40 by whose labour the fixed capital and the seed were produced.

Let us now suppose, by way of an extreme case, that some contrivance is discovered, whereby
the purposes to which the second third of the produce had been devoted, may be dispensed with
altogether: that some means are invented by which the same amount of produce may be procured
without the assistance of any fixed capital, or the consumption of any seed or material sufficiently
valuable to be worth calculating. Let us, however, suppose that this cannot be done without
taking on a number of additional labourers, equal to those required for producing the seed
and fixed capital; so that the saving shall be only in the profits of the previous capitalists.
Let us, in conformity with this supposition, assume that in dispensing with the fixed capital
and seed, value 60 quarters, it is necessary to take on 40 additional labourers, receiving
a quarter of corn each, as before.

The rate of profit has evidently risen. It has increased from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. A
return of 180 quarters could not before be obtained but by an outlay of 120 quarters; it can
now be obtained by an outlay of no more than 100.

Here, therefore, is an undeniable rise of profits. Have wages, in the sense above attached
to them, fallen or not? It would seem not.

The produce (180 quarters) is still the result of the same quantity of labour as before, namely,
the labour of 100 men. A quarter of corn, therefore, is still, as before, the produce of 10/18
of a man's labour for a year. Each labourer receives, as before, one quarter of corn; each,
therefore, receives the produce of 10\18 of a year's labour of one man, that is, the same cost
of production; each receives 10/18 of the produce of his own labour, that is, the same proportional
wages; and the labourers collectively still receive the same proportion, namely 10/18, of the
whole produce.

The conclusion, then, cannot be resisted, that Mr. Ricardo's theory is defective: that the
rate of profits does not exclusively depend upon the value of wages, in his sense, namely,
the quantity of labour of which the wages of a labourer are the produce; that it does not exclusively
depend upon proportional wages, that is, upon the proportion which the labourers collectively
receive of the whole produce, or the ratio which the wages of an individual labourer bear to
the produce of his individual labour.

Those political economists, therefore, who have always dissented from Mr. Ricardo's doctrine,
or who, having at first admitted, ended by discarding it, were so far in the right; but they
committed a serious error in this, that, with the usual one-sidedness of disputants, they knew
no medium between admitting absolutely and dismissing entirely; and saw no other course than
utterly to reject what it would have been sufficient to modify.

It is remarkable how very slight a modification will suffice to render Mr. Ricardo's doctrine
completely true. It is even doubtful whether he himself, if called upon to adapt his expressions
to this peculiar case, would not have so explained his doctrine as to render it entirely unobjectionable.

It is perfectly true, that, in the example already made use of, a rise of profits takes place,
while wages, considered in respect to the quantity of labour of which they are the produce,
have not varied at all. But though wages are still the produce of the same quantity of labour
as before, the cost of production of wages has nevertheless fallen; for into cost of production
there enters another element besides labour. 

On top of these three doors, a lush Gothic rose the second body, architecture Greco-Roman and most modern
construction, causing the same trouble Gabriel Luna if a discordant trumpet interrupt the
course of a symphony. Jesus and the twelve apostles all natural size, were sitting at the table,
each in its niche above the cover the center, bounded by two buttresses and towers that left
the front in three parties. Extended beyond its arcades two galleries of Italian palace, the More
than once they had looked when he played Gabriel, as a child in the home of Ringer.

"The wealth of the church - thought Luna - was bad for art.

In a temple had been poor preserved the uniformity of the old facade. But when the archbishop of
Toledo had eleven million income and some more on council, and no one knew how to make money,
were initiated works, reconstructions were done, and art as decadent dinner daubs pariah. "

Then rose the third body, two large archways that gave birth to the rosette nave, crowned all
by a stone railing pierced followed the windings the front between the two masses outgoing
protect it: the tower and the Mozarabic chapel.

Gabriel ceased his contemplation, seeing that he was not alone at the temple. Was almost daily.
Touching the fence passed some women with bowed head and blanket over his eyes. In tiles of the
pavement sounded the crutches of a cripple, and beyond the tower, under the great arc which connects
the archbishop's palace with the cathedral, the beggars reuníanse to take place in the cloister
door. Devotional and paupers were unknown. Were all morning the first occupants of the temple.
This meeting provided them some day fraternity, and between coughs and coughs were lamenting
the cold morning and I take it that Ringer was going down to the
church.

A door opened beyond the arc of the Archbishop of the stairs leading to the tower and the upper
cloister rooms occupied by employees of the temple. A man crossed the street waving a large
bunch of keys, and surrounded by the early bird customers began open the door of the lower
cloister, narrow and pointed as a loophole. Gabriel was known: Marian was the ringer, and could
prevent him, he remained motionless in the square Let it burst through
the door of people eager Muffin penetrate Primate, as if they could
steal the site.

Finally he decided to follow them, and down the seven steps of the cloister, as the cathedral, built
in a ravine, is lower than the surrounding streets.

Everything was the same. Along the walls, large frescoes depicting Bayeu and Maella work and
the greatness of San Eulogio, his preaching in the land of the Moors and the cruelties of people
who cheat large turban and huge mustache to hit the saint. On the inside Muffin's door, the dreadful
martyrdom Child of La Guardia, the legend was born at while in many
Catholic nations in the heat of anti-Semitic hatred: the sacrifice
of Christian children by Jews of grim degustation, which is stolen
from home and crucify him to rip the heart and drink his blood.

The humidity was peeling and removing much of the fictional painting that fringed the warhead as a book
cover, but Gabriel still saw the ugly face of the Jew as the foot of the cross and another fierce
gesture with the knife in his mouth, bends down to give the heart
of the little martyr theatrical figures more than once had troubled
her dreams child.

The garden, which stretches between the four gates of the cloister, showed in winter Hellenic
vegetation tall laurels and cypresses, its branches passing between the gates they close on five
arches on each side until the height of the capitals. Gabriel looked over while the garden,
which is higher than the cloister. His face was at the level of the land that once his father had
worked. Finally back to see that corner of vegetables; become the patio garden by the canons
of other centuries. His memory had accompanied him when walking in the vast Bois de Boulogne
and the Hyde Park in London.

For him, garden of the Cathedral of Toledo was the most beautiful gardens, to be first I had
seen in his life.

The beggars sitting on the steps of the door looked at him curiously,
not daring out his hand.

Do not know if that stranger early riser, with ragged coat, hat worn and old boots, was a curious
or seeking a job site of the cathedral to demand alms.

Annoyed by this intelligence, Luna went on to the cloister, past the two doors that put you
in touch with the temple. The call of the presentation, all-white stone, is a lively art shows Plateresque
which a gem engraved with fanciful decorations and cheerful toy. Then came the back of the stairwell
by which Archbishops down from his palace to the church, a wall of reeds and large Gothic shields,
and almost single storey, the famous "stone of light", thin sheet of transparent marble as a glass
that illuminates the stairway and the admiration of the rustic main
visiting the cloister.

Then the door of Santa Catalina, black and gold, with rich foliage polychromatic, castles and
lions in the jambs and two statues of prophets.

Gabriel walked a few steps, seeing the inside by opening the shutter of the cover. It was the sexton,
who had just round the temple, opening all doors.

A big dog came craning his neck as if it were to: barking from hunger,
then, two men his cap down over his eyebrows, wrapped in layers of
brown locker.

Ringer said the gate to come out.

- Well, good morning, Mariano! - Said one of them by way of farewell.

- Good God give us the ... and sleep well.

Gabriel admitted to the night guards of the cathedral. Locked in the temple from the previous
evening, they retired to their homes to sleep. The dog began the journey of the Seminar to
devour the leftovers of the students, until you look for guards to lock again.

Luna down the steps of the home and entered the cathedral. He had hardly stepped on the tiles the
pavement, his face felt the cold touch and a bit sticky in that environment cellar. In the temple
was still dark. Above, stained glass hundreds of windows, staggered, giving birth to the five
ships, shining with the light of dawn. They were like magic flowers that opened at the first light
of day. Below, among the huge pillars that formed a forest of stone, there was darkness, torn
in places by red spots and flickering of the lamps that burned in the chapel shaking the shadows.
The bats flew at the head of the columns, wanting to extend a few moments his possession of
the temple, until it leaked by windows on the first ray of sun. Flew over the heads of the devotees
who, kneeling before the altars, praying out loud, satisfied to be in the cathedral at that hour
as at home. Others spoke to the acolytes and other temple servants who were entering all doors,
sleepy and stretching as workers who come to the workshop.

In the glided dark black stains some mantle path of the sacristy, stopping large genuflecting
before each image, and far away, invisible in the dark, guessed the sexton, a sprite tirelessly
for the sound of his keys and the creaking of doors that was opening.

Waking the temple.

It sounded like cannon fire hits the door, repeating the echo ship by ship. A broom began to sweep
through the part of the sacristy, producing noise of a great hill. The church rang with the blows
of some altar boys shook dust to the famous choir stalls. Cathedral seemed to stretch the nerves
excited: tore the rub less whining.

The cold was more intense in the church than outside it. Uníase to low temperature humidity
of soil crossed by drainage culverts, the ooze of hidden underground ponds, that stained the
pavement and was coughing to the canons in the choir, "shortening the life, "as they said plaintively.

The
morning light began to spread by ships. Out of the shadow the immaculate whiteness of the Cathedral
of Toledo, the sharpness of its stone, which makes it the most cheerful and beautiful temples.
Is marked with all its elegant and slim the eighty bold eight sturdy
pillars of columns you boldly cutting up the space, white as if snow
were solidified, and spread and intertwine to hold their nerve vaults.

At the top is opened the large windows, with windows that seem gardens magical light covered
with flowers.

Gabriel was sitting on the base of a pillar between two columns, but a few moment had to stand.
The moisture of the stone cold tomb circulating throughout the Cathedral, he penetrated to the
bone. Wandered the aisles, calling attention of the devotees, who interrupted their prayers to
him. A stranger at that hour, they were the relatives of the church,
excited his curiosity.

The Ringer is crossed several times with him, following him with anxious eyes, as if they inspire
little confidence that unknown miserable aspect of the time wandering the riches of the chapels can
not be monitored.

Another man met him near the altar. Luna knew him. Eusebio was the sacristan the chapel of the
Tabernacle, the Blue Lady, as it was called among the people of the Cathedral by the light blue
suit he wore in the days of ceremony. Six years after going Gabriel since he was last time,
and had not forgotten his bulk buttery face gritty, rough, narrow
front, lined with tufts of hair, and bull neck, which only if he could
breathe, turning their aspirations into a puff of steam.

All employees living in the upper cloister envied his position, being the most productive and
for the favor it enjoyed around the archbishop and the canons.

The Blue regarded the temple as their own, come close to throwing it to the that inspired antipathy.
When you see a bum walking around the church, he noticed insolent
eyes, making an effort to raise their eyebrows raised.

Where had he seen to that rare bird? Gabriel noted his effort to focus the memory, and avoided
being examined turning back to look with attention to a false altar placed on a pillar.

Fleeing the wary curiosity aroused by its presence in the temple, left the cloister. There was
better, completely isolated. The beggars sitting on the steps chatting Muffin's door. Passing
through them priests, wrapped in his cloak, entering hastily in the cathedral by the door of the
Presentation. The beggars were greeted by name, not reach out. Were known, were in the house,
and between friends are not beggar.

They were there to fall on outsiders, and waited patiently for hours of 'English', because
only in England could be all foreigners coming from Madrid on the morning train.

Gabriel stood near the door, knowing that she entered the living in the upper cloister. Crossed
the bow of the Archbishop, and following the open staircase in the palace, down the street,
entering the cathedral through the door of Muffin. Luna, who knew all the history of the famous
temple, recalled the origin of the name of the gate. Primarily Justice was called, because it gave
audiences the vicar general of the Archdiocese. Then called the muffin, because every day after the
mass, the supplier, with acolytes and vergers, it appeared to bless the half-pound loaves or muffins
which were distributed among the poor.

Six hundred bushels of wheat - he remembered Luna - were spent every year in this charity: but
it was at the time that the cathedral was paid every year more than eleven million income.

Gabriel bothering prying eyes of the clergy and devout women who entered the church. People
were accustomed to see every day, always the same, at the same time,
and felt stirred his curiosity when a strange face altered the monotony
of their existence.

Retreating to the bottom of the cloister, though some words you did beggars back.

- Here comes the old wooden wand.

- Good morning, Mr. Esteban!

A small man, dressed in black and shaved as a cleric, came down the
steps.

- Stephen ...!

...!-- Esteban Luna said to stand between him and the door of the
Presentation.

The Wooden Staff looked at him with eyes that seemed to Amber liabilities
eyes, man used to stay long hours in the cathedral without the slightest
thought rebellion came to disturb their blissful immobility.

He hesitated a long time, like I can not believe the remote likeness
of that face pale and gaunt with one that existed in his memory, but
finally became convinced of the identity with painful surprise.

-
Gabriel ...!, my brother!

But how are you?

And his face rigid Temple server, which seemed to have taken the immobility of the pillars and
statues, is animated with an affectionate smile.

The two, shaking hands, turned away by the faculty.

When you come ...? But where have you been ...? What life is yours? Why have you come?

The Wooden Staff expressed his surprise with incessant questions, without giving time to his brother
to answer.

Gabriel said his arrival in the night before his tenure at the church since before dawn, waiting
to see her brother.

- I come from Madrid, but first I have been to many places: in England,
France, in Belgium, who knows where?

I drove from one town to another, always fighting hunger and the cruelty of men. I follow the
steps poverty and police. When I stop overwhelmed by the existence of the Wandering Jew, Justice,
on behalf of the fear, I cry on the go, and return to a start. I am a terrible man, and I see,
Stephen: ill, his body ruined by old age and the certainty of dying
soon.

Yesterday, in Madrid, told me he would go back to jail if prolonged my stay there, and the Later
I took the train. Where to go? The world is big, but for me and other rebels like me shrinks,
compresses, to not let an inch of land on which to put your feet. On earth I have only you and
this peaceful and quiet corner where you live happy. Come looking for you; if you reject me,
I have no place to die than jail or hospital, if they want greet him as my name.

And Gabriel, fatigued by his words, coughed painfully, echoing his chest as if the air slips by
winding caverns. He spoke vehemently, moving instinctively arms, as a man long accustomed to
public speaking time, burning with the flame of proselytism.

- Oh, brother ... brother! - Stephen said with a look of gentle reproach -. What have you served
as reading newspapers and books? Why this desire to fix what is good or if it is wrong can not
be fixed ...? Quietly follow your path, you would be benefited of the cathedral, and who knows
if you sit in the choir, between the canons, to honor and under the
family ...!

You always had bad head, just as you are the smartest between us. Cursed talent leads to such
misery ...!

What I have suffered, brother aware of your stuff! What disappointments from the last time you spent
here! I thought you contented and happy in Barcelona printing, editing books, he was Sueldazo
a fortune compared with what we earn. Something I read your name
scaled so often in the newspapers, together with those meting in calling
for the distribution of all death religion and family, and I do not
know how many more blunders. The companion moon has said, Luna's partner
has done that, and I hid from the people of the house that such partner
were you, guessing that would end up so crazy bad, necessarily evil
.... Then ... after came the pumps.

- I had nothing to do with it
- Gabriel said in a sad voice -. I am a theorist: abominable action
as premature and inefficient.

- I know, Gabriel. I always believed
you innocent. You so good, so sweet, small amazed us all your goodness,
you were going to saint, as I said our poor mother!, kill you! And
so treacherously, through artifacts of hell ...! Jesus!

The amount of borrowers being given, (and by the amount of borrowers is here meant the aggregate
sum which people are willing to borrow at some given rate,) the rate of interest will depend
upon the quantity of capital owned by people who are unwilling or unable to engage in trade.
The circumstances which determine this, are, on the one hand, the degree in which a taste for
business, or an aversion to it, happens to be prevalent among the classes possessed of property;
and on the other hand, the amount of the annual accumulation from the earnings of labour. Those
who accumulate from their wages, fees, or salaries, have, of course, (speaking generally) no
means of investing their savings except by lending them to others: their occupations prevent
them from personally superintending any employment.

Upon these circumstances, then, the rate of interest depends, the amount of borrowers being
given. And the counter-proposition equally holds, that, the above circumstances being given,
the rate of interest depends upon the amount of borrowers.

Suppose, for example, that when the rate of interest has adjusted itself to the existing state
of the circumstances which affect the disposition to borrow and to lend, a war breaks out,
which induces government, for a series of years, to borrow annually a large sum of money. During
the whole of this period, the rate of interest will remain considerably above what it was before,
and what it will be afterwards.

Before the commencement of the supposed war, all persons who were disposed to lend at the then
rate of interest, had found borrowers, and their capital was invested. This may be assumed;
for if any capital had been seeking for a borrower at the existing rate of interest, and unable
to find one, its owner would have offered it at a rate slightly below the existing rate. He
would, for instance, have bought into the funds, at a slight advance of price; and thus set
at liberty the capital of some fundholder, who, the funds yielding a lower interest, would
have been obliged to accept a lower interest from individuals.

Since, then, all who were willing to lend their capital at the market rate, have already lent
it, Government will not be able to borrow unless by offering higher interest. Though, with
the existing habits of the possessors of disposable capital, an increased number cannot be
found who are willing to lend at the existing rate, there are doubtless some who will be induced
to lend by the temptation of a higher rate. The same temptation will also induce some persons
to invest, in the purchase of the new stock, what they would otherwise have expended unproductively
in increasing their establishments, or productively, in improving their estates. The rate of
interest will rise just sufficiently to call forth an increase of lenders to the amount required.

This we apprehend to be the cause why the rate of interest in this country was so high as it
is well known to have been during the last war. It is, therefore, by no means to be inferred,
as some have done, that the general rate of profits was unusually high during the same period,
because interest was so. Supposing the rate of profits to have been precisely the same during
the war, as before or after it, the rate of interest would nevertheless have risen, from the
causes and in the manner above described.

The practical use of the preceding investigation is, to moderate the confidence with which
inferences are frequently drawn with respect to the rate of profit from evidence regarding
the rate of interest; and to shew that although the rate of profit is one of the elements which
combine to determine the rate of interest, the latter is also acted upon by causes peculiar
to itself, and may either rise or fall, both temporarily and permanently, while the general
rate of profits remains unchanged.

       *       *       *       *       *

The introduction of banks, which perform the function of lenders and loan-brokers, with or
without that of issuers of paper-money, produces some further anomalies in the rate of interest,
which have not, so far as we are aware, been hitherto brought within the pale of exact science.

If bankers were merely a class of middlemen between the lender and the borrower; if they merely
received deposits of capital from those who had it lying unemployed in their hands, and lent
this, together with their own capital, to the productive classes, receiving interest for it,
and paying interest in their turn to those who had placed capital in their hands; the effect
of the operations of banking on the rate of interest would be to lower it in some slight degree.
The banker receives and collects together sums of money much too small, when taken individually,
to render it worth while for the owners to look out for an investment, but which in the aggregate
form a considerable amount. This amount may be considered a clear addition to the productive
capital of the country; at least, to the capital in activity at any moment. And as this addition
to the capital accrues wholly to that part of it which is not employed by the owners, but lent
to other producers, the natural effect is a diminution of the rate of interest.

The banker, to the extent of his own private capital, (the expenses of his business being first
paid,) is a lender at interest. But, being subject to risk and trouble fully equal to that
which belongs to most other employments, he cannot be satisfied with the mere interest even
of his whole capital: he must have the ordinary profits of stock, or he will not engage in
the business: the state of banking must be such as to hold out to him the prospect of adding,
to the interest of what remains of his own capital after paying the expenses of his business,
interest upon capital deposited with him, in sufficient amount to make up, after paying the
expenses, the ordinary profit which could be derived from his own capital in any productive
employment. This will be accomplished in one of two ways.

1. If the circumstances of society are such as to furnish a ready investment of disposable
capital; (as for instance in London, where the public funds and other securities, of undoubted
stability, and affording great advantages for receiving the interest without trouble and realizing
the principal without difficulty when required, tempt all persons who have sums of importance
lying idle, to invest them on their own account without the intervention of any middleman;)
the deposits with bankers consist chiefly of small sums likely to be wanted in a very short
period for current expenses, and the interest on which would seldom be worth the trouble of
calculating it. The gathering of the faithful was higher than other days, but even
so the cathedral seemed deserted. On the cruise, kneeling between the choir and the altar could be
seen several nuns in starched and beaked caring touch of groups of girls dressed black, red
or blue ties, according to the school to which they belonged. A few military Academy fat and
bald, they heard mass standing, supporting ros on his chest warrior. In this crowd scattered
and distracted by music, stood out ladies College of Noble Maidens, young barely entered puberty
or women superb across the breadth of women's development, watching with eyes of coal, all
in suits black silk lace mantilla comb mounted on roses and colorful strokes, as aristocratic
ladies of grace manolesca breaks a Goya painting.

Gabriel saw his nephew, Tato dressed in scarlet gown, like a noble Florentine banging on the
slabs with a stick to scare the dogs. Arguing with a group of pastors of the saw: men blackened and
twisted like branches, with coats and brown sandals and leggings, females with red scarves and
skirts filthy and patched passing generation to generation. They had come down from the mountains
to see the Corpus of Toledo, and roamed the naves of the cathedral with awe in her eyes, afraid
of their own steps, trembling every time the organ roared, as if they feared being expelled
from that same magical palace to the stories. The women pointed a finger at the color windows,
rosettes of the covers, the golden warriors clock gate Fair pipes organs, and remained motionless,
his mouth open, in stupid contemplation. The dogcatcher, with their red robes, they looked
like a prince, and troubled by respect, could not understand his words. When threatened with his
cane Tato a mastiff that clung to the legs of their masters, these people simply decided to leave the
church rather than abandon the faithful wild life partner.

Gabriel looked the choir.

The high and low chairs were occupied. It was the day great party, and not just the canons
and beneficiaries were in their seats, but the priests the chapel of the Kings and the chapel prebendades
Mozarabic, the two small churches living apart, with traditional autonomy within the Cathedral
of Toledo.

Luna was in the middle of the chorus to his friend the choirmaster, with ruffled surplice, moving
a small baton. Around him were grouped a dozen musicians and singers, whose sounds and voices were
drowned every time from the top of accompanying the body. The priest led with a gesture of
resignation, while the music lost, weak and overwhelmed, in the solitude
of the giant ships.

On the altar, on his square coach, was executed by the famous master custody Villalpando, a
Gothic temple, carefully draft, glittering with gold tremor in the
light of candles, and work as subtle and air trembled at the slightest
movement, rocking their shots like bunches of spikes.

Iban arriving at the cathedral the procession guests: lords of the city in a black suit; Academy
teachers dress, with all its decorations, official Civil guard with uniforms of the soldiers
remembered the beginning of the century. For advanced ships, swaying with slight hops, children
dressed as angels: about angels to the Pompadour, with brocade jacket, red heels, frill of lace
wings brass hanging from the shoulder blades and a turban with feathers on the white wig. The
Primate for the party drew their traditional dress. The dress uniforms of public servants temple
were all eighteenth century, the last period of prosperity. The two men who had to guide the
coach went with powdered curls and black trousers and jacket, and the abbots of last century,
the wooden sticks vergers and is adorned with starched ruffs and wigs; brocade and velvet covered
all the people of the Claverias, I could barely eat.

Even the acolytes wore gold Dalmatian.

The altar was decorated with tapestries of both rides, the famous panels of the Kings Catholic emblems
and shields, Cisneros gift to the cathedral.

The auxiliary bishop said Mass, and he and his aides deacons were sweating under the traditional
cassocks and capes, embroidered embroidered with thick accents and dazzling, overwhelming as
ancient armor.

Moved the cathedral at the approach of the procession. Sounded the doors of the sacristy opening
and closing with a bang, went the busy people from one place to another. In this life calm and monotonous,
the annual incidence of a procession that was to visit several streets same disorders and
occupations caused a risky expedition to distant countries.

After the Mass, the organ began to roar a messy and noisy place, something like a wild dance
while ordering the procession. Outside the cathedral bells rang.

Music from the Academy had ceased to play a paso doble in the door
Llana, and hear the commands of the officers and the clash of heads
in unison to be stationary companies of cadets.

Don Antolin, with his big stick of silver and white brocade cope, he went around to another, bringing
together employees of the temple. Gabriel saw him sweaty and stuffy approach.

- At your place: it's time.

And what led to the altar, next to custody. Gabriel and eight men were introduced within the
framework of lifting a cloth covering their sides. They had to stoop
inside the engine.

His mission was to push him to slip on hidden wheels.

They are only providing the impetus was for: out, both servers and white wig black suit were
responsible for the front and rear rudder, guiding the carriage Eucharistic through the winding
streets. Gabriel was placed by peers in the center. He warn when he had to stop or start driving.
Monumental custody was mounted on a platform with a large counterweight, between it and the
carriage was a hand's breadth open, through which his eyes peered Gabriel, giving the boat shown
in front.

- Warning ...! March! - Gabriel said, in obedience to an external signal.

And the sacred chariot began to move slowly down the incline of wood covering the steps of the
altar. Passing the gate had to stop. The people knelt, and gnawing at her Don Antolin and wooden
sticks, were advancing with their long canons red vestments, the
auxiliary bishop golden miter, and the dignities with white mitres
linen without adornment.

All knelt before the custody, the court was silent, and accompanied by the clearing of a trombone,
sang a song praising the Sacramento. Incense blue rose in wisps around custody, watching the glint
of gold. When stopped the song, the organ sounded again and the coach stood up again. He trembled
all it from the bottom to top, and the move towards sound like the jingle of silver aware of
their bells Gothic ornaments. Gabriel walked holding on to a cross of car, staring at the helms,
feeling in his legs the brush of pushing artifact that cars like the Asian Indian idols.

On leaving the cathedral through the door Llana - the only temple which is at street level -
Gabriel was able to cover in sight throughout the procession.

He saw the riders of the Civil Guard breaking the march, the drummers of the city dressed in red,
and the crosses of the grouped parishes without order of the sleeve around the cathedral, huge,
very heavy, like a balloon covered embroidered figures. After all the free street center, flanked
by two rows of clerics military and candles, the incense deacons,
assisted by the angels Rococo Asia had the navetas of perfume, and
the canons of historical layers with large value.

Behind the officials clustered Sacramento, and the battalion of cadets brought up the rear, rifle
arm, shaved heads into the air, swaying to the rhythm of the march.

Gabriel air inhaled with delight the road. He who had seen the largest capital Europe, admired
the ancient streets of that city after his long confinement in the cathedral. Seemed crowded,
and even experienced the dizzy that great upheavals modern cause in those accustomed to a sedentary
life.

Showed themselves balconies hung with antique tapestries and shawls, the streets were tented with
the floor covered by a layer of sand so that the float Eucharistic could slide over the sharp
pebbles.

On the slopes, slogging custody. Sweating, panting, the blind men in the car. Gabriel coughed,
her spine pain from confinement in the mobile dungeon and majesty of turbábase progress with
the commands of the canon Obrero, which robes red and a stick in hand, led the procession,
rebuking many times, their movements disordered, the coxswains and
that drove the coffin.

Apart from these penalties, Gabriel was satisfied with his extraordinary escape through of the
city. Laughing thinking about what he had said the crowd kneeling in reverence to know that his eyes
looked out under custody. Those officers trousers red and white overalls, with the sword at
his side and cocked hat on his thigh escorting God certainly had
news of its existence, one would have heard of him, and perhaps kept
his name in memory as an enemy of society.

And the damned repelled by all, taking refuge in a hole in the cathedral,
adventurous birds nesting in vaults, was guiding the way of God for
the religious city streets ...!

At noon turned over custody to the Primacy. Gabriel, as he passed the door Muffin, the exterior
walls was adorned with the famous tapestries.

Finished chants Farewell, the priests took off his clothes quickly,
looking for the door helter-skelter, without greeting.

Iban to eat later than usual, that extraordinary day troubled existence.

The church, so noisy and bright in the morning, despoblábase rapidly, falling into silence and
gloom.

Stephen was outraged to see Gabriel leave the carriage of the Eucharist.

- You'll kill: this is not for you. What whim was yours?

Gabriel laughed. Yes, it was a fad, but did not regret it. Had taken a walk by city ​​without being
seen, and his brother would have to meet two days for their maintenance.

He wanted work, not to be burdensome.

The Wooden Staff are softened.

- But lamb, do you ask for something? Do I need anything but quiet and you live better?

As if to match this with another sacrifice to please his brother, rising Claverias not put the
grim face and spoke to her during the meal.

In the afternoon, the upper cloister was almost deserted. Don Antolin rushed down the stubs,
rejoicing to learn that many outsiders were awaiting him.

El Tato Ringer and stealthily crept down the stairs of the tower
dressed in their best clothes.

Iban bulls. Sagrario, forced the rest to sanctify the party, had spent the house of the shoemaker.
While he taught the giants of servants, soldiers of the Academy Pardito the field and the niece
of Luna helped to mend the clothes that poor woman overwhelmed by poverty and too many children.

When
the maestro di cappella and Wooden Staff down to the choir, Gabriel came to the cloister. Only
saw him as a cadet who was walking with his hand on the hilt of the sword, putting almost horizontal,
as the tailings rabitiesas times. Moon was recognized for his broad pants and wasp waist, he did
say the Tato that this cadet wearing a corset. Was Juanito, the nephew of the cardinal. Often
walked through the cloister waiting for a chance to speak with Leocadia, the beautiful daughter
of the sexton of the Virgin.

Of parents had not nothing to fear, but the future warrior had some
respect for the grandmother Tomasa, who watched with disfavor these
relationships and threatened to tell his uncle hacérselas Cardinal.

Gabriel had spoken several times with the cadet.

When the boy was in the cloister pegábase to him for conversation, to justify their presence in
these talks in Claverias. Luna was shocked to see him there in late parties.

- But are not you going to fight? - Asked -. All of the Academy must be in the plaza.

Johnny smiled, stroking his mustache. It was his favorite gesture,
and stood with satisfaction sleeve, adorned with sergeant's stripes.

There was a cadet either: it was a "gallon" and this, even if little
to the dreams of the generals, it was always a step later ... No,
not going to bulls, it was a true amateur, but was sacrificed for
speaking an afternoon with his girlfriend at the door of his home
in the silence of the Claverias.

Grandmother had fallen into the garden, and Virgin Blue would soon be out, leaving the field
open, as if not aware of anything. The great evening, my friend Gabriel! He had more serious
occupations important that the rookie of the Academy, who spent Sunday in the cafés or walking like
suckers. His girlfriend is the jealous all at the Alcazar: to teachers.

- And when is the wedding? - Gabriel said cheerfully.

The "gallon" replied with an expression of important man. There were many things to do before:
convince his uncle, which was not easy, and follow the impulses of his star, until reach a
certain height. He was reserved for big things. Was a matter of few years.

- I, my friend Luna, I'm from the wood of the young general. It is a good shade of the family. My uncle
that, being an altar boy, was certain to get a cardinal, and has arrived. I ascend too fast.
Besides, you know that an archbishop of Toledo is not anything and the guy has a palace and
demand relations in the Ministry of War as well as if it were a general. As it is more military
than cure!

To prove it, here is the only thing has written a prayer to the Virgin,
so the soldiers recite before entering fire.

- And you, Johnny, do
you really for the military?

- Very.

Since I learned to read and open books, I wanted to be like the great captains that I saw on
the plates, upright on his horse, sword in hand, proud and beautiful. Believe me in this race no
one enters without calling. The seminars are now locked against their will, but nobody is
spent on military force: he who comes to the Academy is because it
comes from within.

And everyone is so sure of success as you?

- Oh, all of you - he smiled the nephew of Cardinal -. Only the vast majority have no as likely
to have a career. But with as many as we are, there is not one to think the possibility of becoming
captain vegetating in a reserve regiment, or die getting old, at most, to commander. All we first
highlighted by youth the uniform, the adventures (because you know that women get off on us)
the joy of life, loved and respected at all times, a span over countryman; later, when old age
approaches and grow one and start to go bald, the general belt, politics, and who knows if
the portfolio of War! This is the thought of all. No who does not believe that the future awaits a
belt, and will no longer take it down to wear on the waist. I know certainly that I expected.
Others imagine it ... and so we live.

Gabriel smiled at hearing the cadet.

- You are a deluded, just like those poor guys who enter the seminary believing that they expected
the miter or a great perk to the other side of the door. Is seduction still exercised after death the great
things that were. We'll see ... besides material result of the race, why are military you ...?

-
For the glory! - Cadet pompously said, remembering the speeches of Colonel-Director Academy -.
For my country, whose defense is entrusted to us! In honor of our flag!

- The Glory! - Gabriel said ironically -. I know that. Often, watching you so young, so inexperienced,
so full of false hopes, I've redone inside me that could be called the psychology of the cadet.
Guess what you have thought of that before enter the Academy and
I foresee the bitter and crushing disappointment that awaits them
upon departure.

The stories of wars and martial arts uniform have won your childhood. After bellicose readings
of poetry irresistible: Bonaparte, with his flag, passing the Arcola
bridge through the clouds of shrapnel as big as a god, then, our general
to go home: Espartero in Luchana, O'Donnell in Africa, and above all,
Prim, the leader almost legendary, leading with his sword the battalions
in Castillejos, "I want the same thing - say boys -, where a man comes,
you can reach another.

"Enthusiasm is taken predestination, and each is believed made by God to be a famous leader.
While we live here in Toledo, dreams of glory, risky business, with huge battles noisy and
triumphs. But when the two stars in the manga is going to a regiment, which first out to greet you
at the door of the barracks, almost before the greeting of sentinel is ugly and unpleasant reality.
The one who dreamed of glory and be covered with famous chieftain before thirty years, rather than thinking
of strategic combinations and original fortifications has to deal with the washing and cleaned
up a few surly waiters who come from excessive smelling health field, try the ranch, talk about
shorts and shirts and calculate the duration of boots and sandals. He who never entered the
kitchen of his home and was cared carefully by her mother, ignoring women's issues as everything
that was not to cry control and align soldiers first encountered in the military is the need to
be a cook, tailor, shoemaker, etc., often holding their superiors refusals because it does
not demonstrate proficiency in these tasks.

- It's true - Juanito said, laughing - but without it there can be no army and the army is necessary.

-
No need to discuss whether or not. I mean only that you (and if you do not, because it goes to a good
start, his teammates) are a deluded, unknowingly preparing the failure
of life, like those other young people, poorer or less vigorous, are
to enter the Church.

The Church ended because there is no faith, military glory is over forever in Spain because
there are no wars of conquest and power our feisty character was lost, fortunately, for centuries.
If we still have war, civil or colonial; zompas wars we might call, dull and useless, in which men die
as well as at Thermopylae or in Austerlitz, as only a life once lost, but without the consolation
of fame and public admiration, without the aura of what they call glory. You were born too
late. The brightness of other ages are attracted to the illusion, but arrive late to call. You
are the warriors of a people necessarily must live in peace, as the seminarians are the future
priests in a country already no miracles, nor is there faith, but routine and laziness of thought.

-
But if we no longer have foreign wars, if eventually the gains we serve, the less to defend
the integrity of Spanish soil, to save the house. Do you think - added piqued the cadet - we
are not willing to die for their country?

- No doubt it is the only thing we serve the Spanish-to die very heroically, but finally die.
For two centuries our history contains nothing heroic deaths.

"Glorious defeat of that party. "" Heroic disaster of such other. "By land and sea have caused
astonishment in the world, throwing us with his eyes closed in danger, presenting the head without
flee with the stoicism of the Chinese. But nations are not great for his defiance of death,
but for his ability to stay alive.

The Poles were the terror of the Turks and about of the best soldiers in Europe, and Poland for
some time that there .... If a great power could invade Europe (mind
you when I say 'could', because in these cases is not wanting the
same power), from here I know what would happen.

The Spanish would know die but have you the assurance that the invaders did not take more than
two battles pitched to finish with all our means of warfare. And that can rid a couple of days,
how many sacrifices it costs the country ...!

- Then - ironically the cadet said - there will be deleted and leave the army helpless the nation.

-
Today, do not expect that to happen. While Europe is armed and even more small nation has an army,
Spain will have it too. It is she who will lead by example, and this example would be useless.
It is as if to redress social injustice initiate the sacrifice one that only had a few thousand
pesetas, denying them ....

After a long silence, Gabriel spoke softly, in view of the ironic and almost aggressive gesture
Cadet.

- You will undoubtedly hurt my statements. Believe me, I'm sorry, I do not like beliefs hurt anyone,
plus those that form the ideal of life. But the truth is the truth. You do not care about social
issues, is not it? Not known, nor will be concerned for a moment. The same will happen to all
his colleagues, and yet, what you suffer in prestige, in his love of country and its flag, no other
reason than the social disarray that prevails today in the world.
Wealth is everything capital is the lord of the land. Science governing
mankind as the successor of faith but the rich have taken their findings
and to perpetuate their monopoly tyranny. In the economic world have
become owners of the machines and other advances, using them as chains
to enslave the worker, forcing him to excess production and limiting
to the minimum wage. In the life of nations is the same. Today war
is simply an application of science. The richest people have taken
over major advances the art of killing, have herds of battleships,
thousands of guns monstrous can keep millions of men under arms, with
all modern improvements, without breaks his fortune. A poor people
are left to the use of silence or unnecessarily indignant, as do the
dispossessed to the holders of the property. The most cowardly people
on the globe, or more sedentary, you can be invincible warrior or
conqueror glorious if you have money. The difference between these two departments of our knowledge does not reside in the
subject-matter with which they are conversant: for although, of the simplest and most elementary
parts of each, it may be said, with an approach to truth, that they are concerned with different
subject- matters--namely, the one with the human mind, the other with all things whatever except
the mind; this distinction does not hold between the higher regions of the two. Take the science
of politics, for instance, or that of law: who will say that these are physical sciences? and
yet is it not obvious that they are conversant fully as much with matter as with mind? Take,
again, the theory of music, of painting, of any other of the fine arts, and who will venture
to pronounce that the facts they are conversant with belong either wholly to the class of matter,
or wholly to that of mind?

The following seems to be the rationale of the distinction between physical and moral science.

In all the intercourse of man with nature, whether we consider him as acting upon it, or as
receiving impressions from it, the effect or phenomenon depends upon causes of two kinds: the
properties of the object acting, and those of the object acted upon. Everything which can possibly
happen in which man and external things, are jointly concerned, results from the joint operation
of a law or laws of matter, and a law or laws of the human mind. Thus the production of corn
by human labour is the result of a law of mind, and many laws of matter. The laws of matter
are those properties of the soil and of vegetable life which cause the seed to germinate in
the ground, and those properties of the human body which render food necessary to its support.
The law of mind is, that man desires to possess subsistence, and consequently wills the necessary
means of procuring it.

Laws of mind and laws of matter are so dissimilar in their nature, that it would be contrary
to all principles of rational arrangement to mix them up as part of the same study. In all
scientific methods, therefore, they are placed apart. Any compound effect or phenomenon which
depends both on the properties of matter and on those of mind, may thus become the subject
of two completely distinct sciences, or branches of science; one, treating of the phenomenon
in so far as it depends upon the laws of matter only; the other treating of it in so far as
it depends upon the laws of mind.

The physical sciences are those which treat of the laws of matter, and of all complex phenomena
in so far as dependent upon the laws of matter. The mental or moral sciences are those which
treat of the laws of mind, and of all complex phenomena in so far as dependent upon the laws
of mind.

Most of the moral sciences presuppose physical science; but few of the physical sciences presuppose
moral science. The reason is obvious. There are many phenomena (an earthquake, for example,
or the motions of the planets) which depend upon the laws of matter exclusively; and have nothing
whatever to do with the laws of mind. Many, therefore, of the physical sciences may be treated
of without any reference to mind, and as if the mind existed as a recipient of knowledge only,
not as a cause producing effects. But there are no phenomena which depend exclusively upon
the laws of mind; even the phenomena of the mind itself being partially dependent upon the
physiological laws of the body. All the mental sciences, therefore, not excepting the pure
science of mind, must take account of a great variety of physical truths; and (as physical
science is commonly and very properly studied first) may be said to presuppose them, taking
up the complex phenomena where physical science leaves them.

Now this, it will be found, is a precise statement of the relation in which Political Economy
stands to the various sciences which are tributary to the arts of production.

The laws of the production of the objects which constitute wealth, are the subject-matter both
of Political Economy and of almost all the physical sciences. Such, however, of those laws
as are purely laws of matter, belong to physical science, and to that exclusively. Such of
them as are laws of the human mind, and no others, belong to Political Economy, which finally
sums up the result of both combined.

Political Economy, therefore, presupposes all the physical sciences; it takes for granted all
such of the truths of those sciences as are concerned in the production of the objects demanded
by the wants of mankind; or at least it takes for granted that the physical part of the process
takes place somehow. It then inquires what are the phenomena of mind which are concerned in
the production and distribution [8] of those same objects; it borrows from the pure science
of mind the laws of those phenomena, and inquires what effects follow from these mental laws,
acting in concurrence with those physical one. [9]

From the above considerations the following seems to come out as the correct and complete definition
of Political Economy:--"The science which treats of the production and distribution of wealth,
so far as they depend upon the laws of human nature." Or thus--science relating to the moral
or psychological laws of the production and distribution of wealth."

For popular use this definition is amply sufficient, but it still falls short of the complete
accuracy required for the purposes of the philosopher. Political Economy does not treat of
the production and distribution of wealth in all states of mankind, but only in what is termed
the social state; nor so far as they depend upon the laws of human nature, but only so far
as they depend upon a certain portion of those laws. This, at least, is the view which must
be taken of Political Economy, if we mean it to find any place in an encyclopedical division
of the field of science. On any other view, it either is not science at all, or it is several
sciences. This will appear clearly, if, on the one hand, we take a general survey of the moral
sciences, with a view to assign the exact place of Political Economy among them; while, on
the other, we consider attentively the nature of the methods or processes by which the truths
which are the object of those sciences are arrived at.

Man, who, considered as a being having a moral or mental nature, is the subject-matter of all
the moral sciences, may, with reference to that part of his nature, form the subject of philosophical
inquiry under several distinct hypotheses. We may inquire what belongs to man considered individually,
and as if no human being existed besides himself; we may next consider him as coming into contact
with other individuals; and finally, as living in a state of society, that is, forming part
of a body or aggregation of human beings, systematically co-operating for common purposes. The room contained all the wealth of the artist: an iron bed, it was still
the Seminary, a harmonium, two plaster busts of Beethoven and Mozart and a lot huge package of
music, scores bound, loose-leaf lined paper, but so great, so upset and confused, often collapsed,
filling with white flutter to the ends.

- This is going in the rooms - Wooden Staff said the accents of kindness counterclaim -.

You never have a penny. Just take the pay, ask for more old papers to Madrid! Had better, Don
Luis, bought a new hat, even if modestito, that the gentlemen of
the choir they mocked the coverage on her head.

In the winter evenings after choir, musician, and Gabriel took refuge in that room. The canons,
fleeing the cold wind or rain, giving his daily walk through the galleries the upper cloister,
with the desire not to be deprived of this exercise was used to its methods. The water from
the sky hitting the windows of the garret window.

A sad and gray clarity in the afternoon flipping through the books or the teacher had run their hands
on the organ, talking to Gabriel, who sat on the bed.

Inflamed the musician talking about his adoration of art. In the midst of an enthusiastic peroration
silent, bowing to the organ, and the melodies of the instrument filled
the room, descending the stairs to reach the cloister passers like
a distant echo.

Suddenly ceased to play the most interesting passage and resumed his talk, as if afraid in its
continuous distraction ideas will evaporate.

The silent moon was the only audience he had met in the cathedral,
the first long hours listening to him or to have mad fun, but rather,
showed with his brief interruptions and questions the taste with which
he heard.

The end of the conversation every evening was the same: the greatness of Beethoven, priest idol
artist.

- I've loved all my life - said the Kapellmeister -. I raised a brother Jerome, a exclaustrated
old man, who, after leaving the convent, ran some of the world as a teacher cello. Jeronimos
were the greatest musicians of the Church. You will not know this; I also would know if born
shortly after I had taken under his protection that holy man, it was for me a real father. It
seems that every religious order dedicated in its heyday to a specialty. Some believe that
the Benedictines, scoring books old; other liquors manufactured for the ladies, were beyond
the hands of gold birdcages, and studied seven years Jerónimos music, dedicating each to instrument
of their choice. They should be preserved in the churches of Spain a little, a little nothing of
good taste in music. And what orchestras, as I told my godfather, were in their monasteries Jeronimos!
For the ladies it was a pleasure to go on Sundays afternoon the parlor, where they found the
good fathers, each of which was an instrumentalist profesorazo. They were the only concerts
at that time. With the pittance insured, without having to worry about home or dress and having
the love of art throughout obligation, just imagine you, Gabriel, what could go musicotes. So
when they cast a monks from their convents, went wrong Jeronimos not delivered. Nothing masses
begging by churches or cadge with devout families. They had to make a living one thoroughly
studied art and then placed in the cathedral as organists and Precentor. The councils are the
contention. Some were more daring, and willing to see close musical world that appeared to them
in the convents as a paradise fantastic, entered the theater orchestras, traveled, made his escapades
beyond by Italy, becoming thereby, neither in a hundred years had recognized his former prior.
One of them was my godfather. What a man! It was a good Christian, but so is He dedicated himself
to music, that it was very little of the old monk. When he was told, soon be restored convent, shrugged
his shoulders with indifference. He was interested plus a new sonata. Well, Gabriel, the man had
phrases that remain in my memory forever. One day, when I was a kid, I was in Madrid for a meeting
of musicians friends executed for themselves the famous Septimino. Did you know? The work more
'fresh' and more Beethoven's funny. I remember my godfather out of hearing self-absorbed, head
low, pulling me, I could barely keep their stride. When we got home, stared at me as if I were
an adult. "Hey, Luis - he said - and remember well this. In the world there is more than a
"Lord" Jesus Christ, and two "gentlemen" Galileo and Beethoven ... "

The musician looked lovingly plaster bust from a corner watching the
little room lion with eyebrows and eyes of dull sullen.

- Galileo
I do not know - continued Don Luis -.

I know it was a wise man, a genius of science. I'm just a musician and I understand little of
these things. But I adore Beethoven, and I think my godfather came
up short.

He is a god, is the most extraordinary man who has produced the world. Would not you think so,
Gabriel?

His nerves vibrating with enthusiasm, stood up and paced the room,
stomping the papers strewn on the floor.

- Ah, how I envy you, Gabriel,
who has run the world and have heard such good things!

The another night I could not sleep thinking about what you told me about his life in Paris: those
afternoons on Sundays, so beautiful running after lunch, sometimes
at concerts Lamoreux, other than those of Colonna, giving a surfeit
of sublimity ... And here I am locked up no other hope to direct some
misita Rossini in the great festivals ...!

My only consolation is to read music, learn by reading the great works that so many idiots heard
in the cities asleep or bored. I have in that pile there's nine symphonies the "Man", countless
sonatas, his mass, and with him Haydn, Mozart, Mendelssohn, all the big guys, in a word. So
I have to Wagner. I read, I play the harmonium what is possible, and what ...? It is as if a
blind man describing with great eloquence the drawing a picture and colors. Buried in this
faculty, I know, like the blind, which is in very beautiful things the world ... but hearsay.

The
choirmaster last year kept a memory of happiness, and spoke of him enthusiasm. At the suggestion
of Cardinal-Archbishop had gone to Madrid to be part of a court competitions for organists.

-
It was the great season, Gabriel: the best of my life. One night I met Wagner, but openly, as
they say in their own juice. Dressed in clothes of a violinist friend to some sometimes plays
at parties in Toledo, I heard The Valkyrie in the paradise of Real. Another night I attended
concert. The big night, Gabriel, as they say nothing!

The Ninth Symphony this guy ugly, the dull temper that is listening.

And a jump, the musician came to the bust, humbly kissing children,
like a child pet the father frowning and awesome.

- You know the
Ninth Symphony, is it, Gabriel?

What you experience hearing it ...? To me, the music I can think of weird things: I close
my eyes and unknown landscapes, faces strange, and it is remarkable that so many times as I hear
the same works are repeated identical visions. If I speak of this with the people below, call
me crazy. But you belong to me, and I fear to mock. There are passages of music that makes me
see the sea, blue, enormous, with waves of silver (Even though I've
never seen the sea), other works before me develop forests, castles,
groups white shepherds and flocks.

With Schubert duos always see the bottom of sighing lovers a lime, and some French musicians
are paraded by my imagination beautiful ladies strolling among flower
beds dressed in purple roses, purple always.

And you, Gabriel, Do not you see things?

The anarchist nodded. Yes, also aroused in him a fantastic world music, visions more beautiful than
reality.

- I - went on the priest - I remember what I did see the Ninth, I see now only humming some of its
passages. Oh, that's so funny scherzo, with its original tremolo tom! It seems to me, hearing
him, that God and his holy court have come from heaven to give walk, leaving homeowners little
angels. Wide freedom!, General revelry! The Sky Blues urchins, no respect, jump from cloud to cloud,
plucking entertains on land garlands of flowers that have left forgotten
the saints.

You open the chamber from rain and makes it fall on the world, another is about the key of thunder
and touch: Creepy strengthen the playing turf and put to flight!

But return again and continues funny round, repeating again cut the noisy antics of thunder. And
the adage? What do you say to him? Do you know of something sweeter, more loving and so divine
serenity? Humans do not come to talk and make more progress. Together we famous lovers, not
find any modifications of tenderness of those instruments seem to caress. Hearing him, I thought
these ceilings frescoed with mythological figures. Saw nudes, juicy meat soft curves, something
like Apollo and Venus flirting on a pile of pink clouds in the golden light of dawn.

- Chaplain, who falls you - said Gabriel -. That's not very Christian.

- But is artistic - simply said the musician -. I deal with little religion. I think what I
was taught, and I took the trouble to find out more. I just worry about the music, which someone
said to be "the religion of the future ', the purest manifestation of the ideal. All that is
beautiful and I think I like it as a work of God. "I believe in God and Beethoven, "as his disciple
.... Also, what religion is the greatness of the music? Do you know the last quartet that Beethoven
wrote? He was dying, and on the verge of score wrote this terrifying
question: "Is it necessary?"

And further added, "Yes, it is necessary need.

"was necessary to die, being a genius, give up life while still carrying on head so sublime,
pay tribute to human renewal, without regard to Her Majesty's demigod. And then wrote this
lament, this farewell to life, whose greatness can not be matched by any song, by any word
of religion.

The musician sat at the organ, and for a long time sounded the last lament genius, referred
pain to transpose the threshold of life, not desperate and trembling by fear of the unknown, but
a manly melancholy, which is immersed in the eternal shadow with confidence that nothing will
gnaw vain glory.

These evenings of artistic fellowship at the corner of the cathedral
numb linking to two men with a growing affection.

The musician was speaking, singing leafing through his scores, or the organ sounded, the groundbreaking
listened quietly without interrupting your friend rather than your chest cough sick. Were
afternoons of sweet sadness, which permeate these two men: one, dreaming of leaving the prison
of stone of the cathedral see the world, the other back to life,
wounded and discouraged, happy the rest dark the beautiful ruin and
keeping with prudent silence the secret of his past.

Art shone for them as a ray of sunshine in the drab grayness and the cathedral.

Being in the cloister in the morning, the dialogue was always similar between the two friends.

-
In the afternoon, huh? - Said mysteriously Kapellmeister -. I have fresh papers. Let to taste something
new that I bring today. In addition, I wrote a little something last night.

And the anarchist answered yes, happy to serve in some form of entertainment to that pariah of art,
who saw in him their only audience and entertained him to keep him.

While lasted the divine, Gabriel walked alone in the cloister.

All men were in the cathedral, except the cobbler who taught the giants. Tired of the talk women
leaning out the doors of the Claverias, up to the room of Ringer,
his old comrade in arms, and descended to the garden by the monumental
step when Tenorio was open or the Archbishop bow across the street.

He liked to spend an hour among the trees. Equal in the garden of memories family in the upstairs
bedroom. Tired also stumbling always walks stone wall that reminded her prison, the mobility
needed cherished vegetation by the wind, forging the illusion of living free in the countryside.

In
the gazebo, where he saw his father at one time, nearly immobile by age, shouting his eldest son,
who resigned welcomed all indications, was now at Aunt Tomasa knitting
and following work watchful eyes of a tall boy who had taken at your
service.

Gabriel's aunt was the most important person in the Claverias. His word was as good as of Don Antolin.
Silver Stick feared her, bowing to the powerful protection all guesses
behind the poor woman.

In the time that his father, maternal grandfather of Gabriel, was sacristan of the cathedral,
acted as an altar boy a little boy, a nephew of benefit that ended up costing the race at the
seminar. The half-century altar boy before was now prince of the Church and Cardinal-Archbishop
of Toledo.

Old Thomas and the children had known, in the upper cloister fighting for possession of a holy
or doing tricks on the beggars acup Muffin door. The imposing Don Sebastian that shook with
a look to the council and all the priests of the diocese, showed himself happy, fraternal and confianzudo
when from time to time saw Tomasa. It was the only memory live the remainder of his childhood in
the cathedral. Besábale old ring with great reverence, but then he spoke as a member of his
family, it was shortly tutearle. The Cardinal, at all times surrounded by fear and adulation,
needed from time to time frank and careless treatment of the planter. They claimed the people
of the cathedral, Mrs. Tomasa was the only one who could tell the truth face to face with His Eminence.
And Claverias neighbors felt flattered the pride of outcasts when they saw the ecclesiastical
prince Drag your living red cassock by stone terraces to sit in the conservatory more than an
hour chatting with the old, while relatives stood respectfully foot in the door of the gate.

A proud Tomasa not honored. For her, the prince was merely ecclesiastical a childhood companion
who had had some luck. At best, it was Don Sebastian, without happen later in treatments and
formulas of respect. But his family knew to take advantage of this friendship, especially his
son, the Blue Lady, a rosary, he said the old, who made money until the cobwebs of the temple, an ant
insatiable, using the friendship of the cardinal and his mother, was acquiring new privileges
without priests sacristanes and dared the slightest protest against him, seeing him so well
protected.

Gabriel liked dealing with his aunt. It was the only person born in the cloister seemed to have
escaped the numbing influence of the church. He loved the Cathedral as their home manor, but
did not seem to impose great respect the holy shrines and dignities human who sat in the choir.
Laughed with the joy of a healthy and peaceful old age, sixty years, as she claimed, were innocent
of any such damage. His language was disrespectful and free, like a woman who has seen much and
does not believe in human dignities or virtues impregnable.

The depth of her character was tolerance, compassion for all defects but indignant against
those who sought to hide.

- All are men, Gabriel - said his nephew, speaking of the lords of the cathedral -. Don Sebastian
is a man too. All sinners, and with much to answer to God. Can not be otherwise, and I apologize. But
trust me, nephew, and many times I want to laugh when I see people kneeling before them. I believe
in the Virgen del Sagrario and a little in God, "but these gentlemen? If as I know ...! But in
the end, we all live, and the worst is not defective, but hide them,
make the comedy as the shameless my son, that's where you see, big
as a castle, chest slaps, kisses soil as well as the pious, is looking
my death, I keep thinking that something in my chest, and removes
the brush may the Virgin, and steal the candles and cheating in the
collection of the masses, and it would be in the street if it were
not for me, I think of my daughter, always sick and the poor little
grandchildren.

When Gabriel came down to see her in the garden, I received the same greeting:

- Hello, fright! Today looks better, you'll pickpocket. It seems that your brother will get
you out forward with much care.

Then came the comparison between healthy and vigorous old age and youth that ruined it tenaciously
defended himself to death.

- Here you see my sixty years: not a disease in my entire life.

Summer and winter, I never hear four in the bed, I have full dentures
and as the same as when Don Sebastian came with his red cassock loving
acolyte to remove a part of lunch.

You the Moon You were always feel weaker, your father, before arriving at my age, he could not
move and complained of rheumatism and humidity of this garden.

It is me, and nothing: I am the same than when they came down from the Claverias. We are Villalpando
iron: for something descend Villalpando that famous gate was the
main altar and the Custody and countless wonders.

Should be a big man, judging by the ease with which twisted and molded all kinds of metals.

The physical destruction of Gabriel awoke in her deep sympathy, evoking at the same time malicious
assumptions.

- What I've amused by those worlds, eh, cousin? For you, the war was a ruin. Now would be in your seat
in the choir, and who knows if he would be another Don Sebastian! The truth is that he, a boy,
gave less to talk to you at the seminar, and was not a prodigy of wisdom .... But the world saw,
you took a taste to those countries where they say that there are
matrons very pretty, with a hat and an umbrella.

You are made a mess now ugly, but before you were handsome, I'm telling you, I'm your aunt,
and clear!, and has turned desmirriao sick.

You have lived too fast. Who knows what things you've done for the world, sly! And your poor mother
raised you to saint! Good holy God gives us ...! I deny it, do not be good: the lies make me
angry. You have fun, and have done well; You caught by the hair all the time. The bad thing is how
you've been, how you've become here, you feel sorry to see you. I have met many like you. I do
not know why people have Church, what evil spirit have inside, that when life goes bad is to
not stop, and burn and burn without any caution until there is neither the place. As you have
spent many the Seminar.

One morning, Gabriel made his aunt a question that had been prepared a long time without daring
formulate. Wanted to know what was his niece Sagrario and what had happened at home his brother.

-
You who are so good, man, you tell me. Everyone seems afraid to talk about it. Up Tato my nephew
who is so talkative and peeling all the Claverias, calla when I ask something. What happened,
aunt ...?

Darkened the face of the old.

- A great misfortune, son, what had never been seen in the upper cloister.

Follies world entered the cathedral, and were to build a nest in the house just more honest,
more oldest and most respectable of the Claverias. We're all good, at last, people who have
not seen the world and through a hole and live here as preserved,
but the moon have been how good the best, and not to mention the Villalpando,
that you are behind.

Oh, if your mother lifted her head!

If your father were alive ...! Whom I give all the blame on your brother, by good-natured, and
simple, the damn hobby of all parents who defy danger hoping to place well to the girls ....

-
But how was auntie? What happened with my niece and the cadet?

- What happens often in the world and this never happened. A thousand times he preaches your
brother, 'Look, Stephen, this gentleman is not for your daughter. "Very nice, very lively, wearing
the uniform of the Academy as one, and led the frenzied group of cadets in their escapades
around the city.

In addition, the son of a great family wealthy big shots never let
him go with empty pocket Toledo.

And she, poor tabernacle Bobito of love for his junior nutty, proud when walking on Sunday or
Miradero Zocodover between her mother and boyfriend so handsome that he envied the ladies of the
city. Beauty your niece was talking to all Toledo. The College of the nicknamed by Noble Maidens
envy "the sacristan of the cathedral," but she, the poor thing only lived for his cadet and seemed
to drink it with his big blue eyes. The beast let your brother go at home, very proud of the
honor that was to the family. You know, Gabriel: the eternal blindness Toledo certain middling accepting
the engagement as a glory of cadet the girl, despite being very rare cases where these loves come to
marriage. Here no woman holding a palm and escape medium having had its crumb of fond and red
pants. Even I remember that girl I stroked my hair and stretch skirt when she heard a saber
drag slabs of the cloister. It is a blindness passed from mother to daughter, and that they,
the damned, have their premiums or their girlfriends there in their land, and they become so out
of the Academy.

- Well, aunt, but what stopped him from my niece?

- When this gentleman came lieutenant, his family got him to Madrid. The Farewell was the work
of theater. I think even the bragazas your brother and his simple woman (God rest his soul) cried
as if they were the bride.

The boys were caught both hands, and so were the hours, staring into
the eyes as if to eat.

He was quieter, promised to come every Sunday, to write every day. At first he did, but after
weeks went by without a trip and the postman came with less frequency to Claverias until he
came not to raise .... No more: the lieutenant was in Madrid Master other occupations.


This constitutes the only uncertainty of Political Economy; and not of it alone, but of the
moral sciences in general. When the disturbing causes are known, the allowance necessary to
be made for them detracts in no way from scientific precision, nor constitutes any deviation
from the à priori method. The disturbing causes are not handed over to be dealt with by mere
conjecture. Like friction in mechanics, to which they have been often compared, they may at
first have been considered merely as a non-assignable deduction to be made by guess from the
result given by the general principles of science; but in time many of them are brought within
the pale of the abstract science itself, and their effect is found to admit of as accurate
an estimation as those more striking effects which they modify. The disturbing causes have
their laws, as the causes which are thereby disturbed have theirs; and from the laws of the
disturbing causes, the nature and amount of the disturbance may be predicted à priori, like
the operation of the more general laws which they are said to modify or disturb, but with which
they might more properly be said to be concurrent. The effect of the special causes is then
to be added to, or subtracted from, the effect of the general ones.

These disturbing causes are sometimes circumstances which operate upon human conduct through
the same principle of human nature with which Political Economy is conversant, namely, the
desire of wealth, but which are not general enough to be taken into account in the abstract
science. Of disturbances of this description every political economist can produce many examples.
In other instances the disturbing cause is some other law of human nature. In the latter case
it never can fall within the province of Political Economy; it belongs to some other science;
and here the mere political economist, he who has studied no science but Political Economy,
if he attempt to apply his science to practice, will fail. [11]

As for the other kind of disturbing causes, namely those which operate through the same law
of human nature out of which the general principles of the science arise, these might always
be brought within the pale of the abstract science if it were worth while; and when we make
the necessary allowances for them in practice, if we are doing anything but guess, we are following
out the method of the abstract science into minuter details; inserting among its hypotheses
a fresh and still more complex combination of circumstances, and so adding pro hác vice a supplementary
chapter or appendix, or at least a supplementary theorem, to the abstract science.

Having now shown that the method à priori in Political Economy, and in all the other branches
of moral science, is the only certain or scientific mode of investigation, and that the à posteriori
method, or that of specific experience, as a means of arriving at truth, is inapplicable to
these subjects, we shall be able to show that the latter method is notwithstanding of great
value in the moral sciences; namely, not as a means of discovering truth, but of verifying
it, and reducing to the lowest point that uncertainty before alluded to as arising from the
complexity of every particular case, and from the difficulty (not to say impossibility) of
our being assured à priori that we have taken into account all the material circumstances.

If we could be quite certain that we knew all the facts of the particular case, we could derive
little additional advantage from specific experience. The causes being given, we may know what
will be their effect, without an actual trial of every possible combination; since the causes
are human feelings, and outward circumstances fitted to excite them: and, as these for the
most part are, or at least might be, familiar to us, we can more surely judge of their combined
effect from that familiarity, than from any evidence which can be elicited from the complicated
and entangled circumstances of an actual experiment. If the knowledge what are the particular
causes operating in any given instance were revealed to us by infallible authority, then, if
our abstract science were perfect, we should become prophets. But the causes are not so revealed:
they are to be collected by observation; and observation in circumstances of complexity is
apt to be imperfect. Some of the causes may lie beyond observation; many are apt to escape
it, unless we are on the look-out for them; and it is only the habit of long and accurate observation
which can give us so correct a preconception what causes we are likely to find, as shall induce
us to look for them in the right quarter. But such is the nature of the human understanding,
that the very fact of attending with intensity to one part of a thing, has a tendency to withdraw
the attention from the other parts. We are consequently in great danger of adverting to a portion
only of the causes which are actually at work. And if we are in this predicament, the more
accurate our deductions and the more certain our conclusions in the abstract, (that is, making
abstraction of all circumstances except those which form part of the hypothesis,) the less
we are likely to suspect that we are in error: for no one can have looked closely into the
sources of fallacious thinking without being deeply conscious that the coherence, and neat
concatenation of our philosophical systems, is more apt than we are commonly aware to pass
with us as evidence of their truth.

We cannot, therefore, too carefully endeavour to verify our theory, by comparing, in the particular
cases to which we have access, the results which it would have led us to predict, with the
most trustworthy accounts we can obtain of those which have been actually realized. The discrepancy
between our anticipations and the actual fact is often the only circumstance which would have
drawn our attention to some important disturbing cause which we had overlooked. Nay, it often
discloses to us errors in thought, still more serious than the omission of what can with any
propriety be termed a disturbing cause. It often reveals to us that the basis itself of our
whole argument is insufficient; that the data, from which we had reasoned, comprise only a
part, and not always the most important part, of the circumstances by which the result is really
determined. Such oversights are committed by very good reasoners, and even by a still rarer
class, that of good observers. It is a kind of error to which those are peculiarly liable whose
views are the largest and most philosophical: for exactly in that ratio are their minds more
accustomed to dwell upon those laws, qualities, and tendencies, which are common to large classes
of cases, and which belong to all place and all time; while it often happens that circumstances
almost peculiar to the particular case or era have a far greater share in governing that one case.

Although, therefore, a philosopher be convinced that no general truths can be attained in the
affairs of nations by the à posteriori road, it does not the less behove him, according to
the measure of his opportunities, to sift and scrutinize the details of every specific experiment.
Without this, he may be an excellent professor of abstract science; for a person may be of
great use who points out correctly what effects will follow from certain combinations of possible
circumstances, in whatever tract of the extensive region of hypothetical cases those combinations
may be found. He stands in the same relation to the legislator, as the mere geographer to the
practical navigator; telling him the latitude and longitude of all sorts of places, but not
how to find whereabouts he himself is sailing. If, however, he does no more than this, he must
rest contented to take no share in practical politics; to have no opinion, or to hold it with
extreme modesty, on the applications which should be made of his doctrines to existing circumstances.

No one who attempts to lay down propositions for the guidance of mankind, however perfect his
scientific acquirements, can dispense with a practical knowledge of the actual modes in which
the affairs of the world are carried on, and an extensive personal experience of the actual
ideas, feelings, and intellectual and moral tendencies of his own country and of his own age.
The true practical statesman is he who combines this experience with a profound knowledge of
abstract political philosophy. Either acquirement, without the other, leaves him lame and impotent
if he is sensible of the deficiency; renders him obstinate and presumptuous if, as is more
probable, he is entirely unconscious of it.

Such, then, are the respective offices and uses of the à priori and the à posteriori methods--the
method of abstract science, and that of specific experiment--as well in Political Economy,
as in all the other branches of social philosophy. Truth compels us to express our conviction
that whether among those who have written on, these subjects, or among those for whose use
they wrote, few can be pointed out who have allowed to each of these methods its just value,
and systematically kept each to its proper objects and functions. Do not we look now at these ends.

Isolated the fable of the loves of Faust and Marguerite, disposition and development deserve more
praise than censure. Faust, with all the ardor and impetuosity of his youth renewed passion
the simple and beautiful girl, and want to achieve soon, without hindrance or daunt him reflect
on bad consequences. Mephistopheles, out of the jewelry takes this to Margarita, just uses
more resources to aid seduction, which could be used a list of our old servant swashbuckling
comedy. That is how it should be. If Fausto love that inspires some artifice or prestige intervene
diabolical beauty this love, most of his poetry, and even further under, redeeming and sanctifying
would vanish. For this he has considerable excuse
in the worthlessness of the testimony on which the facts brought forward to invalidate the
conclusions of theory usually rest. 

Dona Ines dominated by that imperious creature, she got carried away.

Both came home in Juanita.

This, for Rafaela not see who entered his house accompanied someone
else opened the door with the key in his pocket.

The two women, quiet and toes, climbed to the upper room.

Missing and a few minutes to eight.

The bedroom where he slept Juanita had no light except that entering
through a round window, open on the bedroom door that led out into
the room.

In this, and not in the bedroom where there was room enough, washed, combed and dressed every
morning Juanita.

In the bedroom there was little other furniture than the bed, a nightstand, a closet for clothing
and three chairs.

Juanita Dona Ines was the bedroom.

- You, climb on a chair, that
little window you'll see what happens.

Did not have some what to admire and laugh about.

That said, Juanita left the bedroom and left it prey Dona Ines, closing
suddenly the door and throwing out the key.

- What are you doing?
- Said Dona Ines -.

What folly is yours? I enclose Why?

Juanita replied, laughing:

- To make sure you locked your neutrality. I do not want to ally, but to witness. Shut up and watch.

Doña
Inés, quite angry, replied yet:

- Abreme.

Will I regret you trust me?

What mockery is this?

- Forgive me, forgive me - Juanita said with a pleading voice and
sweet -. You are my godmother, my protector and I do not want nor
should I tease you. No doubt that it is what I do. Shut up, by God.
Be patient. Look and see without speaking. Shut up. I hear noise.
Our man has entered home. And climb the ladder. Hush! If he suspects
that someone here will give a scandal and make a nonsense.

Doña Inés
resigned and was silent.

A few seconds later Don Andrés Rubio entered
the room.

XLIII His knowledge must at least enable him to explain and account for what is, or
he is an insufficient judge of what ought to be. If a political economist, for instance, finds
himself puzzled by any recent or present commercial phenomena; if there is any mystery to him
in the late or present state of the productive industry of the country, which his knowledge
of principle does not enable him to unriddle; he may be sure that something is wanting to render
his system of opinions a safe guide in existing circumstances. Either some of the facts which
influence the situation of the country and the course of events are not known to him; or, knowing
them, he knows not what ought to be their effects. 

Characters, then, like that of Faust, as in our Spain v. gr., Don Juan Tenorio Student and Lisa,
are called to be precious jewels of all literatures, and inspire the best dramas, operas, novels
and poems that can be composed. To travel the world in triumph, just waiting to arrive in genius
seizes them, and subject something epic report are still, things become art, with more reality
and significance and spirit, to live in the soul and memory of men, that the real heroes and acquaintances
of history to become real characters, even if they have ever existed, as Semiramis and happened to
many others, whom critics have come to find out later that never existed.

For the legendary hero is a great fortune that a poet of merit seizes
him, but more fortunate still that of the poet who manage to hit the
hero.

Owes much to Don Juan Tirso and more to Don Juan Tirso, Lisa Espronceda Espronceda and to
Lisa. Similarly owes much Goethe's Faust Goethe and Faust. No wonder Goethe seize him in his
first youth, and not leave him for over 50 years, until age 82. What Goethe did not write in this
half century long? What issues did not try? What kind of literature is not cultivated with success?
Confining ourselves only to the theater, as Goethe wrote historical dramas Egmont and Tasso Goetz,
sentimental comedies, such as Clavijo; comedies Aristophanes; Greek tragedies as Iphigenia;
farces, somewhat similar to what we call around here operettas, comedies satirical literary the
order of the Coffee, Moratin, etc., etc., but all this thinking, I wrote it, left and then maybe he
forgot while he was working in FAUSTO life. Concretémonos now, as we said, and with the restrictions
already mentioned, the first part alone. Clearly, concerning the work delivered by the people,
Goethe has created a work admirable.

Style, language, versification, like German there is no shock, and not sure that is a paragon
Faust.

We speak of the disposition of the fable and characters.

Imagine, for a moment that Faust sees Marguerite and feel in love
with her before to rejuvenate, that for the sake of Margarita, a pair
of ambition and desire of pleasures makes the covenant; what then
happens, it happens the same way, and after the cruel death of Margarita,
Faust cries, repent, do penance, mocking Mephistopheles and goes to
heaven.



With all the precautions which have been indicated there will still be some danger of falling
into partial views; but we shall at least have taken the best securities against it.

If indeed every phenomenon was generally the effect of no more than one cause, a knowledge
of the law of that cause would, unless there was a logical error in our reasoning, enable us
confidently to predict all the circumstances of the phenomenon. We might then, if we had carefully
examined our premises and our reasoning, and found no flaw, venture to disbelieve the testimony
which might be brought to show that matters had turned out differently from what we should
have predicted. If the causes of erroneous conclusions were always patent on the face of the
reasonings which lead to them, the human understanding would be a far more trustworthy instrument
than it is. But the narrowest examination of the process itself will help us little towards
discovering that we have omitted part of the premises which we ought to have taken into our
reasoning. Effects are commonly determined by a concurrence of causes. If we have overlooked
any one cause, we may reason justly from all the others, and only be the further wrong. Our
premises will be true, and our reasoning correct, and yet the result of no value in the particular
case. This charm is the mystery of Margaret, from the opening scenes, purchase such a life and
stand out with such truth of the picture and the soul of a poet who creates, who has self, and
is recorded in a wide indelible memory as if it had existed.

His mother does not appear. Goethe has the good sense not dejárnosla see, but his mother exists.
Not like in our old comedies, where there is almost never a mother. Instead of the mother puts the
poet to a very funny, and well characterized: a neighbor, and years, vulgar, fond of talking,
devoted false, and other bad qualities that make it suitable for mediate any gallant intrigue.
Mephistopheles dialogs with Martha, that's the name this woman, have great comic force: now
when Mephistopheles brings the news of Martha death of her husband,
now when the compliment and love.

Martha in the garden look and speak Faust and Marguerite. Margarita is now captive, wounded in
the heart, fired by an irresistible and inexhaustible affection.

This is followed by a beautiful soliloquy of Faust in a forest. Faust hesitates. Proud to be loved,
despite the violent burning of the senses, thinks, for the love that infuses Margarita, that
they should reject it, in order not to lose it and cheat. Know that you can only give a skeptical
and tired soul in exchange for his soul youthful and pure. Intervention
is necessary telling the devil to get to Faust of his hesitation.
Mephistopheles makes this that evil is already done, which devours
love and the soul of Marguerite, and not satisfied, then of having
power, would be the greatest cruelty. The error, when there is error, does not arise from generalizing
too extensively; that is, from including too wide a range of particular cases in a single proposition.
Doubtless, a man often asserts of an entire class what is only true of a part of it; but his
error generally consists not in making too wide an assertion, but in making the wrong kind
of assertion: he predicated an actual result, when he should only have predicated a tendency
to that result--a power acting with a certain intensity in that direction. With regard to exceptions;
in any tolerably ably advanced science there is properly no such thing as an exception.

It is only in art, as distinguished from science, that we can with propriety speak of exceptions.
Art, the immediate end of which is practice, has nothing to do with causes, except as the means
of bringing about effects. However heterogeneous the causes, it carries the effects of them
all into one single reckoning, and according as the sum-total is plus or minus, according as
it falls above or below a certain line, Art says, Do this, or Abstain from doing it. Gabriel was the modern world for many years had spent away from
the cathedral, without even touching it, and came at last, a sense of awe a handful of people
still living in the sixteenth century.

The emergence of Sagrario had caused some disorder in the life of Luna. It was more communicative;
forgot the reservation that had been imposed on the refuge in the lap of stone of the church;
and made no effort to silence, hiding her thoughts. The presence of a woman seemed cheer, raising
his former fierce campaigner. His teammates saw a more Gabriel talkative and willing to communicate
the "new things" which upset the traditional order their thoughts
and disturbed his sleep many nights.

They talked, argued, referring to Luna to clarify their confused ideas, and the voice of the
men highlighted the rattle of the sewing machine, always in activity
an echo of the universal work that shook the world, while the calm
of the blue shed its silent stone in the bowels of the temple.

All these men, accustomed to the tasks of the church, slow, regular, calm and with long intervals
of rest, admire the nerve activity Tabernacle.

- Are you going to kill creature - said the old darkening of the body
-.

I know what that is. Something like I do, give it give to the bellows! And when a mass of great
music, of those who likes to Don Luis, just by denying the body and who invented it, because
break my arms.

- Work! - Ringer said with emphasis -. The work is a punishment from God! You know origin.
It was the eternal punishment that God imposed on our first parents
to throw Paradise.

You always carry a chain dragging.

- No, sir - "said the shoemaker -. Work is the greatest of virtues, as I read newspapers. None
of punishment. Idleness is the mother of vice, and work a virtue.
Is not that right, Mr. Gabriel?

And the teacher watched zapaterillo, awaiting his words with the same anxiety thirsty waiting for
the water.

- Work - Gabriel said - not punishment or virtue, is a hard law to
which we are subjected conservation staff and the human species. Without
work there would be no life.

And burning with the same intonation
that once moved to the crowds in meetings of protest against society,
describing the half-dozen men and the sad seamstress, who stopped
to move the machine to hear the greatness of the work universal tired
every day to earth to conquer it and force it to sustain humans.

It
was a battle every twenty-four hours, with the blind forces of Nature. A few (such, for instance, as the decreasing ratio in which the produce
of the soil is increased by an increased application of labour) it is obliged particularly
to specify, and thus seems to borrow those truths from the physical sciences to which they
properly belong, and include them among its own.

[10] The science of legislation is an incorrect and misleading expression. Legislation is making
laws. The birth of this love unfold and reach its climax in the soul Margarita innocent,
are made merely human, profoundly observed in reality and then with higher beauty expressed in
the dramatic fiction. The simplicity and naturalness language and the precision and concision
of Goethe's style, where no strike, where there redundancy, or vain pomp, nor false and overloaded
lyricism, giving everything he says Margarita seductive charm.


[11] One of the strongest reasons for drawing the line of separation clearly and broadly between
science and art is the following:--That the principle of classification in science most conveniently
follows the classification of causes, while arts must necessarily be classified according to
the classification of the effects, the production of which is their appropriate end. No only
the legends, but also the historical facts, which have the beauty of legends are repeated several
times. Hernán Cortés is not the only one, for example, that starts to chop ships. The same had
been done before Agathocles in Africa, Cordoba muladíes in Crete, and Aragonese and Catalans
at Gallipoli. William Tell is also not the first, which forced to it by the tyrant, remove the
apple with an arrow head of his son. These sets, or real or invented by the popular imagination,
wandering back and forth first, unfinished look good, no great consistency gain and glory, the
hero of the set.

Overshoot after the village with a hero whom the set is set as block
and made to order. And you better
well, because we would have been worse had both fallen in deepest pit and most serious sin.

"I do not regret it, having rejected your honor, what I regret is
drawing him with unprecedented treachery to reject later. Their successful reception no doubt hastened the composition of his comprehensive work
the Principles of Political Economy (1848).

