The first duty of a stranger at Raven Agency is to visit the famous battlefield, three miles
away; and the Agent, an army officer, very charmingly made up a horseback party to escort us
there. He put me on a rawboned bay who, he said, was a "great goer." It was no merry jest.
I was nearly the last to mount and quite the first to go flying down the road. The Great Goer
galloped all the way there. His mouth was as hard as nails, and I could not check him; still,
the ride was no worse than being tossed in a blanket for half an hour. On the very spot, I
heard the story of the tragic Indian fight by one who claimed to have been an eye-witness.
Every place where each member of that heroic band fell, doing his duty, is marked by a small
marble monument, and as I looked over the battle ground and saw these symbols of beating hearts,
long still in death, clustered in twos and threes and a dozen where each had made the last
stand, every pillar seemed to become a shadowy soldier; the whole awful shame of the massacre
swept over me, and I was glad to head my horse abruptly for home. And then there were other
things to think about, things more intimate and real. No sooner did the Great Goer's nose point
in the direction of his stable than he gave a great bound, as though a bee had stung him; then
he lowered his head, laid back his ears, and--gallopped home.

I yanked and tugged at the bit. It was as a wisp of hay in his mouth. I might as well have
been a monkey or a straw woman bobbing up and down on his back. Pound, pound, thump, thump,
gaily sped on the Great Goer. There were dim shouts far behind me for a while, then no more.
The roadside whipped by, two long streaks of green. We whizzed across the railroad track in
front of the day express, accompanied by the engine's frantic shriek of "down brakes." If a
shoe had caught in the track--ah! I lost my hat, my gold hatpin, every hairpin, and brown locks
flew out two feet behind.

Away went my watch, then the all in two pockets, knife, purse, match-box--surely this trail
was an improvement on Tom Thumb's' bread crumbs. One foot was out of the stirrup. I wrapped
the reins around the pommel and clung on. There is a gopher hole--that means a broken leg for
him, a clavicle and a few ribs for me. No; on we go. Ah, that stony brook ahead we soon must
cross! Ye gods, so young and so fair! To perish thus, the toy of a raw-boned Great Goer!

Pound, pound, pound, the hard road rang with the thunder of hoofs. Could I endure it longer?
Oh, there is the stream--surely he will stop. No! He is going to jump! It's an awful distance!
With a frantic effort I got my feet in the stirrups. He gathered himself together. I shut my
eyes. Oh! We missed the bank and landed in the water--an awful mess. But the Great Goer scrambled
out, with me still on top somehow, and started on. I pulled on the reins again with every muscle,
trying to break his pace, or his neck anything that was his. Then there was a flapping noise
below. We both heard it, we both knew what it was--the cinch worked loose, that meant the saddle
loose.

In desperation I clutched the Great Goer's mane with both hands and, leaning forward, yelled
wildly in his ears:

"Whoa, whoa! The saddle's turning! Whoa! Do you wa-ant to ki-ill me?"

Do not tell me that the horse is not a noble, intelligent animal with a vast comprehension
of human talk and sympathy for human woe. For the Great Goer pulled up so suddenly that I nearly
went on without him in the line of the least resistance. Then he stood still and went to nibbling
grass as placidly as though he had not been doing racing time for three miles, and I should
have gone on forever believing in his wondrous wit had I not turned and realised that he was
standing in his own pasture lot.

Seeking to console my dishevelled self as I got off, I murmured, "Well, it was a sensation
any way--an absolutely new one," just as Nimrod gallopped up, and seeing I was all right, called
out:

"Hello, John Gilpin!" That is the way with men.

My scattered belongings were gathered up by the rest of the party, and each as he arrived with
the relic he had gathered, made haste to explain that his horse had no chance with my mount.

I thanked the Agent for the Great Goer without much comment. (See advice to Woman-who-goes-hunting-with-her-husband.)
But that is why, the next day, when Burfield confided to me that he knew where there were some
'Dead-trees' (not dead trees) that could be examined without fear of detection, I preferred
to borrow the doctor's wife's bicycle.

Dead-trees? Very likely you know what I did not until I saw for myself, that the Asrapako,
in common with several Indian tribes, place their dead in trees instead of in the ground. As
the trees are very scarce in that arid country, and only to be found in gullies and along the
banks of the Little Big Buck River, nearly every tree has its burden of one or more swathed-up
bodies bound to its branches, half hidden by the leaves, like great cocoons--most ghastly reminders
of the end of all human things.

It was to a cluster of these "deadtrees," five miles away, that Burfield guided me, and it
was on this ride that the wily wheel, stripped of all its glamour of shady roads, tete-a-tetes,
down grades, and asphalts, appeared as its true, heavy, small seated, stubborn self.

I can undertake to cure any bicycle enthusiast. The receipt is simple and here given away.
First, take two months of Rocky Mountains with a living sentient creature to pull you up and
down their rock-ribbed sides, to help out with his sagacity when your own fails, and to carry
you at a long easy lope over the grassy uplands some eight or ten thousand feet above the sea
in that glorious bracing air. Secondly, descend rapidly to the Montana plains--hot, oppressive,
enervating--or to the Raven Agency, if you will, and attempt to ride a wheel up the only hill
in all that arid stretch of semi desert, a rise of perhaps three hundred feet.

It is enough. You will find that your head is a sea of dizziness, that your lungs have refused
to work, that your heart is pounding aloud in agony, and you will then and there pronounce
the wheel an instrument of torture, devised for the undoing of woman.

I tried it. It cured me, and, once cured, the charms of the wheel are as vapid as the defence
of a vigilant committee to the man it means to hang. Stubborn--it would not go a step without
being pushed. It would not even stand up by itself, and I literally had to push it--it, as
well as myself on it--in toil and dust and heat the whole way. Nimrod said his bicycle betrayed
itself, too, only not so badly. Of course, that was because he was stronger. The weaker one
is, the more stubbornly bicycles behave. Every one knows that. And they are so narrow minded.
They needs must stick to the travelled road, and they behave viciously when they get in a rut.
Imagine hunting antelope across sage-brush country on a bicycle! I know a surveyor who tried
it once. They brought him home with sixteen broken bones and really quite a few pieces of the
wheel, improved to Rococo. Bah! Away with it and its limitations, and those of its big brother,
the automobile! Sing me no death knell of the horse companion.

At last, with the assistance of trail and muscle, the five miles were covered, and we came
to a dip in the earth which some bygone torrent had hollowed out, and so given a chance for
a little moisture to be retained to feed the half-dozen cottonwoods and rank grass, that dared
to struggle for existence in that baked up sage-brush waste which the government has set aside
for the Raven paradise.

We jumped--no, that is horse talk--we sprawled off our wheels and left the stupid things, lying
supinely on their sides, like the dead lumpish things they are, and descended a steep bank
some ten feet into the gully.

It was a gruesome sight, in the hour before sunset, with not a soul but ourselves for miles
around. The lowering sun lighted up the under side of the leaves and branches and their strange
burdens, giving an effect uncanny and weird, as though caused by unseen footlights. Not a sound
disturbed the oppressive quiet, not the quiver of a twig. Five of the six trees bore oblong
bundles, wrapped in comforters and blankets, and bound with buckskin to the branches near the
trunk, fifteen or twenty feet from the ground, too high for coyotes, too tight for vultures.
But what caught our attention as we dropped into the gully was one of the bundles that had
slipped from its fastenings and was hanging by a thong.

It needed but a tug to pull it to the ground. Burfield supplied that tug, and we all got a
shock when the wrappings, dislodged by the fall, parted at one end and disclosed the face of
a mummy. I had retreated to the other end of the little dip, not caring to witness some awful
spectacle of disintegration; but a mummy--no museum-cased specimen, labelled 'hands off', but
a real mummy of one's own finding--was worth a few shudders to examine.

I looked into the shrivelled, but otherwise normal, face of the Indian woman. What had been
her life, her heart history, now as completely gone as though it had never been--thirty years
of life struggle in snow and sun, with, perhaps, a little joy, and then what?

Seven brass rings were on her thumb and a carved wooden armlet encircled the wrist. These I
was vandal enough to accept from Burfield. There were more rings and armlets, but enough is
enough. As the gew-gaws had a peculiar, gaseous, left-over smell, I wrapped them in my gloves,
and surely if trifles determine destiny, that act was one of the trifles that determined the
fact that I was to be spared to this life for yet a while longer. For, as I was carelessly
wrapping up my spoil, with a nose very much turned up, Burfield suddenly started and then began
bundling the wrappings around the mummy at great speed. Something was serious. I stooped to
help him, and he whispered:

"Thought I heard a noise. If the Indians catch us, there'll be trouble, I'm afraid."

We hastily stood the mummy on end, head down, against the tree, and tried to make it look as
though the coyotes had torn it down, after it had fallen within reach, as indeed they had,
originally. Then we crawled to the other end of the gully, scrambled up the bank, and emerged
unconcernedly.

There was nothing in sight but long stretches of sage brush, touched here and there by the
sun's last gleams. We were much relieved. Said Burfield:

"The Indians are mighty ugly over that Spotted Tail fight, and if they had caught us touching
their dead, it might have been unhealthy for us."

"Why, what would they do?" I asked, suddenly realising what many white men never do--that Indians
are emotional creatures like ourselves. The brass rings became uncomfortably conspicuous in
my mind.

"Well, I don't suppose they would dare to kill us so close to the agency, but I don't know;
a mad Injun's a bad Injun."

Nevertheless, this opinion did not deter him from climbing a tree where three bodies lay side
by side in a curious fashion; but I had no more interest in 'dead-trees,' and fidgeted. Nimrod
had wandered off some distance and was watching a gopher hole-up for the night. The place in
the fading light was spooky, but it was of live Indians, not dead ones, that I was thinking.

There is a time for all things, and clearly this was the time to go back to Severin's dollar-a-day
Palace Hotel. I started for the bicycles when two black specks appeared on the horizon and
grew rapidly larger. They could be nothing but two men on horseback approaching at a furious
gallop. It was but yaller-covered-novel justice that they should be Indians.

"Quick, Burfield, get out of that tree on the other side!" It did not take a second for man
and tree to be quit of each other, at the imminent risk of broken bones. I started again for
the wheels.

"Stay where, you are," said Burfield; "we could never get away on those things. If they are
after us, we must bluff it out."

There was no doubt about their being after us. The two galloping figures were pointed straight
at us and were soon close enough to show that they were Indians. We stood like posts and awaited
them. Thud, thud--ta-thud, thud--on they charged at a furious pace directly at us. They were
five hundred feet away--one hundred feet--fifty.

Now, I always take proper pride in my self possession, and to show how calm I was, I got out
my camera, and as the two warriors came chasing up to the fifty-foot limit, I snapped it. I
had taken a landscape a minute before, and I do not think that the fact that that landscape
and those Indians appeared on the same plate is any proof that I was in the least upset by
the red men's onset. Forty feet, thirty--on they came--ten--were they going to run us down?

Five feet, full in front of us they pulled in their horses to a dead stop--unpleasantly, close,
unpleasantly sudden. Then there was an electric silence, such as comes between the lightning's
flash and the thunder's crack. The Indians glared at us. We stared at the Indians, each measuring
the other. Not a sound broke the stillness of that desolate spot, save the noisy panting of
the horses as they stood, still braced from the shock of the sudden stop.

For three interminable minutes we faced each other without a move. Then one of the Indians
slowly roved his eyes all over the place, searching suspiciously. From where he stood the tell-tale
mummy was hidden by the bank and some bushes, and the tell-tale brass rings and armlet were
in my gloves which I held as jauntily as possible. He saw nothing wrong. He turned again to
us. We betrayed no signs of agitation. Then he spoke grimly, with a deep scowl on his ugly face:

"No touch 'em; savey?" giving a significant jerk of the head towards the trees.

We responded by a negative shake of the head. Oh, those brass rings! Why did I want to steal
brass rings from the left thumb of an Indian woman mummy! Me! I should be carving my name on
roadside trees next!

There was another silence as before. None of us had changed positions, so much as a leaf's
thickness. Then the second Indian, grim and ugly as the first, spoke sullenly:

"No touch 'em; savey?" He laid his hand suggestively on something in his belt.

Again we shook our heads in a way that deprecated the very idea of such a thing. They gave
another dissatisfied look around, and slowly turned their horses.

We waited breathless to see which way they would go. If they went on the other side of the
gully, they must surely see that bundle on the ground and--who can tell what might happen?
But they did not. With many a look backwards, they slowly rode away, and with them the passive
elements of a tragedy.

I tied my ill-gotten, ill-smelling pelt on the handle bar of the doctor's wife's bicycle, and
we hurried home like spanked children. That night, after I had delivered unto the doctor's
wife her own, and disinfected the gewgaws in carbolic, I added two more subjects to my Never-again
list--bicycling in Montana and 'dead hunts.'

XIII.

JUST RATTLESNAKES.

It is a blessing that a rattlesnake has to coil before it can spring. No one has ever written
up life from a rattler's point of view, although it has been unfeelingly stated that fear of
snakes is an inheritance from our simian ancestors.

To me, I acknowledge, a rattler is just a horrid snake; so, when we were told at Markham that
rattlers were more common than the cattle which grazed on every hill, I discovered that there
were yet new imps to conquer in my world of fear. Shakspere has said some nice things about
fear--"Of all the wonders, ... it seems to me most strange that men should fear"--but he never
knew anything about squirming rattlesnakes.

The Cuttle Fish ranch is five miles from Markham. That thriving metropolis has ten houses and
eleven saloons, in spite of Dakota being 'prohibition.' Markham is in the heart of the Bad
Lands, the wonderful freakish Bad Lands, where great herds of cattle range over all the possible,
and some of the impossible, places, while the rest of it--black, green, and red peaks, hills
of powdered coal, wicked land cuts that no plumb can fathom, treacherous clay crust over boiling
lava, arid horrid miles of impish whimsical Nature--is Bad indeed.

Nimrod and I had been lured to the Cuttle Fish ranch to go on a wolf hunt. The house was a
large two storey affair of logs, with a long tail of one storey log outbuildings like a train
of box cars. We sat down to dinner the first night with twenty others, a queer lot truly to
find in that wild uncivilised place. There was an ex-mayor and his wife from a large Eastern
city; a United States Senator--the toughest of the party--who appeared at table in his undershirt;
four cowboys, who were better mannered than the two New York millionaires' sons who had been
sent there to spend their college vacation and get toughened (the process was obviously succeeding);
they made Nimrod apologise for keeping his coat on during dinner; the three brothers who owned
the ranch, and the wife of one of them; several children; a prim and proper spinster from Washington--how
she got there, who can tell?--and Miss Belle Hadley, the servant girl.

In studying the case of Belle I at last appreciated the age-old teaching that the greatest
dignity belongs to the one who serves. Else why did the ex-mayor's wife bake doughnuts, and
the rotund Senator toil at the ice cream freezer with the thermometer at 112 degrees, and the
millionaires' sons call Belle "Miss Hadley," and I make bows for her organdie dress, while
she curled her hair for a dance to be held that evening ten miles away, and to which she went
complacently with her pick of the cowboys and her employers' two best horses, while they stayed
at home and did her work! Else why did this one fetch wood for her, that one peel the potatoes,
another wash the dishes? And when she and the rest of us were seated at meals, and something
was needed from the kitchen, why did the unlucky one nearest the door jump up and forage? Belle
was never nearest the door. She sat at the middle of the long table, so that she could be handy
to everything that was 'circulating.' But I refer this case to the author of those delightful
papers on the "Unquiet Sex," and hark back to my story.

That night the moon was full, and the coyotes made savage music around the lonely ranch house.
First from the hill across the creek came a snappy wow-wow, yac-yac, and then a long drawn
out ooo-oo; then another voice, a soprano, joined in, followed by a baritone, and then the
star voice of them all--loud, clear, vicious, mournful. For an instant I saw him silhouetted
against the rising moon on the hill ridge, head thrown back and muzzle raised, as he gave to
the peaceful night his long, howling bark, his "talk at moon" as the Indians put it. The ranchman
remarked that there were "two or three out there," but I knew better. There were dozens, perhaps
hundreds, of them; I am not deaf.

The next morning we were up with the dawn and started by eight to run down Mountain Billy,
the grey wolf who lived on the ranchmen of the Bad Lands. Our outfit was as symmetrical as
a pine cone;--dogs, horses, mess wagon, food, guns and men. All we needed was the grey wolf.
I was the only woman in the party, and, like "Weary Waddles," tagged behind.

It was the middle of September, and the weather should have known better. But it was the Bad
Lands, and there was a hot spell on. By three o'clock the thermometer showed 116-1/2 in the
shade, and I believed it. The heat and glare simmered around us like fire. The dogs' tongues
nearly trailed in the baked dust, the horses' heads hung low, an iron band seemed ever tightening
around my head, as the sun beat down upon all alike with pitiless force.

When we came to the Little Missoula, even its brackish muddy water was welcome, and I shut
my eyes to the dirt in the uninviting brown fluid, and my mind to the knowledge of the horrid
things it would do to me, and drank; Tepid, gritty, foul--was it water I had swallowed? The
horse assigned to me, a small, white, benevolent animal named 'Whiskers,' waded in knee deep
and did the same. Whiskers was a 'lady's horse,' which, being interpreted, meant aged eighteen
or twenty, with all spirit knocked out by hard work; a broken down cow pony, in fact, or, in
local parlance, a 'skate,' a 'goat.' He had lagged considerably behind the rest of the party.

However, Whiskers did not matter; nothing mattered but the waves on waves of heat that quivered
before my eyes. I shut them and began repeating cooling rhymes, such as 'twin peaks snow clad,'
'From Greenland's Icy Mountains,' and the 'Frozen North,' by way of living up to Professor
James' teachings. Whiskers was ambling on, half-stupefied with the heat, as I was, when from
the road just in front came a peculiar sound. I did not know what it was, but Whiskers did,
and he immediately executed a demi volte (see Webster) with an energy I had not thought him
capable of.

Again came the noise, yes, surely, just as it had been described--like dried peas in a pod--and
gliding across the road was a big rattlesnake. I confess had Whiskers been so inclined, I should
have been content to have passed on with haughty disdain. But Whiskers performed a left flank
movement so nearly unseating me that I deemed it expedient to drop to the ground, and Whiskers,
without waiting for orders, retreated down the road at what he meant for a gallop. The rattler
stopped his pretty gliding motion away from me, and seemed in doubt. Then he began to take
on a few quirks. "He is going to coil and then to strike," said I, recalling a paragraph from
my school reader. It was an unhappy moment! I knew that tradition had fixed the proper weapons
to be used against rattlesnakes: a stone (more if necessary), a stick (forked one preferred),
and in rare cases a revolver (when it is that kind of a story). I had no revolver. There was
not a stick in sight, and not a stone bigger than a hazelnut; but there was the rattler. I
cast another despairing glance around and saw, almost at my feet and half hidden by sage brush,
several inches of rusty iron--blessed be the passing teamster who had thrown it there. I darted
towards it and, despite tradition, turned on the rattler armed with the goodly remains of--a
frying pan.

The horrid thing was ready for me with darting tongue and flattened head--another instant it
would have sprung. Smash on its head went my valiant frying pan and struck a deadly blow, although
the thing managed to get from under it. I recaptured my weapon and again it descended upon
the reptile's head, settling it this time. Feeling safe, I now took hold of the handle to finish
it more quickly. Oh, that tail--that awful, writhing, lashing tail! I can stand Indians, bears,
wolves, anything but that tail, and a rattler is all tail, except its head. If that tail touches
me I shall let go. It did touch me, I did not let go. Pride held me there, for I heard the
sound of galloping hoofs. Whiskers' empty saddle had alarmed the rest of the party.

