It was in the Chancellorship of Prince Hohenlohe, which ended in 1900, that the most memorable
events of this remarkable decade occurred; but, as was to be expected, and as the Emperor himself
must have expected, the Prince, now a man of seventy-five, played a very secondary part with
regard to them. The Prince was what the Germans call a "house-friend" of the Hohenzollern family
and related to it. He was useful, his contemporaries say, as a brake on the impetuous temper
of his imperial master, though he did not, we may be sure, turn him from any of the main designs
he had at heart. Prince Hohenlohe, in character, was good-nature and amiability personified.
He was beloved by all classes and parties, and no foreigner can read his Memoirs without a
feeling of friendliness for a Personality so moderate and calm and simple. A note he makes
in one of his diaries amusingly illustrates the simple side of his character. He is dining
with the Emperor, when the Emperor, catching the Prince's eye, which we may be sure was on
the alert to gather up any of the royal beams that might come his way, raises his glass in
sign of amity. VIVIPAROUS FESCUE-GRASS.-- This affords a striking instance of the
protection that Nature has contrived for keeping up the regular produce
of the different species of plants; as when the Festuca ovina is found
in very high mountainous situations, places not congenial to the ripening
seeds of so light a nature, the panicle is found to become viviparous,
i. e. producing perfect plants, which being beaten down with heavy
rains in the autumn, readily strike root in the ground. In this regard let me refer
     you to your own proceedings. You will remember that the
     responsibility for the telegram was never repudiated by the
     directors of our political business at the time. The
     telegram was an act of State, the result of official
     consultations; it was in nowise an act of personal
     initiative on the part of his Majesty the Kaiser. Whoever
     asserts that it was is ignorant of what preceded it and does
     his Majesty completely wrong."

The Emperor's telegram to President Kruger, despatched on January 3, 1896, ran as follows:--

     "I congratulate you most sincerely on having succeeded with
     your people, and without calling on the help of foreign
     Powers, by opposing your own force to an armed band which
     broke into your country to disturb the peace, in restoring
     quiet and in maintaining the independence of your country
     against external attack."

The echoes of this historic message were heard immediately in every country, but naturally
nowhere more loudly than in England; and the reverberation of them is audible to the present
day. In Germany, however, for a day or two, the telegram seems to have surprised no one, was
indeed spoken of with approval by deputies in the Reichstag, and seems not to have occurred
to any one in the light of a serious diplomatic mistake. This state of feeling did not last
long, and when the English newspapers arrived an entirely new light was thrown on the matter.
The Morning Post concluded an article with the words: "It is not easy to speak calmly of the
Kaiser's telegram. The English people will not forget it, and in future will always think of
it when considering its foreign policy."  The British Government's comment on the telegram
was to put a flying squadron in commission and issue an official statement urbi et orbi, calling
attention to the Convention made with President Kruger in London in 1884, reserving the supervision
of the foreign relations of the Transvaal to the British Government.

The Emperor himself appears to have recognized that he and his advisers had made a serious
blunder, and that a gesture which, it is highly probable, was partly prompted by the chivalrous
side of his character, was certain to be gravely misunderstood. At any rate his policy, or
that of his Government, changed, and instead of following up his encouraging words with mediation
or intervention, he assumed an attitude of neutrality towards the war which soon after began.
Subsequently, in the Reichstag, Chancellor von Bülow described the course the German Government
pursued immediately before and during the war; and there seems no reason to discredit his account.
The speech was made apropos of the projected visit of President Kruger to Berlin, when on his
tour of despair to the capitals of Europe while the war was still in progress. He was cheered
by boulevard crowds in Paris, itself a thing of no great significance, and was received at
the Elysée and by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, M. Delcassé. The visitor was very reserved
on both occasions, and confined himself to sounding his hosts as to whether or not he could
reckon on their good offices.

From Paris he started for Berlin, where he had engaged a large and expensive first-floor suite
of rooms in a fashionable hotel. At Cologne, however, shortly after entering Germany, a telegram
from Potsdam awaited him, announcing the Emperor's refusal to grant him audience. The imperial
telegram consisted of a few words to the effect that the Emperor was "not in a position" to
receive him. Nor in truth was he. An audience at that moment would have meant war between Germany
and England.

As to German policy with regard to the Boer War, Prince Bülow explained that the German Government
deplored the war not only because it was between two Christian and white races, that were,
moreover, of the same Germanic stock, but also because it drew within the evil circle of its
consequences important German economic and political interests. PLANTS USEFULL IN AGRICULTURE.

SECT.
I.-- GRASSES.

1. ANTHOXANTHUM odoratum. SWEET-SCENTED VERNAL-GRASS.-- This is found frequently in all our best
meadows, to which it is of great benefit.

It is an early, though not the most productive grass, and is much relished by all kinds of
cattle. It is highly odoriferous; if bruised it communicates its agreeable scent to the fingers,
and when dry perfumes the hay. It will grow in almost any soil or situation. About three pounds of
seed should be sown with other grasses for an acre of land.

2. ALOPECURUS pratensis. MEADOW FOX-TAIL-GRASS.-- One of our most productive plants of this tribe:
it grows best in a moist soil, is very early, being often fit for
the scythe by the middle of May.

About two bushels of seed will sow an acre, with a proportionate
quantity of Clover; which see.

3.
ALOPECURUS geniculatus. FLOTE FOX-TAIL-GRASS.-- Is very good in water meadows, being nutritive,
and cattle in general are fond of it. We do not know if the cultivation of this plant has as yet
been attempted.

4. AGROSTIS capillaris. FINE BENT-GRASS.-- Dr. Walker, in his History of the Hebrides, speaks very
favourably of this grass.

I have therefore noticed it here, but I do not think it so good as many others. It grows on the
sandy hills near Combe Wood in Surrey, and forms the principal part of the pasturage; but it
is neither very productive, nor are cattle observed to thrive on
it. The seeds are very small; one peck would sow an acre.

5. AGROSTIS
pyramidalis. FIORIN-GRASS [Footnote: Fiorin is the Irish name of butter].-- No
plant has engaged the attention of the farmer more than this grass,
none ever produced more disputes, and none is perhaps so little understood.
 To the President an audience would
have been of no more use than the ovations and demonstrations he was greeted with in Paris.
To Germany a reception would have meant a shifting of international relations to the disadvantage
of the country: in other words, would have meant the risk, almost the certainty, of war. "Wars,"
said the Chancellor in this connexion,

     "are much more easily unchained through elementary popular
     passions, through the passionate excitation of public
     opinion, than in the old days through the ambitions of
     monarchs or through the jealousies of Ministers."

And he concluded:

     "With regard to England we stand entirely independent of
     her: we are not a hair's-breadth more dependent on England
     than England is on us. But we are ready on the basis of
     mutual consideration and complete equality--about this
     obvious preliminary condition for a proper relation between
     two Great Powers we have never left any Power in doubt: I
     say, we are ready on this basis to live with England in
     peace, friendship, and harmony. To play the Don Quixote and
     to lay the lance in rest and attack wherever in the world
     English windmills are to be found, for that we are not
     called upon."

But just then there was little prospect of "peace friendship, and harmony" with England. The
world remembers, and unfortunately the English people do not forget, that they had nowhere
more bitter and offensive critics than in Germany. One refined method of opprobrium was the
unprohibited sale in the main streets of Berlin of spittoons bearing the countenance of the
English Colonial Minister, Mr. Chamberlain. A war with England would at that moment have been
highly popular in Germany, but as the Chancellor wisely reminded the Parliament, it was the
duty of the statesman to protect international relations from disturbance by intrigue or by
popular demonstration.

Finally the Chancellor dealt with a report widely current in England and Germany at the time,
to the effect that the Emperor's refusal to receive President Kruger was due to the influence
of his uncle, King Edward. The Chancellor emphatically denied that any pressure of the kind
from the English Court, or from any other source, had been employed, and ended by saying:

     "To suppose that his Majesty the Kaiser could allow himself
     to be influenced by family relations shows little
     understanding of his character, or of his love of country.
     For his Majesty solely the national standpoint is decisive,
     and if it were otherwise, and family relations or dynastic
     considerations determined our foreign policy, I would not
     remain Minister a day longer."

A precisely similar and unfounded charge, it will be remembered, was made against King Edward
VII in 1902, to the effect that it was Court influence, not the deliberate judgment of the
Cabinet, that was the efficient cause of the co-operation of the British with the German fleet
in the demonstration off the coast of Venezuela.

A recent writer, Dr. Adolf Stein, gives an account of the sending of the famous telegram which
corroborates that of Prince von Bülow. The telegram, according to this version, was a well-considered
answer to a question from the Transvaal Government put to the German Government a month before
the Raid occurred, and when the Transvaal Government got the first inkling of the preparations
being made for it. President Kruger asked what attitude Germany would adopt in case of a war
between England and the Boer republics. The answer given to the person who made the inquiry
on behalf of the Transvaal Government was that President Kruger might rest assured of Germany's

     "diplomatic support in so far as it was also Germany's
     interest that the independence of the Boer States should be
     maintained, but that for anything beyond this he should not
     reckon on Germany's assistance or that of any Great Power."

This answer, Dr. Stein says, was in course of transmission by the post when the Raid occurred.

The Raid was made on January 1st. The event was at once telegraphed to Berlin, where Prince
Hohenlohe was Chancellor, with Freiherr Marschall von Bieberstein, afterwards German Ambassador
in Constantinople and London, as his Foreign Secretary. According to Dr. Stein, they drew up
a telegram to President Kruger, and on the morning of the 3rd laid it before the Emperor, who
had come early from Potsdam for consultation on the matter. The Chancellor, it should be mentioned,
had been at Potsdam the day previous, but at that time the news of the Raid had not reached
the Emperor. The Emperor, Chancellor, and Foreign Secretary now decided that a telegram congratulating
President Kruger for having repulsed the Raid "without foreign aid" was the best non-committal
form to adopt. The Emperor, Dr. Stein continues, raised some objections, but was over-persuaded
by Prince Hohenlohe and von Bieberstein.

As confirming this version, a little note in Lord Goschen's Biography may be recalled, in which
Lord Goschen confides to a friend a few weeks before the Raid that the "Germans were taking
the Boers under their wing, as the Americans had done with the Venezuelans."

Enough perhaps has been said to show that the sending of the telegram had nothing to do with
the Emperor's "impulsive" character, and it will only be fair to him to let the notion that
it had drop finally out of contemporary history. Two flags of truce were sent to the enemy, but
the officer who bore them did not return. Colonel Scott then fixed a white handkerchief on the end of
his sword, and, accompanied by Captains Totten and Gibson, passed under the river bluff and
started to ascend the heights. They were met by Indians, who fired on them and rushed with tomahawks
to assault them. A British officer happily arrived and conducted them to the quarters of General
Sheaffe, and Colonel Scott made formal surrender of the whole force.

We have suggested that the telegram was partly due to a certain element of chivalry in the
Emperor's character. The Emperor was well acquainted with other forms of government and other
social systems besides his own, and though a Hohenzollern could put himself in the position
of the chief of the little Boer republic, threatened as he was with annihilation by a mighty
and powerful opponent. Moreover, there is always to be remembered the sympathy of view, particularly
of religious view, that existed in the two men as regarded their attitude and duties to their
respective "folk." The President had appealed to the Emperor for help. The Emperor had had
to refuse it, but had wired that he would do all he could "diplomatically." He knew that this
was but a poor sort of assistance, but it was something, and when the Raid occurred he gave
the diplomatic assistance he had promised by sending a telegram of congratulation. In any case--tempi
passati. Foreign policy is not concerned with sympathies or antipathies, and the whole episode
should be ignored, or, better still, forgotten.

