From its very earliest commencement in childhood our system of education is based upon wrong
ideas. With little or no regard to God's plans Man lays out his own puny laws and ambitions
and teaches them to his young. We are not taught that what we are here for is above all and
before all to arrive at a sense of personal connection with God, to identify ourselves with
the spiritual while still in the flesh. On the contrary, we are taught to grow shy, even ashamed,
of the spiritual! and to regard the world as a place principally or even solely in which to
enjoy ourselves or make a "successful career."

Children are taught to look eagerly and mainly for holidays and "parties"; grown men and women
the same upon a larger and more foolish scale, and always under the terribly mistaken belief
that in spiritual things no great happiness is to be found, but only in materialism: yet very
often we find the greatest unhappiness amongst the wealthiest people.

Happiness! happiness! We see the great pursuit of it on every side, and no truer or more needful
instinct has been given to Man, but he fails to use it in the way intended. This world is a
Touchstone, a Finding-place for God. Whoever will obey the law of finding God from this world
instead of waiting to try and do it from the next, he, and he only, will ever grasp and take
into himself that fugitive mysterious unseen Something which--not knowing what it is, yet feeling
that it exists--we have named Happiness.

But how commence this formidable, this seemingly impossible task of finding God in a world
in which He is totally invisible? To the "natural" or animal Man God is as totally hidden and
inaccessible as He is to the beasts of the field; yet encased within his bosom lies the soul
which can be the means of drawing Man and God together in a glorious union. "I have known all
this from my childhood," we cry, "and the knowledge of it has not helped me one step upon my way."

Then try again, and reverse your method, for hitherto you have been beseeching gifts from God,
asking for gifts from Jesus, and have forgotten to give. Give your love to Jesus, give Him
a home, instead of asking Him to give you one. Give your heart to God, set it upon Him.

What is keeping you back? You are afraid of what it will entail; you are afraid of what God
will demand of you; those words "Forsake all, and follow Me" fill you with something like terror.
I cannot leave my business, my children, my home, my luxuries, my games, my dresses, my friends!
Neither need you but, knowing this initial agony of mind, Christ said it is easier for a camel
to go through the eye of a needle (the name of an exceedingly narrow gate into Jerusalem) than
for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.

What does it mean to "set the heart" upon something? We say, "I have set my heart on going
to see my son," "I have set my heart on doing so-and-so," but this does not mean that in order
to accomplish it we must wander homeless and lonely until the day of achievement. No; but we
set our heart and mind upon eventually accomplishing this wish, we shape all our plans towards
it, we give it the first place. This is what God asks us to do; to give Him the first place.
We need not go to Him in rags: David and Solomon were immensely wealthy, Job was a rich man;
but we must eventually think more of Him than we do of our dress, more of Him than we do of
our business, more of Him than we do of lover, friend, or child. Many well-minded people are
under the impression that such love for an Invisible Being is a total impossibility. Yet the
great commandment stands written all across the face of the heavens--"Thou shalt love Me with
all thy heart and mind and soul and strength." Are we then to suppose that God asks the impossible
of His own creatures, that He mocks us? No; for when we desire He sends the capacity, and day
by day sends us the power to reach this love through Jesus Christ. There is included in the
words "Give us this day our daily bread," the bread of the soul, which is Love.

Divine Love commences in us in a very small way, as a very feeble flicker, for we are very
feeble and small creatures. But God takes the will for the deed, and the day comes when suddenly
we are filled with true love, as a gift. This is indeed the second baptism, the baptism of
fire, the baptism of the Holy Ghost; then at last the great wall which has hitherto divided
our consciousness from God goes down in its entirety, never again to rise up and divide us.
This is the mighty work of Jesus Christ.

Though this is not our work, still we have had the earnest will, the longing desire; we have
made continually, perseveringly, our tiny, often futile, efforts to please and place Him first,
and though perhaps almost all were failures, He has counted every one to us for righteousness.

We may at all times be asking ourselves, "But how shall I know the will of God, how shall I
please Him, how shall I know what Christ would wish me to do or to think?" There is one test
more sure than any other, which is to ask oneself, "Would Jesus have done just this?" and the
answer will come from the inward of us instantaneously. But before we can use this test we
must have made a careful study of Scripture and also have begun the habit of inward personal
intimacy with Jesus Himself. So immense is the bounty of God to the creature that truly and
persistently wills and endeavours to please Him, so great are the rewards of that creature
for its tiny work that it is as though a child should scratch bare ground with its little spade
and reap a harvest of sweet flowers as magic gifts. In this way it is that we find actually
fulfilled in ourselves the lovely words of the prophet, "the desert shall blossom like the rose."

The great initial difficulty that surely most of us feel is how to come into personal contact
with this Jesus Christ, and to know which are the first steps that we should take to bring
about this contact. They are just those same steps that we use to come to a nearer understanding
of and greater intimacy with any persons we are desirous of making friends with. We commence
by thinking about them, by arranging to spend time in their companionship; and the more we
think about them and the more time we spend with them if they are very attractive people, the
more we feel in sympathy with them. Form, then, the habit of making for brief instants a mental
picture of the Saviour. Note the exquisite tenderness of His hands, so instantly ready to save
and heal; note the calm strength and the great love in His countenance, walk beside Him down
the street, join His daily life, learn to become familiar with Him as Jesus--what would He
do, how would He look, what would His thoughts be? To feel sympathetically towards a person
is to take one of the most important steps towards friendship. How many of us stop in the rush
of our daily amusements, interests, and work to sympathise with Christ? Most probably, if we
think of Christ at all, it is to feel that He ought to sympathise with us! Now Christ not only
sympathises with but ardently loves us, and our failure to receive the comfort and help of
this love is due to our failure in returning to Him these same feelings of sympathy and love
and friendship. We are not reciprocal, but perpetually ask and never give.

It is only by returning love to Christ that we are able to receive the benefits of His love
for us. His mighty power and help flows around but not through us until we place ourselves
in individual and direct contact with Him, until we make that mysterious inward and spiritual
connection with Him which can be achieved only through a personal love for Him.

Again and again we may cry out, "But how love the invisible?" Christ is invisible, but for
all that, he is not unknown. We all of us know Him. But we do not give ourselves time or opportunity
to know Him sufficiently well. What hours, months, years, we devote to making and knowing our
friends; yet a few moments a day are more than enough for most of us to spend in becoming more
intimate with the only Friend whom it is worth our while to make.

"But life is so busy I have no time," you say. What of those hours spent in the train, those
moments spent waiting for an appointment, that half-hour taken for a rest, but which is not
a rest because of the rushing inharmonious turmoil of your thoughts? No one is so restful to
think of as Jesus. Every single quality that we most admire, trust, and love is to be found
in Jesus Christ. The only reason of our failure to love Him more ardently than any human being
we know is that we do not think enough about Him.

How much offended we should be if anyone dared to say to us, "You are not a Christian." We
all consider ourselves Christians as a matter of course; but why this certainty, what reason
can we give? Many would say, "I keep the Commandments, and I am baptised in Christ's name."
But Christianity is not an act done by hands, it is a life, and the Jews keep the Commandments
even more strictly than we and are not Christians. The mere fact of believing that Christ once
lived and was crucified is not enough. The Jews and also the Mahommedans believe that He lived
and was crucified.

What is then necessary? That we believe that He is indeed the Son of God, the Messiah, the
Saviour; for if He was no more than a holy man, by what means has He power to save us more
than Moses has power to save us?

The true inward knowledge that Christ is God comes not by nature to any man, but by gift of
God--which gift must be earnestly sought, striven, prayed for, and desired: this faith is the
very coming to God by which we are saved. If we are not yet in this faith that Jesus Christ
is the Messiah, then we are neither Jew, Mahommedan, nor Christian, but wanderers without a
fold, and without a Shepherd; longing, and not yet comforted.

How do we come by this joy of the personal loving of God, this Romance of the Soul brought
to sensible fruition whilst still in the flesh?

Is it a gift? Yes. Is it a gift because of some merit of goodness on our part beyond the goodness
of other persons who are without it, though striving? No. Is it because of some work for God
that we do in this world, charitable or social? No. Is it, then, nothing but an arbitrary favouritism
on His part? No. Is it a sagacity or cleverness, a height of learning, a result of close study? No.

It is simply and solely a certain and particular obedient attitude of heart and mind towards
God of the nature of a longing--giving, a grateful outgoing thinking towards Him, continually
maintained, and a heart invitation to, and a receiving of Jesus Christ into ourselves.

Our part is to maintain this obedient tender-waiting, giving and receiving attitude under all
the circumstances of daily life, and Christ with the Holy Ghost will then work the miracle in us.

But so difficult is this attitude to maintain that we are totally unable to do it without another
gift upon His part--Grace. The whole process from first to last is gift upon gift, and that
because first of our belief and desire, and then of our continually remembering that to receive
these gifts we have a part to play which God will not dispense with. For an illustration let
us turn to the artist and his sitter. The sitter does not produce the work of art, but must
maintain his attitude: if he refuses to do this, the work of the artist is marred and even
altogether foiled. So with Christ and His Divine Art in bringing us to our Father--by not endeavouring
to maintain our right attitude we foil His work. God would seem to give us that which we seek
and ask for, and no more. Great ecclesiastics, theologians, philosophers who sought and desired
Him with the intelligence, seeking for knowledge, for pre-eminence of spiritual wisdom, were
not given as an addition to their learning this exquisite fire and balm of love. Those who
desired of Christ the healing of the body received that, and we are not told they received
anything further. So also with the woman at the well: "If thou hadst asked," Christ said to
her, "I would have given thee of the water of Life." Without we ask for and receive this gift
of Love we hang to God by Faith only.

What is true religion, what is that religion by which we shall feel wholly satisfied? It is
to have Christ recognised, known, adored, and living in the soul. This is the New Life within
us, this is the New Birth. The first proofs of the power of this New Life in us is the victory
over all the lower passions, victory over the animal "that once was ourself"! A victory so
complete that not only do we cease to desire those former things or be troubled by them but
we no longer "respond" to that which is base, even though we be brought into visual contact
with such things as would formerly have inevitably excited at least a passing response in us.
Can any man free himself in such a manner from his own nature? Common sense forbids us imagine
it. It is then a Living Power within us, slowly transforming us to higher levels, from the
fleshly to the spiritual, and shaping us to meet the purity of God. And such is the tender
consideration of this Power for our weakness that while we are learning to give up these baser
pleasures He teaches us the higher pleasures of the soul--we are not left comfortless. So in
our earlier stages we may have many very wonderful ecstasies which later are altogether dispensed
with, and indeed are eventually not desired by the soul, or even the more greedy heart and
mind, which all now ask and desire one favour only--to be on earth in continual fellowship
with Christ Jesus and ever able to enter into the love of God. To be without this glorious
power of entering Responsive Love of God, to be cut off from this, is the great and only fear
of the soul. This fear it is which holds the soul and the creature towards God both day and
night lest by the least forgetfulness or wrongful attitude they should lose Him or displease Him.

All these changes no man can bring about for himself--they are accomplished for him by the
Holy Spirit; but this he can and must do for himself, invite Sweet Jesus into his heart and
enthrone Him there as Ruler. This once accomplished, that mysterious monitor within us commonly
known as "Conscience" grows until it attains an excessive sensitiveness which penetrates the
minutest acts of life and the deepest recesses of heart and mind. It becomes inexorable, it
demands instant and complete obedience. Because of it relations with other persons undergo
a drastic change. Complete, instant, entire forgiveness for every offence is demanded, and
at last even a momentary annoyance must be effaced; no matter how great the cause of annoyance,
it must be effaced in the same instant as that in which it crosses the mind, for a single adverse
thought eventually proves as injurious to the Spirit as a grain of sand is to the eyes.

The petty human aims, the smallness of all our former standards, the instinct for "retaliation"
must all be overcome, laid upon one side--a slow task of much humiliation to the creature,
revealing to it its own smallness and vanity and its own extraordinary ineffectiveness of self-control,
its puny powers over itself: nothing short of an absolute self-conquest is aimed at and demanded
by this inward monitor--the Soul. With what profound veneration for and recognition of the
power of God does the regenerated creature think of those alterations in its own nature which,
after long strivings, are eventually given it by God, and of those alterations not yet stabilised
because not yet gifts, but only on the way to perhaps becoming gifts--that is to say, still
only where the power of the creature itself has been able to raise them: for of these last
it may invariably be said that to-day we may feel serene security and to-morrow fall and fail--and
this in the very meanest way!

We see on every side men and women who try to fill an emptiness, a wanting that they feel within
themselves, by every sort of means except the only one which can ever be a permanent success.
Women devote themselves to lovers, husbands, children, dress, society, and dogs; men to business,
ambition, the racecourse, folly, drink, games, and arts. Are any of these persons truly happy,
truly satisfied in all their being? No, and they descend to old age surrounded by the dust
of disillusionment. Lonely and soon forgotten by the hungry pleasure-seeking crowd, such persons
pass from this world, and the most their friends have to say is that they have gone to a better
one. But have they? For the mere fact of shedding the flesh does not bring us any nearer to
God. On the contrary, the shedding of the flesh increases appallingly the difficulty of the
soul in finding God. This world is the very place in which we can most easily and quickly get
into communication with God. To think that the mere act of dying improves our character and
takes us to heaven is a delusion of the Enemy--it is living here which can fit us and carry
us to heaven; and we have no great distance to travel either, for heaven is a state of consciousness,
and by entering that state of consciousness we become united and connected with such degrees
of heaven as the flesh is able to bear, though these degrees fall infinitely short of those
required by the soul: hence the fearful hungering and longing of the soul to depart from the
flesh. If we do not find Christ whilst we are here, when we cast off the flesh we enter a bewildering
vortex of a life of terrible intensity and great solitude. We are aware of nothing but Self,
are tormented by Self with its forever unsatisfied longings, and by the impossibility of achieving
any other Self. In this intensity of self-tormenting loneliness the soul feels to gyrate, and
all that she knows of that which is outside of this Self is the sound of the rushing of invisible
things, for she is blind. Without the light of this world and without the light of Christ.
The joys of space are not open to her, only the dark and lonely horrors of it: she is in an
incalculably greater state of isolation from God than here in this world! The remedy for all
this lies here; let no one think he can afford to wait to find this remedy until after he leaves
this world, for then his chance is gone, and who is able to foretell when it will return? What
can be more beautiful, more happy, than to find this remedy, to find the only Being who loves
us as much as we love ourselves! the gentle, tender, gracious, all-sufficing Christ; that all-mighty
ever-giving Christ who yearns over and longs for us--what madness is it that prevents us seeking
Him?

