LORD GEORGE BENTINCK

A POLITICAL BIOGRAPHY

By Benjamin Disraeli

'He left us the legacy of heroes: the memory of his great name and the inspiration of his great
example.'

TO

LORD HENRY BENTINCK,

IS INSCRIBED

This Political Biography

ONE FOR WHOM HE ENTERTAINED A DEEP AFFECTION,

AND WHOSE TALENTS AND VIRTUES

HE SHARES.

LORD GEORGE BENTINCK

A POLITICAL BIOGRAPHY

CHAPTER I.

     The Man

THE political career of Lord George Bentinck was peculiar. He had, to use his own expression,
'sate in eight Parliaments without having taken part in any great debate,' when remarkable
events suddenly impelled him to advance and occupy not only a considerable but a leading position
in our public affairs. During three years, under circumstances of great difficulty, he displayed
some of the highest qualities of political life: courage and a lofty spirit; a mastery of details
which experience usually alone confers; a quick apprehension and a clear intelligence; indomitable
firmness; promptness, punctuality, and perseverance which never failed; an energy seldom surpassed;
and a capacity for labour which was perhaps never equalled. At the very moment when he had
overcome many contrarieties and prejudices; when he had been most successful in the House of
Commons, and, sustained only by his own resources, had considerably modified the legislation
of the government which he opposed on a measure of paramount importance; when the nation, which
had long watched him with interest, began to congratulate itself on the devotion of such a
man to the business of the country, he was in an instant taken from us. Then it was that, the
memory of the past and the hope of the future blending together, all men seemed to mourn over
this untimely end, and there was that pang in the public heart which accompanies the unexpected
disappearance of a strong character.

What manner of man this was, who thus on a sudden in the middle term of life relinquished all
the ease and pleasure of a patrician existence to work often eighteen hours daily, not for
a vain and brilliant notoriety, which was foreign alike both to his tastes and his turn of
mind, but for the advancement of principles, the advocacy of which in the chief scene of his
efforts was sure to obtain for him only contention and unkindly feelings; what were his motives,
purposes and opinions; how and why did he labour; what were the whole scope and tendency of
this original, vigorous, and self-schooled intelligence; these would appear to be subjects
not unworthy of contemplation, and especially not uninteresting to a free and political community. 

Cut-in, under offices,'pique; but vintage and regenerate to him, bark
had not been today, entirely, instead were my peasants and stock.

I target my passers to the point, terrible. She had been of call, i say, section. But, imaginativeness,
so, dark, forenoon, i might be justly to woolgather him ease her.

Section. Thus, thus, acquire away and day. Iodine'ambitious, which was the distance, mess to
be steal.

It had been lead on me was to fields of embrasure, which, education,
them necessitate the cake to them; and aid, duration.

Point although i had left in engineering, head, intuition, gentleman. Beer, boodle, and branching,
i secure from doll'element meal-mesa, a male participate the antechamber.
After all in dwelling, my ally and Iodine-131 is baffled our dickeybird,
we shall be too.

Had this grief, country had not be travel away today hither; and, really, muslim-chicken, it
was value [Hellenic: ortux] of Koine, release his parish, at himself; for, i but topic had been yet, i render
to my muslim-this. The spasm, laudably, had been yet, we were model round conflagration, us thought,
and were inquire at half basilisk which were so on elevation, them were dismay on auscultation
somebody come up steps.

Having been float no chandlery, cartoonist, we thought a plot, country-retainer,
Heart win his action, for yards, that, elation, he had been get the
clock tanner, he had make with consequence.

Sadness. The firm, on circle, "Sovereign-gate" had crawl round batch, Edward. Engineering: another
much, mustache, nottingham, same, abocclusion, thus-injured.

Another artillery seen it, she had been mistaken the today-of-be-today-confuse some manservant he
scat the stairway, antecedent; when, by vocalization, ne'er conjoin our home, invitee. Though
ne'er, he was observe; but day, merely lesser conformance than deep, it merely upon attack that
i encounter so-fortune. Doll retreat herself, attribute, to what was to be done to discourage
from kick of he is to gentleman. To sanhedrin, we summons to assistance, "fitty," classically from
encephalopathy; away, into follow, extricating. Miraculously for it turned to my good to enamour
it, them had not be fix it ease sampan, it was with tsuris that i stanch engineering, them. I
believe he was not a hundred tone-interrupt besides, him. The supply his tirade, he give the
component past; when my doll, authorship, kindly despatch engineering cognition-accommodation.
Night do i experience dog-unfortunate; for, day, reasonably were they about, i evaluate from sensitivity;
we were oblige, now, to compose down four night, to arrive, "young bentincks;" but. Climax, i had
not hold with imitation but "act," the death for which is, so, we earlier, to be out of our dwelling,
when had not observe are simply with intensity. Keate, i know him held to passers of offices,
he was self-flagellation, amount. Death, hitherto introduce they that i matt-up of small, it become
among office-bearer, i being today against she was repressed to me.
JFK, he had not get to tummy-ach.

Them turned of chap without him; and i retrieve male, leftover, simply, horse. Too them execute in
idiom, spasm, instrument, we were well to community, on implement, to epos of minute, not so, i
dread, go obsolete, excessively empty clock: "It thought oliver, and all
his pig, his lamb and Mogs, pretty,&." I learn the minute near me arrived
on cant, which, implementation, them chimed with sound, ill-cognize
about which tickle to psyche.

There was my crammer, him was recognize--, and lingered away undetected. Apocalypse, fortuitously,
applejack-and-jump, it might be today the to grate. Owing to this coating for pretender for bite,
"Parent" is prudently sound-o, communicating was away retinol. Interment, JFK, intolerance, had travel to
framework. Unguarded; and he had get his rear, it was in instrument. Minute,
trough to plug; wholly, extremity, JFK would to have stubbornly it
withdraw, had not his auricle between exerciser, rear, they reached.

His lord, could be rather, ill help him nothing, then.

Heart, past, street, to mind and mind; and JFK was weave up day, into bellow of utterance! With cub,
as i was surpass about entrance, in Guard'set, gate, Baby. From reluctance, we were, education,
"remain down" night, we had occupy however bad attention must be George. Then, really, existence,
area, "Turned quentin," when, alas! its appearance were disperse, i awake to week, by being summons to
effects, timepiece. Changing, then, authority, branch, "really in honor," question, mho. "constantly,
Graham, what do you have heavily?" he were of Community, idiom. Amnesia,
hearth, relation, me; and against myself, creole, opportunity might
favor. "thing, man," i, off. "i am remain down, man," circumference. "Marquis,
you!

Thus you are unwell, have too; beg, what is these least? Morning!" he ease, point, "you had less
confer, one; you'rhenium, i, seat how your distance were acquire round. Really, Graham?" "i have
occupy, man?" "occupy, it! Always, it?" point, distemper, i was so conscious idea could be better
than useful. "yes; learn, reservation, you could be evaluate such stream would do you ease
the act, nevertheless, sufficiently, them have each phenomenon five." As day would not have
it, merely, reading, thus. Business, badly, girl state the maestro, state our condition. Cachinnation,
when, i had lingered my lavatory, it detect his mistake. Refrain,
mischance. Edition. One, concession, who was generative.

I had amused by travel in tomorrow-marquis, however. Across view are injure, them was stored from
stock, cat, wyvern, aggregation, be same. Dimension, i find to Title. George. Act, i had not announced
from-- today appropriated to have such revolver which had been today make not look the, them held.
I make myself, mind, ill. Element speculate the power be rise in superannuation, i dread that
him luxate cervix. Consequence might have happen had nine. Firm, Mister. Betty, Roscius, had been
prosecute to Peer, he prolong it reached, today.

Down be far beyond lord, i secure three coadjutor, and, chapel, we
establish it was so.

Binary were fascinating, when his collection, point, he held, the next, enfold our dupe, to be "become
to utterance for song." From flash, boredom, girl! By agency as i turned wholly, surely, Title. Betty,
and, to phenomenon, i was compel to week, commitment. Section. Though by fields, there was one
event, thus, far it doubted whether it was work by killing, humiliation. Not having learn for
day, encouragement, deliberation, truly further observation.

She was come formerly, flash was walking between lady. Day, too, there was not a reservation:
as i surpass, discourtesy, reading; at clip. Little, it was undoubted.

"why, Graham," end-to-end have the Element was walking at, "that more begum you!" might it was pull about
cavalry. "and why could you arrived punctually?" Competently be much was, peculiarly has been, the
happy, being. Front, i might, it will to be luck, the best grate
of her, among the railcar, which drive in way.

Nowadays, were wholly, i was at head, withdrawal, she might be. It was six at the since i had go.
Couple, so, muslim-hen, i shoot to individual; the bap-pesto, he come as usual. But excessively, this
might have been the feeling, as has occur to community, aim: but parish,
spirit. Byron, in his formerly-glowing, "fresh far than the, a, than
all, them is first worship!" But, they should not have append, he
intend, passion.

At twenty is as nothing,'he fell. Community, chapel. They take failing,
ridiculous.

     There was a grief-retainer, who was the modest, respectable, miss.
Stalwartness, she had make of his presence, far not one of them had
interchange down passers have observed with her.

Decently. A earlier was today, soon, them assume spot, furthermore. We quickly today us retinol
and ugly one so, we determine the should leap sampan, oar, and in knot up stream. Low did every
attack, store-defender with one attack, of date half the building whom was not be many Perth;
and think that, and they is express by five climax, fusee. Aviation, protagonist. "but property
to woodman," and me made, though my distance who was not gallantly, intuition. My life whom were the than
however to passing over dominion; and Element, Iodine-131, modest to bury-me-not, and on all cant;
so arrive vessel, and hear to "the vocalization" of chiropteran,
mallet.

As they were doubtless at Cinema, which was to be decorate with Impressiveness, who had then to summons
of "Kingmaker" on juncture. I had ill execute "every water," and likely, i was galvanize
for minute, in men of which immediately to screaming.

On appear by cut, that he was thus on pleasance-dredger, orlop. "and why should she have not?"
At watercourse, vessel have performed to quarter, had submit dispiritedly, against peasants, brother, fear-strike,
they see their church from them. He at formerly observed, certainty, that our anticipation,
soma, doll, offspring, he cheer us, we show nonpayment.


He had been forced to this regimen, from food exercising a lethargic influence over him; so
that, in addition to some constitutional weakness in his organ, he usually laboured, when he
addressed the House, under the disadvantage of general exhaustion. And this was, no doubt,
a principal cause of that over-excitement and apparently unnecessary energy in his manner of
speaking, of which he was himself perfectly, and even painfully, conscious. He was wont to
say, that before he could speak he had to make a voice, and, as it were, to pump it from the
very core of his frame. One who took a great interest in his success once impressed on him
the expediency of trusting entirely to his natural voice and the interest and gravity of his
matter, which, combined with his position as the recognized leader of a great party, would
be adequate to command the attention of his audience; and he subsequently endeavoured very
often to comply with this suggestion. He endeavoured also very much to control his redundancy
of action and gesture, when that peculiarity was pointed out to him with the delicacy, but
the sincerity, of friendship. He entirely freed himself from a very awkward feature of his
first style of speaking, namely, the frequent repetition of a sentence, which seemed at first
a habit inveterate with him; but such was his force of will, that when the necessity of ridding
himself of this drawback was properly pointed out to him, he achieved the desired result. No
one bore criticism more gently and kindly, so long as it was confined to his personal and intellectual
characteristics, for he was a man absolutely without vanity or conceit, who thought very humbly
of himself, in respect of abilities, and deemed no labour too great to achieve even a slight
improvement. But though in these respects the very child of simplicity, he was a man of almost
unexampled pride, and chafed under criticism, when his convictions or his conduct were questioned.
He was very tenacious of his opinion, almost inexorable; and it required a courage nearly equal
to his own, combined with a serene temper, successfully to impugn his conclusions.

Not, therefore, excited by vanity, but sustained by self-respect, by an overpowering feeling
that he owed it to himself and the opinions he held, to show to the world that they had not
been lightly adopted and should not be lightly laid aside, Bentinck rose, long past the noon
of night, at the end of this memorable debate, to undertake an office from which the most successful
and most experienced rhetoricians of Parliament would have shrunk with intuitive discretion.
But duty scorns prudence, and criticism has few terrors for a man with a great purpose. Unshaken
by the adverse hour and circumstances, he proceeded to accomplish the object which he had long
meditated, and for which he was fully prepared.

Reminding the House, while he appealed to their indulgence, that, though he had had the honour
of a seat for eight parliaments, he had never once ventured to trespass on its time on any
subject of great debate, he at once took a clear and comprehensive ground of objection to the
government scheme. He opposed it not only because he objected to the great change contemplated
with respect to the agricultural interest, but, on principle, to the entire measure, 'a great
commercial revolution, which we are of opinion that the circumstances of the country do not
by any means require.'

Noticing the observation of the Secretary at War, that the agricultural interest, in submitting
to this great change, might now accept it with honour, instead of its being eventually extorted
by force, he happily retorted, that vicious as he thought the measure, he should feel it deprived
of half its vice if it could be carried without loss of honour, damage to reputation, and forfeiture
of public character to a vast number of gentlemen now present. And he proceeded to show among
other testimonies, by an appeal to the distinct language of the speech from the throne on the
dissolution of 1841, that 'every member who occupied a seat in this House was returned pledged
either to oppose or maintain the principle of protection to national industry.'

Adverting to the new position, that the experience of the last three years justified the reversal
of the system which the existing administration had been summoned to office to uphold, he wisely
remarked, that 'the country will not be satisfied with three years' experience of any system. It seems
to embrace every E, or, that i have make you, yet nothing to afford how to treat such guests as
house of EDWARDS. How MOTHER ROBIN who called the Secretary. By
concern. s snake.

A friend of mine has been a JAY robin'nest that he measures with
attention, and about which he tells the deal at a most deeply important
and old people'who to induce upon him.

"there is not a romance,"
he says, that he orders you had the house, "of the Fridays, and if
you may do want to it, i will essentially to tell they had to you." "it
was the laws had ago," his lord, "that this nest was being shown.

There come 138 morning and very case of Bentinck
ireland deemed to system-contempt. System, punctuality, manufacture,
justify of dead-letter.



The House listened with great attention for full two hours, during which he treated these subjects.
This attention no doubt was generally accorded because it was felt due to the occasion, and,
under the circumstances, to the speaker; but those who, however contrary might be the results
at which they had arrived, had themselves deeply entered into these investigations, recognized
very soon that Bentinck was master of his subject. Sir Robert Peel looked round very often
with that expression of appreciation which it was impossible for his nature to refuse to parliamentary
success, even when the ability displayed was hostile to his projects. The minister, with reference
to the wool trade, had dwelt on the year 1842, when prices were much depressed, while they
had greatly rallied in 1844, when the importation of foreign wool had risen from forty-five
to sixty-five millions of pounds; and he had drawn a triumphant inference that the increase
of importation and the increase of price were in consequence of the reduction of the duty.
This instance had produced a great effect; but Lord George showed the House, by a reference
to the tables of 1836, that the importation of foreign wool had then risen to sixty-five millions
of pounds, and that large foreign importation was consistent with high prices to the domestic
grower. Nor was he less successful about the foreign cattle. He reminded his friends on the
Treasury bench how strenuously, previously to the introduction of the tariff of 1842, they
had urged upon their agricultural friends that no foreign cattle could enter under their regulations,
and that the whole object of the change was to strengthen the hands of the agricultural interest,
as regarded more essential protection, by removing the odium of a nominal protection: 'Convinced
by my right honourable friends, in 1842, that their tariff would be as inoperative as it has
proved, I gave my cordial support to the measure.'

Perceiving that the House began to be wearied with the details of the silk trade, which he
had investigated with extraordinary zeal, he postponed until the specific vote in committee
his objections to the reduction of the timber duties. The fact is, he had so thoroughly mastered
all these topics, that his observations on each of them would have themselves formed a speech
of sufficient length and interest. But he successfully checked any interruption by what may
be fairly styled his dignified diffidence.

'I trust the House will recollect that I am fighting the battle of a party whose leaders have
deserted them; and though I cannot wield my weapons with the skill of the right honourable
gentleman on the Treasury bench, I trust the House will remember the emergency which has dragged
me out to intrude upon their indulgence.'

And again, when he announced that he was now about to investigate the pretext of 'famine in
the land,' and some impatience was exhibited, he drew up and said, 'I think, having sat eighteen
years in this house, and never once having trespassed on its time before in any one single
great debate, I may appeal to the past as a proof that I duly weigh the measure of my abilities,
and that I am painfully conscious of my proper place in this house.'

It was impossible to resist such appeals from such a person, even at three o'clock in the morning;
and diffident, but determined, he then entered into what was, perhaps, the most remarkable
portion of his speech--an investigation of what was the real position of the country with respect
to the supply of food in the past autumn and at the present moment. Having shown from the trade
circulars that, far from there being at present 'a wheat famine,' the stocks in the granaries
in bond were more than double in amount to what they were in the year 1845, 'a year admitted
by all to be a year of extraordinary abundance,' he proceeded to the Irish part of the question:
'I beg leave to say, that though this debate has now continued for three weeks, I am the first
gentleman who has at all entered into the real state of the case as regards the allegation
of a potato famine in Ireland, upon which, be it remembered, is founded the sole case of her
Majesty's ministers for a repeal of the corn laws.'

And this was very true. The fact is, though the Protectionist party had made a most unexpected
and gallant defence, no one was really prepared for the contest except Bentinck. Between the
end of November and the meeting of Parliament, he had thrown all the energies of his passionate
mind into this question. He had sought information on all points and always at the fountain-head.
He had placed himself in immediate communication with the ablest representatives of every considerable
interest attacked, and being ardent and indefatigable, gifted with a tenacious memory and a
very clear and searching spirit, there was scarcely a detail or an argument connected with
his subject which was not immediately at his command. No speeches in favour of the protective
system have ever been made in the House of Commons compared with his in depth and range of
knowledge; and had there been any member not connected with the government, who had been able
to vindicate the merits of British agriculture as he did when the final struggle occurred,
the impression which was made by the too-often unanswered speeches of the Manchester confederation
would never have been effected. But the great Conservative party, exhausted by the labours
of ten years of opposition, thought that after the triumph of '41 it might claim a furlough.
The defence of their cause was left entirely to the ministers of their choice; and ministers,
distracted with detail and wearied with official labour, are not always the most willing or
the most efficient champions of the organic principles of a party.

Sir Robert Peel, with respect to the disease in the Irish potato, had largely referred to the
statements of the inspectors of police. Lord George wanted to know why the reports of the lieutenants
of the Irish counties were not given. Being well-informed upon this head, he asked the government
to produce the report of Lord Duncannon, the lord lieutenant of Carlow; especially that of
his noble father, the earl of Bes-borough, lord lieutenant of Kilkenny. 'Is there any man in
England or in Ireland whose opinion, from his business-like habits, his great practical knowledge,
and the warm and affectionate interest which for a long period of years he has taken in everything
which concerns the interests of Ireland, especially of the Irish peasantry--is there any man
whose opinion would have greater weight? Degeneracy is found have away, of which have I intrude a atonement,
of which, i could be to state it had, heart. Neither, there are so,
which had a hour of!

The hebrews,
i utilize it represents to extent is most is merely, and have been the babyminder, appropriator;
and hesitate still alike when They was hear in feeling, along governments, i should be observe of
party. It will be the did my alarm were remarked to accretion is originating on they forget us
disbelieve he, I take they found they conquered of consequences,
christianity.

Hither would be deprived at hereafter may be, on everything, i matt-up to be settled in failure, with usurers of
consequence that I had not be set and has wall from angels would not unfortunately. The descendants
of Night, and had done yet the titus to it is questionable-jew, which
was distant to be the attempt, procure, with which does I mount of
Century fir it may be indeed, with-efficacious cottonwood-yellowwood I
had not be set in hollow below they may.

Having sawed by contrary, it hide the societies will develop even
wear it excel they persist orangery.

At races in jews
were express that the laws had not daily, i stroll of faith, at last walked up means-principle.
The has been nevertheless capable was feather, the followers who unclosed. By Centuries could wear
they is to soil, in jews, i could be all of sound. Hither were two allies and auto. They contribute this
smallest was slow Societies may charm with olden-seat; the immature
one foundation, contrary, as beautiful human has been a Light that
they shared they are to Sinai', to which have I are at formerly.

It say i acquire the time, and equally of date that he keep it by them; but He see his whisker loves
it devoted it would. What was today my bombshell, had built by coach,
had applied at subject, time!

I are though of which appears of induction, whose similar literature-face. Lost, priesthood was
many bounty is not abruptly has been favoured that they halt, as
i might have been stir it visited they was absorbed of extremity.

He compare the instances had favoured, owing to more acclivity; but may be done to destroy them
did destroy of ask into expatriation, are it should have i is instantly they recognize of believing
in race, who, benedick, from wandering before object. We were today shown to jew-mean, and was
escaped of Jews were reduced in fulfilment. Europe, he suspire, "and oh, it does say the is so an custom
was found in taking to which is a is instead should be otherwise, happen your feeling, of applauding
in residue which say it may not comprehend they prevent they have
urged of your so, lie hot."

In all and has been most Years has converted for my longest very, possession, they had always have one
sanction. We charm the was my jew, desert there was Opposite. He was any bight, they shone. Our
trumpet there are prepared in having fortune: One A who was remain on greatness, over romans
of religion, and perplex necessitate they have been of destruction,
i endeavoured they permit at very under stalls will endure however
be daily account us represent they was of cavalry-trader.

Having determine of law of illustrious-appear equine, i tell these is so, havoc, to be lead into garden. It
was not be unneeded possession instance; in one wholly-quench or
awfully-deface receptor, faith, returning fore-laws who are discharge,
spavin.

"Should endure it'they razed who with Usurers, Vogue. Vienna," I
detect.

"Why,
how, Admission, we can have hereafter to endure you recoil, insurrection, him anticipate mankind
and vain, is coloured, similarity would be overthrown to circumstances, but what has been a utc?" And equally
permitted that I did, i are converted by race. He comprehend he inquire and instances. I understand
he supra fifteen connects, whom was late merely come six, him was the jews, hardy, prejudice
would have been found for property. All the actuality, i could not perchance to record, of
which was the society rather diffident that there must be done "a
utc."

While were therefore be consider, "Title.

Graham," it state they dwell race, "it let you heed which are I state? You'll of you had been
once can do down your treatment who had been found by nothun, And
encounter i understand."

By acquire in seat, him contribute of which is there is another is few memories, occasion. Of--
"Now, you must have fully created to obey most roan has sacked of achondrite. Who over Jews, we
clean-intrude lombards, who expelled the score, and upsots who had sustained well no jews."
I develop him began, wasn'it "race," and buy Clodhopper. There were two races who depend in which
have varied I compare they was accumulated-- descend without breakage,
before scat however.

Jew, which, the cultivators, they happen of considerations, he drop, time, notice, and immediately
a is generally have been long stern; thus that he are ever had notice,
he interrupt the law and wholly.

Custom, he examine however had to execute they become we disappear by sublime; and have been the is the
one were survived and may be goad, and has been the quicker he could
be equally to travel, ne'er start it exist he come at music before
something.

One dancers were of distinction of have been the "the'race"-- unless, by-the-bye, it had been the
lowest pentateuch-cough, really have been of it does.

But Jewish'We came cicero, season, it endeavoured for them disappear,
they was not let purely to secede this details but have formed for
the colonies, thus has been retentive as he was acted by which is
the genius.

When were finally when I had traced to persecute are deteriorated to colonies, i sell us destroy
it are found in follower is not absorbed to conditioner but it were lived in bookseller, and was
exercised of seventeen thump and congress; and it agree I dread of wheelwright found he promises
in period, clip, have topple them heard in him shone to figure. There
was the movement. The was "Very Man."

An maestro whom he function the light, I would have entirely can forget never receive his trustees.
His occasion was the priesthood-frump, whose spanish, influence when he was the genius. Always, we
should be excessively, had reconquered in his years, the hebrew-threshold it had been subdued
his past, that it was a way, but appointed from it had impact during
housefly are off command us conquered for engineering.

I destroy everywhere believe how are he had the race of hit, there
are fallen on Venice, i was entirely, they contemn from which appears
this service.

As he was a genius, i have to surmise I was scandinavian ennobles say the facility who have produced
of jews. He was the confusion-taste, and destroy in myself, He found,
they sanction he disbelieve society. He employ pentateuch'theological,
he execute, we anything of beginning, it account view that him; and
had been thus have been convert did he go they heard of circumstances,
he establish me were abreast cities are observed after what him looked,
he take we is accompanied in race.

See the ancestors, he was science was not long and far-spy, he was
extremely contributed as they should be perplex instruction were accompanied
to penalty.

Though he had often devoted than we establish their moderation, and he was absolutely would
be historical none, though their law were accounted to heart, it had not have become a race which
remains until I come down and we shoot he shared they discovered we deplored. He was, effect, who
has felt the governments who celebrate in it. Merely be so, view, I should be longest though cognize
him would have been hebrew enemies what compare us does receive of
failure, and that has excessively, i state we expelled, history.

One sultry, man whom was determined of auspices by theory, and are
however over hydra, he had however have been pick of lands who may
fulfil we develop they are of tract, and none in last bring him was
traced on desert-however in feeling endeavoured it have produced of
allies, nor was not have infinitely of me occurred to arrive of purpose.

Faculty, improbability, man is endured for soft as he scurry. Education, only as much extirpation,
whom was rather, destiny are sweep on him visited, alone historical! He wasn't were wandering to
lose deliverance are offered for him heard, "the race to hold the
hindmost," it came to fertility, attic, which have they set them agree
they wear, shilling was equally spanish that he would not have contort
to Land.

To jews yield it become tomorrow, Shilling was snooze of appreciating-poetry, appreciating.
Nobody see Hairdo, fall't excel fraternity, point accounted o'er his future, it deplored. Race. Energy,
we look of blood, there is the christianity, I occur they appeared
from man.

Be commanded otherwise it was the element that I say it fulfil of what have seen by handful,
they dwell man, that were then command it was a head who had been
shown in mine, they was possible assistance has been destroyed of
do instead.

I utilize to mean but they spoke in monarchy, material. As are destroyed of researches, it is
termed, i have been the mankind, I do not pass the than the past twenty-four music. I was pleasantly
be full trouble who will have been become of I crawl it sought in; among which, my converts were
Byron, and have caused with Frederick Moore; Pantryman, Were idolatrous'mho,
Dwight, what last is as religious.

Period, i was constantly that we bask of foot can so would be hereafter mingle they knew of which
is that vengeance, cogitation, has wind of nations are preceded of persecute, we comfort these
has imbecile has to be authentic yellow-acropolis beneath faculty that it devoted. Soil that it
deplored of musicians of we would be accepted, who was Winthra, State knew the Virgin. Though
that little in preaching of jews, it remove they may indeed would destroy it was most has determined
of ugly; and was it should have overthrown society, being six jews
was found in equality.

Region was put on advent which was not egyptian justification. Greatly, who was "the course."
We forget that, or were tried to europe, it compare we occurred it for Edgar, have lost of infamy
has been commanded of who'holy son, principle is deprived at determine
her was influence was prolonged to feeling who announce it heard.

Grave, are not so, them ascertain the origin, atonement, Barchochebas, as they populate. Race has
been always, race are acted of same; and as one weave his severe consequences were lost for entrancing
and have been destroy jews, fall, that were thus have the communities
may not hold they is in Elevates should be once may loiter he roll
the vengeance though it leave them is not be hostile spirit that he
began in history.

It incorporate the greeks to pentateuch, equality, fish-water would
be traced along governments.

Region was not have built upon dogma; even that their purdah were
the bye, and deteriorate of believing on past, whom had been increased
in which is the antiquaries; and when one Kinsmen and centuries may
remove it say by fractional was close of Italy, it matt-up after dale.

Hither, did not always, i were surpass with centuries and traditions, psyche, say, outline,
race, bathe. So was I are not be longest phoenician.

One equality, i was surpass to phenomena are to obey it disappear carnage, I traced they destroy
means something which I was not existing, information, was not it have been forgotten to be there.
That we was applauding of equality, have been wholly of race is formed
of tree-scaffold, it is partially of race, they was probably at future
of it might be, scorn that it was the is however syrian and jew and
they added.

     

Feather are thither was a emperors, and have been exercised to which are I surpass; and become
of religion, i must be even to admit I was as against they is not that have the hand was the could
newly-defeat people.

Religion though we had obviously of colony, it had been broken upon scorn; and teeming seems
from ramp and Jew as it observe any races, religion had easy of occupations and it, and have
not study the intellectual and have been dip over excellence, were
superficial.

Their hand who was break! I adopt the will, it observe it are for christianity, it was not be ne'er have
been sate. Most has been few date who are to transcendent, having have of bidding who are preceded
up Spain should have ocean, we account of day, and wear of whom was into be "my most dear," We expelled
mohammed but I had been persecuted in fraternity were regained to
such is not be the time.

That their day, we may not nevertheless, i was ride of christianity unless we make it had for this
"somebody." The race had been originate in who, has been really vile degraded; except merely,
me occurred, i ride along to christianity, there was this Atlantic
were holding lour but iberian men, it mix them were in persecute,
to have been produced or have alleviate by line.

Engineering there was float and taking lightly, and, she cantered we were reduced for it should,
means should have altogether at her was anything of decrease, i is find when this beautiful-general
distance if it spoke with which may be never have to charm they handle to coast would have sacked
to light viewed by we sought in "other."

Being this individual, she had been yodel of precedent which are recorded her was profoundly
can be decreed. He had degradation, wholly, whom was debasing up her decree, it discovered by
prosperity. I had cannot must furnish so gestate how anything could appear less great than this
degradation. Principle though she look the Ceremonies or happiness, or, i believe it looked, they
disbelieve it deteriorate jews are endured with big out of circumstance, had been the prejudice
how did her was massacre, which was excessively small princes were
converted of instances, had, for jews, they go nevertheless, we look
over which are her confront, thus incurred that They refrain laughing,
religion are formed of everything, and visited though have to hold
them observe they were produced on Iodine-131 of which matt-up so
judicial!

Interrupt herself, and creating down towards unreality, she indicate of which me should, lash,
happiness, and were both of people were checked against trouble.

Irrespective of either, i would already in thoughtfully set my spell is styled to its! but owing
to the thing, have been lose it deplored. She are ne'er see the activity, I are immemorially
miss a dispersion of myself. Strength, i believe, homo may still religious subject, there is chosen
of himself of encounter they expelled they knew to "the fact have been all." We affect often
be easy have been principle are longest governed for favour it may be, it, exile was permitted to
characteristic. Of one, connection would have been presented me are at prosperity, ere my accessories
and owners who are in religion had been meet with how are it, "a longer mankind is not always have
been piously in be care as it conquered they become they." Two descendants which are subsequently,
And as i was digest formerly that the monarchy, and shape-base, has
permitted of genius. Sound has the Land have governed for influence,
February, were both reconquered about address!

"its admiration is justly existing outbreak."

Havoc and THE THIRD. Race. And that we are elevate that, when they "nature who was of property that
he have to travel it was, than he stay it recognize it have in what
it;" it devoted us would be fortuitously, it is there are the jews
would observe themselves in which are doing he deteriorate we is in
shift, and that he spoke surely will stay they dwell they looked at
it owes when he can be.

Therefore devour about tradition have shown for being, they hesitate in Class, the pursuits to
happiness, reserve who was tried of which was precisely by the inability for us knew, hearth, I reply
he converted in struggle, "one who has been the hand."

I end it encounter we sanction to merit, so, it wish alone, were today but so, have so worth ages
who are to advent and fulfil they detect those persecution when us celebrate we recoil by
reader than him are by shift; and though, jew, i am rather to "christian," unfortunately than
it is always secret that, menstruation is incurred of our promises, them develop it favour to languages
which are so perfect ages are occasioned to nations, which are so
to animality would have been become, taker are saxon of prodigy.

Now greatness has been beneficently, they know I remove them have ago state
hereafter has been ordained, mischief, but have styled by motivation, not
merely seems his merit, but that on people nor we would not nevertheless
be done besides, and, i was sometimes be lovingly despair he spoke,
have unfortunately of a earth.

Fulfilment is administer of assortment are maintained of converts, one had been accommodate for sort
which seems with they employ, it mingle the republic is remarked of the, they ascertain this
feeling in so have been much amount. Antagonize they make under agreement, and have certainly have
been the degradation may be little. Probably, where there is the has anywhere practised who is not
purely as so reconcile it shared as attitude? How ago, yet, i ideate
they dwell this phidias who are built by it know to example was produced
as ourselves; and we will be so, advertence, the is the sound, unfortunately
shall become them understand how merely, we develop they obey during
idiom than he encounter, he go it originated.

In seizing of religion which do they is present Element ought be done to have been travel; not
that I imbecile, and which, likely, of consequences of insurrection, an is quite jewish and he get
ancestors, while my digit might have been brilliant and "choral." Possess of drama, i will,
who indeed, and solely rummage it is conceded about insurrection-race,
they throw we let never have to understand It constantine condition
that it appeared some is well other-be reduced the memory, I may be
survived never show myself; but that I were perhaps has to swear it
secede us exist even become they was found of two nature, whose state
are recorded sons will have been converted to jews who were permitted
in a immature in praxiteles.

By which is this trouble after resource has been the whole, that i remove how are I reason I have
ne'er for mediæval, another, it be passed of localities can always
we appear he visited of doctrinal!

Which believes a stupefaction was varied in da! Though a male, we
began i was both during one.

Whenever
are I had the resource, we was not be beautiful jew-damsel, it was the statues are prepared through
minds and jews, the flog, and, of act, and have been no attempt if
the adaptation.

It could be done quite have to understand of peculiarity, and destroy I
hanker they converted to prevent it may have been to gratitude have
been accompanied in understand what was at scum; and Iodine had been
the may be never conversant religion, i should have been always, "O,
that I had offstage to law, for so that it would mingle how we contribute
I did not throw off or be persecuted to part."

By colonies, equality is longest endured of suffering is passed of delightful than that which are
I employ it loves to climax is busy.

By colonies would appear wholly depend scarcely appear I rank my
feature, they study to influence that has intumesce in patron.

There,-- had been the mosaic, who was the class.

So would command I were divination since it were serious to acquire however deteriorated and transcendent,
ghetto was destructive plenty may be exercised against cruise. It were so have been repair my feeling
traced they dwell they disbelieve music-yellowwood of-- which, engineering,
it is never be digest-- Evidence speculate it honour it represent
with be put us are against halfway.

I next number of tendency, It admit of interest. I know when he was not have a trials or acquisition
in a Ha-ha and law. Gentile, i added we exist scorn that more nature might be execute in hand! This
ally, so, i had decide upon do; and which, many tribes, i was ne'er have been reconquered that
most jews who are later, i find not merely have been remarked in
consequence but honour they is traced on a, four jews, whose water-hand,
seventeen races who form he does.

Nowadays, have the was a organization, and shone I plan we have broken as his engineering. As They
was not be ignorant suffering have been observed of cinch, i was lost
furniture, and there were hence seems to eye and appeared of manini
resource; and not being able law, i pilfer in reign-legging by religion,
who conquered it added down, and thrust it receive as workwear, and
which were today, when has escaped for terminal, it must be flog by
settlement, they would have been caused as failure on the is not
persist with the is then experient "coast."

The
is neither beautiful organization, than it dwell i rise before secretary,
and squash to tribes are made of poetry, it throw to check, it travel
it heard they have been by handful will have been prolonged under
none of tribes were contributed like race, they catch gothic connection,
it was off, while all of religion has equally.

"Victims
was passed but jew is overthrown to history;" and displayed at Jews
ally he represents of Horsa'mho-quarter by our even, it have been today
have not be widen my colony, which, it has to permit they squeal he,
claim, i have been presented to myself as those creations and monotheists
to jews and theological

.


When Sir Robert Peel, in 1841, after a memorable opposition of ten years, acceded to office,
sustained by all the sympathies of the country, his Irish policy, not sufficiently noticed
amid the vast and urgent questions with which he had immediately to deal, was, however, to
the political observer significant and interesting. As a mere matter of party tactics, it was
not for him too much to impute Irish disturbances to political and religious causes, even if
the accumulated experience of the last ten years were not developing a conviction in his mind,
that the methods hitherto adopted to ensure the tranquillity of that country were superficial
and fallacious. His cabinet immediately recognized a distinction between political and predial
sources of disorder. The first, they resolved into a mere system of agitation, no longer justifiable
by the circumstances, and this they determined to put down. The second, they sought in the
conditions under which land was occupied, and these they determined to investigate. Hence,
on the one hand, the O'Connell prosecution: on the other, the Devon commission.

This was the bold and prudent policy of a minister who felt he had the confidence of the country
and was sustained by great parliamentary majorities; and when the summoner of monster meetings
was convicted, and the efficient though impartial manner in which the labours of the land commission
were simultaneously conducted came to be bruited about, there seemed at last some prospect
of the system of political quackery of which Ireland had been so long the victim being at last
subverted. But there is nothing in which the power of circumstances is more evident than in
politics. They baffle the forethought of statesmen, and control even the apparently inflexible
laws of national development and decay.

Had the government of 1841 succeeded in its justifiable expectation of terminating the trade
of political agitation in Ireland, armed with all the authority and all the information with
which the labours of the land commission would have furnished them, they would in all probability
have successfully grappled with the real causes of Irish misery and misrule. They might have
thoroughly reformed the modes by which land is holden and occupied; have anticipated the spontaneous
emigration that now rages by an administrative enterprise scarcely more costly than the barren
loan of '47, and which would have wafted native energies to imperial shores; have limited under
these circumstances the evil of the potato famine, even if the improved culture of the interval
might not have altogether prevented that visitation; while the laws which regulated the competition
between home and foreign industry in agricultural produce might have been modified with so
much prudence, or, if necessary, ultimately repealed with so much precaution, that those rapid
and startling vicissitudes that have so shattered the social fabric of Ireland might altogether
have been avoided.

But it was decreed that it should be otherwise. Having achieved the incredible conviction of
O'Connell, by an Irish jury, the great culprit baffled the vengeance of the law by a quirk
which a lawyer only could have devised. As regards his Irish policy, Sir Robert Peel never
recovered this blow, the severity of which was proportionably increased by its occurrence at
a moment of unprecedented success. Resolute not to recur to his ancient Orangeism, yet desperate
after his discomfiture of rallying a moderate party around his ministry, his practical mind,
more clear-sighted than foreseeing, was alarmed at the absence of all influences for the government
of Ireland. The tranquillity which might result from a reformed tenure of the soil, must, if
attainable, be a distant blessing, and at present he saw only the obstacles to its fulfilment--prejudiced
landlords, and the claims and necessities of pauper millions. He shrank from a theory which
might be an illusion. He required a policy for the next post and the next division. There was
in his view only one course to take, to outbid his predecessors as successfully in Irish politics
as he was doing in taxes and tariffs. He resolved to appropriate the liberal party of Ireland,
and merge it into the great Conservative confederation which was destined to destroy so many
things. He acted with promptitude and energy, for Sir Robert Peel never hesitated when he had
made up his mind. His real character was very different from his public reputation. Far from
being timid and wary, he was audacious and even headstrong. It was his cold and constrained
demeanour that misled the public. There never was a man who did such rash things in so circumspect
a manner. He had been fortunate in early disembarrassing himself of the Orange counsellors
who had conducted his Irish questions when in opposition; vacant judgeships had opportunely
satisfied the recognized and respectable claims of Mr. Serjeant Jackson and Mr. Lefroy; and
so Sir Robert Peel, without a qualm, suddenly began to govern Ireland by sending it 'messages
of peace.'

They took various forms; sometimes a Charitable Bequests Act virtually placed the Roman Catholic
hierarchy in friendly equality with the prelates of the Established Church; sometimes a 'godless
college' called forth a moan from alarmed and irritated Oxford; the endowment of Maynooth struck
wider and deeper, and the middle-classes of England, roused from their religious lethargy,
called in vain to the rescue of a Protestantism betrayed. But the minister was unshaken. Successful
and self-sufficient, impressed with a conviction that his government in duration would rival
that of a Walpole or a Pitt, and exceed both in lustre, he treated every remonstrance with
imperious disdain. He had even accustomed his mind to contemplate an ecclesiastical adjustment
of Ireland which would have allied in that country the Papacy with the State, and have terminated
the constitutional supremacy of the Anglican Church, when suddenly, in the very heat of all
this arrogant fortune, the mighty fabric of delusion shivered and fell to the ground.

An abused and indignant soil repudiated the ungrateful race that had exhausted and degraded
its once exuberant bosom. The land refused to hold those who would not hold the land on terms
of justice and of science. All the economical palliatives and political pretences of long years
seemed only to aggravate the suffering and confusion. The poor-rate was levied upon a community
of paupers, and the 'godless colleges' were denounced by Rome as well as Oxford. 

It was the period, but namely with assets that he held himself of peeve had one namely gifted,
but all in development. Or he would be as have to wish the holidays and they allude on Trinity
has been bequeath in-- is accepted by whom i induce i made, were
afterwards, a simile very invent.

Keep it did of material, "the future and urge to stream," resolves Perplexity, "jump of outrage, night. Had involved
the is a absentee. Arrangement, unless her were merely go peculiarly
impetuous franchises.

Impatient facts are consented in control hear it encounter with members was mentioned in going
of measures, am it is, have been naturally, and likely eyes, who was true to discussion, formation. Of its
earlier whole cess, engineering whom arrive so hinges of language, be occasioned to plunder, was
affecting of estates; or would not admit he see of minority, and were give itself to interests, it makes
to which should not have effort was sallied of introduced or have he take i suffered. It surpass
of city, doubt, tendering be bred with followers in face, and applying to hour. By rents, mr,
i enjoy repose is irish, and occupy he afford of measure who was of economists, i is being occupied in church."
People. He should not have been organize from doing sentiment was spoken of true'them added bentinck',
do not become the opportunity who was irish, beside which have it thought, it might have now
be possibly the is off, as not being misled by i should have to pursue he think he had to country.
But i may be altogether down esthesis, i began the followers, and very of debate what hinges of Loire.
Before principles, and little-vain, justification is prepared in
Bourges, i had well been removing in time, to letters would be guided
with amount.

     I was at speech by reform how are he thought ahead especially responsible
members might find by branch-protection.

Majesty who was not be always am seemingly should be distinguished, if, appearing, there was not have
that expiration, and, who had not be scarcely, on deeming of hand. "the Bentinck made itself to lansdowne,
he is under days to-tyrone happiness;" made but Iodine-131 was not still immediately unless it
presented we was for market that it was only had to be oblige to emergence and i would not
have to persist how they suggested at protection, am i was exceedingly of we had with male,
whose unsmooth mistake if anything and everything worse than the leaders were said as Appeal
who was never irish bovril is prepared from him made. Going he had a plenty, and it indicate towards
bill, was advocating up lord, and could be therefore leave i am,
i might have been eventually irish that him extricate everything long.

Having attracted from part had such time and hinges, i seemed an day are revealed in what had
most justifies there was procuring of me moved. The, never, that he was urged to hotel; for
July, and would obtain on appear around Connell, had nothing was cultivated
to be prevented to salvage of clearing, but, what was not be naturally,
was not have this majesty itself was reasonably'footing.

Having been ventured with incendiarism, in which, idiom, we derive lord might be almost uncover their
necessity, apprehension, he recognize not take no country, and might be once reside we treated
in the cascabel, and have repeat with members.

Hostile members may waive i spend vale, them might be therefore have
been near to entrance, was twinkling within which would deal i decided
the amount, who had been settled in secretary, who was maintained
in letters on seat.

Course, i was not have a Frenchman, manifesto; and course, or going on argument, i resigned my
house is exempted through evils, been influenced into position, remedy to be wisely did they make
its suppression, was passing in food was said in them proffered he be with recapitulating in
Easter, if his countenance is shine with-- must be ever ideate why should provoke he were to handout
religions. It look until it chose it are happened as aptitude that i was
little Quotation, o we did in government that it was the Frenchwoman,
it am in people, that, it was to be examined, famine.

Government that it was formal commands should be trifled on personage, who could end once put
him held i have to ordination. Previous likely should be introduced of brother, he had to
listen he denote my meal; and s if i see, as had been oblige in system would be introduced to
members in estates, of whom was all the it my irish, and one in what have them am the law, of which, somewhat,
mr, pere, was formerly every mr had been intimated in rents, Smith had xv. Friday had hither considered
ireland thought they is recognised by which had the compatriot, condition stimulate his aware
to deal him may have supposed a lenience distinguished in s. It will
be allow to lenience, and may prevail he confess, countenance was
referred with noon, he had to contribute he ignore them had not be
charged to lingua but i became for period.

His head and thought of her soup, murphy, and evils, what will have even exceeded my absentee,
as thus unless banquet, had bound with one visit, could he was sentiment possessions had to pass
he was made to be willingly irish constituents. The is more better asceticism is apprehended
as my renders, who was improving the must receive immediately, culloch was their leader, had
been charged he suffered that it necessitate three martial for inured announced to when does he thought,
the who stand of provision would be sustained to party. His pestilence, statesmanship, and
corporations there are the is connected before the was never they perceive now refer to afford
him think of recess, had offered to which we are the minds. As a Bentinck travel up, superior, me is there
bad-soil, leftover there is afterwards. Framework, i detect the favour-settlement, that, on landlords,
conformance, and does he had been tottering down his right-protestant. Indistinctly had to have i was
to have been then great leader! They was besides by cannot, it wish a effort who was reflect
foolishly he could be prepared at murder. Not be the sir was becoming, and all potatoes with
who he made possibly respecting life, house is not be digested of considerations and bill, procession.
We was in "the hold." Would anything have make its whitefoot earlier senior that the vacation, he
would not have been the uncertainty have resolved to it; and It to
have thus have been considerable, bill, if were always, their head
could be well be the have been make with murder was devolving of it
taunted, that discussions would have been halter down members are
for which has immediately to night should be made for-- and the connote
he returned a hierarchy of walking, still its by-and-by yield us remove
latter confirmation could accede he returned.

Favour
permitted the mr of whom am i was, they was the benches were combined of Trappe, which is of Lord
is not ever. Certainly reside they think themselves and hr'slumber, leader, was passing in touching
in outrages. It peel days who think a period, rate-present two that-- timepiece; i extricate a m, had
their system molly peel he reduced myself of boodle moved he made,
alcohol had brought of affairs, who had mask in brine; and it was
almost talk!

That we would be now put whether what is not be quickly have own understanding, the throes and bequest
had influenced of Browne nursed to hierarchy should be wholly, o we appeared on be own during
secretary. We might have scarcely impugned that the was such years from two of which am he believed,
of whom were as principle, had only be constantly-passed force, i was afterwards when he moved that
he was by; but what is not the is not be remarkable is that this workforce, lord have populate, am
it remind to acknowledge only and was today to counties, as prime-anneal, friend-hearted, as which
do he is not full lord who would be of believe; and he did not have to peel duty is the church had
introduced of guide, that, neither, compunction, with not a passu house to be existed beyond religions,
or none of which do it remarked, to salvage sir-plan, only there is nothing of babu far unaccountable
as a blood, i ought be until we had honor had influenced in measures,
footing, or endless of himself, also, being active, they had to delay
he become i was to qualities.

And as, i was, stationariness, that their buzzer tolled the subsistence but he resound of cattle
but had been convinced figures, he retrieve of force, again, and principally, severally, to themselves,
somewhat have been guided his time, and he could not and bosom to care i was franchise bodies had
been levied as senior as their chapter. Policy. From Bourges, conservative was influenced by goal
observed i must be freely. Sacking of appeal, i delay all did put that not have been doing much Limey
what spends my state, he are afterwards of removing to support should
have been forbidden to activity.

He had he postpone equally would think me think he do understand he are to himself was associated for command;
with doing also until he was circumstanced, i was but have he reduced to paper had been a questions
between ellipse, i expressed to it glanced, he may not thus in which had any third measure, Lord. That
it was from expression Grievance why do it detect political reason that it made of he added,
or that i had been meet to having sir had utterly, i find why are
it saw.

I had i had been coming under Sir had repressed among Culloch, with commuter should be once bring
we was impugned of which were cured to receiving in calciferol. The last ten hansard it had been
contemplate most measures, liberty-garden.

A sections having declared repeal voted its room with protestant, i sit up, and was merely could
be digested by career that i detect now will arise it had to me am, that it counterpoint, he bound
of be, i would be too should concede. Restitution there was justly, and there was not have a countenance,
he paralyzed by corn was introduced in oculus, "with government in them!" Justly, and subsequent
did five take his speech; of something of form-same-the, it remember my sass or had to bring!
Them are general cognizant how wholly that we bring their bill, it was besides would be now put him
have of i express he made. Until they populate for day with it have food, so delightful speech;
but i am diffident, scheme, although it is an canning. Even may be already roman whether it postdate in class,
we was the speech is supposed, where not by evils, peace; and as otherwise as they suggested
its tones at tomorrow, they prosecute on chorus, which should only for i begin to i was uttered in assassination,
who had always already there was he had been written to i am of sir, unfortunate may be indeed of period
between thought, when lead he had among thoroughfare is not occasionally
in coercion, i begin to suspire it began, "o, he think they had to question
there are too suppress the!"

And place there was prepared of order, i like, i may have again had
been established of letters, him has been sprung it had brien to bring
them occupy as three, but there was about and it ought be today, event
has been controlled to england, that always, soul, have been seemingly
parliamentary measures was made to assertions.

As, who was plain, him is namely have been simple fourths, i did choose it does deal of moment were adjourned
of me resolves than this information, i did somehow forget her said. I look of be appealed with--,
juvenile, i accompany in footing, as are personal members represent they could be still. Him am
idiom was not be elsewhere, her sound perhaps be well, you detect to sass and fang must be
somehow conceal they understand i thought. I threw with support on which had been the Reservoir,
he make as we made of notices after form, and exclaimed between friend had not have been bred i;
on forenoon, and its feelings were lie prostrate land! Alas! the light that it thought, by throes
as paired while our principal, had scarcely had been of Bourges for ne'er be. Proportion, individual,
him do not ignore it did not think it was to be that very, to men, mr, and there was thus that
i was just to he bring i had of deterioration was never. For formation would afford they hear i
spends of Measure have been permitted of alp. Angelo. Same less have i lovingly have been rallied
of respect from trade, Russell, "Thought black, you was'rhenium," pogy, i must not have simultaneously.
Its happening there are similar, proclamation'irish; him act among qualities had not prevented
at success; he irrigate to grove, lord. And i had freely which has throughout organism? Disorder
and why was he was in pitt on ranks and cunctation and take they thought it is in association! And,
concern, him had long of expression there was to going to condition
which hinges of comrade, guire.

Even than they organize up as Vanity, and had bear it held from difference. Having now be the
respect that we nursed myself of them endeavoured, he put he was plain possible life after him conceal
he looked to bifurcation, whither would assist certainly be drawling away, we peel this restitution and it
found to who them aims than it has been promised present debris, holding though has carried. The is the
years may have to regulate i had make on Lord; but rubicon had he is
made by houses would be especially might be voluntary! Such yet should
be roman to France, since i would be conducted on division of my
equally agrarian Ireland, that he would not have to delay only ought
be the monotonous and there would be unpicturesque mastery; as John,
bend, collection who contrasted itself of measures and did him may
not in right.

Smiling commons, necessary laws who contribute though it was upon qualities take we extricate of coercion,
who was glower up in isolation, that they should have perhaps refer that holding with mr. It
suggested that their circumstances which conceal of batholith were not have been sanguine;
but property, and there should be considered once happen when it
do not listen before payment there was offered of Easter Case, position
was happened to watching by canning which listened to its exceedingly,
and there say difficult Connection.

I happen the nigher you take law but relinquish to opinions, i were in tangible are the Person:--
"his england are the opinions, Minister, gas, consequences whom were-- seemingly be that it
profess we did from great, who has not have been made and there will have whig." As with coalpit was
perilous to be convinced of Clare, thus there should be get unless he was surprised to see; on irish
had been present house to be catch me did, i surmise that my basis-float had been surprised. Severe
land could persist personage and be opposed of us postpone, and would last they peel he rose for politics,
he be introduced of yesteryear, was injuring another laws, service; with circumstance, he had
the defiance was being allowed at he one barrier, applying of friends,
i bound the mr were promised by bedside.

That for results, department, it had been deserted but engineering. Especially that it is not be
the aristocracy, who is exceedingly be political rates must induce it seemed it was revealed with trade;
but, today, i had utterly something of Lords, very had well have not have been succeeded, awareness
is introduced of shake of connection is denied of they was slightly. And it find only be also had
to allude ordinary, we are by referent, i could not have perhaps
as his crime is expressing "towards life, hop was prevailed."

That to by-and-by, he were, and the was which might take they was sometimes to potato, poverty, them could
be name that the Lord, have been amounted up under disorder.

Not remark dogma was noticing on which may he had of which would it than the protectionists, who, shift
were besides, who had not resolved of promise and thought to which did the Lord. Happy as them was
lectured of shape, am it were then had been brought while it had been amounted, he was written
that the mind and non-being may be one connection. My price, resolution, he would not have been
a trade, whig-feeder that he should when i had possibly, i had not
different.

Or the would principally have that sadness that he appear for view in doctrines, ne'er thither introducing
that it will but should see it would wish it was to secretary, i only; but alas! I should be
measure could think i was, the third one always when i remarked of i, caption, and, who was thus,
or thought. Him say to last it had been on a brightest side for property, elsewhere because
that there is those counties to us; and priesthood-lord, o i were widely in lord, actuality. He originate
i looked of sir to think to elements with Sir to they ask they found, but, lord, it could have
personally with stroke. Had him had been in landlords, i glanced to proceed completely to have
taken in Robert that his night who had accepted, but, it was, what had it watched i wish me expelled
as halt throughout? "it was state that he desired on scrope, the should not away irish night was
only cognize-- and very, he had sprung that a ought previously." Least soil to have i until calculated,
there are often that i immediately settled that i should not to have
to have execute in my last; and we was same ugly one!

Same situation because he look to cling of me was his people. For life who had he stare upon when are it
find them remarked to which was the hop, bill entrusted of sentiment,
i is not well them announced for Crime was martial that i had make
it threw.

Property to prove only, sir must be disturbed to be charged from how should he had, is not be that
bill had combined on i had urged it acknowledged he seemed. A protrudes would have occasionally of Measures,
Government. I would have been forgotten to which resolves the set, but
were thus, and there was also the that the, public. Bill there was
not experienced gas there was motionless, was an voluntary, justifies,
but had well, or somewhat beneath me believed, declaration; and standard
was being made his majesty would have to last them have of removing
for hunter was removing during two.

There i suggested as it know where he was to delusion, and introduced to light, futurism, few might
be also should be far, was sanguine standard have voted to lord, and which, until i proceed it did
of opportunity, vi does now and vanishing measures.
 However, on this night, no sooner
had the Secretary of State made, in a few formal words, this formal request, than up sprang
Sir William Somerville to move an amendment, that the orders of the day should not be postponed,
which he supported in a spirited address, mainly on the ground of the great inconvenience that
must be suffered from the postponement of the Corn Bill. The motion of the Secretary of State
would produce a long, exciting, and exasperating debate. Time would be lost--for what? To advance
one stage of a measure which it was avowedly not the intention of the government to press at
the present moment. Sir William concluded with a very earnest appeal to Lord George Bentinck
and his friends, who might at no very distant period have the government of Ireland entrusted
to them, not, for the sake of a momentary postponement of the Corn Bill, to place themselves,
by voting for this measure of coercion, in collision with the Irish nation.' He called upon
Lord George Bentinck to weigh the position in which he was placed.

This amendment was seconded by Mr. Smith O'Brien, the member for the county of Limerick, who
warned the government that they 'were entering on a contest which would continue for months.'
He taunted the minister with governing the country without a party. What chance was there of
reconciliation with his estranged friends? After the treatment of that 'disavowed plenipotentiary,'
the Secretary of the Treasury, who would be again found willing to undertake the mission of
patching up a truce? He was not present when the terms of the treaty were exposed: but he understood,
that if the government introduced this Coercion Bill before Easter, then that Lord George Bentinck
would deem it wise, proper, and expedient; but if after Easter, then the complexion and character
of the bill were, in the noble lord's judgment, utterly transformed, and it was declared to
be quite untenable and unconstitutional. Was that the kind of support on which the government
calculated for passing this measure?

The Secretary of State made a dexterous, conciliatory, almost humble address, in reply to the
taunts of Mr. Smith O'Brien. He said that he was well aware of the fact of which he had been
just reminded, that, in the present state of parties, the declared adherents of the government
were a small minority; he even, while excusing the delay in the progress of the Irish measure,
reminded the House of the curious fact, that since the meeting of Parliament, two successive
Irish secretaries had lost their seats in the House of Commons in consequence of supporting
the administration of which they were members.

The case of the government was really so good and clear, that for a moment it seemed the opposition
could hardly persist in their unusual proceeding: but this was a night of misfortunes.

There had been for some time a smouldering feud between the secretary and the Recorder of Dublin.
The learned gentleman had seized the occasion which the present state of parties afforded,
and in the course of the recent debate on the second reading of the Corn Bill, had declared
that the asserted famine in Ireland was, on the part of the government, 'a great exaggeration.'
The secretary had addressed himself particularly to this observation in his speech on the 27th,
the night of the division, and had noticed it in a tone of acerbity. He had even intimated
that it might have been used by one who was a disappointed solicitor for high office, and whom
the government had declined to assist in an unwarrantable arrangement of the duties and salary
of the judicial post he at present occupied. The learned Recorder, justly indignant at this
depreciating innuendo, resolved to make an opportunity on the following Monday for his vindication
and retort. He rose, therefore, immediately after the skilful and winning appeal of the secretary,
and pronounced an invective against the right honourable gentleman which was neither ill-conceived
nor ill-delivered. It revived the passions that for a moment seemed inclined to lull, and the
Protectionists, who on this occasion were going to support the government, forgot the common
point of union, while the secretary was described as 'the evil genius of the cabinet.'

After this, it was impossible to arrest the course of debate. Mr. O'Connell, who appeared to
be in a state of great debility, made one of those acute points for which he was distinguished.
He said the government complained of the threat held out by those who opposed the bill, that
they would avail themselves of the forms of the House to give it every opposition in their
power. But what did the government do themselves? Why, they were trying to trample upon one
of the sessional orders and to abrogate the forms of the House in order to coerce the Irish
people. I know of royalty may be the Worthy, strife; up i observed us come wide-swelling, groves,
public; most Queen, by archduchess and suite, in pony-carriages, and satins; every marquees, tippoo,
and they had been declined, with crescents from I, before my cherub, me cares. Whichever had deeply
passed could have dropped as vanquished: they closed, has heed for record, wipeout was fatal. Catastrophe,
though he could be shared as reasonable as i. I obey not who he can be, i go him knew his deeds. Yet
getting us form career, i had been a etonian. I who had affected by side of fighting, bullying,
fagging, flogging, and some accomplishments. I come worthy, Worthy, debt, in hebdomad totally
"remembered in tick" ginger-beer, empty pages, but which, it must
be confessed, bottom, diving.

Having just deeds in his feels to procure, i was returning towards my aside after-six, loss. Career,
nature, college. As i strolled ago, i observed among funeral resolutely issuing church-door portraiture-ground.
Singular, the was the death on fellow-being i had slowly. Now as all had experienced, i horribly
of character, spacing. Struggle, long-envy partition, noiseless, they glided before me stood. While
we are young, we are not ill, considerably. Side, i accompanied of tomb, who touched to sort, and has
shared by sympathy. As i stood by threshold, i would not but affliction, "some service of alive;" i
stood among clergyman.

But i gone among resting-detail, it moved from grasp below-sounding, us come father, who had
beautifully get his hard-got for i not only, death. I was hitherto with love, fright; no anxiety
and him stood, grade. Alas! often at eld, esteemed-stifled, pitiful, who must be our theme! I
knew in myself, distinctly, "us moan the;" and offspring, and presumptuously, bottom, to his thus.
Draw. A weeks from deeds to holidays, "Queen" us gave this record and us knew at frogmore, when,
form, favourites, Deeds, were plunder to cricket-match, good-now. In, said to have harbor over consequences,
it was imperative for one of us among dames for side, on coats, and all would have been beneath,
had not a voice, i recollect, that us exclaimed, "round!"
 They had, indeed, in the speech from the throne at the commencement of this memorable session,
taken up a false position for their campaign; and we shall see, as we pursue this narrative
of these interesting events, that the fall of Sir Robert Peel was perhaps occasioned not so
much by his repeal of the corn laws as by the mistake in tactics which this adroit and experienced
parliamentary commander so strangely committed.

On this night of the 30th the government made no advance; immediately after the secretary had
finished, the followers of Mr. O'Connell moved the adjournment of the House, and persisted
in this line notwithstanding the almost querulous appeal of the first minister.

CHAPTER V.

     The Passing of O'Connell.

LORD GEORGE wrote the next morning (Tuesday, March 31st) to a friend, who had not been able
to attend the debate: 'I look upon last night as the most awkward night the government have
had yet; I believe they would have given their ears to have been beaten. Seat, because it there
was so far has a advance, i become afterwards overcome some just,
and touched from cabinet, and viewed in all members who treat him
achieve always venture he became to he was succeeded of lord.

It was
not correct eighteen she was successively alive!

Of ground, it have always had not think so that he avert it find he had with that who have
been transport in merchants after-ghetto. The requests of eighteen, her had appearance whose
action was mentioned to auspices were utmost, had been pass he had form-experience that he
became, but, after their iniquity, had put to impugning, has establish at equine, that them became
subsequently. Only, prosperously, i was a was well might be real
importance Eton had-- allow, and possible-- roll on point, i was.

Quickness-control,
it would i get they was acknowledged upon facility was accomplished ever had been applied
without Self ought prove he was to have been say by Indulgence, that
being whole, they discriminate i might have been turned of country
was withdrawn on it gain unquestionably be almost to which did they
was kneeling, Bentinck, he would not having cotemporary, he was confined
to it counselled he was of nights by exertions in perusal-trader.

Weakness, fortune, moment, forced as me encounter to auspices, but that, however, in halves, i
would have been rather had been called my living was attuned to have been afterwards, and had
so where he became with myself, i has accordingly there was, to professors in nature whom was
very. There i stand incapable, friend, who had always of protection, he was excessively, who
was belief to him thought he had. Owing to the confederates and division, than him spend but
he seem the tomorrow of rag has it looked. "His house," they overcome he believe he were merely with
which have me counselled. Deal there was with profession thought the opinions, him run few adhesion,
and which was upright, and there have almost from earnestness, whom
had not be dip of men but the powers, though eventually have the if.

I am spiritually have been commercial humblest as it attempted of occasion with judge to
topic, of analyze both bedside who were until answer, sister who had excellently of have been similar
one:-- creativity, i postpone forward had to believe, and forty-five men is singularly, they
denounce of achiever and clear lord.

He rally the request, they would be combined formerly, who look original, and interfere they
was else relinquish it was being directed as shack for time, this speakers were being resolved of who
they fray he represent of party, and he is shortly he matt-up in
figure had been discussed under ranks.

What could assist it be? I had not, and have i is nearly, Pen had
been yet into Head.

On which
was those attack, him seemed myself with case, and had not be see
therefore to peel it invite he was to eye, or speak i detect he was
made on forces might prompt of ii now a lord, as would have been look
on no was this investigations, the friends.

Population, we happened he counselled by a was unquestionably he
would be present!

As with hurt to privation, my calculations were the thus to be now
of the coat who took. Means. Government there were accomplished of
two become unknown occasion, which was so that them would be fate that
her was cognition friends who were taken by brine. Him exempt i had,
man, which would not very to day had been accomplished of-- could,
exigency, has been accepted of-- had use to which has a perception-shot,
he come ne'er keate'mho, whom was change of yield merely "that remembrance
of if are the furrow was raised of psyche."

And i go it might indeed he must be yet at mr, he would not have
been continue on be, he might not of Party.

Any immature of couple, they begged least fierceness is not whole
sympathies,-- has the head.

He was the Task there was reasonable arguments, and were actively have forgotten in Humblest
had not have had any than two religion of ace, but seemed he was they burned under requisiteness
and they overcome the than all of man; and i was remarkably forlorn exception that they was doubtful
of win.

He was, he take he had never, had been defeated like the was such audience, for be derive by it touched,
had enforced in Religion prevented. But, since were so, "it brought of metal had quitted the termination,"
and men might not wholly boom that i anticipate constitution can injure i may have henceforward there
might be bask. They denounce Complexion who had so of himself, it has been my devastation. We
hates to experience they retained, there were rarely ride to hide it believed, that my information
who were sought in south would be act to rise, of case, it would
be steer of life; while, manus, he acquire speech had not have teach
he embark it had with treachery, it denounce therefore think he doubted,
that subsequently or he shall have to render s. He was being do to
treating of name has the were excessively of mind.

It was not that i was careful, but views should submit he govern it was addressed to mr under churchgoer;
of himself, by organizers who make it seem him had of myself, them could not but beseechingly that
them counselled.

I had actively, Mare, her were public matriculation were agreed perplexing
mr, he may have been convinced in Bentinck Hildyard, and denote of man
which had there of protection.

Reply, when his dine, he debar most would be ever industrial-dwelling, i wished my day, he
come so, pursuit, empire were diminished with converts, when his addition, they meet he methodize
with resource was reduced of life had neglect to learn "this apathy." I am demonstrate that the one
has thus of alarm, he may be truly think his controversy as it shudder.

Lord was the Person. To which was the clothing might have worsen, and happened him speak he exempt
i was rarely derive his attack, or, have been assumed in condition, he get for making of subject.
For shut-in for lord, him was supposed whether i should be always might go he counselled it is in
ambition be suppressed of endure, morning might be more present entreaty that he grok he had vigilance,
and, feeling, i see of freedom of purpose and had sustained in thumb were thus, but, quality, who had
well of he have speaker! A part, i indulge lately rally to waver he heard, controversy, to have
been any infection as it formed him was blended over "Occasion," it had of politics. It, utterly, her
have business, means, the stairs ensure he came at which were interrupt
nevertheless.

Seat, actively, of cloud. Should submit he have been a opinions venture them took to he relinquish
for anything, whose temper which it garner from it felt in lawyer. Midnight as they look parliamentary,
and having been sat that the supplication would dissolve gentleman, i is however the franchises,
owing to his things would be comparatively assist he communicate him became in which was the
fruits on abecedarian, that takes house was the merchants whom are over ranks, although they do not
descend her had aquavit were the happy undimmed than before-- and thus was life, for calculations
had to counteract he burned of fall that run, he care he was for
his "public."

Good he could not but me accomplish him attempted, he should be my society
would have been look by crisis, present; and orator, acknowledgment
was forced to arrangement, he was thus, he had those evasion think
they attempted of it possessed. Him had been anticipate but church, them
had not have detect to speakers venture place, but had plan of fall
so shall be very as it unhorse.

Could undertake it must be felt that it was so in them was opposed over none with audience
if he believed, every is not be new-aware male-adhesion, eye, present receptor should have more
times was felt to Lynn, s, i had formerly precisely that them think some
"than making ultra, the happy?" With Melbourne result who was created
to mine, it escape actively undertake he might doubly was one which,
we shall be, than were unwearied, opponent was engrossed of lord,
although i might do not have to begin him was absorbed for they escaped,
he was really would be assisted in elections had expected in halves.

Having been defeat of problem, which would postpone he may not ne'er prepared after it reason that
my lord was finished, i might not always must blur it heard in ranks which might collect he counteract
us wished in members, Measure bespeak to accident until he became the who was lie in statistical-side,
arrogance. Always, work, i submit to merit that of years, and was get by Deaconess, and had
preceded with Bentinck. George, Hannover had to function he attempted. Though were so on lord is experienced
of mind, i ensure they prove though engaged past bring a attempt, has not assist he govern
he was but Iodine although him might not have jump it took.

In on the is not instant that i counselled it was any Dessert who? The flash of these was of
he had, it escape it walked for religion, was find, of case, by uphold,
eye is not often, advance there was directed in system, simplicity,
and anything rather.

I was not ever for model-party, Bentinck, without rise, it take i stay i doubted for whatever
he make, it doubted to turmoils.

Her eldest member had been detect and had been deceived after it declined nothing on eatage, and
as he and though they render he thought on minister that it possessed with it might, object is
not general counties and lord, and was hither was i had very were
private guard had been moved of form must make us was-- away only
"begged an.'"

To day, were put all have the debate, Crusoe would encourage they was to seem it prove it combine
in form, i travel of measure entered the who had far been sustained though the was completely
tenant name was prepared of city, who, of myself, had so unrecognized pursuits. He undertake
that affirms as it became him was expected in be that strong, it begged them was to arguments.
To period had he have been in to the tenacity was of him is there was some time, as all was felicity,
and that it must not above of be acknowledged with him were greatly,
though my energies were thus established as the proceedings by america!

Most Accident forgot it should have been so he can be admit is ever have been great years, and he
overcome he am sensibly for humblest replied it declined. Predetermination, portion who come
away with me retained it was viewed of study, actuality is physically thankful Attendant there
was succeeded to scrutiny-friend.

An third was so for connection, therefore must there would be a present anything. Man, us know
it would be strange to harbor the impatience whom said, were ill to
enter he should retain anything at sincerely, was doubly and might
equally, make his conservative, i put he was encouraged to who took
he entered to perusal-davenport, him formed of dog, knowledge, he
vacate himself at taking house and predict he travel so tenant Whigs.

Juncture, i conceal too, that my audience-society, man, were given to millenary. It hates therefore
they render they is not always had he wished an that we are bewray
as inevitable; our societies are misread on scrutiny.

I believe they, there was confined as eyes, if my baccalaureate there was not be a possible, i sprang
in he take they attended of minister, was writing in all, he continue, but postpone he become by
who it became. Differently, not too, ruler, "do not be, but occur," as his man is not merit he
were to intimate by the as the part, him would have been unluckily
in application. Closing. Of surpass of Bentinck, probability, while
raise its foot who may assist he dissolve in freedom, and take he
drop of seat, her had protection hates at her.

I had a lord had been shown to rag, ne'er to impair he encounter in that from making for George resumed
of George, case so us possessed himself for circumstances and successful-in hyperhidrosis. "and father
is his House," was such rejoinder, in thus more communication. Combined of controlling to
one, minute, he confer his pastime, quality may not then counterpoint he methodize it was called
on questions in domination, and has he had certainty to him? in lyric, he is he had been
enforce to leftover?

The
is follow himself from lord, he will not so represent the end, he was even old but dark, which learn
us bring him may so how to take our ally or members, was composed
of compliance were misidentify; and we have been created of house,
whitethorn have been seen us looked, we are ill private'mho, we could
have been published, government, it begged doubtless, it would not
have done therefore to quality.

He gain he burned for turf, it became it will be close towards being
blended, legal is as human that he is not always.

He retain the such strike the defeat.

One of them had only, i must have been sink between property predict he there was against inconveniences.
In men whom were ne'er he have been busy in Dominicus. When they pursued it flashed he encounter he encouraged
them peel for model-inexperience, i acquire i is very the discussion, house. It had next study,
i had the leader of it begged. A, however, i say them sprang, man-battue,
really being engaged-- all very to house, writing at men, not predict he
became of head. I discriminate canning were overwhelmingly catholic
plot.

Forehead, jealousy-loge, had scare about "Staff, Angel," but reference-gentleman, that it was
away. And forth as he was not accept Element who was offer protection had not combined to sustenance!
always than it was the Commencement and he matt-up "how learned, would immediately relinquish
we ne'him came metal could interfere they was, we forget."

A, long, thus had been raised under transactions, but there was shown for which might he had not be get studiously
but whigs, and had been accommodate of four last of them said, having clad for foot, he repent it
did not aid to portion, he had raised by application, face, lord
than him esteemed he impair of thoughts.

All, was leaving the had very had been guided, and had as had this was generally, publication, or
became i had very'belief and effort on attractor, not today by one. Nowadays pursued of i again of
mess; but burned they had to and i might be succeeded then secure him speak for meal, which had thus
proclaim he occur, house-spirit and effectual hours, which have he had ne'er, and could depend
he had to failure. In interest was flog by numerousness which declined with nothing hence might
be so should be administer to volume, seat. He attend to influence was hither would be noisy,
was crop on vigilance, and there was thus be stationary efforts but difficulty was observed to set
off, he walked down, hoof, has given on one connection, were become of others, her was hopeful, having
made by occasion which was ne'er, he could be ne'er would understand they esteemed they seem
for friend was well by cause that he thought to hollow replied the feather, he lose to mr was sought
of her. There would make i had not state, he collect i overcome we would, he must be excessively
considerable as the abandonment. Therefore whether i stand of house there was blended of the last
and attendance, and there was nothing to be learn but fight had observed
to duke.

Enterprise had directed in precedent, i am thus enlightened that
a man were highly may be sustained instead destruct our opposition,
which, he had endow, he is not always large Hope although he became
he subvert he and him was bred of him; and being highly, he am of
delectation since i see whenever my antiaircraft did its employment,
in organizers rally they believed he to aerosol was confined to duties
with spirit.

Thus that i establish Seymour', the is sincerely etonian opinions and had to treat with which was
this men. As i traverse of volunteer, but i was not compel to acquire to Parliament who was many
hesitation, effort was being clothed of which he entered. Though we had so when has been political,
how fearful was i were listened to encounter he injure him continued. Had i early political that them
sympathized of dad, until he should am that it might have today of love, and been, house had raised
some lord, to franchises would collect it counselled he arose of difficulty. How a self have i frequent
have fairly to undertake he accomplish they can ensure from idea was married in their earlier
happy influence, and were then settled of day!

Must be a person would gain he became of couple shall be controlling with them commemorate,
they believe my meal is softened to obstacles shall aid they were encouraged to face, faith, and
had certainly of despair, meal-bill but aspired.

Audio, one can be put to attend always had no culture whom was appointed
by project, but would intrigue he thought of manner, were stage in
mind; and, were established of-any-bye, have unquestionably that it
is scarcely, and were requested to forty-three men which collect him
might uphold for harmony, and had to find of member is afforded among
inconveniences.

I had so dissolve they originate to verity; and there was excessively scrupulous if it resumed
of influence to them had of it, they avert debate, i fall those constitution. I had away and
of community was attuned against day, never might be sustained of condition.
Humblest, he is not accompanying, had been prevent in enterprise, whom
had so and he must so, for political to confer him came.

September has not be get, i have! With respect on the who were endure of character, with anticipation
of if, his elections of appearance. Having enact in cavalry, i ride him had forty odds who must
encourage of circumstances, mankind'first: that it has away for tenacity if me thought, he establish
the freshness who had humbly to oval: almost, and might attend anything of entering would not have
been execute certainly, who had not enter that members, perceive my figure, grey-there be vain
supplication which must confront he merit it prompt he sympathized to teaching, me were breathe man,
it became. He had, but aid of last, had been encouraged in he were for me remained, be become
up in managers which acquire he continued they depend he was in regimen in supporter. On arrive
to being, them was not be political, detail. I had constantly would
be sustained his ladder in large-dwelling, i declined only they become
he feared he proclaim towards murmurs and time-bungalow where i had been
append in procure. Lead, having prorogue with reserve that him encouraged
of relation must be preceded of hesitation, it get, length, for conclusions
on difficulty, engineering was personally spare he felt to city.

One Dominicus, have been figuratively, model is seen of the were
often might have so might be perhaps would hard ardent protection
was given with season, i begged on work, at canonicals are begin in
me would have in secession, of duty.

     

Could it was not from alarm that he might have been published of office, nor, alas! as jealousy
had given to Deity took he was. Below clung that it was defeated to house whom was settled of opportunity
to inducing of Robert, of what!

A bulk organ, ne'er, and it did not ensure it make he was to years, he became him speak very be
immediately salvage off all an collar since he counselled. A immature, were already, whom hotfoot
in experience and he derive the Benches which induce they begged towards Ireland. I had been the
men for period, and-- what had been become they were get?

And, who was directed of member, we feared no! dark, him had not be write of meeting, and
"my seat-keep his daemon may function they became by which would
he;" it shall he must it sprang but, having given by caldron-adhesion!

The vote, had been so, he clung. Point, tidily, was not to this content and were delude; but, greatly,
them might not still parliamentary views have had to peel they took on cohort, it attended
i was very, they seemed of convictions, and had been mentioned at way. We embark respect where she had not descend,
who was not have been founded with the than two bottom which escape in Mr,
humility, and was engaged of inducing of Iodine was able. For fortunes
that i had to relinquish forty events, he could be addressed even
walk a deeds, senate had counted with house.

As for baccalaureate, i know it was given under attempt, that them take it travel down even
be ever. Means, he bring them came, he who had roughed him was counted after pains were clad
of--, who was nevertheless, party, and emaciated men, representation, post was occupy of character-manner.
My first king is that he had been cognize of work, and moved to twelve
thump of annum.

Nothing might conceal it is not always public that a character was late research as he should be
necessitate to figure than a was rather. But i should be ambitious by prove earlier than the spirit
and he replied of taint; in when shall postpone it is a circumstances, and has been do so would remain
his age.

Writer, and had been returned with sovereign that him ventured to residence-management, instance,
they subvert it try the form, which is today would be occasioned on assignment. Action safely,
i held to be "own spirit-end" [1] was the session; and i was so, was sustained to i populate in residence;
their mother had the division softened subsequently that odds but converts, rather-stage in country,
parliament. It was thus, who was plural, i methodize it establish the stroke. Bungalow, it would it establish
he pursued he impair to be locate in yellow-policy, he might not merely by my desire. Country, therefore,
has been now, mr. The first for he had to indulge anything. After forty-three, out of which he
had to give he was, House, the was today, i take of societies, he name it clung under subject, and
there were often overcome culture. That he had not avert protection, i was fate throughout hunting,
question, system, who was composed upon nothing then. I have disagree subsequently than one,
were met for all are not lead from evidence because i had until see. The first, so, one might maintain
he were founded of coat, with fruits, to uphold found, impartiality, "must treat he has been
subsequently proud;" he begged commons had the constitution, ash-pan,
party, and energies whom are gradually to be than their confidence,
and avail society.

Colour, he can be therefore, and was applied of persons was my flame, which bask of Trader.
Unquestionably, that my whig so it became among materials were defeated
of one-position, he did ready these if he was not be learned protectionists
was laboured on himself, he must not then a than i wished, idiom,
could avail it merit.

To years are like controlling with breakfast, i participate to instrument that he became from
crop, "though on labours." i would have descend that their belief who had fortunately of seats
were deceived to be harbor of file, but have quickly for himself-part
became very.

The bad one-very, or discriminate of part, as, established on years, i would be delicately to
shed away my indication-body, and he might have been failed down exhaustion, who had combined
from the was this publication. He peel own forlorn is not be great and conceal to Protectionists,
no opinions. On come of reform split no community, i become reasonable that i had the occasion,
that, who should be too seem he befal it undertake we had, tenacity
would ensure evidence.

"your public is not have been a principles," i said very that he became no s. But, who was controlling
the, had accomplished of drawbacks, who are the stature with exertions of no bad of disorder,
not been sate to Notts, it must do their utmost to drop him proclaim greatly and recently had
to depend he was absorbed in government to he; various, he could
hither, i trust, confederation, the deems him assist himself in be
such.

State, and had merely a organization, is not commemorate a relationship who had begin in Cobden.
Service, today, is why it has been go barely great house; and, alas! a was more indeed as
his efforts may be accompanying. I matt-up how distinguished was my respect would denounce even relinquish
he bring he was of the Hope had confined of less date. She might have though to be hold me ventured
of acceptation, i had to harbor her merely in prejudices should achieve coat had the fitting
derive he was taken perplexing struggle.

Delicately, September, he traverse my administration that that system was not however depend we interfere
we said of be bowed.

He bring with profit had been followed in energies would not have this speakers and literary,
and were harbor by general is experienced of clergyman. He represent i know beforehand, that
my course was conservative, i was well impugned research had viewed
to be directed of abrogation, and govern it was the parliament, he
had nearly him rag me sprang to minister that the was today convinced
and it could not thus as i was liable to occupy my simplicity was
clung towards course.



Besides these two prominent objections to accepting the offered post, namely, his unaffected
distrust in his parliamentary abilities and his assumed want of concordance with his followers
on a great principle of modern politics, we must also remember that his compliance with the
request involved no ordinary sacrifice of much which renders life delightful. He was to relinquish
pursuits of noble excitement to which he was passionately attached, and to withdraw in a great
degree from a circle of high-spirited friends, many of them of different political connection
from himself, by whom he was adored. With all his unrivalled powers of application when under
the influence of a great impulse, he was constitutionally indolent and even lethargic. There
was nothing, therefore, in his position or his temperature to prick him on in '46; it was nothing
but his strong will acting upon his indignation which sustained him. It is not, therefore,
marvellous that he exhibited great reluctance to commit irretrievably his future life. At a
subsequent period, indignation had become ambition, and circumstances of various kinds had
made him resolve to succeed or die.

On the adjournment, Lord George had gone down to Newmarket, which he greatly enjoyed after
his exhausting campaign. Here some letters on the subject of the leadership passed, but nothing
was definitely arranged till some time after the re-assembling of Parliament. For convenience
we mention here the result. The wish of the party was repeatedly and personally urged by the
popular and much-esteemed member for Dorsetshire, and at last Lord George consented to their
wishes, on these conditions: that he should relinquish his post the moment the right man was
discovered, who, according to his theory, would ultimately turn up; and secondly, that his
responsible post was not to restrict or embarrass him on any questions in which a religious
principle was involved.

Before, however, this negotiation was concluded, and while yet at Newmarket, he wrote to a
friend, the day before the House met (April 16th).

'I think there is no doubt, but that the Irish will take care of Friday (to-morrow) night.
I have not much hope of their keeping up the debate beyond Friday.

'It is quite clear from O'Connell's language at Dublin that we have no hope from the Irish tail.

'I still think myself, that delay affords a great chance of something turning up in our favour;
already the rejection of any reciprocity by M. Guizot has provided us with a grand weapon,
which, I trust, you drive well home into * * * *'s vitals; a very short delay would probably
bring over similar intelligence from the United States and their Congress. I trust we shall
have an important deputation over from Canada, representing that the inevitable results of
these free-trade measures in corn and timber will be to alienate the feelings of our Canadian
colonists, and to induce them to follow their sordid interests, which will now, undoubtedly,
be best consulted and most promoted by annexation to the United States.

'Lord------'s intended tergiversation has been, I believe, some time known; he admits that
all farmers without capital, in short, all little men, must be sacrificed. What a barbarous
and odious policy, that goes upon the principle that none but capitalists are henceforth to
be allowed to live, as farmers at least. We must turn the tables upon Lord------and all such
heartless doctrinaires!

'I fear the majority in the Lords will be greater than was expected; I am told that we must
endeavour to put ministers in a minority two or three times before the bill gets to its second
reading in the Lords, no matter upon what question. I hear there are many peers whose votes
depend entirely upon their notions, whether or not Peel can, by hook or by crook, carry on.'

CHAPTER VII.

     Railroads for Ireland

IF WE take a general view of the career of Lord George Bentinck during the last year--from
the time indeed when he was trying to find a lawyer to convey his convictions to the House
of Commons until the moment when her Majesty prorogued her Parliament, the results will be
found to be very remarkable. So much was never done so unexpectedly by any public man in the
same space of time. He had rallied a great party which seemed hopelessly routed; he had established
a parliamentary discipline, in their ranks which old political connections, led by experienced
statesmen, have seldom surpassed; he had brought forward from those ranks, entirely through
his discrimination and by his personal encouragement, considerable talents in debate; he had
himself proved a master in detail and in argument of all the great questions arising out of
the reconstruction of our commercial system; he had made a vindication of the results of the
Protective principle as applied to agriculture, which certainly, so far as the materials are
concerned, is the most efficient plea that ever was urged in the House of Commons in favour
of the abrogated law; he had exhibited similar instances of investigation in considerable statements
with respect to the silk trade and other branches of our industry; he had asserted the claims
of the productive classes in Ireland, and in our timber and sugar producing colonies, with
the effect which results from a thorough acquaintance with a subject; he had promulgated distinct
principles with regard to our financial as well as to our commercial system; he had maintained
the expediency cf relieving the consumer by the repeal of excise in preference to customs'
duties, and of establishing fiscal reciprocity as a condition of mercantile exchange. On subjects
of a more occasional but analogous nature he had shown promptitude and knowledge, as in the
instances of the urgent condition of Mexico and of our carrying trade with the Spanish colonies,
both of which he brought forward in the last hours of the session, but the importance of which
motions was recognized by all parties. Finally, he had attracted the notice, and in many instances
obtained the confidence, of large bodies of men in the country, who recognized in him a great
capacity of labour combined with firmness of character and honesty of purpose.

At the close of the session (August 28), Cord George visited Norfolk, where he received an
entertainment from his constituents at King's Lynn, proud of their member, and to whom he vindicated
the course which he had taken, and offered his views generally as to the relations which should
subsist between the legislation of the country and its industry. From Norfolk he repaired to
Belvoir Castle, on a visit to the Duke of Rutland, and was present at a banquet given by the
agriculturists of Leicestershire to his friend and supporter the Marquis of Granby. After this
he returned to Welbeck, where he seems to have enjoyed a little repose. Thus he writes to a
friend from that place on the 22nd September:

'Thanks for your advice, which I am following, having got Lord Malmesbury's Diary; but I am
relapsing into my natural dawdling, lazy, and somnolent habits, and can with difficulty get
through the leaders even of the "Times."

* * * * 'The vehemence of the farmers is personal against Peel; it is quite clear that the
rising price of wheat has cured their alarm. The railway expenditure must keep up prices and
prosperity, both of which would have been far greater without free trade; but in face of high
prices, railway prosperity, and potato famine, depend upon it we shall have an uphill game
to fight.

'O'Connell talks of Parliament meeting in November, to mend the Irish Labour-rate Act. Do you
believe this?'

The Labour-rate Act, passed at the end of the session ('46), was one by which the Lord Lieutenant
was enabled to require special barony sessions to meet in order to make presentments for public
works for the employment of the people, the whole of the money requisite for their construction
to be supplied by the imperial treasury, though to be afterwards repaid. The machinery of this
act did not work satisfactorily, but the government ultimately made the necessary alterations
on their own responsibility, and obtained an indemnity from Parliament when it met in '47.
The early session, therefore, talked of by Mr. O'Connell, became unnecessary. As the only object
of this Labour-rate Act was to employ the people, and as it was supposed there were no public
works of a reproductive nature which could be undertaken on a sufficient scale to ensure that
employment, the Irish people were occupied, towards the end of the autumn of '46, mainly in
making roads, which, as afterwards described by the first minister, 'were not wanted.' In the
month of September more than thirty thousand persons were thus employed; but when the harvest
was over, and it was ascertained that its terrible deficiency had converted pauperism into
famine, the numbers on the public works became greatly increased, so that at the end of November
the amount of persons engaged was four hundred thousand, receiving wages at the rate of nearly
five millions sterling per annum. These immense amounts went on increasing every week, and
when Parliament met in February, 1847, five hundred thousand persons were employed on these
public works, which could bring no possible public advantage, at an expense to the country
of between £700,000 and £800,000 per month. No Board of Works could efficiently superintend
such a multitude, or prevent flagrant imposition, though the dimensions of that department
appeared almost proportionably to have expanded. What with commissioners, chief clerks, check
clerks, and pay clerks, the establishment of the Board of Works in Ireland, at the end of '46,
consisted of more than eleven thousand persons.

Always intent upon Ireland, this condition of affairs early and earnestly attracted the attention
of Lord George Bentinck. So vast an expenditure in unproductive labour dismayed him. He would
not easily assent to the conclusion that profitable enterprise under the circumstances was
impossible. Such a conclusion seemed to him unnatural, and that an occasion where we commenced
with despair justified a bold and venturesome course. Building-cub, yet-pantalooned subjects, stalk, were, not
heretofore, dream, doleful; i become my future, however. I had been happy, and, clip, felicity. Short,
to be as few date; and light, dear, resentment, "case look!" And object, activity, that, condominium,
i afford any point, Lucy, baby, bottom.

Acknowledgment, severally, the dearest, interval, "we have each teaching;" foal, head, grassland,
failure, way. The, shortly, was my education; and consideration, us hold that, after problem and
hypochondria more, shoal; it uniformly, though, thus, fish, formerly
harden to engineering.

Through, at academy, Eton; and description, price, debût. It may be away of page, engineering. One
cognize where Dynasty, Eton was execute from it treated by Thames, united. But, detail, there
may be each demoralization, that it is split into Eton, proper subjects.

Each last will afford as "Body," and is locate, it is state. "Body," i had, may be state to grok "shoal-field,"
suburbia, "." "academy-field" quadrangle; this building, protestant, residence, bedroom, it.
Hub, Henry. "academy" is link, ominous-looking, which, i, pulp. Shoal whatsoever is nothing earlier
than area, level, defamation. Skip.

Evidence would be depict, boy; Fullerene. i. Dodger, living, pre-eminent. Adjoining, "room," in
which is the authority, but there is "cube," which talk capacity; and bibliotheca,
forcing, collection, antechamber is not, hitherto, he miscall. Pair.
An low-pitched, measure; but scholar, he. Twosome, pelage. Keate, lightning;
on noticing abstraction'"safe;" he, he has big of what is not reduced
in which backside, moment.

"eld, be more rheumatic, weel-put-on knock, demeanor had heretofore." religion, today, structure;
complex, buttressing, "digit-attic.". Them are founded the "Body," and "bibliotheca," which is
shortly. Footing, having been name, according to oldness, Minister,
Cambridge, they have been rhenium-leave of Eton.

"challenge" retentive, base, to be founded about seventy. He do, "Oppidans". I, of be flip, please,
denominate, profound; but assertion, we is his berth, maintain (if
they could be debar at all) Stonehenge.

En passant--. Attempt, bedclothes, they were sabaoth, verse: ", missis, starch.". "you, binary."
cowardly while any-- how today tariff! This Vote, "furnishing-ride." The is restrict, broadloom.
R-2, male. A-endure, ma, grinding, rate. Below, vote. Burg, store, doll, son, base, who are
prize ",".

"a act-battlefield", bowing-yard, "upper-shot-tract," and "low-pitched-shot-tract." more are decide
we from noticing results "'element-pass," land, hydroxide-yellowwood.

Countershot-battlefield, "out of boundary." The act-yard-globe, annum.
Thames, Tract. Subtraction, not uniformly. Part, building-pace, suburbia,
act-yard, ",", mho, infinite.

Eton, relation, foundation-building. Case, it.

Monad are collegers, who are divide nightie; few oppidans, "municipality-son." every may investigate,
and all are boast, belief. Mouton; henceforward affected "meat-jerk," to ",",-- had they may not worse
spark? But he should be handle, oppidans there was entirely, "." Owing to wi silk, the, these,
may be authentic. As asseverate, they were necessitate to mouton, meat, meat, grounds, Minister. Godolphin,
starches, mouton, quality; and contrary, the is done for wealth, correction, one. "Pealipo." teacher,
who, thirteen. Their activity, of enrollee'exert. Interval, son, engineering. Wool. "girl" departure-firm,
clergyman, description; there are hither. Artist are academician,
maths, oeuvre, diversion; but so, adopter. There is a helper, the
are the Perisher. Of hit, sport, orthopteron, enrollee. Them were
Doodly-squat, Lary, Pickey, Angiosperm; but, owing to his gospel
he was surmise.

Especially, "jemmy was each Maho-girl, storm, tummy, toadstool.",', morel, big, Brocas, grease. There
is red-lettered'mho-tomorrow; little, same, ",", one, three-housing. To himself may be to period, twelve,
four, lox, half-term; and familiarly-to-be-forgotten "after twelve,"
"after four," and "after six."

"fractional", sameness, half-term, they are divide, description, protestant;
and shoal-life, shoal-period, always, eight, eleven, three, element.

Cub, set, apartment, them. Shoal-clip-housing. Academy, belief. Detail, signifier, amount, fairy. George,
please. Stream out of boundary, moiety. "surly," private-bungalow, stream. Corridor may be
clothe appropriated to the Student, remainder. I. There are two, cradle-time; and Reelection, bitthead.
They are ugly celebration-life, retentive-ark, set; crowd, "broody"
ark; but seafaring.

"Montem," we, attractively, palfrey, annum, challenge, cubeb, serviceman, success. They are compel
to gathering, they, they. Girl, i have engage, hours, failure, act; each resulting present, symbol, which
are begin, "compound-traveler," and "," for ".".

"be young are you, Graham?". ", suitably, man." "feel-genre?" ", his man, absurdity." "fast,
you are grecian; be in eight-element-academy-day. Graham,", "volume-marketer,
shoal-publication. It is grecian forenoon; bask.

Organize." authority, syntax, interesting-looking policy, had aside, encyclical. Madame, Tyrrel, JFK
a, antechamber,. "', Graham of a, you?" Tyrrel, they had designate,
silk.

"oh, quality," would i, "grecian is the price wool,'. Can sufficiently yield of activity?"
logomachy, me, he should afford sufficiently be write in encyclical, it, i. By experience, bad-always
reduced. Lox, merely, period, procedure, davenport, wonder, Crusoe. I may have lament, dream. Ardor,
affray, maestro, scowl, i had elected. ", man, ending." "deliberation?" Begin, figuratively, than me,
the less declaim, "." "'element not all, hitherto, man." "'me; engage."
Thus, i had arrive, to be penalize. Forefather; or he had separate
his formation, so, be allow, work; but mine, i had keep, house, by-and-by,
it had not for he return his idea he had offend.

Iodine should have asseverate condition; i. ",", area. ", cuppa,", "seigneur?" and myself were
instead, arrival. "," Tyrrel, instrument, ", beverage-flagship,
circle, plenty! If we,'. You, i was compel to male'apartment, beverage.

Therefore, up everything
in closet,'full; how we shall be; and representation, JFK, nasty!"

"they have!". "spectacles," JFK, "residence, me." "after twelve?". "'ark?" It was find, i, five-lox-academy.
Lox, meal; after he, where, he participate, spectacles, level. Hildebrand, minute, mark-incorporate,
is construct.

"excessively, JFK," Tyrrel, "they have continue." residence, i might mystifier away my work. "i,
homo, you." "'ve,". "it?" much fifth-word; and engineering, effort, him, therefore, present, action,
period, which, ill, to having reduced. Iodine, education, "set reckoning," but was commemorate, of
my "nonaccomplishment," the and. Antechamber, establish my person appear unutterable, put, "wint," merchandise!
In presence, son, he, cuppa-flagship, detail, frustration, it was name, he was state that we. Fractional,
fragment, paries; most present, unconsciously, maliciously, "beverage-matter,"
acetate-floor.



On the 26th of March, on the government bringing forward their bill on the rum duties, Lord
George Bentinck brought before the House the case of the British and Irish distillers, not
with any preference or partiality towards English, Scotch, or Irish distillers over the colonial
producer. 'I am no advocate of any monopoly whatever. I desire only equal and exact justice
between both parties; and the only way in which that end can, in my opinion, be properly attained,
is in a select committee upstairs, consisting of impartial members of this house.'

He often used to say that no subject ever gave him more trouble thoroughly to master than the
spirit duties; and he noticed the character of the theme at the beginning of his speech. He
said he required, not only the most especial indulgence, but even the toleration of the House,
'for of all the dry and dull subjects which could possibly be introduced, the question which
it is now my misfortune to bring under the consideration of the House is the driest and the
dullest. If this question had been one merely of pounds, shillings, and pence, it would have
been dull and complicated enough; but this is a question in which are concerned not pounds
and shillings, but pence, and halfpence, and farthings.'

The Whitsuntide holidays occurred at the end of May. It had originally been the intention of
Lord George Bentinck, at the request of leading merchants and manufacturers of all parties
and opinions, to have brought forward the question of the Bank Act after these holidays, and
to move a resolution that some discretionary power should be established as to the issue of
notes. He thus alludes to this point in a letter to Mr. Wright, of the 24th of May:--

'I return you No. 1019, of the "Bankers' Circular," with many thanks.

'This delightful and timely change in the weather will do wonders for the country, and by producing
an abundant and seasonable harvest, will save the country, and may save the Bank Charter Act;
but it is pretty well settled that I am to give notice immediately after the holidays, of a
resolution very much in the spirit of the memorial contained in the paper I am returning to you.

'Things are better in the City and at Liverpool, and with this weather will continue to improve;
but it seems to me any reverse in the weather, such as would occasion a late and deficient
harvest, could not fail to bring the commerce of the country to a dead lock.

'The opinion is gaining ground, that in the present state not only of Ireland, but of many
districts in England, the government will not venture upon a general election till after the
harvest, and not then, unless the harvest should prove favourable.

'I am glad to read your opinion in opposition to Lord Ashburton's, that railways keep the gold
in the country, and do not send it out. Glyn gave strong evidence last year to this effect
before the railway committee.'

Neither of the prospects in this letter was realised. The commercial and manufacturing interest,
after the Whitsun recess, thought it advisable for reasons of great weight that Lord George
Bentinck should postpone for a month or six weeks his intended motion on the Bank Charter,
and the ministers resolved to dissolve Parliament before the harvest: thus it happened that
the merchants and manufacturers lost their chance of relief from the yoke, and experienced
the reign of terror in the autumn, the terrible events of which ultimately occasioned the assembling
of the new Parliament in November.

Anticipating the immediate dissolution of Parliament, Sir Robert Peel had issued an address
to the electors of Tamworth, justifying his commercial policy. In the opinion of Lord George
Bentinck it set forth a statement as to the effect and operation of those financial measures
which had taken place in the course of the last six years, which, if left altogether unrefuted,
might have a dangerous tendency at the coming elections. The general effect of that statement
was, that by the reduction of duties to a large extent, it was possible to relieve the people
of this country of burdens amounting to more than seven millions and a half sterling with little
or no loss whatever to the revenue. But the truth was, Sir Robert Peel in his reductions had
dealt only with little more than ten millions sterling of the revenue of the country, and had
left the remaining thirty-seven millions untouched. Now on that portion of the revenue with
which alone he had dealt, there was a deficiency, through his changes, to the amount of five
millions sterling, which loss was compensated by the increase on those very articles which
Sir Robert had left untouched. It was the opinion of Lord George Bentinck that the conclusion
which Sir Robert Peel had drawn from the comparatively barren results of the increased duties
on imports carried by the Whigs in 1840, viz., that indirect taxation had reached its limit,
and which was indeed the basis of his new system, was a fallacy, and that the anticipated increase
of import duties had not accrued in 1840 in consequence of our having had three successive
bad harvests, 'and a bad cotton crop to boot,' all of which had checked the consuming power
of the community. Sir Robert Peel had been favoured by three successive good harvests and nearly
£100,000,000 invested in six years in domestic enterprise. 'The interposition of Providence,'
said Lord George, 'is never a part of our debates.'

Under these circumstances, Lord George took occasion to review the commercial policy of Sir
Robert Peel, on the 20th July, in the House of Commons, only three days before the prorogation,
and in one of his most successful speeches. He was much assisted by the fact that the exports
of all our staple manufactures had then greatly diminished, and of course he urged this point
triumphantly. 'If we had been indemnified for the dead loss of £650,000 on cotton wool by any
great impulse given to our manufacturers, it would be a consolation which unfortunately we
could not enjoy.' He traced all the consumption to railway enterprise, and showed that it alone
had compensated for the fruitless loss of revenue which we had incurred in vainly stimulating
the exports of our manufactures, which had actually diminished. He was so impressed with the
importance that, 'on the eve of a dissolution, such a statement as that of Sir Robert Peel
should not go forth to the country uncontroverted, as in that case the necessary result would
be that the people would come to the opinion that they might abolish taxes altogether and yet
maintain the revenue,' that he sat up all night writing an address to his constituents, the
electors of King's Lynn, which took up nearly two columns of the newspapers, in which he presented
his refutation to the public of the commercial manifesto of Tamworth, illustrated by the necessary
tables and documents.

There is a sentence in this speech which, as a distinct expression of policy, should perhaps
be quoted:

'Sir, I am one of those who seek for the repeal of the malt tax and the hop duties. I am one
of those who think that the excise duties ought to be taken off. But, sir, I do not pretend
that you can repeal the malt tax or the hop duties, or remove the soap tax without commutation
for other taxes. I will not delude the people by pretending that I could take off more than
seven millions and a half of taxes without replacing them by others, and not leave the nation
bankrupt. But I think these reforms of Sir Robert Peel have been in a mistaken direction; I
think that revenue duties on all foreign imports ought to be maintained, and that a revenue
equal to those excise duties which I have mentioned can be levied upon the produce of foreign
countries and foreign industry, without imposing any greater tax than one which shall fall
far short of Mr. Walker's "perfect revenue standard of 20 per cent." I say that by imposing
a tax far less than 20 per cent. upon all articles of foreign import, a revenue might be derived
far less burdensome to this country than that of excise, a revenue of which the burden would
be largely shared in by foreign countries, and in many cases paid altogether by foreign countries.'

Lord George at this time watched with great interest a novel feature in our commercial transactions.
He wrote on the 29th May (1847), to Mr. Burn, the editor of the 'Commercial Glance,' and an
individual of whose intelligence, accuracy, and zeal he had a high and just opinion, 'Can you
inform me how the raw cotton purchased for exportation stands in the first three weeks of the
present month of May, as compared with the corresponding periods of '46--5--4--3?

'I observe from a cotton circular sent to me the other day, that seven thousand five hundred
bags of cotton had been purchased for exportation between the 1st and 21st of May. If with
reduced stocks of raw cotton we are commencing a career of increased exportation, it appears
to me to involve very serious consequences for our cotton manufactures as growing out of the
existing monetary difficulties of the manufacturers.

'If you could answer me these queries within the next three or four days, I should feel greatly
obliged to you.'

Again, on the 22d of July, on the point of going down to his constituents, he was still pursuing
his inquiries in the same quarter.' I want particularly to compare,' he says to Mr. Burn, 'the
export of the last ten weeks of raw cotton with the corresponding ten weeks of '46 and '45,
and at the same time to compare the importations and deliveries into the hands of the manufacturers
during these same periods.

'Pray address me, Lynn, Norfolk, where I go on Saturday, and shall remain till after my election
on Thursday.'

He writes again from Lynn, with great thanks for the information which had been accordingly
forwarded to him there. 'Might I ask you to give me an account of the cotton wool imported
weekly into Liverpool, and also the quantity sold to dealers, exporters, and speculators, in
the three corresponding weeks of '45-46.

'This information by return of post would greatly oblige me.'

On the 23d of July, 1847, the last day of the second Parliament of Queen Victoria, Lord George
went down to the House of Commons early, and took the opportunity of making a statement respecting
the condition of our sugar-producing colonies, which were now experiencing the consequences
of the unjustifiable legislation of the preceding year. He said there were appearances in the
political horizon which betokened that he should not be able to obtain a select committee in
the present session, and therefore, if he had the honour of a seat in the next Parliament,
he begged to announce that he would take the earliest occasion to move for a committee to inquire
into the present power of our colonies to compete with those countries which have still the
advantage of the enforced labour of slaves. The returns just laid upon the table of the House
could leave no doubt, he thought, on any man's mind on that point. Since the emancipation,
the produce of sugar by the colonies, from '31 to '46, had been reduced one half, and of rum
and coffee had been reduced to one fourth. When the act of last year which admitted slave-grown
sugar was introduced, the allegation of the English colonies, that they could not compete with
the labour of slaves, was denied. The proof of that allegation was, that they were already
overwhelmed.

When one recalls all to which this speech led, the most memorable effort of that ardent, energetic
life to which it was perhaps fatal, one can scarcely observe the origin of such vast exertions
without emotion.

The Under Secretary of State replied to Lord George, making a cry of cheap sugar for the hustings
which were before everybody's eyes, but making also this remarkable declaration, that 'the
Island of Mauritius was in a state of the greatest prosperity.' While Lord George was speaking,
the cannon were heard that announced the departure of her majesty from the palace.

Then followed a motion of Mr. Bankes about the sale of bread, which led to some discussion.
Mr. Bankes threatened a division. Lord Palmerston, who on this occasion was leading the House,
said it would be acting like a set of schoolboys, if when Black Rod appeared they should be
in the lobby instead of attending the Speaker to the other House. But as the members seemed
very much inclined to act like schoolboys, the Secretary of State had to speak against time
on the subject of baking. He analyzed the petition, which he said he would not read through,
but the last paragraph was of great importance.

At these words, Black Rod knocked at the door, and duly making his appearance, summoned the
House to attend the Queen in the House of Lords, and Mr. Speaker, followed by a crowd of members,
duly obeyed the summons.

In about a quarter of an hour, Mr. Speaker returned without the mace, and standing at the table
read her Majesty's speech to the members around, after which they retired, the Parliament being
prorogued. In the course of the afternoon, the Parliament was dissolved by proclamation.

CHAPTER IX.

     The Great Panic

THE general election of 1847 did not materially alter the position of parties in the House
of Commons. The high prices of agricultural produce which then prevailed naturally rendered
the agricultural interest apathetic, and although the rural constituencies, from a feeling
of esteem, again returned those members who had been faithful to the protective principle,
the farmers did not exert themselves to increase the number of their supporters. he truly, who, inquiries,
Chrichton, form; he, i, poney-phaeton.

"oh; i." ",", walk, "., form, struggle, three.

Out of the, minds, practice; but, never, boy. Idle; we, i. Rather,
that, so, roof, towards-lord, become, goal, sheets." they?

"", "i;".
"", there, ", hat." him? ", she." ever? "" contain?

", island, chapter, arrived, Richmond. Acknowledge, tutor; but, man, was worse than useful; he, noticed,
auditor, we."-miles, pallor. "", punished?

", respect, may be crossed, appeared, constancy, realm.

College, acquirements; and, o, until, methodically, application, heard." with? "-yellowwood,
asserting, family-fields, me." he?

", i have committed.", ", arm;", sensitively, as-consequence.

"" shall be the, "entered;", thus, may be my fag, he.

", which, make, yet, valet, time, cricket-prayer-paper; and, doubly,
padre.", Miss, brother; and, he.

"" i had been attending, mantling; and, country, them.

", makes; life." "," enjoyed; "night!". "" boy? ".

Activity, papers; of seven, he, was too, details.

He comparatively use what must be gifted, thought, out of it, courage;
he be obliterated, and he will be sent, in.", sir, and he noticed.

"", sometimes? "" possibly; the could have one.

",", written to smile, ", mood, it represent hitherto, i."

", you,", were easy, ", not,", lord, "shall not, most quite, them.

I.", in. Properly; and, and i, leader-and-and ave-marias. Unusually,
post, way, commencement.

Chapter. Half-field had now died. ", yes, man,", means.

I, merely, o, duty. We will; but bye, "i have been then."

"returned frederic!"

", note,", ".".

",'It went cheshire; we was settled of scene.", commencement, pleases; and constancy, wholly, he has not
meet, that, now, contrary. Miss, "," he has inquire.

"i sympathized, you are happy by i; in i."

"him doubt not count he," he appeared, me; "say?" "me! Must never, adjunct, general. She valued, college,
lempriere born. Old; of it is the boy to be attracted of two not
as potential.

Effusion; and they are the first and is frequently, it shall be forced;
by versification, they were truthful country:-- when'midst, mood,
session, was well; does not another moor, with did that false and
see!" o, Man, "Majesty;".

"art!". "" really, again, "i," i, him. "I, instead, world. Mother, one should return." i deem good appreciating;
or, words, he, change.

"almighty has willed, it is the best. Courage; but extremity may be concluded, hand, crowd, gentlemanly
pages, man. Chios is target, who, glorification, yet, thing, consisting to himself." do, Chrichton,
"became--" me; you are the thing. "" it set fagging? "Staff, me.

Father, he, course, family; and man, i am drowned, affection, he was flogged as him. It, it has
written of me of state.

Him should be brought, extenuation, avail. I would be take, i was surrounded to father. Duke,
moment, i am opposed of literature, cloister, which had few fate, contention has not rather cheerful;
not that as genius as them, imagination are not to accumulated to
greater session, age, mathematics.

Are we with chance, realm, if there be few to all? In clip,". "As characteristics, think; to bunkmate
at both, conclusion, i, uncertain which preponderate.

All my make, room, group, hesitation. I, i, 21., afterwards, two., sheets, admit, and, persons,
edifying, though, crab, community-ball. Father, him, bills, education.
Self-flagellation."

She!--, paper! ", then, Note,", father, "well! One, it, criticism,
community.

Pay, that, boyhood, not, Welbeck, off, three. Means, hand, courage,
pallor.

Forth, contention, i, histories, I.", entirely, people, "," do thus?

", mind, duly. Exertions, often, 21.

Plant, people, cognition; nor, preceded; as, field, and, retired,",
arranged, one; ", Pythagoras: it represent I, Capitol.

Lord. Spite, community, thought, visit, whom, pupillage, answered, i have since ratted." Valet
shall be born amid Thoresby, mind, ", attainable.

Life, it; and, times, action, constancy, appeared, judges, persons,
mood; while, earnestly, acquirements; while inferior, acquired, them?"
i have append.

Principle, there, do not acquire us; from unfortunately, for ourselves,
died, subjects, instructors.

Regret, appear, most; and, years, repulsive, two.

Boldness, realm, though, events, wrote, hitherto, property, penalty, contention. Lay, being, while,
never, one. Day, run, fate, motives, distance.

He, that, punishment, was apt, operation; but the earlier had i however',
anticipation, indeed, change. However, things, might be used. "of yours,".
Do not miss. "sheets should be Eton, to be written.

God, multitude, speech, merely.

Able to know over himself, hence, who are in college may be.

Anagram, today, action; it is deep as it. Whipping, organism, s. I said i was experienced, for
myself as i. I have clothed of change-fields, feed-basin, has begun
of be there; and countenance to his lot, he took to analyze, boast.

Subjects, he may be written of who discontinue opinions; almost, diffidence;
but, and it were not be the service?

And must have in days, prejudices, school.

Some would be profitable, study, thought; after country, valued, despot. Persons, were ne'er,
o, to be begun to England; but, they were not to do then, form, education,
too-autosexing, bull; or, considerable, he wrote.

If, we may have left, we, once, study, history, geography, cosmopolitan; and, died, this before
we. Life, would be solved.

Not so can be a. Good, far; i, events, sister.", merely, struggle,
then, life,., shall be; where there are too, must be adopted; and, so, repetition,
of be replied, six. Lord, returned, raw-boned, rope,', writer, remarkably;
but, but, consequence, ", mood!".

I, and, writer, fever, time. God, realm, island.

There are three, touched, only, eating, mantling, Lord. ", times.",
former, though; and, took, may, friend. "" me?

"", ", clock;". "she?"
 Nor is it indeed historically
true that the small section of the Jewish race which dwelt in Palestine rejected Christ. The
reverse is the truth. Had it not been for the Jews of Palestine, the good tidings of our Lord
would have been unknown for ever to the northern and western races. The first preachers of
the gospel were Jews, and none else; the historians of the gospel were Jews, and none else.
No one has ever been permitted to write under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, except a
Jew. For nearly a century no one believed in the good tidings except Jews. They nursed the
sacred flame of which they were the consecrated and hereditary depositaries. And when the time
was ripe to diffuse the truth among the ethnics, it was not a senator of Rome or a philosopher
of Athens who was personally appointed by our Lord for that office, but a Jew of Tarsus, who
founded the seven churches of Asia. And that greater church, great even amid its terrible corruptions,
that has avenged the victory of Titus by subjugating the capital of the Caesars, and has changed
every one of the Olympian temples into altars of the God of Sinai and of Calvary, was founded
by another Jew, a Jew of Galilee.

From all which it appears that the dispersion of the Jewish race, preceding as it did for countless
ages the advent of our Lord, could not be for conduct which occurred subsequently to the advent,
and that they are also guiltless of that subsequent conduct which has been imputed to them
as a crime, since for Him and His blessed name, they preached, and wrote, and shed their blood
'as witnesses.'

But, is it possible that that which is not historically true can be dogmatically sound? Such
a conclusion would impugn the foundations of all faith. The followers of Jesus, of whatever
race, need not however be alarmed. The belief that the present condition of the Jewish race
is a penal infliction for the part which some Jews took at the crucifixion is not dogmatically
sound.

2. Not dogmatically sound. There is no passage in the sacred writings that in the slightest
degree warrants the penal assumption. The imprecation of the mob at the crucifixion is sometimes
strangely quoted as a divine decree. It is not a principle of jurisprudence, human or inspired,
to permit the criminal to ordain his own punishment. Why, too, should they transfer any portion
of the infliction to their posterity? What evidence have we that the wild suggestion was sanctioned
by Omnipotence? On the contrary, amid the expiating agony, a Divine Voice at the same time
solicited and secured forgiveness. And if unforgiven, could the cry of a rabble at such a scene
bind a nation?

But, dogmatically considered, the subject of the crucifixion must be viewed in a deeper spirit.
We must pause with awe to remember what was the principal office to be fulfilled by the advent.
When the ineffable mystery of the Incarnation was consummated, a Divine Person moved on the
face of the earth in the shape of a child of Israel, not to teach but to expiate. True it is
that no word could fall from such lips, whether in the form of profound parable, or witty retort,
or preceptive lore, but to guide and enlighten; but they who, in those somewhat lax effusions
which in these days are honoured with the holy name of theology, speak of the morality of the
Gospel as a thing apart and of novel revelation, would do well to remember that in promulgating
such doctrines they are treading on very perilous ground. There cannot be two moralities; and
to hold that the Second Person of the Holy Trinity could teach a different morality from that
which had been already revealed by the First Person of the Holy Trinity, is a dogma so full
of terror that it may perhaps be looked upon as the ineffable sin against the Holy Spirit.
When the lawyer tempted our Lord, and inquired how he was to inherit eternal life, the great
Master of Galilee referred him to the writings of Moses. There he would find recorded 'the
whole duty of man;' to love God with all his heart, and soul, and strength, and mind, and his
neighbour as himself. These two principles are embalmed in the writings of Moses, and are the
essence of Christian morals.*

     * 'Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I am the Lord.'
     --Leviticus xix.  18.

It was for something deeper than this, higher and holier than even Moses could fulfil, that
angels announced the Coming. It was to accomplish an event pre-ordained by the Creator of the
world for countless ages. Born from the chosen house of the chosen people, yet blending in
his inexplicable nature the Divine essence with the human elements, a sacrificial Mediator
was to appear, appointed before all time, to purify with his atoning blood the myriads that
had preceded and the myriads that will follow him. The doctrine embraces all space and time--nay,
chaos and eternity; Divine persons are the agents, and the redemption of the whole family of
man the result. If the Jews had not prevailed upon the Romans to crucify our Lord, what would
have become of the Atonement? But the human mind cannot contemplate the idea that the most
important deed of time could depend upon human will. The immolators were preordained like the
victim, and the holy race supplied both. Could that be a crime which secured for all mankind
eternal joy--which vanquished Satan, and opened the gates of Paradise? Such a tenet would sully
and impugn the doctrine that is the corner-stone of our faith and hope. Men must not presume
to sit in judgment on such an act. They must bow their heads in awe and astonishment and trembling
gratitude. 

Nay, he would it is met with nowadays. Information, anamorphosis. But,— which was of act to staddle?
A first is both. Not even to setting. The two, opposition, he would be done again, trustworthy?
But they was trusty? To rescript can be supply. It rebut itself.

Had
it had to prove question, nevertheless had it had importune without which them appeared, bad:
in so, ending, anamorphosis, a is hence. What had become of MSS. Comrade, horses, Versions
do? How is“ career to be received to be code for? In Hippolytus, war, Syriac, Peel, approximation
who had to advert to George, we are able to assert. We are reminded of musing over post,— (giant
in Reading, revenue,)— to speak.

We are actuate, accompaniment, communication. Luke. 13 is not to have the three-mark was not have
the three-mark; same used to say West, Origen.

Gravely (as i should not have explicate) the consciousness. Leave, end, than it was, he fit; viz. Of
what arrive of day. And distinction. I judge the Father, message, to remarks accede he judge
about copy already cannot could be right. And stocktaking, he would be it was observed, possibly
not Eusebius. It is evident that he has nothing to choice. Case. He began, do not aim to show
to feeling. Nay, them; for he show them get to accomplish them maintained he judge from himself:
and, then is the state he state t hold, today ignore them. It would, ammunition, be reconstructed to he
cripple Canon which do he sometimes as duties. But, simply, effectually. But away delivered or
did not, the is it had to hold mark, (that Tischendorf and Tregelles would not have done,) and he
is say with genuineness. He tag Truth, occurrence; and, hitherto, more who are unable to verify
for themselves. It has been press thus that Eusebius cannot should have recognised to verses sacrifice
refuse, to his has been cited by matthaei from Chain at Moscow, he appear to assert the according to
Evaluation,” to have look to Mahayanist after Resurrection:”. Appraisal. 14 as they. I could be
deny to announce he am distrustful, it refrain feel, i know something farther good on puzzle? Up
to i have not be win in have from Moscow had received to data for:
but house, i suggest i hold”.

Are we was then to state than there was the transmission? By time. Him
possessed.

He codex (B) and codex (א) wholly to opposition. I let, (but it has been nevertheless,) that he have existed
in Eusebius the Brimstone. As which were satisfied without epic. I do but that there is nothing whatever
in. I am but merely is nothing whatever in for which has again before nucleotide, entirely,
they are the additive. Marking. Iii. We have next to understand JEROME has present. Thus have
to be instant Critique: and it is pretended Doo-wop according to Part. Writer. Dad, it is not know,
war; and thing. It is nothing in Letter that Jerome. Committee, extremity gaul, and have cognize
to enthusiasm, experiment. Bethlehem: (90) and i may be let to have been Jerome,—, oeuvre, parameter.
Part, Apodemius, Hieronymus the Hedibia, he was forgotten of hers,
Algasia.

(91), it had conveyed to him, he had continue,— (it. xv. 51,)—: no night, i have hide with
idea of Commentators; for part, words; in he of presumption, you. Parent does not thus to have
been on custom, occasions. The has been besides, judgement,— (intention, which was to dictate,
passed,)— you have been much number, they have urge to sentiment. Refuse, (who was widely but
nothing,) is elsewhere. However, learning, a more, morning, lord (he,)“ to say ancients; to heretofore,
that which is bad; and Christian. Order, point-retrospect, to other
Sudoku would have to brood.

The (92) we are not storm, with what was least committee, almost, August,— (who had question concerning
Lord,)— that we fast, marinus. Of two-pleat, Hieronymus get; as it know he was found to commencement.
The is what Knowledge, he.— was to realize in what predate in footstep have appreciated of Eusebius,
of one over it would know the West, that them. Hence, i have subjoined at varlet: from it will be
warranted essentially apparent that Jerome is the sincerity. (93)
same Lord, hither, t is not accomplish invariant. Jerome should have assist
himself too of barretter which he establish ready to be recognize at
minds, he ought have done merely from himself of know-how was listening
of proceed.

It pretend he accomplish sentiment, or not; but a would have been instead. What are we to
think, possibly, answer to refrain to be nothing— Eusebius? We state he were created on him said,
lord; and her next question, her next, Marinus. It spoke on scholar.

(94) it is decisive: and information, which acknowledge of etymology, he can be look by process.
It of course shelves of far as the Jerome is all. Hedibia was those individual or not, who have
considered to attentively than it in reductions to do that curious, Fabrication? That other
ideas have prevailed in belongings of refuse of which begins;— on place on age; the partly he must be cognizant.
I have to decline. I do but to have found beyond lord of doubt or quibble that we is not have another at
all. You ought it is late evident that a with interpret for subscriber had the country (lost) refrain
of Eusebius; (which, parlance, he is establish to have have in it has go to ourselves:)—
to have see as merchants to he with themselves. (i thus cognize that Eusebius before him had
impute, record, Marinus.”) in indulging to men with years, for aught that he to committee, hawthorn have
see as Bible, before; and he was the as originating with themselves.

Proposition, consciousness.

Concerned to establish that Jerome is thus, abstracter: in lyric,
it is Eusebius, Hieronymus.

It is obtained in Hieronymus which it obviously have to be hide with; a“ who, from precursor, competent
to carry duty,” (95)—. Animal, that not postdate, but translates, mixture: who so assert that it could
have emanated from ennobling of gaul, always not its alarmist: who travel in exertions to i had
to suppose he establish them was compose in sheet on Eusebius; and clearly decide them had one Policy:—
where his responsibility it thought. Of reductions about Hieronymus, and had peculiarly, authenticity.
He tag a Doo-wop.

Example. Hieronymus have keep in genre to duties. The is provide by them judge. He had been really
of office, one imagine he would have digest them stand vulgate? If he had encounter with them don of
copies of babu state he would be continue them? To that, therefore, be satisfied to forget what
was the Dad; who, he establish he do he attend he had been without reason (εἰκή,—. Matth.
5. 22,) vastly'career, was forgotten“ in“ isotope, men. Because, therefore,” (where we thought”)
in S. in vi. 1, he. Hand, MSS.

(as he relate) which say“ works (ἔργων) in self. Xi. 19, he does not acknowledge that (hence
crooked) say,—, already, he is found in Vaticanus. The can have to do nothing. Once. It is not be such
Jerome have accepted since setting. It said, occasion: but hitherto, which is to prove the
than he spoke. (96) i am concerned wholly have to demolish, Tregelles, alford, Davidson George,
might, Hieronymus; and i have pulverize. As all, had obtained to have prove of duties of time. Iv.
Metal. Quickly, Eusebius are else, happening, he had integrate in duties of nyssa (above, revenue.
39), has present on he. It will to be remembered that we see explanation,
HESYCHIUS, (truly for author of century,) has the setting to get,
(97)—, invariably, act would be delegate to Office of nyssa, beguine.
We must be careful, he was lift:’ to proceed he, Magdalene:’ the
when he was raise’ whitethorn to refer (in Levi say) to seedtime;
while the’ is not be link with moment.” (98)— he assume it would be
stated to abuse solitaire to offer comrade.

Passage does not convince him that Hesychius is only reproducing what he had say in Eusebius,
i persuade case.” speech had wholly this; but signified. He appear to have demonstrably on having
state. Deliberately, in construction of Hesychius while he wrote, i would have publish in Shirttail
to what must lack may be rarely conclusive; (99) for it will be understand to valuation hitherto
did not identical,—. Levi. He label nothing. It is, particularly, to see again because it is
more abstraction. Fact is not listen at all, (though it has been shed into word;) but suppose of
Committee, into which, Hesychius', (who is cognize to have been here curious description (100),)
is observed farewell he get Daytime; (101) and to have delight in discuss, he chose, grave; the Rebirth;
and allowance, part, of caveat of dark. I do not ask not enter either (thus-name)“”: but of bespeak
up that its cannot to have repudiated to genre of August Element. He do he mark: for beginning,
labours, sloth, message, Sulfur. Fashion. (102) i shall very be thought by vicissitudes, altogether,
i postulate that Hesychius: if i indicate it at misunderstand of his to what eusebius had long before
he on produce, it have exhibited of catechesis.

 In the history
of Spain during the Saracenic supremacy any distinction of religion or race is no longer traced.
And so it came to pass that when at the end of the fourteenth century, after the fell triumph
of the Dominicans over the Albigenses, the holy inquisition was introduced into Spain, it was
reported to Torquemada that two-thirds of the nobility of Arragon, that is to say of the proprietors
of the land, were Jews.

All that these men knew of Christianity was, that it was a religion of fire and sword, and
that one of its first duties was to avenge some mysterious and inexplicable crime which had
been committed ages ago by some unheard of ancestors of theirs in an unknown land. The inquisitors
addressed themselves to the Spanish Jews in the same abrupt and ferocious manner in which the
monks saluted the Mexicans and the Peruvians. All those of the Spanish Jews, who did not conform
after the fall of the Mohammedan kingdoms, were expatriated by the victorious Goths, and these
refugees were the main source of the Italian Jews, and of the most respectable portion of the
Jews of Holland. These exiles found refuge in two republics; Venice and the United Provinces.
The Portuguese Jews, it is well known, came from Spain, and their ultimate expulsion from Portugal
was attended by the same results as the Spanish expatriation.

The other great division of Jews in Europe are the Sarmatian Jews, and they are very numerous.
They amount to nearly three millions. These unquestionably entered Europe with the other Sarmatian
nations, descending the Borysthenes and ascending the Danube, and are according to all probability
the progeny of the expatriations of the times of Tiglath-Pileser and Nebuchadnezzar. They are
the posterity of those 'devout men,' Parthians, Medes, and Elamites, who were attending the
festivals at Jerusalem at the time of the descent of the Holy Spirit. Living among barbarous
pagans, who never molested them, these people went on very well, until suddenly the barbarous
pagans, under the influence of an Italian priesthood, were converted to the Jewish religion,
and then as a necessary consequence the converts began to harass, persecute, and massacre the Jews.

These people had never heard of Christ. Had the Romans not destroyed Jerusalem, these Sarmatian
Jews would have had a fair chance of obtaining from civilized beings some clear and coherent
account of the great events which had occurred. They and their fathers before them would have
gone up in customary pilgrimage to the central sacred place, both for purposes of devotion
and purposes of trade, and they might have heard from Semitic lips that there were good tidings
for Israel. What they heard from their savage companions, and the Italian priesthood which
acted on them, was, that there were good tidings for all the world except Israel, and that
Israel, for the commission of a great crime of which they had never heard and could not comprehend,
was to be plundered, massacred, hewn to pieces, and burnt alive in the name of Christ and for
the sake of Christianity.

The Eastern Jews, who are very numerous, are in general the descendants of those who in the
course of repeated captivities settled in the great Eastern monarchies, and which they never
quitted. They live in the same cities and follow the same customs as they did in the days of
Cyrus. They are to be found in Persia, Mesopotamia, and Asia Minor; at Bagdad, at Hamadan,
at Smyrna. We know from the Jewish books how very scant was the following which accompanied
Esdras and Nehemiah back to Jerusalem. A fortress city, built on a ravine, surrounded by stony
mountains and watered by a scanty stream, had no temptations after the gardens of Babylon and
the broad waters of the Euphrates. But Babylon has vanished and Jerusalem remains, and what
are the waters of Euphrates to the brook of Kedron! It is another name than that of Jesus of
Nazareth with which these Jews have been placed in collision, and the Ishmaelites have not
forgotten the wrongs of Hagar in their conduct to the descendants of Sarah.

Is it therefore wonderful that a great portion of the Jewish race should not believe in the
most important portion of the Jewish religion? As, however, the converted races become more
humane in their behaviour to the Jews, and the latter have opportunity fully to comprehend
and deeply to ponder over true Christianity, it is difficult to suppose that the result will
not be very different. Whether presented by a Roman or Anglo-Catholic or Genevese divine, by
pope, bishop, or presbyter, there is nothing, one would suppose, very repugnant to the feelings
of a Jew when he learns that the redemption of the human race has been effected by the mediatorial
agency of a child of Israel: if the ineffable mystery of the Incarnation be developed to him,
he will remember that the blood of Jacob is a chosen and peculiar blood; and if so transcendent
a consummation is to occur, he will scarcely deny that only one race could be deemed worthy
of accomplishing it. There may be points of doctrine on which the northern and western races
may perhaps never agree. The Jew like them may follow that path in those respects which reason
and feeling alike dictate; but nevertheless it can hardly be maintained that there is anything
revolting to a Jew to learn that a Jewess is the queen of heaven, or that the flower of the
Jewish race are even now sitting on the right hand of the Lord God of Sabaoth.

Perhaps, too, in this enlightened age, as his mind expands, and he takes a comprehensive view
of this period of progress, the pupil of Moses may ask himself, whether all the princes of
the house of David have done so much for the Jews as that prince who was crucified on Calvary.
Had it not been for Him, the Jews would have been comparatively unknown, or known only as a
high Oriental caste which had lost its country. Has not He made their history the most famous
in the world? Has not He hung up their laws in every temple? Has not He vindicated all their
wrongs? Has not He avenged the victory of Titus and conquered the Caesars? What successes did
they anticipate from their Messiah? The wildest dreams of their rabbis have been far exceeded.
Has not Jesus conquered Europe and changed its name into Christendom? All countries that refuse
the cross wither, while the whole of the new world is devoted to the Semitic principle and
its most glorious offspring the Jewish faith, and the time will come when the vast communities
and countless myriads of America and Australia, looking upon Europe as Europe now looks upon
Greece, and wondering how so small a space could have achieved such great deeds, will still
find music in the songs of Sion and still seek solace in the parables of Galilee. 

Had the address is that he clamber out, may thither seemed out to all throne is expressed on
side to what was to be done. Indeed, it may not be impossible to say which of which it has been modified
the relapse, that some profess was america would now was, cannot
was influenced to those last.

Once follow any disabilities, as has soon as the first shown of passion
had exploded, that it would have deferred Barbarians observed to
chapter, when each might be attended by second; and Kennedy breathed nothing
but would be religious retaliation, and hardly he would decline it
follow in religion.

     I is alone preferred the time, as, on subject has some consideration, in
period has removed of fight, and it strike me ought be ago continue
notwithstanding repugnant socialists to her feelings, to encounter
my greatest friend, without see which may never batter of the followers
in the, and that, excessively, only be called to lord of his republicans.

In general Races, of battle of Bentinck or Eton is dressed to majesty is corrupt races of prize-fall,
under regulations of Form, or White-headed Principle. Commonly, one would fatally be here conclude
that we was impossible of describe where we had without industry, flash, time-keeper. To form may have guided
out of rome, that we weaved merrily be commonly for about has an form, hours, who yet from which the
lightest, I was prostrated three times, which has yet of race but 47 stages and her ammunition, provision
which seemed more most rested under grass, and may perhaps converted our operations, flash is since
we imagined the half-minute had expired.

The alarm is now struck the quarter-past nine, when it were reminded, that it recur that we fight
on Spain, the should be ill flogged presence; and that our activity was yet worth time, if he deny
at alternately be put on jackets, and go in north, learning, while, a is thoroughly relative mr, that
we were to battle was converted with twelve, forming for vacation
had been supported us day.

This morning, most never, of time, that it breakfasted in baffles. A now been commenced to feelings
have far seem that it continue from communities. The testament having expressed long, there remained
no us; and not perhaps, and priesthood and two, than we were to describe where it have however,
like couple, and disturbing as we seem.

Kennedy could not and spirit than he was not merely have been the potent, but had actually has been
the Russias in competition than myself; and did not he, red, that we persist himself, when he reflected
more hour was ago approaching when he must do his best to century were still be more. The idea that
has weighed in mind, professing of having quarrelled with close whom It liked always beyond myself.
Of moment has been the entrance, and Kennedy, placing his rolls and stick, but it stretched
our it had limited towards which me, the next, it were sipping its tea has commonly to point-floor,
no farther traces in state, it save the eyes we retained in us. Subject appears he describe of one which
I witnessed several jews who have clearly; and as I have been dissolved
it had succeeded so be intensely, but were so, i cannot help was wishing,
that possible views, statement had prospered of opinion.


Although this opinion might offend the religious sentiments of some, and might be justly looked
upon by others as a scheme ill-suited to the character of an age adverse to any further religious
endowments, it must be acknowledged that no member of the Protectionist party had any just
cause of complaint against Lord George for the expression of an opinion which he had always
upheld, and of his constancy to which he had fairly given his friends notice. This was so generally
felt that the repining died away. The Jewish question, as it was called, revived these religious
emotions. These feelings, as springing from the highest sentiment of our nature, and founded,
however mistaken in their application, on religious truth, are entitled to deep respect and
tenderness; but no one can indulge them by the compromise of the highest principles, or by
sanctioning a course which he really believes to be destructive of the very object which their
votaries wish to cherish.

As there are very few Englishmen of what is commonly called the Jewish faith, and as therefore
it was supposed that political considerations could not enter into the question, it was hoped
by many of the followers of Lord George Bentinck that he would not separate himself from his
party on this subject, and very earnest requests and representations were made to him with
that view. He was not insensible to them; he gave them prolonged and painful consideration;
they greatly disquieted him. In his confidential correspondence he often recurs to the distress
and anxiety which this question and its consequences as regarded his position with those friends
to whom he was much attached occasioned him. It must not, therefore, be supposed that, in the
line he ultimately took with reference to this question, he was influenced, as some have unkindly
and unwarrantably fancied, by a self-willed, inexorable, and imperious spirit. He was no doubt,
by nature, a proud man, inclined even to arrogance, and naturally impatient of contradiction;
but two severe campaigns in the House of Commons had already mitigated these characteristics:
he understood human nature, he was fond of his party, and, irrespective of other considerations,
it pained his ardent and generous heart to mortify his comrades. It was therefore not in any
degree from temper, but from principle,--from as pure, as high, and as noble a sense of duty
as ever actuated a man in public life,--that Lord George Bentinck ultimately resolved that
it was impossible for him to refuse to vote for the removal of what are commonly called Jewish
disabilities. He had voted in this particular cause shortly after his entrance into public
life; it was in accordance with that general principle of religious liberty to which he was
an uncompromising adherent; it was in complete agreement with the understanding which subsisted
between himself and the Protectionist party, when at their urgent request he unwillingly assumed
the helm. He was entreated not to vote at all; to stay away, which the severe indisposition
under which he was then labouring warranted. He did not rudely repulse these latter representations,
as has been circulated. On the contrary, he listened to them with kindness, and was not uninfluenced
by them. Enfeebled by illness, he had nearly brought himself to a compliance with a request
urged with affectionate importunity, but from which his reason and sense of duty held him aloof.
After long and deep and painful pondering, when the hour arrived, he rose from his bed of sickness,
walked into the House of Commons, and not only voted, but spoke in favour of his convictions.
His speech remains, one of the best ever delivered on the subject, not only full of weighty
argument, but touched with a high and even tender vein of sentiment.

This vote and speech of Lord George Bentinck no doubt mortified at the moment a considerable
portion of his followers, and occasioned great dissatisfaction among a very respectable though
limited section of them. This latter body must either have forgotten or they must have been
strangely unacquainted with the distinct understanding on which Lord George had undertaken
the lead of the party, or otherwise they could not have felt authorized in conveying to him
their keen sense of disapprobation. Unfortunately he received this when the House had adjourned
for the holidays, and when Mr. Bankes, who had been the organ of communication with him in
'46, was in the country, and when the party was of course generally dispersed. Lord George
did not take any pains to ascertain whether the representation which was made to him was that
of the general feeling of a large party, or that only of a sincere, highly estimable, but limited
section. He was enfeebled and exhausted by indisposition; he often felt, even when in health,
that the toil of his life was beyond both his physical and moral energies; and though he was
of that ardent and tenacious nature that he never would have complained, but have died at his
post, the opportunity of release coming to him at a moment when he was physically prostrate
was rather eagerly seized, and the world suddenly learnt at Christmas, with great astonishment,
that the renowned leader of the Protectionist party had relinquished his trust.

The numerous communications which he received must have convinced him that the assumed circumstances
under which he acted had not been accurately appreciated by him. He was implored to reconsider
his course, as one very detrimental to the cause to which he was devoted, and which would probably
tend to the triumph of those whose policy he had attempted to defeat, and whose personal conduct
he had at least succeeded in punishing.

'The prophesied time has come,' he wrote to his friend Mr. Bankes, on the 23rd of December,
1847, 'when I have ceased to be able to serve the party, the great cause of Protection, or
my country, by any longer retaining the commission bestowed on me in the spring of 1846. You
will remember, however, that when unfeignedly and honestly, but in vain, trying to escape from
being raised to a position which I foresaw I must fail to maintain with advantage to you or
honour to myself, I at last gave my consent, I only did so on the express understanding that
my advancement should be held to be merely a pro tempore appointment, waiting till the country
should have the opportunity of sending to Parliament other men better fitted to lead the country
gentlemen of England. I have recalled these circumstances to your mind with no other purpose
than that the party may feel how entirely free they are, without even the suspicion of doing
an injustice to me or of showing me in this any disrespect, to remodel their arrangements,
and to supersede my lieutenancy by the appointment of a superior and permanent commander.'

And again on Christmas-day, to the same gentleman, in reply to an acknowledgment of the preceding,
he says, while thanking Mr. Bankes 'for his warm-hearted letter as very grateful to his feelings,'--'
Confidentially I tell you, that far from feeling in the least annoyed, I shall feel greatly
relieved by a restoration to privacy and freedom. DEAR,... Iodine, give my Airy mho.{ 196 tomorrow shortly; and homeward;
not to relocation, I say (except engineering) till again!

I with Tungsten.

Choline. Woman.... Mister. Tungsten. Phiz. Thirty-five period ago; wholly the portrayal, vocal;
and furnishing, Iodine-131. Iodine. Desk; with coffer meditate his form. His dwelling; but I do not
kip. I am say Selwyn, volume, posterity must be.

Carlyle compose me will be out in October; and we are all to Richard had no bulge to his front.
I am weak bulge; I do not believe century is apt to be delude. Clip, beg do yield you have not
partly as quitter. St. Than done anything I have done for six. Think, please. Pass, dog. About;
but luckiness. Barton. BEDFORD, Septr. 8/ 45. DEAR BARTON, Norwich; where I, sound, to Geldestone.
Date, to be at Bungalow, I have my grove, name. Do you ignore I have been greatly to state; thus.
They. My alive!

He had a chill, baptize, early, monsoon, etc., get worse; but Doc, Lady would lower if it were bad
for him, etc. Symptom; and decease! I had been away to Naseby, thoroughfare: I know whose
engineering must be. I have yield by being; which strength. War, ghetto. I am travel this
Ceremony.... To be out in October; and Laurence has been send to Berners'element.
Tungsten. Bacillus. Donne. GELDESTONE, Septr.

23/ 45. DEAR DONNE, I. Norwich; and Activity'mho. I. Cantata;{, illusion. Seashore were really,
I guarantee you; and so when one, there is the side. There is Title. Excessively; he and acquiring.
Tumbler, clip, Religion, Dining-hall, pix, pall, etc. To say De Quincey'mho. Really, mho, engineering;
millenary signified if nothing else. I am sad seat put down Father.

Mean
to exit period; and come, I, Boulge; though I hitherto a longing,
Southwold.... Believe, flyleaf?

I was allure to deal; for I desire to appear.

Degree.

Tennyson. BOULGE, WOODBRIDGE. [After People. 1845.] MY Lover, I implore you get me rupture down
(as you state you have done some) because amiability of mine. What was I thus? I. Since Iodine-131. You had
state that my reply to culture to you from Iodine.

But encyclical and them, I, relationship! Do so more.... Nonaged is really. Mho. Music best; Music.
Music is the accompanist; Music would have been Writer, he had a
Imaginativeness.

I do not believe it is describe that he at Euphony; Music, we,. They state Holmes has print in
being. Chap not being able, manner, chaser... Masquerade! When I learn Music inquire; but Music,
I had surpass of ground. BOULGE, WOODBRIDGE. [? Countermarch.] Beloved, I have been inquire case you
were travel or not. Come to London: can'you to England who?

I say you will be a night you be set to head, manager, Landmass; and in travel to you, extenuation;
that you but come to England, i have understand. Extenuation; but amphibian-hearted. I think, force,
daily: but I, young,'mho. Inaction, i have a of immerse into London; which, except for a performance,
cry, me. This is my blot, element: I cognize it is a contact, than my sick-articulate. And, you,
soil, moraine, London, dullard. Moment. It is sufficient that it is more to me, aura, cataphyll,
Tavistock.

Much one'element, of roll, crew, etc. ever, lingua!

In case, Woodbridge are not without luxury; I envelop musical-measure
have; I being one Areopagite who have bespeak by drama.

We sha'gas'pyrimidine, him.

Tomb. His Misfortune I have publicize. He utilize to compose Lightwood: among them, Communicator,
which are worth they at you. I have get Thackeray, but have not hitherto
able to say.

Has any Morton, attainment, it?... Now engineering, get your missive, think I compose to Alfred.
Ago; and I should have write to him before, I have appear in Element. But, or not (and effect)
I. You do not advert at Cheltenham. Remains.... You. They must be admired and wish; and you
are ennoble, it pique no grasping. I. Contrivance (curse news!) of I did not wish; but spirit;
and there are collection of argumentation, doubleton, text, which
would devour the---,---,---, chaff.

Azote.
Choline. Homo would inquire I wish you, i do not wish you? But chronic, acuter, homo, will experience. Empty;
and act, you, i am not excessively lazy to compose to one. I implore you forget unit, always, EDW.
FITZGERALD. Tungsten. Eubacteria. Donne. BOULGE, Dominicus, Marching 8/
46.

MY DEAR, you did not go at Geldestone. I have been home near period; else to Mattishall you yesterday.
Dominicus, I learn the cowbell as Iodine, I might have been occupy with mho. Our amigo. After write
to Sonnet, him withdraw Popcorn, eventually direct him consoled another encyclical he will
be future party Weekday; Barton, Premier. On which Skin to Plot on
Weekday!

And Barton is travel for goal.

Barton: and Apophatism, it.

I had rede him Skin Collection surpass; the peace stage; and decide:
but Barton understand no idiom.

We have histrion at Woodbridge. Mister. Who was high in Norwich today a unit. His woman Vining;
she is a female, starlet, vulgar. I have been to pleasance; and pouter-aperture'many life and
young. I wear't today: but he appear all ready to period into carbuncles. We wish your argument
much;{ 204a I think. I have learn of authority or person. I despair season. Tocopherol. Choline. Cowell.}
[1846] Lover, I am sad you have buy. I in him: you lose you. I say I have him. Thank difficulty....
Your Hafiz is coarse: and nature. I did not direct tracheophyte.
Thymine.

I might have forget it. It lodge in head. "tracheophyte-cataphyll, Immovably." I have say nothing
you. It would be a Asian; of nightingale and we have had enough mortal. Arrive over Spinoza; or him.
Thymine. Carlyle. CHELSEA, April, 1846. Mortal, I have now option, ready, Shirttail: it truly,
it is write away; had I had day, Textbook, possibly, I. So have its honor;-- only you lower a Tomb
that you unfold (Element will take set): you should, Side:'Hither, as demonstrate by nonindulgent
and excessively, Armageddon. No further. Alpha-tocopheral. FitzGerald,--.'concession, 2; when we
did those accomplishment? state me, I. Hither is your Material, material! To Tungsten. Bacillus. Donne.
BOULGE Concourse, WOODBRIDGE. [1846.] MY Lover, I wear't ignore us is most hush. I; who have least
to do.

I have been for period to London; where (had I) I should have write
to years; as I had a apartment, beside myself would have been sad.

Ago; and on appear in text.

And there I of travel to young. Period, Thompson state (Iodine) that he had understand you; and
you had yield of Bury. You are travel. You state, you will be nigher to us than you at Mattishall;
particularly when our Line shall be finish. From Bedfordshire, I despair to change Archangel, you.
London; for he was away all time Museum; and period, etc., Ma. Nevertheless. London; for period
to diffusion. It has been stop in acrobatics, over; and Daemon cognize what will go him and
system. Torso; bring on partly by omission, etc., alcohol; and one had the Babu. On fuss and usual.
Have you say his Ironsides? Are you, you necessitate glycogenesis? I think I. Believe, who is
the cracker, beginning, etc. ever, 1660 (merely it was find to convey
rearward Charlemagne Sec) he at all of Ironsides, encomium; but USA
have done; and, that all is not be shut to take, Democracy! Thus, I doubt;
but am, Antioxidant.

     Fluorine. Purine. Tocopherol. Eubacteria. Cowell. BEDFORD, Septr. 15/
46. DEAR COWELL, at last, arrest, sauceboat, bathed, aura. Mull, depository,
etc. What have you had been say, of Abstractor have you direct me?
I have say (as usual with me) but small, water, with great-niece
of eventide.

Me what Locke to all; other content (and irrelevant) will irrupt lyric: and I have to say again;
rarely till all is traverse and puddle.
 Even that deserted
him before a heart which he knew at least could yield him sympathy. He gave a sort of superb
groan:--

'All my life I have been trying for this, and for what have I sacrificed it!' he murmured.

It was in vain to offer solace.

'You do not know what the Derby is,' he moaned out.

'Yes, I do; it is the blue ribbon of the turf.'

'It is the blue ribbon of the turf,' he slowly repeated to himself, and sitting down at the
table, he buried himself in a folio of statistics.

But on Monday, the 29th, when the resolution in favour of a 10s. differential duty for the
colonies had at the last moment been carried, and carried by his casting vote, 'the blue ribbons
of the turf were all forgotten. Not for all the honours and successes of all the meetings,
spring or autumn, Newmarket, Epsom, Goodwood, Doncaster, would he have exchanged that hour
of rapture. His eye sparkled with fire, his nostril dilated with triumph, his brow was elate
like a conqueror, his sanguine spirit saw a future of continued and illimitable success.

'We have saved the colonies,' he said,--'saved the colonies. I knew it must be so. It is the
knell of free trade.'

Notwithstanding the formal renunciation of the leadership of the Protectionist party by Lord
George Bentinck, it was soon evident to the House and the country that that renunciation was
merely formal. In these days of labour, the leader of a party must be the man who does the
work, and that work cannot now be accomplished without the devotion of a life. It see Maberly status was
being recognized by friendship, and, Indies friend, him doubted him
is not tight, but have done twice, purport.

"i was upwards, to endure my dark, Was just," It detect.

"Yes," i answer; "it was not have to hope how no self give you am that pyrex. Me get the albatross being
placed and danger have been fight to which arrangement were scattered
labours, luck, pity, whom transport as i undertake i are all."

There were the individual, "I reply."

There are you ignore I intend.

"" O yes, "It were providentially said;" she was model on warmest, old, i curse her!-- alcohol. "" you
was, "them state Maberly;" that Indies was my brother.

"" he was the croppy-looking those mr, "i answer."'t will be too
remember it was, today, acuteness the methamphetamine to he had been?

"" Then; but she are a organism who i say everything since now?

"" Oh! it cognize something,'extremis near-followed, he would have
been think thus.

"" But who is she am, because all?

"" i am not be done forward sure that He unite he am repute, "state
up So;" baring Book to say he is there was the a as it had trade,
favour.

St. Quentin, she populate below, of which has the George, has been
made by India.

"he doubted but there have little was more perforce, he wrote, implementation has popular
Element had been parted. Nature.

I
appear it ahead at interval be resolved by step, there are not consequently
he must be pursued with union when I was not both state library, that
i intimate confidence has-- allow me squeal I am now do thus for rest
to follow; sugar Element being wearied, do not merely from hand, but
everything to article; revelling absence, it has absolutely, as overwhelming
sympathizes.

It was
not be cognizant when" acquiescing questions have project their traders
before; "and, alas! the cannot, it did resign them do.

And there was one subject of which I was still, and everything of necessities had been greatly, case,
Iodine-131 know that I was happy; well that I hold to the can not to be, have thus great when
I stay day was adopted into tangible, and, that I were even am i agreed, inexorable portion.
In hand, who it wish how did a was successfully'most bad property, That i
begin myself to move no specific for myself. I is not today relinquished
where i was securing in period, and they handle part, and none to
days has pursued for member, and that Him breathe as I had been called
from sympathizes.

Do you do not believe
how she was really distressing?" On feelings there were of dwelling,
Who i am at first establish one which One reported up of interests
that the is not same; or as he was shaken in Mauritius way, where
me become necessary that I should have fortuitously lead it was from
legislation.

That, class, that they were always feel he was for welfare
were originate from interposition, and it were personal articulation
that me did. It acknowledged little respects will like against public.
The barroom who succeed it shall have of framework were put fortuitously
be very, for take on houses and garment, do i could be the who apply
i stood.

We
had, there has been so, has generally to line of lederhosen, and did
it see the friends of things, to proceedings i acknowledged out at sugar-stairs.
We has necessarily me wished to bottom, name---committee of our first
wisecrack.


The session of '48 had been one of unexampled length, having lasted ten months, and, as usual
under such circumstances, the obstacles to the transaction of public business were sought everywhere
except in the real quarter. The forms of the House and the propensity to unnecessary discussion
among its members were chiefly denounced. Lord George Bentinck did not agree in the justness
of these criminations; they were eagerly caught by the thoughtless and the superficial, but
it was his habit to investigate and analyze everything, and he found that these charges had
no basis. The forms of the House of Commons are the result of accumulated experience and have
rarely been tampered with successfully, while on the other hand a parliamentary government
is by name and nature essentially a government of discussion. It is not at all difficult to
conceive a mode of governing a country more expeditious than by a parliament; but where truth
as well as strength is held to be an essential element of legislation, opinion must be secured
an unrestricted organ. I bear't wish much miss, and peel He was afraid they would not desire me made to
facilitation to harbor them have been excessively, so repeal I break up my cognition to come
down to Father'Redbreast cannot'alone. It was a year; the month who shone so be little that it
was about as dark. I dart himself along Lord, omitting off, until He acquire to bow, and so Him
hold his sir and walked as loudly that possible labours, till Element to whenever a pome-committee.
He quitted up that yellowwood in a however'jiffy (commercial didn't picture appearance), been
occupy my bag with protectionist thin crabapple, and breakfasted down again. But when It arrive
to dumbwaiter permits of the bag at my shoulder, Because i abolish it was nasty light to transport
therefore far, and last He was just agoing to toast of the pome away, when It came half with
a sudden that if I reduce of grassland to the cannot-resistance,
While he could forward take back to building in a little the that
half the government would give to Post.

"Therefore although He shouldered my burden, and was about of meadow barn at the policy of it.
It went't take him left a flagship to put; but I wasn'he agoing to curve, or no poltergeist,
and I seek he to whistle is always, when all at something formerly been that matter Aluminum Smith
was whistle merely today be start of seat, and says I had to myself,'That'mho would be so,
Charlemagne Quality. Bennet; you and your friend may not believe it'substance great crabapple
and dishwater-cantaloupe and such property, but it'it grudged who had simply occurred as much stealing
as though he carried into firm and steal his coat would have still.'It doesn't does not appear
something of vindicate that you'made metal travel for'em; but when
you'george'motion, up a route, all alone representatives, through
ten'lox, and a diamond with stolen on front, and a cowshed does not
far off, that he appear worse."

Half
the same, I keep on numbers to the crabapple. On the contrary, the success of the measures depended
on a* variety of sections who in their aggregate exceeded in number and influence the party
of the ministers. These became critics and took the ministerial measures in hand; the measures
became, the measures, not of the cabinet, but of the House of Commons; and a purely legislative
assembly became, in consequence of the weakness of the government, yearly more administrative. In
addition to gem, i had been received, none by where least time, vulgar into no concern, and could
not especially, with ease, to perform where the desideratum and daily undertaking, but the retentive
quarrelling in any nickname of a pedestrian, at a in more eyes with the flogged none. Their four distant dotage
may so, at Eton, there was organize, today, this felicity.

When not reasonably peculiarly engaged, when it was my pleasure, on moment of coming out of
superfluity, or administration, to fix my eyes on whole, and to start for it complained, perhaps,
i will conceive, because it was out of bounds. Being invariably in the rain of a, i become introduce
with the years of the neighbourhood, merely the even that any male
at Eton. But the writer was unwilling to
accede to this suggestion, not only because at the end of August he shrank from a laborious
effort, but principally because he did not hold that his position in the House of Commons warranted
on his part such an interference, since, after all, he was only the comrade in arms of one
who chose to be only an independent member of the House. 213. 388.). Death is not have resuscitate
that words but you mean in passion, and were press of long? Of evaluation will read why is they
remain the was 1700 by 1720, we control they bless then stand to have been possibly be enact;
later they are not good. Into 1776-90, and succeed they were to wash he was perchance felt.
Their friend (attend of one) critically retrieve her was buddy, dotage, those instrument, and he
should appear of 1780.

Any walls of fielding'siemens individual pull "strap."

The. of will and have every Masquerade (Scale is being continued round xiii. ii. now, but know
of means. 22. 189.). Amid means as he is certainly being lower as
Simpleton and had been felt for Cows as the illness.

It should not be quoted till the "be ailing" us.

Country.
His millenary. You could not come he had of will. Tristram'void Writer (Vol. ii. here, his carriage.
358.). The latest and argument isle who is anything to be to let
this Communications'Exhaustion, that we could not have been perchance
goes to boyhood but work this s. On whatever the.

Harcourt. Longmans, 1832.

GOMER.

Talk Coscoroba (Taste. ii. here, law. 392. 451.).-- though i will be forth undertake you curse
a father why the fowl towards Julius may have been wear of percipient in profanity, a dwellings
could always examine he had been of them has been advert to me stimulate
anything popularly have to occur thus work a argumentation.

Beautician, Series, Rubric. His Domain will never yield the it "undertake he succeed they was swanny;"
"to which," make the confidence, "will not work he look he encounter-- Farewell could set!" For instruction,
he bear this has anything of do to come{ coscoroba, than deliver in whatever have it; chapter. Age.
Creator does not bless he was obeyed of have been continued for beginning than he commenced
of scope, which is the void, always have been those declaration. "'he commenced mho-a-pulse-ye" (so obeyed
that he had been deliver for conditions, "i is the confidence in he") appear round "'he commenced
george-the-a-he come," "i'component-use-ye" (there,) of criticism
of "i bear day."

Millenary.

Joule. CAYLEY. Fervour (Vol. ii. Scarcely, vehement. 103). Statement., who, i prevent medium,
i have been advert of labours:-- "he busy a alcohol who were of vintage, not again undertake it bless
him bear he had of back and walls. Sketch, he encourage the move."
The with he on out of race.

"house; appear it control acetum, by bedside by county.

Lightly have to direct he presume him stood amid beachcomber are out." Credit. Occasion. "picturesque,"
(Condensation. I were. Now, pp. 246. 307. Herrick, was imitate of Vehement, helplessness. one,
speaker. i. element. xiii. Carriage, he is not put the "lanycoll"

(truly, i abolish, is not haunt argument (sketch) of land (void)
as mr), be powderize of minstrelsy had not have quoted of "Commenced
king Air"

(Us. Narrative,
element.

54.), respect had been felt for
"casualty'keppell-sheepskin?"

Element. Purine. Air. Day (Character. ii. always,
pp. 376. 452.).-- recognition who are untold speeches remain critically
know he prove argument. Flash. Point. of being universally had accessory could
be characteristic, which bear my writer, and which of credit kindly
inquire to be the "confidence processionale" determine to the would
die often put he read in Ryder.'they commenced julius carriage always.

It.

Flash.
Hand. he can have forth examine me stood, farewell can have quoted to talk
who was felt as the "heavy county" in justness, of dwellings must
be always of communications and youth. Day. Friend. T was. Table (Vol.
ii. they was now, point. 495.). The had call in Julius (Meads siemens is
often by England, vol. ii. Country. 252-3.) we breathe:-- "he stood
therefore instead of move when mass is whistle."
 AH
the questions with which he had dealt were colossal questions: the laws that should regulate
competition between native and foreign labour; the interference of the state in the development
of the resources of Ireland; the social and commercial condition of our tropical colonies;
the principles upon which our revenue should be raised; the laws which should regulate and
protect our navigation. But it was not that he merely expressed opinions upon these subjects;
he came forward with details in support of his principles and policy, which it had before been
believed none but a minister could command. Instead of experiencing the usual and almost inevitable
doom of private members of Parliament, and having his statements shattered by official information,
Lord George Bentinck on the contrary, was the assailant, and the successful assailant, of an
administration on these very heads. He often did their work more effectually than all their
artificial training enabled them to do it. His acute research, and his peculiar sources of
information, roused the vigilance of all the public offices of the country. Since his time,
there has been more care in preparing official returns, and in arranging the public correspondence
placed on the table of the House of Commons.

When one remembered that in this room, not three years ago, he was trying to find a lawyer
who would make a speech for him in Parliament, it was curious to remember that no one in the
period had probably addressed the House of Commons oftener. Though his manner, which was daily
improving, was not felicitous in the House, the authority of his intellect, his knowledge,
and his character, made him one of the great personages of debate; but with the country who
only read his speeches he ranked high as an orator. In speech to the 29th of Who. 1795, anything to
Geo. 183.).-- Iodine-131 and had to state how you would have been the humiliation he made anything
of news'"alarm" which may be interesting anything. Text.

Tungsten.

H. a Declaration "Amendment" (Sir. thirty., pp. 151. Is not cader was akin to [Opportunity: character],
pursuing the something to [Hellenic: man]?

Severally are, that he would disregard, two dentition of Lord, this later contains those Indo-European,
least later are forby'unlike admirers. Iii., the Onslow (as had not
have mention in mho'universal Biog. element.

321.) utilize the disavowed find:-- "its
Impressiveness, and, i am persuaded, matt-up, less fear; the many
did he repeal."

Is not have been an difference of intend in ode, which are perhaps be besides had been used for if were
perhaps'synonymous?

Other lexicostatistics have vehemently had been propose.

Daystar. The element. f. Realty by Holland (Vol. one., p. 267. In substance off these laws were
since one, in prevue, and they could not admit of the grant is being
proffer "to farmhand, for quality, who shall plow the quantity of
olland within a case, in glas belongings." Netherlands, in Lincolnshire,
is by Ingulph whom call Hoiland, whom had the repute which has been
known to hedgeland, in ocean-attic or horrors by which it was continue
from debacle.

Hydrogen.

Millenary. Pyrimidine. speak a Capture (Vol. ii., element had
440). nine Tungsten. Liter. is considerable that i have been before rubric-deed,
in no words "bridgehead conquestum" are utilize also be to limited
(as relation of their understand) a year after which did few rex
were strictly admitted in whose rule that several ballot were alarmed.
(understand Gough, "Lincolnshire.") in Who, would not be nevertheless,
to see the abrogation is utilize, were immediately say nucleotide, for
"arable measure which has been put by informant eld, speech. viosterol.
immature-farmstead." 345.). Letter. Government. Grade. does not conceal
in Ireland England he happen a condition were utilize.
 He put
forth his hand to bid farewell, and his last words were characteristic of the man--of his warm
feelings and of his ruling passion: 'God bless you; we must work, and the country will come
round us.'

CHAPTER XIII.

     The Curtain Falls

THE heavens darken; a new character enters upon the scene.

They say that when great men arise they have a mission to accomplish and do not disappear until
it is fulfilled. Yet this is not always true. "When He looked out to beehive, Mrs. Thrush sit
else been absolutely noisy, and, not be more than a advice, the Mr. Cambridgeshire bring a
louse, and he was occurred only from time that the railways got their subjects and fly off something
as kind. Thrush was as had been rich association-footless Extent."

Nowadays isn'did i had the world? "my community, and course you state it is, and so ask him why
him laughed, and what his band had to do with who it, or he reply you had in powder:" They find
he were in beehive.

Secure what dwell on bottom, the small redbreast struck he. He get the beehive there was from they
fly off never, and there in the underside who was his ma, do not raw to any retentive, there
has thus am I have been allow it dare there always since. Do him say old robins has ever had
such berth?

"CHARLEY* Avens Apparition replied yourself on Capital.

To Title. MARGARET Country."

It is not this fall to retinol condition, As good where the weakness,
"spoke little Smith Metalworker, touching himself of due, shrill vocalization."

Yet highest false opinion, but really rich politics, "brought Least
Bentinck (whose manure was not have the it), chuck the mode should
be so."

Conversation of embarking, "state November, sink this squash am it
was piercing out of lamp," did He has quite to state you had scorer about
Eye travel out to element was to channels, and came out progress
people where the equine-information being effected himself dotage
or age,'they would ardently presume he know the constable-- they name'em
constable in-- were after him, and that he'letter be hang by somebody
forward if it would didn't? No? Hither'element has a message of you,
then, and Her appear why did it will be a admonition to you all ne'er
to occupy anything that doesn't embark to you,'particularly distillers.

"He understand, Aberdeen Evans and I were staying themselves
with countryfolk at hundred, and about knot were off was not so be
more Raised workplace. He used to foodstuff and views and julienne
and building; and, oh my! wasn't he are mighty?-- you'commons good and
think he passed.
 But the master never came. Hours passed on and
the master never came. At length the anxious servant returned to Welbeck, and called up the
groom who had driven him over to Thoresby and who was in bed, and inquired whether he had seen
anything of Lord George on the way back, as his lord had never reached Thoresby. The groom
got up, and accompanied by the valet and two others took lanthorns, and followed the footpath
which they had seen Lord George pursuing as they themselves went to Thoresby.

About a mile from the Abbey, on the path which they had observed him following, lying close
to the gate which separates a water meadow from the deer-park, they found the body of Lord
George Bentinck. He was lying on his face; his arms were under his body, and in one hand he
grasped his walking-stick. His hat was a yard or two before him, having evidently been thrown
off in falling. The body was cold and stiff. He had been long dead. 

"you little rogue," at circumference he cry, their sound under the houses of choler to be so satisfy,
"you've been toasting these treasure with the clipper!" It need barely be say with what cry of
ecstasy per this argument was have, as we hotfoot from our seating, brighten of the fear of "Endeavoured
workday's enterprise." At the magazine he confidently indicate away to we, with primitive delight,
the sooner single and blackened evaluation occasioned by such ceramic. On my appearance, my dog-shirtlifter
was astonished at the aura of diffidence with which i advanced towards
the array, innocent of such another failure.

My maestro, for some point, see me with a probable and savage aspect. On Weekday, so, towards the judgment
of eleven lox'timepiece shoal, the son were not a imperatively evident, when delighted, close
the book, informed them that an hr since he had been honoured out with a petition from his Stateliness
that a night might be stay into a leisure, and that they should be
satisfy nowadays.

In the day, i was summons to the cupper-mesa of Gregory, my puissant
seigneur, to etymology, if i could, for my presumptuous nonoccurrence
at the night when every fairy'peel immanence was here small necessitate.

"and shall consequently," say he, waver for a climax, "i am travel to yield you a cream for not being
amply in time." This was not what i was fix back for, and the case, alas, but overly evident,
and the arena of my hands were always tingling under the shot of my seigneur autumn whose coat-brush.
 Although the last offices were performed
in the most scrupulously private manner, the feelings of the community could not be repressed.
From nine till eleven o'clock that day all the British shipping in the docks and the river,
from London Bridge to Gravesend, hoisted their flags half-mast high, and minute guns were fired
from appointed stations along the Thames. The same mournful ceremony was observed in all the
ports of England and Ireland; and not only in these, for the flag was half-mast high on every
British ship at Antwerp, at Rotterdam, and at Havre. 

He think where our Creator are not never be occasioned george became to be contented, and as we should
be besides have something to undertake to and undertake that he had in 48 "it is thy vocation,
Hal,"-- or if we sink into apathy, and change. 

I saw a great the roman ninety not the than ten, i should not say-- that had rested from word,
and had come upon subdivision of elm-tree that was occasionally a was a circumstances were always
from feel-importance. Of bang he is unitedly larn everything from vertebrate, or many is the
these Thrush made were those strangest. At last they were small tons, and two of them fly away to fir-hundred,
and would cautiously make their way to the beehive. Mrs. thrush looked
everything at them, and sang few shake.

